Document of
The World Bank
FILE CONY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY               L
Report No. 4145-RW
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
RWANDA
FIRST WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
March 10, 1983
Water Supply & Urban Development Division
Eastern Africa Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       = Rwandese Franc (FRw)
1 Rwandese Franc   = 1.087 US cent
92 Rwandese Francs = US$1.00
FISCAL YEAR of ELECTROGAZ
January 1 - December 31
MEASUREMENT EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)                              = 39 inches = 3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)                         = 0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km2)                 = 0.386 square mile
1 hectare (ha)                           = 0.01 km2 = 2.25 acres
1 cubic meter (m3)                       = 35.3 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 liter (1)                              = 0.26 US gallon
1 cubic meter per second (m3/sec)        = 35.3 cubic feet per second
1000 cubic meter per day (1000 m3/d)   = 0.26 million gallon (US) per day
lcd                                      = liters per capita per day
ABBR:EVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB              African Development Bank
AIDR              Association Internationale de Développement Rural
(Belgium)
BCEOM             Bureau Central d'Etudes pour les Equipements dtOutre Mer
(France)
CCCE              Caisse Centrale de Coopération Economique
COFORWA           Compagnons Fontainiers du Rwanda
ELECTROGAZ        Etablissement Public de Production, de Transport et de
Distribution d'Eau, D'Electricité et de Gaz
EDF              Electricité de France
FED               Fonds Européen de Développement
Government        Government oi- Rwanda
GTZ               Gesellschaft für Technische Zusammenarbeit (Association
for Technical Cooperation)
KfW               Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau
MPW               Ministry of Fublic Works
SAUR              Société d'Aménagement Urbain et Rural (France)
UNDP              United Natior,s Development Program
WHO               World Health Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RWANDA
FIRST WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. THE WATER SUPPLY AND WASTE DISPOSAL SECTOR
Country Background .....................................                          01
Water Resources  .......................................                          01
Sector Organization ....................,                                         01
Levels of Service
Water Supply .........................................                         02
Sanitation .........                                                           03
Sector Objectives  .....................................                          03
Sector Development .....................................                          03
Sector Constraints .....................................                          04
Previous Bank Involvement ..............................                          04
Bank Future Role  ......................................                          05
II. POPULATION, WATER SUPPLY SERVICE AND DEMAND IN THE PROJECT
AREA
Location - Special Features ............................                          05
Existing Water Supply  Systems ..........................                         06
Population Served and Standards  of Water Supply Services                         06
Population Projections  and Water Supply Demand .........                         07
III. THE PROJECT
Genesis ................................................                          08
Project Objectives .....................................                          09
Project Description ....................................                          09
Cost Estimates .........................................                          10
Project Financing Plan .................................                          il
Project Implementation .................................                          12
Procurement ............................................                          13
Credit Disbursement ....................................                          13
Health and Environmental Aspects .......................                          14
IV. THE BENEFICIARY
Organization  and Management  ...........................                         15
Personnel and Training .................................                          17
Accounting,  Billing  and Collection  ....................                        17
Audit ..................................................                          18
Insurance ..............................................                          18
Management Systems .....................................                          18
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of
Messrs. D. Coyaud and J.M. Sneddon who visited Rwanda in May 1982.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
V.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS                                            Page No.
Past Performance                   ..                          19
Financing Plan                    ..                           20
Tariffs    ......  21
Future Operations and Financial Position        .     .        22
Capitalization ..............................                  23
Receivables           ..........  23
Inventories ...........................................        24
Liquidity..............................................        24
Valuation of Fixed Assets               ..                     24
VI. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS
Project Benefits .......................................       24
Least Cost Solution                  ..                        25
Economic Rate of Return and Pricing.Consideration ......       25
Impact on Poverty Group                ..                      26
Project Risks and Merits ..........................,.          26
Monitoring .............................................       26
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECONMENDATION
LIST OF ANNEXES
1.  Electrogaz's 1982-88 Investment Program for Water Supply and Gaz
2.  Electrogaz's 1982-88 Investment Program for Electricity
3.  Existing Water Supply Facilities
4.  Water Supply Services and Demand in the Project Areas
5.  Description of the Project iri the Five Secondary Centers
6.  Project Costs Estimates
7.  Project Program of Expenditures
8.  Implementation Schedule
9.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements from the Credit
10.  Electrogaz's Organization Chart
11.  Training and Health Educatiorn Components
12.  Historic Income Statements, Funds Flow Statements and
Balance Sheets FY79-80, Potable Water Tariffs
13.  Financial Forecasts, Income Statements FY82-FY88
14.  Financial Forecasts, Funds Flow Statements FY82-FY88
15.  Financial Forecasts, Balance Sheets FY82-FY88
16.  Borrowings and Terms of Borrowings
17.  Assumptions in the Financial Projections
18.  Average Incremental Cost of Water and Economic Rate of Return
19.  Project Monitoring Indicators
20.  Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
MAPS - Rwanda First Water Supply Project
IBRD 16722   Project Areas
IBRD 16723   Cyangugu  - Water Supply System
IBRD 16724   Kibungo   - Water Supply System
IBRD 16725   Kibuye    - Water Supply System
IBRD 16726   Ruhengeri - Water Supply System
IBRD 16727   Rwamagana - Water Supply System



RWANDA
FIRST WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
I. THE WATER SUPPLY AND WASTE DISPOSAL SECTOR
Country Background
1.01      Rwanda is one of the poorest nations in the world, with a per
capita GNP estimated at US$239 in 1982. Over 95% of the population live
in rural areas, mainly engaged in subsistence agriculture. Rwanda is
Africa's most densely populated country, with 198 persons per square km of
land and an estimated population of 5.5 million (1982) currently growing at
a rate of about 3.6% per annum. The urban population (248,000) represents
only a low percentage (4.5%) of the total population but is increasing at a
relatively high rate (6.3%). The rural population is highly dispersed and
there are few villages . The adult literacy rate is estimated at 23% only.
1.02      Rwanda is facing a food and population crisis of alarming
dimensions. A full-scale food crisis is expected to occur by the end of
this decade if population growth and deterioration of land are not slowed
down. The Rwandese Government's objectives are to ease the population
growth rate, improve food production, halt erosion, enhance the
effectiveness of the nation's work force and expand the government
infrastrue-ture to promote development.
1.03      Standards of health are comparable to low-income African
countries south of the Sahara. Life expectancy at birth is 45.2 years and
infant mortality is about 137 per thousandl/. Water-borne diseases such
as typhoid, enteritis, amebiasis, diarrhea and viral hepatitis are
widespread. Hospitalized cases of diarrheal diseases have increased from
25,000 cases in 1975 to 39,000 in 1979, with infant mortality related to
diarrhea increasing from 17 to 30 per thousand over the same period. These
increases of reported cases are due to greater access to health centers by
the increasingpopulation, but also to commensurate shortage of safe water.
Water Resources
1.04      Rwanda has relatively good water resources.  The rainfall ranges
from 730 mm to 1,600 mm per year. Surface water occurs extensively
thoughout the central and western portions of the country. The eastern
portion is somewhat drier, with scattered lakes along the border.
Groundwater exists in most areas of the country and in the hills, springs
are numerous.
Sector Organization
1.05      Water supply in Kigali, the capital, and secondary centers is the
responsibility of the state corporation, Electrogaz (chapter IV), which
also produces and distributes electricity in the country and operates a
pilot plant extracting methane from Lake Kivu. Electrogaz is responsible
1/ Infant mortality is 102 in Madagascar, 33 in Mauritius, 20 in Europe
and 15 in North America.



- 2-
to the Ministry of Public Works. Medium and long term planning for both
water and electricity have been wh!olly absent from the operations of both
the water and power sectors in the past, projects being studied and
implemented on an ad hoc basis.
1.06      Water supply in rural areas is under various institutions.  Large
aqueducts are generally entrusted to a Belgian institution, Association
Internationale de Développement Rural (AIDR) for operation and maintenance
and for which AIDR is contracted to the Ministry of Public Works.  However,
funds allocated yearly to AIDR for operation and maintenance have not been
adequately increased over the years to compensate for inflation and
facilities are in poor condition. Protected springs and wells with their
handpumps are entrusted to the local communities as well as some 20 small
gravity aqueducts recently constructed by volunteer organizations. Fifty
other rural water supply systems are operated by other institutions, mainly
religious or agricultural. For their water supply operations, agricultural
institutions report to the Division of Rural Engineering in the Ministry of
Agriculture.
1.07      Collection and disposal of waste and drainage systems are under
the Urban Division of the Ministry of Public Works. The Hygiene Division
of the Ministry of Health is responsible for overseeing health aspects of
the water supply and sanitation sector.
1.08       Initiated by the Drinking Water and Sanitation Decade, a national
water supply and sanitation committee was created in early 1981. It is
headed by the Secretary General oif the Ministry of Natural Resources, Mines
and Quarries, and includes representatives of all the Ministries involved
directly or indirectly in the sector. The Committee has only a
consultative role. It is to advise the Government on all matters relating
to water and sanitation, especially the organization of the sector and the
coordination of different activitiies. So far, its main achievement has
been to inform top Government officials of the sector needs and
constraints, and to study alternatives for reorganization of the rural
water supply subsector.
Levels of Service
1.09      Water Supply.  About 37%, of the total population has reasonable
access to piped water.  The percentage is about the same in urban areas
(41%) as in rural areas (37%). In urban areas (Kigali and 11 secondary
centers), Electrogaz supplies 25% of the population through private
connections and 16% is estimated to be served through public standpipes or
neighbours' private connections. People not supplied by Electrogaz rely on
polluted streams and unprotected wells and springs. About 3.5 million
m3/year are sold to about 4,300 customers. The water supply is often
unsafe. Service is intermittent except in Kigali and Butare where
production facilities have been recently extended. In rural areas about
65,000 families are served through public standpipes in turn supplied by
the 58 aqueducts operated by AIDR and about 350,000 families are supplied
through 8,000 protected springs anid about a dozen aqueducts entrusted to
local communities.



- 3 -
1.10      Sanitation.  Public sewer systems do not exist in Rwanda.  In
urban areas 20% of the population is served through private sewer systems
(hospital, soap factory, hotels, etc.) or through septic tanks with
soak-aways, and 80% of the population is served through too few pit
latrines. In Kigali, population density is too high in certain areas to
permit the construction of pit latrines. The water table and small streams
are polluted. This causes concern as the Kigali public water system and
part of the population use these sources of water. To remedy this
situation, waterborne sewerage is required in the administrative and
commercial areas in the center of the city, and it is necessary to upgrade
and expand individual sanitation systems in the low-income residential
areas of the city. In rural areas, about one third only of the population
is estimated to be served through pit latrines often used by several
families. The rest of the rural populatiQn lacks formal waste disposal
facilities.
Sector Objectives
1.11      No formal sector objectives or targets have been set by the
Government. The Water Decade target of clean water for all by 1990 is not
realistic as domestic and foreign resources are not expected to be
sufficient. The institutional, staffing, cost recovery aspects and
Rwandese reluctance to accept low-cost technologies, are also severe
obstacles to its achievement. In the sanitation sub-sector, Government
priorities are to provide a public sewer system for part of Kigali and to
stimulate the construction of individual facilities for the rest of the
population through health education related to sanitation.
Sector Development
1.12      In spite of the limited absorptive capacity and the institutional
weakness of the sector, several water supply projects are under
construction or under preparation. Water systems in Kigali and Butare,
representing 65% of Electrogaz water activity, have recently been
developed under a project financed by the African Development Bank (AfDB).
Water supply systems in ten secondary centers remain to be rehabilitated
and extended. External funds have been identified (IDA, CCCE, and KfW) and
projects prepared for this purpose. Planning for water supply investment
is inadequate. The investment program indicated in the draft Third
Five-Year Development Plan for water supply is unrealistic in terms of cost
estimates, and implementation capability. For the 1982-1988 period, the
appraisal mission proposed an investment program for Electrogaz which
totals FRw 5,454 million (US$59 million) for water supply activity (Annex
1).
1.13      In rural areas, water supply is being actively developed.
Projects near completion include rehabilitation of 5,600 small springs
(cost: US$3 million - UNICEF assisted); construction of six gravity
aqueducts by Dutch volunteers and a number of small gravity systems by
COFORWA2/ and other non-Governmental organizations; and the construction
2/ COFORWA: Compagnons Fontainiers du Rwanda.



- 4 -
of rural water supply systems for Icyanya-Bugesera and Mayaga-Sud (Belgium
and FED assisted). Other projects expected to be constructed soon include
systems for Bugesera Centre-Nord (cost US$10 million, FED assisted), and
Mutara (cost US$3.2 million, IDA assisted, para. 1.17). Also included in
the investment programa are construaction of an aqueduct in the Buberuka area
and the rehabilitation of the existing aqueducts inI the northern volcanic
regioni. In parallel wittn construction of water supply systems, training of
water supply operators is carried out under the UNICEF-assisted small
springs project, anc a prograni of healtli education relatea to water supply
and sanitation, is being undertaken with the assistance of the World Health
Organization (Who).
1.14      Virtually no aevelopnient has occurred ln thie sanltation
sub-sector. The first priority is in Kigali where a small sewerage systemn
should be constructed, existing pit latrines improved andc new septic tanks
and pit latrines constructed. The project is estimated at about US$30
million to cover needs up to about i95.  TIhe feasibility report for this
project was recently completed and funds should be identified to assist the
Goverrinenit in implemnenting the report's recommendations.
Sector Constraints
1.15      The main constraints in the water supply sector are:
- the shortage of qualified staff in the ministries responsible
for the sector, which results in inadequate planning,
insensitivity to the economic aspects of projects and
resistance to low-cost technology, poor supervision of
consulting firms and operating agencies and slow or no
decision making on organizational and cost recovery aspects.
To help relieve this constraint German aid and (GTZ)3/ is
providing, a technical adviser in the Ministry of Natural
Resources, Fiines and Quarries in the fall of 1982. However,
more help is needed;
- the inadequacy of Electrogaz staff resources, especially at
the mana%erîal level, and the lack of training of the existing
staff;
-  the lack of suitable institutional arrangements in rural
areas, for adequate programuiing, construction, operation,
maintenance and cost recovery.
1.16      Prerequisites to develcpment of sanitation in Kigali, are
goverament decisions concerning institutional arrangements, cost recovery
and identification of sources of financing.
Previous Bank Involvement
1.17      In 1978, a water supply and sanitation sector study and a water
tariff study were carried out und!er the WHO/IBRD Cooperative Program. This
helped in the identification of the present project and in the improvement
of the structure and level of Electrogaz's water tariffs, The Bank has
3/ Gesellschaft fiir technische Zusammenarbeit (Association for Technical
Cooperation).



- 5 -
also beenr indirectly invoived îiu the sectur through the 1£lutara Agricultural
aiud  Livestock Development Project - Phase Il (CK 937-KW) which includes a
rural water suppiy coL,npoeient.  't'e inventory of water resources acn
preliminary design ot the water supply system to be constructed was
completed in May 19d2.  Detailec survey work is scheduled to start shortly
and construction is expected to be completed by end 1985.
Bank Future Role
1.18      During implementation of the proposed project the Bank will
continue its dialogue with the Government and other aid agencies on the
needs of the sector, especially regarding the institutional arrangements
for rural water supply systems, the rehabilitation of rural aqueducts and
construction of a public sewer system in Kigali.
Il. POPULATION, WATER SUPPLY SERVICE AND DEMAND
IN THE PROJECT AREAS
Location - Special features
2.01       The project areas comprise the five secondary centers, Cyangugu,
Kibungo, Kîbuye, Kuhengeri and Rwamagana which are spread throughout the
-country (Ž4ap IBRD 16722). Their 1982 populations range froia 3,300 (Kibuye)
to 19,48( (Ruhengeri) and grow at rates of 3.57e (Kibungo) to b.7%
(Kwarùagania).  The population ot trie tive centers totaledi 44,UUU in l9Yi2 ana
is growing at an average rate of 5.4YO p.a.  The median income of the
population unuer the poverty level (para. b.0b) is estimated at 3,50U
Fkw/month/family.
2.02      Although considered as urban according to the local definition
(communities of more than 3,OUu people), the five secondary centers are
mainly rural in their economies; all are administrative centers at the
level of "Préfecture" except Rwamagana which is a "sous-Préfecture"; all
include one or more markets, military camps, jails, hotels, dispensaries,
missions, schools and training centers for farming and handicrafts. The
centers are the focus of agro-industrial activities (related to pyrethrum
in Ruhengeri and rice in Rwamagana), livestock activity (pig-farming in
Cyangugu and slaughter-houses in Ruhengeri and Kibungo) or are the
headquarters of agricultural projects (Kibungo, Kibuye, Rwamagana) and
forestry projects (Kibuye). The lack of villages in rural areas has
enhanced the role of these secondary centers as distribution, transport and
employment centers for the surrounding regions. Efficient provision of
services in these centers is an iraportant factor in improving rural
productivity.
2.03       Water resources for the project areas consist of springs in all
the centers, streata water in Ruthengeri and Kibungo anc lake water in
Rwamagana.  The springs are often conveniently located at high elevation so
that tney can supply the centers (Kibuye, Ruhengeri, Cyaîigugu) by gravity
only.  Some springs are located lower than the centers (Kibungo, Kwamagana,
Cyangugu) and pumping is necessary.  Spring flows are usually aaequate to
mieet medium-term water demand except in Kibungo where spring water woulc



-6-
have to be complemented by streain water and in Rwamagana where springs are
too small and water has to be taken from a lake located about 5 km away.
Existing Water Supply Systems
(Annex 3 and Maps IBRD No. 16722 to 16727)
2.04       The water resources currently tapped in the five centers are
adequate to meet the present demand but production is inadequate and there
are frequent interruptions in the water supplies in all the centers except
Kibuye. Interruptions are due to poor design of the water intakes in
Cyangugu, clogged collection pipes in Kibungo and poor condition of the
pumping facilities in Ruhengeri and kwamagana.
2.05      Water from the springs is corrosive and the water from the lake
in kwamagana is turbid, tenus to deposit incrustationis ana is polluted by
lack of protection around the existing water intake.  Spring water is
treated by rudimentary aeration, lime ancd with chlorine only in Cyangugu.
Water treatment facilities are generally not satisfactory and need to be
rehabilitated or reconstructed (Annex 5). Chemicals are available but
operation and maintenance are poor because of lack of supervision and
training. Water from the lake in kwamagana is partially settled and
treated with chlorine but this treatment is inadequate in relation to the
degree of turbidity and pollution of the raw water.
2.06       The distribution pipes are made of steel.  Most are corroded and
in a very poor state, although laid only about 15 years ago (Annex 5,
para. 6.02). The masonry distribution reservoirs are in a satisfactory
condition but metallicreservoirs are in poor condition and only those in
Rwamagana, Kibungo and Cyangugu could be used after cleaning and
repainting.
Population Served and Standards Df Water Supply Service
2.07       Figures on the population served through public water supply and
present standards of service in the five secondary centers in 1980 (Annex
4) are summarized in the table below.
Eive Secondary Centers
Nuraber of
Percentage   Domiestic
ot Total    Connections/
Population   Population   Standpipes
Population servea by:
- private connections                 2,400             6           5b8
- public standpipes                  6,900             17           23
- neighbours                        10,500             27           -
Subtotal                        19,800             50          591
Population not served                19,800             50            -
Total                           39,600            100          591_
The table shows that only 50% of the population is presently served.
However the quality of service is not satisfactory. Interruptions in



-7 -
supply are trequent (para. 2.04).  Only 6% of the populationi is servec
through private connections but many private connections and non-domestic
connections (97 tor Goveriament, 'jIrade anLa Industry) are estciated to oe
used by the surrounding population in adeition to the 23 official public
standpipes. Connections are metered but a large nulmber of ineters neeci
repl-acement (Annex 3, para. 11).
2.08      Data on quantities of water sold in 1980 to various types ot
consumers and by differing standards of service (Annex 4) are summarized in
the table below which shows that volumes of water consumed per capita are
low, the result of inadequate capacity and intermittent supply.
Five Secondary Centers
Volumes      Per Capita    % of total
(m3/day)    Consumption   Consumption
(lcd)
Consumption
Domestic
- private connections                 238            99             29
- public standpipes                    69            10              8
- neighbours                          105            10             12
Subtotal (average)               412           (20)             49
Government, Commerce, Industry        424            -              51
Total Consumption (average)    836              (42)           100
Population Projections and Water Supply Demand
2.09      The population in the five secondary centers and standards of
service to coniestic customers are expected to increase according to the
following table:
1980        1988         1995
Total population                          39,600      60,260       87,400
% people served per capita consumption         %   lcd    %   lcd       %   lcd
- by private connections                        6   99      9  120      12  126
- by public standpipes or neighbours           44   10    91   15       88   20
Total (average)                           50  (20)  100  (24)   100  (32)
The figures are based on data included in the project feasibility studies
(para. 3.01) and on the mission's estimates (Annex 4). The table shows
that the growth of domestic demand would be the result of service
extensions through public standpipes and use of neighbouring connections by
the population presently unserved. Over the period considered, consulaption
per capita would improve but remain within reasonable limits.
2.10      Total water demand is expected to increase as follows:



-8-
Five Secondary Centers
…----------…m3/day-----
1980          1988          1995
Domestic                                  412         1,460          2,815
Government, Commerce, Industry            424         1,385         1,990
Total volume sold                       836         2,845         4,805
Total volume produced                 1,190         3,356         6,005
The average volume of water sold in the project areas is expected to
increase by 240% over the 1980-1988 period but total demand at the
production level is expected to increase by 180% only because the
percentage of unaccounted for water is expected to decrease from 30% to 15%
given the rehabilitation of existing networks and improvement in the
management of Electrogaz.
2.11      The program needed to satisfy the water demand would be
implemented in two stages. Works to be constructed under the proposed
project would generally meet the water demand up to 1988. Additional
works, to be implemented in a second stage, would be needed to meet demand
up to 1995.
III. THE PROJECT
Genesis
3.01      At the request of the Government, the Bank sent a mission to
Rwanda in September 1977 to identify a possible project in the water supply
and sanitation sector. Following the mission's recommendations, WHO, under
the IBRD/WHO Cooperative Program, completed a detailed analysis of the
rural water supply subsector in July 1978. The WHO study set out
priorities for future investments and confirmed that a possible project for
IDA financing might consist mainly of (a) the renovation and extension of
water supply systems in five secondary centers; (b) the rehabilitation and
improvement of the northern rural aqueducts; (c) the construction of
sanitation facilities in Kigali. In January 1980, the Bank agreed to
advance US$500,000 for the preparation of master plans and feasibility
studies under the Project Preparation Facility which led in October 1980 to
the Government awarding a contract to a French consulting firm, BCEOM4/,
for the implementation of the studies. These were practically completed in
May 1982. Because of reduced IDA funds the scope of the project had to be
decreased. The Bank and the Government agreed to give priority to the
renovation and extension of the water supply systems in five secondary
centers because of urgency, the higher rate of return and relatively short
implementation schedule. Other envisaged components require substantial
institutional and cost recovery arrangement to be finalized by the
Government before financing of the construction works could be considered.
4/ Bureau Central d'Etudes pour les Equipements d'Outre-mer.



- 9 -
Appraisal of the proposed project in the five secondary centers took place
in May 1982.
Project Objectives
3.02      The project objectives are to improve (1) the capability of
Electrogaz in the planning, administrative, financial and technical
areas, (2) the efficiency of Electrogaz operations and maintenance,(3) the
level of service in the five secondary centers, and (4) the institutional
and cost recovery arrangements for the rural water supply systems. The
project would complement Electrogaz's rehabilitation and development
program which began with works financed by AfDB in Kigali and Butare and
includes works to be financed by KfW in Nyabizindu and by CCCE in four
other secondary centers.
Project Description (Annexes 5 and 11)
3.03      The project will rehabilitate, reinforce and extend the
production and distribution facilities for potable water in the five
secondary centers of Cyangugu, Kibungo, Kibuve, Ruhengeri and Rwamagama. A
training component and the necessary consultant services are also
included. The project will comprise:
- provision of water treatment equipment for spring water in four
centers and lake water in one center, all of the simplest type
because of the remoteness of the centers and the quality of
maintenance personnel;
- provision of eight groups of electric pumps of about 30m3/h
capacity each;
- supply and laying of about 32 km of 50-200 mm transmission
pipes, 64 km of 50-300 mm distribution pipes and construction
of about 100 public standpipes with meters and one or two taps;
- improvement and protection of springs, construction of intakes
in streams and a lake, and construction of one test well;
- civil works for five small treatment stations, four small pump
stations and ten reservoirs of between 30-600 m3 capacity each;
- a training program for Electrogaz personnel covering both water
and electricity; construction of a small training center
of about 360 m2 of covered area; training area for pipe-laying
and power-line erection; supply of training equipment and
materials; local training of about 463 medium level technical,
administrative and clerical staff; training of personnel abroad
(local training officers and advanced professional
training);and provision of books on sanitary education7for
primary schools and training of teachers in delivery of the
courses;
- the first external audit of Electrogaz;



- 10 -
- refinancing of the PPF advances, completion of detailed design
studies and construction supervision in the five secondary
centers; and
- detailed engineering studies of rehabilitation and extension of
rural aqueducts in the northern region and institutional study
of the rural water supply sub-sector in Rwanda.
Cost Estimate
3.04      The total cost of the project is estimated at about FRw 1,559
(US$16.9) million, including direct and indirect foreign costs of about FRw
930 (US$10.1) million. The cost estimates (Annex 6) are summarized below:
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
-----FRw Million-----  ------US$ Million----
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total
A.  Cyangugu                            52.5    76.5   129.0    0.6        0.8      1.4
B. Kibuye                               21.7    35.2    56.9    0.2        0.4     0.6
C.  Kibungo                             57.8    82.2   139.9    0.6        0.9      1.5
D. Ruhengeri                            81.6   113.4   195.0    0.9        1.2     2.1
E.  Rwamagana                           93.3   137.4   230.7    1.0        1.5     2.5
F. Electrogaz General
Training & Health Education       26.8    41.4    68.2    0.3        0.4      0.7
PPF, and Cons. Services           79.2   218.0   297.2    0.9        2.4      3.3
Total Base Costs (Jan. 1983)           412.9   704.0 1,116.9    4.5        7.6    12.1
Physical Contingencies             41.3    70.4   111.7    0.4        0.8      1.2
Price Contingencies               174.9   155.5   330.4    1.9        1.7      3.6
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                    629.1   929.9 1,559.0    6.8    10.1    16.6
3.05      Cost estimates are basec  on January, 1983 prices.  They are based
on the consultants (BCEOM) detailed design which was well advanced (more
than 50%) at the time of negotiations (February, 1983).
3.06      The base cost estimates for consulting and training services
total about US$2.78 million. Consulting services for the first external
audit of Electrogaz is estimated at US$100,000 and would require about 7
manmonths of high level experts at an average manmonth5/ cost of
US$14,300. Engineering consulting services for topographical and
geotechnical works, detailed design and construction supervision for the
five secondary centers is estimated at US$1.53 million and would require
about 80 manmonths of professionaL services and 83.5 manmonths of
technicians, surveyors, draftsmen , secretaries, provision of local labor
and some surveying and reproduction equipment. Detailed engineering design
5/ Manmonth cost includes salary, costs, fees, international travel and
subsistence.



- il -
for the northern rural aqueducts is estimated at US$700,000 and would
require about 80 manmonths of engineering services. The average manmonth
cost for engineering services is US$8,800. Management consulting services
for the institutional and cost recovery study in the rural water supply
sub-sector estimated at US$300,000 would require 30 manmonths. Expert
training services estimated at US$149,000 would require 15 manmonths. The
average manmonth cost for management and training services is US$9,900.
3.07      Physical contingencies of 10% have been added to base costs which
are reasonable in view of the relatively simple works. Provision for
inflation of 27% of base costs plus physical contingencies has been
included, calculated at the following annual rates:
1983    1984    1985    1986-87
Foreign %                 8      7.5       7        6
Local %                 12      12        12       12
The divergence between local and international inflation rates is not
expected to be compensated by regular and predictable adjustments in the
exchange rate. Therefore the overall project cost has been estimated using
the exchange rate ruling in August 1982 of US$1=FRw 92. If the
differential rate of inflation were to be compensated regularly by
adjustment of the rate of exchange, the US$ equivalent of total project
costs would be reduced by about 5%.
3.08      Materials and equipment imported directly for the project will be
exempt from custom duties and import taxes. Local costs include customs
duties and import taxes on materials purchased locally. Taxes included in
the project cost are estimated at about FRw 8 million or about 0.6% of
total project costs.
Project Financing Plan
3.09      The project would be mainly financed through an IDA Credit
equivalent to US$13.0 million. The Government of Rwanda would be the
borrower and would onlend the Credit to Electrogaz for a period of 25
years, including five years of grace at 10.97%. Electrogaz would assume
the foreign exchange risk. The project financing plan is indicated below:
…Millions-----
FRw        USS          _
IDA Credit                           1,196         13.0         77
Electrogaz Internal Cash
Generation                            355          3.8         23
Total excluding taxes                1,551         16.8        100
Taxes (Government or Electrogaz)          8         0.1
Total                     12559         16.9



- 12 -
3.10      The IDA Credit would finance 77% of total project costs excluding
taxes, which is equivalent to 100% of the foreign costs (direct +
indirect), and about 43% of the local costs excluding taxes.
Project Implementation
3.11      Electrogaz would be the implementing agency for the project.  The
Chief of the Water Department assisted by his Design and Planning Division
and the consulting engineers, would be responsible for the project
implementation in the five secondary centers. He would also be assisted by
a technical manager from a team to be provided under management assistance
financed by CCCE (para. 4.09).
3.12      To carry out the detailed design studies in the five secondary
centers, including detailed survey and geotechnical works, assist in
evaluation of tenders and drafting of contracts, and supervise construction
of the works, Electrogaz has appointed BCEOM as engineering consultants
under conditions acceptable to ILA. To speed up the detailed design
studies, IDA approved, in September 1982, advancing US$500,000 from its
Project Preparation Facility, which would supplement a previous advance of
US$500,000 used for preparation of master plan and feasibility studies
(para. 3.01).  During negotiations assurances were obtained that for
assistance in project implementation, Electrogaz would continue to retain
engineering consultants whose qualifications, experience and conditions
ofemployment are acceptable to IDA.
3.13      To implement the project training component (Annex 11, paras 1 to
9), Electrogaz would establish a training section within the personnel
department and hire training experts to develop a manpower planning and
training unit and assist in the implementation of the training program.
During negotiations assurances were obtained that for implementation of the
training program, Electrogaz would obtain the assistance of training
experts whose qualifications, experience and conditions of employment are
acceptable to IDA.  Electrogaz training program will be monitored in terms
of number of people trained in various specialities with the help of
training experts. Preparation of books (Annex 11, para. 10) and training of
teachers for health education re]iated to water supply and sanitation would
be carried out through Services of the Ministry of Health in coordination
with the Pedagogic Office of the Ministry of Education and Electrogaz.
3.14      Engineering services for detailed survey, geotechnical works and
detailed design started in August 1982. According to the implementation
schedule (Annex 8) detailed design would be completed by July 1983, all
major bids would be called by November 1983 and all major contracts would
be awarded by July 1984. Construction of the project would be
substantially completed by November 1986, except for some minor items which
might still be outstanding. The project completion date is set at June 30,
1987. This extended project implementation schedule has been taken into
account in the cost estimates and the credit disbursement schedule.



- 13 -
Procurement
3.15      Goods: Water treatment pumping and training equipment totalling
US$1.8 million including contingencies, would be grouped in appropriate
bidding packages and procured under international competitive bidding in
accordance wjth Bank guidelines. It is expected that all equipment would
come from abroad. However, a preference of 15% or the applicable customs
duty, whichever is lower, would be applied to the bids of qualifying local
manufacturers, if any. Miscellaneous items of training equipment, in
contracts less than US$20,000 would be awarded in accordance with local
procedures which are acceptable to IDA; total expenditures under such
contracts would not exceed US$100,000, without IDA's prior approval.
3.16      Works: Civil works and installation of pipes and public
standpipes totalling US$10.6 million including contingencies would be
procured under international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
guidelines. A preference of 7.5% would be applied to bids from local civil
works contractors, if any. Construction of 99% of the works would involve
only two contracts, one for construction of treatment and pumping stations,
reservoirs and the training center and one for supply, transport, and
laying of pipes including earthworks. Works of the same nature in the
different centers that are beyond the capability of local contractors would
be grouped in the same package in order to attract foreign bidders and
stimulate the competition which is necessary in the case of a small,
landlocked and isolated country like Rwanda. Miscellaneous works in
contracts less than US$50,000 would be awarded in accordance with local
procedures which are acceptable to IDA; total expenditures under such
contracts would not exceed US$200,000 without IDA's prior approval.
3.17      Contract Review: All bidding packages for goods estimated to cost
over US$100,000 equivalent and bidding packages for works over US$500,000
equivalent would be subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement
documentation resulting in a coverage of about 95% of the total estimated
value of contracts for goods and about 99% of works contracts. The balance
of contracts would be subject to random review by the Bank after contract
award.
Credit Disbursement
3.18      The table below gives the categories to be financed out of the
Credit, the amounts and the percentage to be financed in each category.



- 14 -
- - - - - - - - -Millions- - - 
Amount of          % of Expenditures
,ategory                              Total Costs       Credit Allocated        to be financed
IJS$           US$       SDR
equivalent
Civil Works                             3.3            2.0       1.84       60% of total costs
Pipes (supply & laying)                 ,.3            4.8       4.42       65% of total costs
3. Materials & equipment
(excluding pipes). Books                1.9            1.6       1.47       100% of foreign
expenditures and 90%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
Consultant Services                     3.0            2.0       1.84       100% of foreign costs
;. PPF advances                       - 1L.0           1.0       0.92       Amount due
, Unallocated                                            1.6       1.51
Total                                               13.0      12.0
3.19       The forecasts of annual project expenditures are shown in Annex 7
for each category of works or type of equipment.  Credit disbursements may
occur much later. The schedule of Credit disbursements (Annex 9) is based
on the country-wide disbursement profile for Rwanda. The profile was
adjusted to account for exceptionally early disbursements and for an
implementation period of 24 months less than the profile average resulting
from the use of PPF funds to allo,w detailed design to be completed by
Board presentation, which differs from most of the projects included in the
disbursement profile. The disbursement schedule also takes into account
the simplicity of the works to be constructed. The proposed closing date
would be June 30, 1988. Any unused balance of the Credit after completion
of the project could be used, subject to the Bank's approval, for further
water supply works related to the project.
3.20       The PPF advances totalling US$1.0 million for project preparation
(paras. 3.01 & 3.12) would be refinanced from the proposed Credit. No
other retroactive financing would be needed.
Health and Environmental Aspects
3.21       By providing piped water to people in the five secondary centers,
the project is expected to reduce the incidence and risk of diseases
attributable to lack of safe and adequate water. The increase in water
supplies would lead to an increase in waste water which is acceptable in
all five secondary centers as their population densities arerelatively low
and the soils sufficiently permeable for efficient on site disposal.



- 15 -
IV. THE BENEFICIARY
Organization and Management
4.01      The Beneficiary of the Credit and the project implementing agency
would be Electrogaz, the Rwanda parastatal organization which is wholly
owned by Government and is responsible for the generation, production,
transmission and distribution of water in urban areas and electricity and
gas throughout the country (para. 1.05). Electrogaz was established by
Decree Law No. 18 of 1976 with the objective of promoting the production,
transmission and distribution of electricity, water and gas. It may
undertake the studies and work necessary for the provision and extension of
the electricity, water and gas services against repayment from customers.
Electrogaz has a monopoly under the law in the production and distribution
of the three services, however, responsibility for water is limited in fact
to the urban areas. The Board is empowered by the law with all the
authority needed to administer Electrogaz, including the making of general
and all other regulations governing operations. Tariffs are fixed by the
Minister responsible for the Economy with the agreement of the Minister of
Public Works, based on recommendations made by Electrogaz.
4.02      Proposals have been made by consultants that two separate
organizations be created to cover water and gas, and electric power, and
that the water and gas organization should embrace rural water supplies.
Maximum use of available staff and the need for economies of scale make it
desirable that water, gas and power operations remain under Electrogaz.
Water and electricity consumers number about 4,300 and 4,700 respectively,
occupying the same premises in the majority of cases. Many of the
secondary centers have less than 100 consumers in total. A split in the
operations would therefore be uneconomic.
4.03      Although the need to address problens in the rural water supply
subsector is urgent, the current management and organization situation of
Electrogaz precludes assumption of rural water responsibilities until a
capability to operate the urban water and electricity supplies has been
demonstrated. During negotiations agreement was obtained that IDAwould be
consulted prior to any changes in Electrogaz organization structure and
scope of responsibility especially as far as power and rural water supply
operations are concerned.
4.04      Electrogaz is governed by a Board of Directors comprising five
members including a Chairman. Members are appointed for three years by the
President of the Republic from nominations made by the responsible
Minister. The law also provides for a state representative (the
Commisioner) to oversee the activities of Electrogaz and monitor decisions
of the Board. He is invited to all meetings of the Board where he acts in
an advisory role. He has a right of recourse to the responsible Minister
within eight days if he considers a decision of the Board to be contrary to
the law or against the public interest. The Minister's decision must be
given within 30 days of receipt of the notification from the Commissioner,
otherwise the Board's decision is final, meantime the Board's decision
remains pending.



- 16 -
4.05      The Decree Law No. 18 also provides for the appoin-tment of two
part time Commissioners of Accounts with responsibility for cverseeing the
accounting and financial operations of Electrogaz. They are required to
report to the Minister on the annual balance sheet and income statement.
The Commissioners are normally laymen (one is the Rwanda Consul in Mombasa)
and cannot be accepted in lieu of an independent auditor (para. 4.15).
4.06      Electrogaz is currently organized into three departments:
- Water and Gas;
- Electricity; and
- Administration and Finance.
The three department heads report to the General Manager of Electrogaz.
However, management effectiveness which itself needs to be improved is
hindered by a shortage of adequately qualified and experienced personnel
and a lack of financial resources with which to operate efficiently (para.
5.05).
4.07      Long term planning is non-existant for both water and
electricity. Although Electrogaz plans and implements water projects, they
are carried out on an ad hoc basis. Electric power projects are planned
and implemented by the Ministry of Public Works, again on an ad hoc basis
without being based on a least cost long term development program, although
a study financed by the Swiss Government is currently in progress to
produce a least cost program.
4.08      Project management and accounting both for the water projects
implemented by Electrogaz and the power projects implemented by the
Ministry of Public Works, are inadequate and it is difficult to establish
the costs of works in progress or of completed projects. The lack of
proper recording of project costs causes doubts about the accuracy of the
historical values of fixed assets and work in progress in the accounts of
Electrogaz (paras. 4.12 and 4.16).
4.09      Electrogaz's operational management needs to be improved in all
areas technical, financial, administrative, procurement and planning. A
preliminary management study has been carried out by SAUR6/ a French water
utility, financed by CCCE which also intends to finance the follow up
studies and the technical assistance that will ensue.  In order to be
successful, the technical assistance should consist of the provision of a
team of experts accustomed to work together, experienced in public utility
management preferably from a reputable public utility. This proposed
management assistance was discusse!d during appraisal and is supported by
Electrogaz, the Government and the other aid agencies (from France, Germany
and Belgium) presently active in the sector.   As management improvement in
Electrogaz is a pre-requisite to the success of the proposed project,
processing of the proposed Credit was made dependent on a few conditions.
IDA has already been consulted and has approved the terms of reference of
6/ Société d'Aménagement Urbain et Rural.



- 17 -
the management assistance team (a condition of negotiations of the proposed
Credit). The financing of the management team has already been secured (a
condition of presentation of the Credit to the Board).  CCCE agreed to
finance the management assistance team. It was agreed at negotiations that
IDA would reserve the right to suspend disbursements if financing of the
team is terminated prematurely. The management team will be expected to
address numerous task including tariff studies, accounting, financial
management, procurement, inventory management, and all other aspects of the
management and operations of a combined water, electricity and gas
utility. The management team is expected to be drawn from SAUR, the third
largest water utility in France.
Personnel and Training
4.10      Electrogaz had a staff of 898 in mid-1982 of whom 28 were
university graduates. All categories of staff are in need of training from
management levels downwards, covering both water and electricity. The
project cost estimates provide for the nucleus of a training center which
will need to be expanded. Additional finance for training would be readily
available from bilateral sources (KfW, CCCE, Swiss, AfDB, FED and the
Belgians) which already provide funds to Electrogaz for capital
expenditures. The training component of the project is detailed in paras
3.03, 3.13 and Annex Il.
4.11      Electrogaz has about 4,300 water customers and 4,700 electricity
consumers which gives an employee/consumer ratio of about 1:10 on an
aggregate basis, indicating that Electrogaz is overstaffed to a certain
extent, or more importantly that the number of connections is low. Many of
Electrogaz's provincial stations which are located in small provincial
towns, have less than 100 consumers requiring a basic minimum of staff.
An accurate estimate of the overemployment is difficult to ascertain
without a rationalization of the staff structure and a detailed manpower
analysis which is expected to be carried out by the training expert to be
provided under the project. Standards and organization of work need to be
improved in all areas of the utility's operations as Electrogaz suffers
from a lack of staff quality rather than numbers.
Accounting, Billing and Collection
4.12      Electrogaz has a very detailed accounting system which produces
useful information on annual operating costs and statistics. However, data
takes some time to arrive from branches and consolidation into the annual
summaries is therefore delayed. The accounts are compiled in a manner
which causes difficulty in obtaining an overview of the operations. No
accounting system exists for capital works with costs of projects being
obtained from estimates by the planning unit of the Water Service and the
Ministry of Public Works, estimates that are often incomplete. Detailed
information is available on receivables but other asset and liability
figures in the balance sheet require reconciliation to prove their
accuracy, work that Electrogaz staff has already begun.
4.13      Consumers' billing is carried out on an NCR mini-computer which
was installed early in 1982. Water and electricity are billed together
(there will be only one gas consumer) and although sales quantities and



- 18 -
revenues are separated, receivables are not.  The production of monthly
bills is working well. When efficient metering is installed over the next
few years (Annex 3, para. 11) and rigid disconnection policies imposed the
billing/metering system should become very efficient. In time, payroll,
stores and general accounting wilL be transferred to the computer with
expected improvement in the accounting efficiency of these systems.
4.14      A financial management/accounting expert will be included in the
proposed management assistance team (para 4.09) to improve the financial
management and accounting of Electrogaz and install a capital expenditure
accounting system.
Audit
4.15      An external audit has neyer been carried of Electrogaz's annual
accounts. Checks have been made by the Commissioners of Accounts
(para.4.05) but the doubts (para. 4.12) that exist on the accuracy and
validity of the assets and liability figures support the view that these
checks are inadequate. It was therefore proposed that the first audit of
Electrogaz be carried out for 198]. at an early date, financed by the PPF,
by a firm of auditors acceptable to IDA. In February 1983, Electrogaz
appointed "Price Waterhouse and Co. Africa". Submission of the audit
report to IDA would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
Credit. Thereafter, Electrogaz would have the annual accounts audited by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA and submit them within six months of
the end of each fiscal year.
4.16      Electrogaz would also be asked to have the external auditors
verify that the actual cost and diLsbursements of the project are properly
recorded (para. 4.08) in the progress reports for the proposed project at
the end of each fiscal year, the audit certificate to be submitted to the
Bank within three months of the end of each fiscal year.
Insurance
4.17      Insurance in the past, apart from statutory insurance, has only
covered freight and transport of goods as Electrogaz has operated on the
Government basis of self insurance without making any provision for an
insurance fund. The management assistance team is expected to undertake a
review of this policy with a view to providing insurance cover for assets
the loss of which could cause an unacceptable loss to Electrogaz and
Rwanda.
Management Systems
4.18      Currently systematic reporting to management regarding Electrogaz
operations is irregular and weak. Progress reports are produced for AfDB
financed projects when supervision missions require them, otherwise reports
related to physical and financial progress are not produced regularly.
Annual reports covering the technical and financial aspects of operations
are produced too long after the end of each year to be useful to
management. Monthly, quarterly or half-yearly financial reports are not
produced. The management assistance team (para. 4.09) is expected to



- 19 -
establish a monthly and quarterly management reporting system and
accelerate production of the annual reports and accounts. IDA reporting
requirements were agreed at negotiations.
4.19      Although separate financial reports are produced annually for
water, gas and electricity operations for operating income and expenditure,
separate balance sheets and funds flow statements are not provided.  The
allocation of common expenditures among water, gas and electricity
operations is also rather arbitrary. Electrogaz agreed at negotiations to
have the management assistance team improve the method of producing
separate accounts for water, gas and electricity with a view to producing
before December 31, 1986 yearly income statements, funds flow statements
and balance sheets, and the consolidated accounts for Electrogaz as a
whole.
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Past Performance
5.01      Electrogaz's past financial performance has been poor due to a
lack of the physical (equipment, transport and accomodation), financial
(operating funds) and managerial (qualified and experienced personnel)
resources which would enable efficient operation. The annual accounts
embrace both water and electricity operations (there have been no gas
operations in recent years) for which separate income statements are
produced but the allocation of common expenditures is arbitrary,
depreciation is not broken down for the two services and the accuracy of
the figures is doubtful.
5.02      Based on the annual accounts for 1980, Electrogaz suffered a net
deficit of FRw 109 (US$1.2) million after charging FRw 124 (US$1.3)
million for depreciation which however was based only on the historical
values of the assets. No debt service was paid during the year because
Government had not charged interest on the foreign loans onlent to
Electrogaz and repayment on the first of these loans was only due to begin
in 1981. The rate of return (ROR) for 1980 on historically valued net
fixed assets in operation was minus 1.6% compared to about 1% for the
previous year, however, these RORs are of doubtful significance as
uncertainty exists whether all operating assets are included in the value
of Plant in Service in the annual accounts - the value for Work in Progress
is also doubtful. Schedules of assets and projects in progress are not
available to support these balance sheet items. Neither could supporting
schedules be produced in support of the total shown for Long Term Debt.
Considering that Government has only onlent KfW and AfDB loans and all
other loans have been passed on as equity, Electrogaz's debt equity ratio
at 11/89 is realistic. Income Statements and Balance Sheets for 1979 and
1980 are shown in Annex 12. Submission of the audited 1981 annual accounts
to the Bank would be a condition for Credit effectiveness (para. 4.15).
5.03      Historical funds flow statements have not been shown as they
would be meaningless in view of the fact that Governnent has provided all
project finance to Electrogaz for water projects by paying foreign and



- 20 -
local suppliers directly and the Ministry of Public Works (MPW) pays all
costs of power projects. The sums expended in both cases cannot be
ascertained with any degree of accuracy until projects are completed, if
then, and as no capital works accounting system exists there is no
certainty that all the projects that have been undertaken in the past by
MPW are included in Electrogaz books.
Financing Plan
5.04      The capital that Electrogaz is expected to invest to meet the
demand for water, gas and electricity through 1988 is estimated in total at
FRw 15,539 (US$169) million at current prices including interest during
construction. Government and Electrogaz would need to borrow FRw 10,165
(US$111) million or 65% abroad, Government would need to provide FRw 2,148
(US$23) million or 14% as equity and FRw 3,226 (US$35) million or 21% would
be provided from internal cash generation.
5.05      Tariffs were trebled on average from January 1, 1982 for water,
from FRw 20.3 (US cents 22.3) to FRw 66.1 (US cents 73)/m3 and doubled on
average for electricity from FRw 5.1 (US cents 5.6)/m3 to FRw 10.9 (US
cents 12.0)/kWh. These tariff levels are expected to yield revenues
adequate to provide the cash generation that Electrogaz will require to
assist in funding the total investment program through 1984. Based on the
assumption that Electrogaz would be able to borrow 65% of capital
expenditures, including interest during construction, it has been assumed
that the average tariff levels would be increased at the rates necessary to
provide 25% of the capital expenditures from internally generated funds
with the balance coming from Government as equity. Accordingly, it was
agreed at negotiations that Electrogaz shall from time to time take, or
cause to be taken, all such measures including, without limitation,
adjustments of the structure or levels of its water, electricity and gas
tariffs as shall be required to produce, for each of its fiscal years after
its fiscal year ending on December 31, 1982, funds from internal sources
equivalent to not less than 25% of the annual average of the Borrower's
capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, during that year
the previous year and the year next following fiscal year. The proposed
covenant would be reviewed when acceptable separate accounts for water,
electricity and gas are available (para. 4.19) and may be then converted to
a rate of return covenant based on net revalued fixed assets in operation.
Electrogaz's financing plan for the Seven Year Period based on the
foregoing and the assumptions given in Annex 16 is summarized below:



- 21 -
Financing Plan: 1982-1988
(FRw and US$ millions)
FRw       US$       _
Internal Funds                                    8,022        87        51.6
Less: Debt Service and increase
in Working Capital and cash                4,796         52       30.8
Funds Available for Investment                    3,226         35       20.8 a/
Borrowing                                       10,165        111        65.4
Government Equity                                 2,148        23        13.8
Total Capital Expenditure                       15,539        169       100.0
Tariffs
5.06       To fulfil the fiinancing plan and meet the proposed earnings
covenant, increases in Electrogaz's average tariff levels per m3 and kWh
sold through 1988 are estimated as follow:
PROECT AVERAGE TARIFF  LEVELS
Water Sold per ni3            Electricity per k4Wh Sold            Gas/m3 Sold 2/
Current      Constant 1/         Current        Constant       Current         Constant
%                        ~~~~~~~~~% %.
FRw    USe  Inc  FRw   USe        FRw   US¢   mIc. ERw   USt   FRw   USt  Inc. FRw    USt
1982  66.1  72.6  226  63.2  69.5        10.9  12.0  95  10.4  11.4  28.5  31.3   -  27.2  29.9
1983  66.1  72.6   -   57.9  63.6       10.9  12.0  -    9.5  10.4  28.5  31.3   -  24.9  27.4
1984  66.6  72.6   -   53.0  58.2       10.9  12.0  -    8.7   9.6  28.5  31.3   -  22.9  25.2
1985  82.9  91.1   25  61.2  67.3       13.6  14.9  25  10.0  11.0  35.7  39.2  25  26.3  28.9
1986  91.3  100.3   10  62.3  68.5      15.0  16.5  10  10.2  11.2  39.4  43.3  10  26.9  29.6
1987  114.3  125.6   25  72.3  79.5      18.8  20.7  25  11.9  13.1  49.3  54.2  25  31.2  34.3
1988  114.3  125.6   -   67.2  73.8     18.8  20.7  -   11.0  12.1  49.3  54.2   -  28.9  31.8
a/ Below the proposed 25% because 1982's fund's generation is negative.
l/ Current and constant prices (1981) include and esclude inflation, respectively usirg the inflaticrï frc:-W
in para.3.07, and assumirg expenditures are in the proportion 70/30 for foreign ard local eKpendic,>--s
respectively.
2/ Gas supply began in 1982 to the only breæry in the country at Giænyi as tbe sole conaner.



- 22 -
5.07      Tariff levels at constant prices are expected to fall through
1984 when constant price increases are required to meet the high chemical
costs for water, substantially increased purchases of bulk power from Zaire
and rapidly increasing depreciation on plant in operation on the large
power investment program which has yet to be justified economically (para.
4.07).  The average level of water tariff is currently high in comparison
to other African countries but it would need to be increased only by about
6% in real prices until 1988. The present water tariff has the following
progressive block structure for all categories of consumers:
Consumption (m3 per month)                   Charge FRw/m3
0 to 25 m3                                   40
25 to 60 m3                                   60
Over  60 m3                                   80
Although tariffs are high, basic water needs are still affordable since a
family of six consuming 15 lcd would pay 108 FRw/month at the lowest block
rate which, for a poor family with an income of 3,500 FRw/month (para.
2.01) would represent only 3% and which is considered acceptable.
5.08      A tariff study was carried out by WHO under the WHO/IBRD
cooperative program in 1978; the study and the conclusions drawn are .now
out of date, because of changes in the water investment program.
Electricity tariffs have not yet been studied. Studies on a marginal cost
basis covering water, electricity and gas in the urban areas are required
in order to recommend appropriate tariff policies and structures to
Governmnent. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the management
assistance team would carry out the necessary studies by December 31, 1984
and Electrogaz would implement recommendations agreed with IDA by December
31, 1985.
5.09      Financial forecasts have been prepared covering the joint water,
electricity and gas operations in view of the fact that the separation of
operating accounts as currently prepared by Electrogaz are arbitrary.
Assets in operation and depreciation are not separately prepared and
current assets and liabilities are also not broken down. The future tariff
levels derived from the forecasts are those needed to provide the overall
revenues that Electrogaz will require and are not based on separate cost
coverage or financing requirements for the water, electricity and gas
operations. The situation will be remedied when comprehensive accounts for
each operation are produced by Electrogaz within a maximum of three years
(para. 4.19).
Future Operations and Financial Position
5.10      Forecast income statements, funds flow statements and balance
sheets are in Annexes 13, 14 and 15. Construction expenditures are given
in Annexes 1 and 2, borrowings and terms of borrowing in Annex 16, and the
assumptions in the financial forec:asts in Annex 17.   Water sales are
expected to increase from 3.82 million m3 in 1982 to 11.0 million m3 in
1988 or at an average annual growth rate of 19.3%, a high growth rate which



- 23 -
arises from new water production installations in Kigali and Butare (67% of
total water consumption) having been completed in 1981, the project
production facilities in the five centers and expanded supplies to be
provided in four secondary centers by CCCE and one secondary center by
KfW. The expanded supplies made available will be mainly taken by
customers who previously sufferred from intermittent and sparse water
supplies.   Electricity sales are expected to increase from 77 GWh in FY82
to 119 GWh in 1988 or at an average of 7.5% p.a. Over the six year period,
total revenues are expected to grow from FRw 1,176 (US$12.8) million in
1982 to FRw 3,650 (US$39.6) million in 1988 at an annual average growth
rate of 20.8%, while total operating expenses are expected to increase from
FRw 1,059 (US$11.5) million for FY82 to FRw 3,113 (US$33.8) million for
FY88, an annual growth rate of 19.7%, approximately in line with the growth
in revenues.
5.11      Based on the foregoing, the financial position would improve
substantially in the future. Electrogaz would become largely
self-financing for local costs, relieving the Government budget of the
greater part of the local cost financing that it now provides, although
small amounts of equity funds would need to be provided in certain years.
Capitalization
5.12      Electrogaz debt/equity ratio would increase from 17/83 in 1982 to
34/66 in 1988, a satisfactory position. No difficulty would arise in
servicing debt as the annual debt servicing ratio would not fall below 2.1
through the seven year period of the forecast. However, to safeguard the
position and to ensure that future borrowings are for economically
justified projects, it was agreed at negotiations that theBank would be
consulted on the incurrence of any loan if internal cash generation for the
year prior to the incurrence, were less than 1.5 times maximum future debt
service on all loans including the loan to be incurred.
5.13      The adjustment in the purchasing parity of the FRw that could
arise from the inflation rates assumed (para. 3.07) would amount to about
18% by the end of 1985, which if adjusted from the beginning of 1986 could
cause debt servicing costs for 1986 through 1988 to increase by FRw 465
(US$5) million or by 13% of the total debt service currently estimated for
that period, an amount that would be within Electrogaz's financing
capability.
Receivables
5.14      Receivables had reduced from the equivalent of one year's water
and electricity billing at end 1980 to seven months at end 1981. The total
of receivables at end 1981 included 26% or FRw 64 (US$0.7) million for
outstanding Government bills. In addition to the receivables for water and
electricity billed, FRw 88 (US$1.0) million was unpaid for the cost of
contract and connections works that had been billed. At negotiations,
Electrogaz informed IDA that receivables at the end of 1982 were reduced to
the equivalent of four months water and electricity billings due to the new
computer which was installed at the beginning of 1982 and to the action of
the Head of the Administration and Finance Department, which position was
vacant for two years until early 1982. To maintain the receivables



- 24 -
position, it was agreed at negotiations that total outstanding private and
Government accounts, including the most recent month billed, would be kept
below the equivalent of four months billing for electricity, water and
gas. It was also agreed at negotiations that payment for contract and
connection works should be made at least 60% in advance of the work to be
carried out with the balance to be paid at the end of the construction.
However, for poor customers, the advance payment would be 30% with the
balance to be paid by installments over 6 to 12 months.
Inventories
5.15      Total inventories on hand in Rwanda and in transit amounted to
3.5% of the gross historical book value of operating assets at end 1981, a
low figure for a power and water utility and particularly low in a
landlocked country such as Rwanda which is about 1,500 km from the coast
and the ports at which equipment, spare parts and materials are landed.
Electrogaz is short of the spares, materials and equipment needed for
effective operation and with the adequate funds now available following the
tariff increase, should have no dLifficulty in replenishing stocks as
Government makes foreign currency available. Electrogaz would be assisted
by the management assistance team (para.4.09) in setting up not later than
June 30, 1985 an inventory management system to ensure availability of the
necessary spares, equipment and materials at all Electrogaz stations.
Liquidity
5.16      The current ratio is expected to vary from 1.7 to 4 for the seven
year period of the financial forecast, a satisfactory position. Working
cash balances will be adequate for the needs of Electrogaz and inventories
are expected to increase to about 5% of gross assets revalued from 1981.
Valuation of Fixed Assets
5.17      The report on the first external audit of Electrogaz accounts
which would be available to IDA prior to effectiveness of the Credit
(para. 4.15) would verify whether the historical figures for fixed assets
in the balance sheet for 1981 are true and fair.  In the event that further
investigations are required, Elec:trogaz would ask its auditors to hire
experts to check physically and value all the fixed assets. In order to
derive RORs on the assets in operation as a check that tariff levels are
realistic, it was agreed at negotiations that, starting from 1986,
Electrogaz would revalue its net fixed assets in operation annually, using
as index the GNP deflator or such other method of valuation acceptable to
IDA.
VI. ECONOMI]C AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS
Project Benefits
6.01      The project would satisfy the water demand in the project areas
up to 1988 (paras. 2.10 and 2.11). It would meet the needs of domestic
consumers whose water consumption would be increased by about 250%



- 25 -
resulting from the provision of safe water to about 40,500 additional
people at an average rate of 24 liters per capita per day (lcd) and the
improvement of service to about 20,000 people whose average consumption
would increase from 20 to 24 led. It would also meet the needs of
governmental institutions, commerce and small industry whose water
consumption would be increased by about 230%.
6.02      More generally, all Electrogaz's water supply consumers would
benefit from its improved management and staff capabilities to be brought
about by the project's training component. Through its institutional and
financial covenants, the project is expected to lead Electrogaz towards
improved effectiveness which should benefit not only Electrogaz's consumers
but also all tax payers in the country by reducing government
contributions.
Least Cost Solution
6.03      The consulting firm and Electrogaz have selected the most
economic alternatives to meet the water demand in the five secondary
centers. Rehabilitation of existing facilities has been proposed wherever
necessary and justified. Reliance upon springs is proposed where
economie (all project areas except Rwamagana). Where the choice of the
least cost solution was not obvious, detailed alternatives have been
studied and compared by analyzing discounted capital and operation and
maintenance costs. Sensitivity of the results to discount factors varying
from 8% to 15% have been examined and found not to affect the least cost
solution.
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and Pricing Consideration
6.04      The economie rate of return of the project is the discount rate
at which the present value of capital and operating costs, excluding taxes
and shadow pricing foreign exchange (at 1.15 for Rwanda) is equal to the
present value of benefits attributable to the investments over the economic
life of the project. Capital and operating costs and benefits of Phase Il
of the development program in the five secondary centers for which common
investments are included in the project, have also been taken into account
in the cost and benefit streams. The incremental water revenues were taken
as a best proxy of the benefits attributable to the investments. The ERR
using the average selling price which will apply in 1987 (at 1981 price
levels), the year the project will be operational, of FRw 72.3/m3 is 4.9%
which is not out of line with similar projects. The ERR would be higher if
unquantifiable health, environmental and social benefits could have been
included in the calculations. The rate of return is sensitive to a 10%
increase in costs or a 10% reduction in water revenues by about 1% (details
of the calculations are given in Annex 18).
6.05      The average incremental cost of supply for the project areas is
estimated at FRw 112.2/m3 using an opportunity cost of capital of 10% in
real terms. The incremental cost is above the selling price of FRw 87.3/m3
(at 1981 price levels) expected to prevail in 1987 for the highest block of
Electrogaz tariff schedule when the project will be operational. This
situation is nevertheless acceptable because the funds provided by the
existing and projected tariffs levels in all centers would enable



- 26 -
Electrogaz on the whole to be financially viable. Although standard
tariffs apply throughout the country, the major water supplies are in
Kigali and Butare, the two major cities where greater economies of scales
arise. Thus, water consumers in Kigali and Butare somewhat subsidize water
consumers in the project areas whiclh are generally poorer.
Impact on Poverty Group
6.06      The poverty group in the project areas in 1980 is estimated at
about 37,000 (93% of the total population), based upon the assumption that
all of the population served either through public standpipes or through
neighbours or not served at all, is below the poverty threshold in urban
areas (FRw 1,436/capita/month at 1982 price levels). It is estimated that
in 1988, the horizon of the project, water would be supplied at an average
rate of 15 lcd through public standpipes or private connections used as
standpipes to practically 100% of the poverty group which would then
represent 55,000 people or 91% of the total population. The poverty group
consumption would total about 825 m3/day or about 56% of total domestic
consumption for that year. The poverty component of the project is
estimated consequently at 91% according to the number of people served and
56% according to the volume of domestic water distributed.
Project Risks and Merits
6.07      The main project risks relate to Electrogaz's limited capacity to
properly implement projects, operate facilities once constructed, and
manage customers in order to recover charges. As detailed design of the
project would be practically completed by Board presentation the risk of
delayed start of implementation is minimized. Other risks are minimized
since Electrogaz would be require to continue to use consulting engineers
for supervision of project construction (para. 3.12), to hire a management
assistance team from a reputable utility company (para. 4.09) and to
implement a training program (para. 3.13). The project risks appear
moderate compared to the benefits expected from its implementation (paras.
6.01 to 6.06).
Monitoring
6.08      During the implementation of the project, Electrogaz would
monitor critical indicators through quarterly and semi-annual reports
(Annex 19). Within six months of project completion, Electrogaz would
prepare a project completion report on the basis of an outline agreed with
the Bank.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACEED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were reached with the Government
and Electrogaz on the following:
(a) Electrogaz would continue to employ engineering consultants
for project detailed design and construction (para. 3.12),
would employ training experts to assist in



- 27 -
implementing its training program (para. 3.13), and would,
during the execution of the project, continue to use the
management assistance team provided under CCCE financing
(para. 4.09).
(b) IDA would be consulted prior any changes in Electrogaz
organization structure and scope of responsibility (para.
4.03).
(c) Electrogaz's accounts would be audited by independant
auditors acceptable to the Bank and audited accounts would be
sent to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal year
(4.15). Electrogaz's auditors would verify the proper
recording of capital expenditures and disbursements in the
progress reports for the proposed project at the end of each
fiscal year and submit it to IDA within three months of the
end of each fiscal year (para 4.15);
(d) Electrogaz would produce, before December 31, 1986, separate
income statements, funds flow statements and balance sheets
for water, electricity and gas (para. 4.19);
(e) Electrogaz would generate annually from internal sources
funds equivalent to 25% of construction expenditures averaged
over the test, previous and next following year.s (para.
5.05);
(f) Electrogaz would carry out water, electricity and gas tariff
studies on a long-term marginal cost basis by December 31,
1984 and would implement the tariff recommendations by
December 31, 1985 (para. 5.08);
(g) IDA would be consulted prior to incurrence of a loan, if
Electrogaz. debt servicing ratio were less than 1.5 (para.
5.12);
(h) Electrogaz's outstanding accounts for water, electricity and
gas would not exceed the equivalent of four months billing
(para. 5.14);
(i) Electrogaz would normally require at least 60% advance
payment for consumer connections and other contract works.
For poor consumers the advance payment would be reduced to
30% (para 5.14);
(j) The value of Electrogaz's fixed assets would be verified by
the auditors and, if necessary, reestimated by experts.
Thereafter fixed assets would be annually revalued according
to methods acceptable to IDA (para. 5.17).



- 28 -
7.02      Effectiveness of the proposed Credit would be conditioned to the
following:
(a) Submission of the Electrogaz audited annual accounts and of
the audit report for 1981 (paras. 4.15 and 5.02);
b) Execution of the subsidiary loan agreement covering
Government onlending to Electrogaz (para. 3.09).
7.05      With the above agreements, the project would be suitable for an
IDA Credit of SDR 12 million (US$1.3 million).
March 1983



- 29 -                                             Annex 1
RWANDA
FIRST WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Electrogaz's 1982-88 Investment Program for Water Supply and Gaz
(l10 Fkw including price contingeincies)
Financial
1.  Water Supply                  Assistance         1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   Total
Kigali
100 public standpipes               UNEF                     45                                           45
Rehabilitation of old
production facilities          Unidentified                                       75      75            150
New production facilities           AfDB             87                                                   87
Second phase production         Unidentified                               300    300    300    300   1200
Distribution                        GOR                      20      30     40     50      60    100    300
Butare
Public standpipes               Unidentified                                30                            30
Other Centers
5 secondary centers                 IDA              -      170    178    378    410    301       -    1437
4 secondary centers                 CCCE                            200    400    500    500            1600
Nyanza                              KfW              35    100      50                                   185
Electrogaz Offices                GTZ-Govt.            25     60                                           85
Miscellaneous (GOR)                                  ____300    300
Total Water Supply                                147    395    458   1148   1335   1236    700   5419
2.  Gaz                           LUNDP-Govt.           35     -       -      -       -      -       -      35
3.  Total Water Supply + Gaz                           182    395    458   1148   1335   1236    700   5454



- 30 -
ANNEX 2
RWANDA
FIRSI. WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ELECTROGAZ
Electrogaz's Inveslment Program for Electricity 1982-88
1982    1983    L984      1985      1986      1987    1988      SubTot
TL MURURU/MASHYUZ      60.0      0.0     0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       60.0
RESEAU NAT/LIGNE        0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0
MUKUNGWA PS           550.0      0.0     0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0     550.0
KADAHOKUA ELECT         1.0      1.0     0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0        2.0
PUB LT-KIG3+4           8.0      6.0     0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       14.0
KAM/GIH ELECT           1.0      1.0     0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0        2.0
BUSHENGE HOSPTC         4.0      0.0     0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       4.0
KIGALI ELECT            9.0      0.0     0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0        9.0
NDIZA & KAYENZI PS      4.0      0.0     0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       4.0
WESTERN NETWORK       119.0      0.0     0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0     119.0
LOCAL NETWORK           2.0      0.0     0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0        2.0
IL RUHEN/GISENYI       52.3   228.5   249.2       67.8       0.0      0.0      0.0     597.7
TL GITON/KITABI        10.5    44.6    48.6       12.1       0.0      0.0      0.0      115.7
STUDY LC DEVPLAN       12.5      0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      12.5
SOUS PREF-BUBERUKA      0.0    28.6   122.3    133.1        36.8      U.0      0.0     320.9
RE GAT/MUHORORO         0.0    45.7   199.4    216.8        58.7      0.0      0.0     520.6
RE CYESHA/N1WANGAO      0.0    14.9    67.3       73.1      19.1      0.0      0.0      174.4
RE SAZE/ISAGORA         0.0      0.0    44.9    192.5    208.5       57.2      0.0     503.1
RERUH/GITARAA           0.0      0.0    29.9    130.1    141.0       38.0      0.0     339.0
RE KABUR/MUSAKA         0.0      0.0     0.0      33.8    146.8    158.6    44.7       383.8
GIHARA hYDRO PLANT      0.0   102.8   447.3    487.9    132.1         0.0      0.0    1170.2
TLI BUSH/IMPALA         0.0      0.0    11.2      48.8      52.9     14.4      0.0     127.4
TL2&3 NYAX/GISAG        0.0      0.0    48.6    211.5    222.4       62.0      0.0     544.4
TL4 MUHUM/NYAK          0.0      0.0     0.0      23.0     96.9    104.7    29.1       253.8
TL5 RAMB/RUBAYA         0.0      0.0     0.0      29.9    129.0    139.4    37.9       336.3
TL6 MIB/GIKONGORA       0.0      0.0     0.0      39.4    170.3    184.0    49.9       443.6
IEL1 RUH/GITARAMA       0.0    27.4   119.6    130.1       35.2       0.0      0.0     312.4
IEL2 CYANGUGU           0.0      0.0    13.7      59.6      64.5     17.3      0.0      155.1
IEL BUT/GIKONGORA       0.0      0.0     0.0      48.8    208.5    225.4    61.8       544.6
IEIL4 GISENYI/KBYE      0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0      58.7    253.7   274.3      586.8
OTHER 1982/85          55.4    62.8    72.2       82.6       0.0      0.0      0.0     273.1
OTHER2 1986/88          0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0      93.9    106.2   120.0      320.1
TOTAL COSTS           888.7   563.3  1474.2   2020.9   1875.3   1360.9   617.7    8801.5
a/ Totals may not add due to computer rounding.



- 31 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 4
RWANDA
FIRST WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Existing Water Supply Facilities
Cyangugu
1.        Before independence a small part of Cyangugu (the Karembo
peninsula and the airport area) was supplied through a main pipeline coming
from Bukavu (Zaire). In 1965, three years after independence, the supply
from Zaire was cut off and the present separate water supply system was
commissioned. It includes three sub-systems:
(a) The Ruganda sub-system taps the water resources (0.4 1/s) of
two springs, Ruganda I alid li.  After lime treatment anc
application of chlorine, the water is stored in a snall
groune level concrete reservoir of 14 m3 capacity and made of
concrete. Then the water gravitates through distribution
pipes to supply the Gihundwe area which includes a Protestant
mission, schools, a dispensary and a small residential area.
The reservoir is in good condition but its low elevation does
not allow the supply of many residential houses in the area.
(b) The Kamabuye sub-system taps the water resources (2.2 1/s) of
the Kamabuye spring.  After lime arid chlorine treatment the
water gravitates to supply in the heavily populated Kamembe
area with its municipal market and the airport area where a
30 m3 capacity reservoir is located. The capacity of the
system is inadequate and service in the aitport area is
by a bituminous coat but it is heavily corroded and leaks are
numerous. Control valves in the sub-system are inadequate.
The airport reservoir, made from galvanized steel, includes
corroded equipment which needs to be replaced.
(c) The Mount Cyangugu sub-system taps the water resources of the
Cyangugu spring (3.3 1/s). After application of chlorine the
water gravitates to supply in the Kinini military camp, the
Karembo peninsula, and the Shangugu and Ruzizi areas. A jail
on Mount Cyangugu is supplied from a booster station and a
small reservoir of 15 m3 capacity. This reservoir is poorly
equipped and has no float-controlled valve to shut off the
supply when the reservoir is full. The booster station is
not automatically controlled. The lack of adequate equipment
and bad operation result in heavy water losses aue to
reservoir overflows.
Kibungo
2.        The water supply system of Kibungo was commissioned in 1965 and
operated by AIDR.  In 1982 the system was handed over to Electrogaz.  The
sources of water consist of two springs (Kabimbizi and Karugondo) in the
valley of the Rwasaburo River. The collection pipes are in poor condition



- 32 -                       ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 4
and partially clogged.  Present capacity is liraited to 2 l/s.  The water is
collected in a ground level partially damaged concrete reservoir of 65 m
capacity.  There is no water treatment.  A pumping station including a new
89 kW electrie generator set powered with a gasoline engine and a new
electric urotordriveii purmp, (45 kW. b.3 1/s, 300 mi heacd) pumps water to the
hill where Kibungo is located.  The pumping equipment is in good condition
but its capacity is inadequate.  The 90 mu diameter rising maini, in
bituminized steel, the 48 m3 main service reservoir and the 30 m3 reservoir
supplying the bishopric house and offices, made of galvanized steel, are
all in very poor condition.  A recently coilstructed concrete service
reservoir of i5 n3 capacity suppliies the Kabale secondary school.
Distribution pipes, mainly in bituminized steel are heavily corroded and
most of ttiem need to be replaced.
Kibuye
3.         Kibuye's water supply system was first built in 1958 but
it was modified significantly to increase its capacity and change steel
pipes to PVC pipes in 1974. The existing system consists of a small
gravity pipeline, 80 mm diameter, 5 km long collecting water from three
springs (Kinnyogo, Gashyuha and Nyamishywa). The springs are well
protected from pollution created by animals and run-off water. Collection
structures are not safely designed. Present yield of the 3 springs is 5.7
1/s but the yield could be increased by further development of the works.
Spring water acidity is neutralized in a srmall treatment plant where lime
is applied but the plant is in poor condition and treatment is very
inaccurate. There is no chlorine application to disinfect accidental
pollution of the springs. The distribution system includes one main
service reservoir 80 m3 capacity, made in galvanised steel anid 4 small
reservoirs with capacity ranging from 8 to 35 m3. Pipes made of galvanized
or bituîrminizec steel are corroced anc need to be replaced.
Ruhengeri
4.         Ruhengeri's water supply system consists of tnree separate
sub-systems:
(a) The town-center sub-system is the most important sub-system.
It taps groundwater from a well dug into the volcanic aquifer
located under the town. Protection of the well against
pollution is inaaequate since houses have been built close to
it while ground levels above the aquifer are highly
permeable. A pumping station of 11 I/s capacity discharges
water directly intc, the distribution network which has
practically not been extended since its construction in
1957. Most of the valves on the network are no more
accessible since, when roads were repaired, most of the
valve-chambers have been closed because their covers have
disappeared. There exists only one distribution reservoir of
70 m3 capacity, empty since 1975 because of lack of
pressure. The reservoir made in galvanized steel is heavily
corroded and needs to be replaced.



- 33 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 4
(b) The MutoDo sub-system is supplied by the rural aqueduct of
the Mutobo !iver. It consists of a small pipeline, 3.5 km
long, which supplies by gravity a total ot 3 l/s to the
northwestern areas of the town.
(c) lhe Nyakinama sub-system taps the water resources (1.1 1/s)
of tiie Kigoobe spring which gushes out in the center ot the
town.  It includes a 90 mm diameter, 5 km long pipeline whlich
supplies water uy gravity to thie university aud the southern
suburbs of the town (Kabaya and NyakinanLa areas). Three
small reservoirs of 25 m3 capacity each, supply a few public
standpipes which are in poor condition.
5.         Pipes of Ruhengeri's water supply system are in galvanized or
bituminized steel. Out of 10.8 km of the existing pipelines, 7.2 km, i.e.
67% need to be replaced.
Rwamagana
6.        Rwamagana water supply system draws its water from Lake Muhazi, 6
km north of the town. The system was built in 1955 and partly renovated in
1972. The production works (intake, pumping and treatment plants) are
inadequate and in very poor condition. The PVC rising pipe 6 km long, 90
mm, diameter is in good condition except for the first 80 m near the pumping
plant.  The uain iistribution reservoir, 60 m3 capacity, is made of
galvanized steel and is heavily corroded. The distribution system includes
four small reservoirs withi a capacity ranging fromi 3.5 m3 to 14 m3.  The
pipes in the system liave a total length of 26.8 km out vf which 4.1 km neea
to Le replaced.
Operation anid Maintenance
7.        Although the existing water supply systems in the five secondary
centers are relatively simple, they are poorly operatea and maintained
mainly because ot inefiective management. This results from a shortage ot
adequately quali$ied and experienced personnel and a lack ot financial
resources during recent years.
8.         Water quality is checked by Electrogaz's laboratory in Kigali but
frequency of control in the secondary centers is inadequate.  New treatment
facilities constructed under the proposed project would include simple
facilities and equipment for control of water quality in the five centers,
Under the training program financed through the project, plant attendants
would be trained to carry out simple quality tests.
9.        Unaccounted-for water presently averages about 30% of water
produced, which is not unreasonable considering the generally poor
condition of the existing systens. The extensive rehabilitation to be
carried out under the project using PVC pipes instead of steel pipes (Annex
5, para. 7) is expected, to reduce unaccounted-for water to 15%. However,
as the system grows older the percentage may somewhat increase.



- 34 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 4
10.       Existing public standpipes are metered and water is billed eitter
to concessionaires or to local aut:hority. Concessionaires sell, in turn,
water to the consumers while water is free for consumers when the standpipe
is owned by the local authority. Local authorities and concessionaires
generally pay their bills relatively well as stanapipes are disconnected
from the distribution network when they are unable to pay. Many standpipes
have been closed auring the last years because of frequent interruptions of
water supply which prevented the concessionaires from operating. In
addition to the formal public standpipes, many private connections and
non-domestic connections are used as standpipes by friends or neighbours of
the connection owner who may sell or give away the water.
11.       Meters are read by loca:L meter readers and readings sent to
Kigali where the bills are prepared. A large number of meters needs
replacement. About 4,000 new meters were recently bought by Electrogaz to
replace existing worn out meters and to equip new connections. This should
allow full metering of the connections for the next few years. When
maintenance or repairs are needed,, the meters are sent to Kigali. The
secondary centers are too small to justify in the short term the
construction of a meter repair shop in each of them.



- 35 -                                                        ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2
FIRST WATER SUPPLY 1ROJECI
Water Supply Services and Deffind in the Project Areas
CYANGUGU                                                 1980                               1988                              1995
No.    Pop. lcd   m3/day          No.    Pop.   lcd _3/day        No.    Pop.   lcd   l3/day
Total Population                                     8,050                              13,220                         20,500
ConstTption
Domestic
-  private coriections                       173     600                       195    1,170  130      153      450    2,700  131      353
-  staindpipes                                 1     300                        14  )        )       )          16    6,400   20      126
)12,050 )15    )177
-  thru neighbors                            -    3,3(X0                        -        )                      -    11,400   20      225
Total (average)                          174   4,200  (21)       89         2U9   13,220  (25)    33U)    466   2U,500  (34)    704
Cccerce aid Irsustry )
)                    17      -      -      46          26      -             217       27      -             332
Governnent              )
Total                                          191   4,200  (32)    135          235   13,215  (41)    547       493   20,500  (50)  1,036
Total Population                                     4,370                              5,740                           7,30Ù
Consumption
Donestic
-  private connections                        75     262                        60      360  128       46       92      550  131        72
-  standpipes                                  6a/ 1,830                        16   )       )        )         18   )
)5,380 )15       )8)            )6,750 )17    )117
-  thru neighbors                              -      -                          -)          )        )              )        )
Total (average)                           81   2,062  (18)       38          76    5,740  (22)    16        110    7,300  (25)    189
Commerce and Industry )
15      -             25          22        -    -      112       24       -      -     173
Govermient             j
Total                                           9b   2,062  (30)      63          Y8    5,740  (41)    23b       134    7,300  (49)    362
Total Population                                     3,030                              4,28U                            5,800
Consumption
Doiestic
-  private comnections                        72     330                       100      600  122       73      167    1,000  123      123
-  standpipes                                  9   2,700                        20>          )        )         20   )
)3,680 >16       )61            )4,830 ) 21   ) 101
-  thru neighbors                              -      -                          -   )        )        )_        -   )        )  
Total (average)                           81   3,030  (12)       37         120    4,280  (31)    134       187    5,830  (38)    224
Cbmmerce and Industry )
20                    34          26       -      -     198       28        -     -     276
Goverrment             )
Total                                          101   3,030   23       71         146    4,280  (77)    332       215    5,830  (38)    500
Nota a/ Number relates to operatirg standpipes. More standpipes exist but they have been closed.



- 36 -
ANNE( 4
Page 2 of 2
FIFSS WATER SUPPLY PRcXE;T
Water Supply Servies and DXmand in the Project Areas
R     [JHNI1U                                         198c1                           1988                            1995
No.   Pop. 1cd   m3/day         1.   Pp.  lo d                N      P       d mNPday
Total Population                                  17,670                          26,150                        36,700
COnsumption
D1aestic
-  private oennections                    163      883                    398    2,396  113   270       683    4,100  125    512
-  standpipes                               3      900                     30)         )      )          31 )
)23,754 )14  )326             )32,600 ) 19   ) 621
-  thru neighbors                                4,200_                     -         )                  -   )
Total (average)                        166    5,983 (28)    170        428   26,150  (23)   596      714   36,700  (31)  1,133
Comerce and Irxhustry
27        -  -      266         43        -   -    638        45        -   -      809
Government             )
Total                                       193    5,983 (73)   436         471   26,150  (47) 1,234      759   36,700  (53) 1,942
Total Population                                   6,470                          10,870                        17,100
Dakestic
- private connections                      85      323                    129      774  120    93       292    1,750  121    212
-  standpipes                               4    1,200                     28)         )      )          32  )
)10,096 >18   )180            )15,350 ) 23   )353
-  thru neighbors                           -    3,000                      -)           _   )            -)_        ) _     )
Total (average)                         89    4,523 17)    78          157  10,870  (25)   273       324   17,100  (33)   565
Camerce and Industry )
18       -          53         30        -    -    220        34        -   -    401
Governoent            )
Total                                       107    4,523 {29)    131        187   10,870  (45)   494      358   17,100  (56)   966
Five Secondary Centers
Total Popilation                                  39,580                         60,260                         87,400
Consumption
Danestic
-  private connectiors                    568    2,400  99    238        882    5,300  120    635    1,684   10,100  126   1,272
-  public standpipes                       23    6,900  10      69       108)         )      )          117  )
)54,960 >15   ) 824            )77,300 ) 20  )1,543
-  thru neighbors                           -   10,500  10    105          -  )-         -)-_    )        -  )        ) _   )
Total                                  591   19,800 (20)    412       990   60,260  (24)  1,459    1,801   87,400  (32)  2,815
Comerce and Industry )
97        -   -     424       147        -    -   1,386      158        -   -   1,991
Goverrsnnt            )
Total                                       688   19,800 (42)    836     1,137   60,260  (47)  2,845    1,959   87,400  (55)  4,806



- 37 --
A1qNEX 5
Page l of 4
RWANDA
FIKST WATEK SUPPLY PROJECT
Description of the Project in the Five Secondary Centers
Works to be financed under the project in the five secondary
centers would consist of:
1.        Cyangugu
-  Intake in the Wigiti stream supplied by four springs (Kabugi,
Rugomero, Kabingo and Kareko).
-  A plant witb a capacity of 520 m3/day for simple treatment (pH
adjustment, chlorine application) in the Murangi area.
-  A new reservoir (K4), 50 m3 capacity, to store treated water
and to supply houses in the Murangi area.
-  A pumping station, 330 m3/day capacity, with two pumps (11 kw,
4.6 1/s by lZ5 m head) installed in Phase 1, to supply
Cyangugu eastern and northern areas.  The southern and western
areas will be served tlirough a gravity pipeline.
-  A rising iiain, 100 mmi cdiamneter, 900 ra long ana a transmission
main, 100 nia diameter, 3.05 km long to supply the eastern ana
norttiern areas.
-  Four new service reservoirs (Rl, R2, R3 and R5) with capacity
ranging from 50 m3 to 200 m3.
- Rehabilitation of the 30 m3 capacity fire protection reservoir
of the airport.
- Distribution pipelines including 11.37 km of primary
distribution pipes of 50 mm to 140 mm diameter and 2.0 km of
secondary distribution pipes of 50 mm diameter.
- Thirteen public standpipes.
2.         Kibungo
-  Rehabilitation of toe two existing spring protection units and
improvement of new springs in the Rwasaburo valley between
Kabinbizi spring and reservoir Kl.
-  Constructiorn of a test well nearby the kwasaburo water stream
to prepare the second stage of the extension of water
productiorn facilitie-s in 1990.
-  Supply lines, 75 to -0UU mi  diameter, 2 khi louig, between the
springs and reservoir RI.



3
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 4
-  A simple treatment plant, 4 1/s capacity for pH adjustment and
chlorine treatment.
-  A new punping plant where new pumping equipment (one pumping
set 8 l/s, 300 m head. 45 kW) would be installed in addition
to the existing equipmient.
- One rising main, 100 emn diameter, 3.4 km long.
-  One reservoir 250 m3 capacity.
-  A distribution network. incluciing 13.2 km long of primary
distribution pipes 5U to 200rimm diameter, 1 km long of
secondary distribution pipes 50 mm diaineter, and 16 public
standpipes.
3.         Kibuye
- Improvement of the protection of the three existing spring
units.
-  A new treatment plant including lime and chlorine treatment
facilities equipped with gravity dosing units, storage
facilities for chemicals and a control room. As the plant is
small, it will be more economical to design it for 625 m3/day,
which is the water deraand at the production level for the 1995
horizon.
- A new concrete service reservoir, of 150 m3 capacity, at
ground level.
- Distribution pipelines including 6.4 km long of primary
distribution pipes 50 mm to 100 mm diameter, and 1.0 km long
of secondary distribution pipes 50 mm diameter and 20 public
standpipes.
4.         Ruhengeri
-  Tapinig of futobo springs water at 10 km from kuhenigeri.
One plant, 1195 m3/da, capacity, Located at 2 km from
Ruhengeri for simple treatment (pH adjustment by lime
treatment, chlorine application).  The civil works would be
designed for a treatment plant of 2425 m3/day capacity.
-  A new reservoir 600 m3 capacity, at ground level and made of
concrete.
-  Transmission pipelines totaling about 15.4 km of pipes 50 mm
to 200 mm diameter.



- 39 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 4
-  Distribution pipelirnes including 17.9 km of primary
distribution pipes of 50 mm to 280 dianeter and 0.8 km of
secondary distribution pipes, 50 mm diameter.
-  Twenty nine public standpipes.
5.         twamagana
-  A raw water intake in Lake fluhazi consisting of a screen
and a 100 m long, 140 mm aiameter PVC pipe supported by a
foot-bridge.
-  A raw water puniping station designed to house 3 electric-drive
pumps (30 m3/hour, 10 m head, 2.2 kW per unit) but initially
equipped with 2 pumps only (one in operation and one in
stand-by).
-  A treatment plant includirg two treatment units of 600 m3/day
capacity for prechlorination, lime treatment, coagulation,
floculation sedimentation, rapid filtration and desinfection
of the water.
-  A treated water pumping station designed to house 3
electrie-drive pumps (30 m3/hour, 155 m head, 30 kW per unit),
but initially equipped with two pumps only.
-  Rising blain pipes 90 and 135 mni diameter, 6.2 km long.
-  Distribution pipelines including 9.22 km long of primary
distribution pipes, 50 to 250 mm diameter and 1 km long of
secondary distribution pipes, 50 mul diamieter.
-  Twenty six public standpipes.
6.   Design
Standpipes
6.01       The maximum distance between standpipes would not be more than
500 m so that the water carrier of a typical family of 5 to 6 people each
consuming about 15 lcd would not have to carry its 20 liter container maore
than 4 times a day, i.e., to walk more than 2 km per day.   Consequently,
there will be normally be 6 standpipes per km2. This number would be
increased to 10 standpipes per km2 in hilly areas. A standpipe with one
tap and a capacity of 1 m3/hour, open no more than 10 hours/day will be
able to serve about 650 people. In heavily populated areas, standpipes
with two taps will be used.
Pipes
6.02       In the feasibility studies, the consultants compared different
kinds of materials for the construction of pipes included in the project
and recommended the use of PVC mainly because of its resistance to
corrosion and its availability in the local market.



40 -             ~~~AN NEX 5
Page 4 of 4
Protection of Springs
6.03       Springs used as water sources for the project will be properly
protected to avoid contamination in the area close to the point of
emnergence. The collection structures would be located and buiLt in a
manner which would force surface water to pass through at least 3 m of soil
before reaching the groundwater. Two protection areas would be delineated
for each spring:
- a small area owned by Electrogaz, where only Electrogaz staff
would be able to ent-er;
- a larger area from which all animals and habitations would be
excluded and where all facilities which could contaminate the
water wouild be excluded or regulated.



- 41 -
ANNEX 6
Page I of 2
FIRST WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
(FR Million)
Fa-RGZ  (ENER,
PPF, AIWANCES        Phvsical
TRAININS AND    ANn            (nrtingences
HEf.LTH   oFSIJLTI11
CYAN1IW KIKBYF KIBU) R1JE\qERI RWAMAGANA  EDUCATION   SERVIOES  Tctal    %   Annnt
1. INVESLT cosi
A. EQUIPFMIi
Z1E hTM EQUIPMtNT                                                      16.7  15.0    9.7       20.7      31.5           _           -   93.5 I.0    9.4
PUMPLNS EQUIPfEfT                                                       5.0      -    7.0         -      14.4           -           -   26.4  10.0    2.6
TRAININSC EQIfT                                                           -      -       -        -         -         10.2          -    10.2  10.0    1.0
Sub-Total EQJIPI*M                                                        21.7  15.0   16.7       20.7      45.9        10.2          -   130.1  10.0   13.0
Physical Continge&iies                                                  2.2   1.5    1.7        2.1       4.6         1.0          -    13.0  0.0    0.0
Price Contingencies                                                     5.7   4.0    4.4        5.5      12.1         3.5           -    35.2  9.1    3.2
Sub-Total INCLJUDIN2 CONTINGENCIES                                        29.6  20.5   22.8       28.2      62.6        14.7           -   178.3  9.1   16.2
Foreign Exchange                                                       26.3  18.2   20.2       25.1      55.6        13.0           -   158.4  9.1   14.4
B. PIPES ( SUPPLY, TRAtoPCaI AND IAYINS IFCUJDIMI TRENCiES)
TRANS>USSION PIPES                                                     23.4      -   30.9    115.3       51.3           -           -  220.9  10.0   22.1
DISIR1:8JION PIPES                                                     51.8  23.5   65.0       18.1      66.7           -           -  225.(  10.0   22.5
PIJELIC STANDPIPES                                                      2.6   4.0    3.2        5.8       5.2           -          -   20.8  10.0    2.1
Sub-Total PIPES ( SUPPLY, TRANSPCRT AND LAYIl. INC IWN  TRANCHES )        77.8  27.5   99.1    13q.1    123.2              -          -  466.7  10.0   46.7
Physical Contingencies                                                  7.8   2.7    9.9       13.9      12.3           -           -   46.7  0.0    0.n
Price Cortirgencies                                                    27.0   9.8   34.4       48.5      42.9           -           -   162.6  4.1   14.8
Sub-Total INCUJDING CONTINGFNCES                                         112.6  40.0  143.4    201.5    178.4              -          -  676.0  q.1   61.5
Taxes                                                                   0.6   0.2    0.7        1.0       0.9           -           -    3.4  9.1    0.3
Foreign Exchange                                                       61.6  21.9   78.5    110.2        97.6           -           -   369.8  9.1   33.6



-42-                                                                  AN1QX 6
Pige 2 of 2
FIRSI' W       StPPIY PHGJECT
PrcJect Cost Estirmtes
(FRW IfLifm)
MEtSROWA  CUERAL
PPF ADVANCŒS         Piysical
TRAINI[N  AND    AbD           Cort 1irncies
HEALi C 0NSULTING
CYAQlII KIEOYE KIaNlD R[H1NURI RfA1WAM  ElII(N    SERVICES  Total    %   Ant
C. CIVIL 1&RKS
I=                                                                       2.0   1.0    4.7       2.2       2.0           -           -    11.9  10.0    1.2
TREA3IT PilNr                                                           11.1  10.0    6.5       13.8     13.5           -           -   54.9  10.0    5.5
PHJPIN2 PLANT                                                            2.2     -     3.0        -       6.2           -           -    11.3 1I.0    1.1
RESERVOIRS PLAT                                                         14.2   3.4   10.0       19.2     40.0            -          -   86.8  10.0    R.7
TRALNINS CENTER                                                           -      -       -        -         -         36.0          -    36.0 10.0    3.6
Sub-Total CIVIL WaIS                                                      29.5  14.4   24.2        35.2     61.7         36.0          -   2D0.9  In0    2n.1
Physical Contirgercies                                                   3.0   1.4    2.4        3.5      6.2          3.6          -   20.1  0.0    0.0
Prie Contirigencies                                                     11.8   5.6    9.6       14.1     25.1         16.1          -   82.3  9.1    7.5
Sub-Total IICIIDTR aVI1n3W'IES                                            44.2  21.4   36.2       52.8      92.9        55.7           -  303.3  9.1   27.6
Taxes                                                                    0.7   0.3    0.5       0.8       1.4         0.8           -    4.5  9.1    0.4
Foreign Exchange                                                        16.2   7.9   13.3       19.4     34.0         20.3          -   111.1  9.1   in.1
D. PROET PIREPARATION AND 1EflASSISTMAE
TRAININ  SERVICES                                                         -      -       -        -         -        20.2           -   20.2  10.0    2.0
FIRST PPF ADVANCE + AUDIT                                                 -      -       -        -         -           -        65.4   654 10.0    6.5
ENSINERING SERVICES                                                       -      -       -        -         -           -       140.8  140.8  10.0   14.1
COIULTING SERVICES RURAL WAiER StPPUI                                     -      -       -        -         -           -        91.0   91.0  10.0    9.1
Sub-Total PFT PREPARATICN AND TErI AsIS                                      -      -       -        -         -         20.2      297.2  317.4  10.0   31.7
Physical Conitericies                                                     -                                           2.0        29.7   31.7  0.0    0.0
Price Contingencies                                                       -      -       -        -         -         6.1        43.4   49.5  9.1    4.5
Sub-Total IDI11JDING ONe&tNENCEES                                            -      -       -        -         -        28.3       370.3  398.6  9.1   36.2
Foreign Echange                                                           -      -       -        -         -         22.0      z66.2  288.2  9.1   26.2
Total INVESTfl   COSTS                                                       129.0  56.8  139.9    195.0    230.7          68.2       297.2 1,116.9  10.0  111.7
Physical Continignries                                                     12.9   5.7   14.0       19.5     23.1         6.8        29.7  111.7  0.0    0.0
Price Contirgencies                                                       44.6  19.4   48.4       68.1      80.1         26.5       43.4  330.4  9.1   30.0
Total INECUDUN CO(flNM NCIES                                                 186.4  81.9  202.3    282.6    333.9          101.5      370.3 1,559.0  9.1  141.7
Taxes                                                                       1.2   0.5    1.3        1.8      2.3          0.8          -    7.9  9.1    0.7
Foreign Exchange                                                          104.1  47.9  112.0    154.7    187.3           57.7      366.2  929.9  9.1   84.5
Total RASEIIE coIsls                                                          129.0  56.8  139.9    195.0    230.7          68.2       297.2 1,116.9  10.0  111.7
thysical Contingncies                                                       12.9   5.7   14.0       19.5     23.1         6.8        29.7  111.7  0.0    0.n
Price Cortirgencies                                                        44.6  19bA   48.4       68.1      80.1         26.5       43.4  330.4  9.1   30.0
Total PRUEO1E  COIS                                                           186.4  81.9  202.3    282.6    333.9          101.5      370.3 1,559.0  9.1  141.7
Taxes                                                                        1.2   0.5    1.3        1.8      2.3         0.8           -    7.9  9.1    0.7
Foreign Exchange                                                           104.1  47.9  112.0    154.7    187.3           57.7      266.2  929.9  9.1   84.5



- 43 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2
R1ANDA
FIRST WATER SUPPLY PRDJB;T
Project Progran of Eperditures
(FRW Million)
Base
Coets +
Prie
Cont. on
Base    Foreigi
Base Costs                Costs   Exehange
(US$
1983  1984  1985  1986  1987 Total  Million) X  Amtunt
I. INVESfrMT 03STS
A. WJIPNE2iT
TRFAIMEN< BpJIPT                                                    -  18.7  37.4  28.1   9.4   93.5         1.3 90.0  84.2
f1PMPI  EQJIIT                                                      -   5.3  10.6   7.9   2.6   26.4         0.4 90.0  23.8
TRAINIIC MfJIIPEN                                                   -      -      -   9.0   1.2   10.2       0.1 90.0   9.2
Sub-Total EJQIPPMT                                                     -  24.0  48.0  45.0  13.2  130.1         1.8 90.0  117.1
Physical Contirgencies                                              -   2.4   4.8   4.5   1.3   13.0           - 90.0  11.7
Price Contingenries                                                 -   3.4  11.3  14.9   5.6   35.2           - 84.0  29.5
Sub-Total INCUIDI: CNrI9CES                                            -   29.7  64.1  64.3  20.1  178.3        1.8 88.8  158.4
Foreign Exchare                                                     -   26.6  57.1  57.0  17.7  158.4          -  0.0   0.0
B. PIPES ( SUPPLY , IRANSPET AND IAYIIG ICUOQIC IWANMES)
VANSMlISSION PIPES                                                  -  44.2  66.3  66.3  44.2  220.9         3.2 58.(  128.1
DISRIRMIJCN PIPES                                                   -  45.0  67.5  67.5  45.0  225.0         3.2 58.0  130.5
PUBLIC STANDPIPES                                                   -      -   4.6   8.2   8.0   20.8        0.3 58.0  12.1
Sub-Total PIPES ( SUPPLY , 1ANSP(RT MD LAYI1b INCLUDIth TRANCIIE)      -  89.2  138.4  142.0  97.2  466.7       6.7 58.0  270.7
Physical Coritirgencies                                             -   8.9  13.8  14.2   9.7   46.7           - 58.0  27.1
Price Contingerries                                                 -   14.5  38.8  57.3  52.0  162.6          - 44.3  72.1
Sub-Total INCLJDIM  ODNfNOEICIES                                      -  112.6  191.0  213.5  158.9  676.0     6.7 54.7  369.8
Taxes                                                               -   0.6   1.0   1.1   0.8    3.4           - 0.0   0.0
Foreigi Exsharge                                                    -  63.7  106.1  115.9  84.1  369.8         - 0.0   0.0



- 44 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2
RWANDA
FIRSI WAlIER SIPPIX PR(JECI
Project Frogran of Experiditures
(FRW Million)
Base
Costs +
Priœe
Cort. on
Base    Foreigi
Base Costs                Costs   Exchange
(US$
1983  1984  1985  1986  1987 Total  Million) T  Peunt
C. CIVIL WCRKS
INTAKE                                                              -   2.4   3.6   3.6   2.4   11.9         0.2 40.0   4.8
'1FAATHFENI PLAN                                                    -   11.0  16.5  16.5  11.0   54.8        0.8 40.0  21.9
PUMFPINI PLANT                                                      -   2.3   3.4   3.4   2.3   11.3         0.2 40.0   4.5
RESEVOIRS PLANT                                                     -   8.7  26.0  26.0  26.0   86.8         1.3 40.0  34.7
TRAININ  CENEIR                                                     -     -   10.8  14.4  10.8   36.0        0.6 40.0  14.4
Sub-Total CIVIL WtRKS                                                 -  24.3  60.3  63.9  52.5  230.9         3.0 40.0  80.4
Physical Contingencies                                              -   2.4   6.0   6.4   5.2   20.1          - 40.0   8.0
Price Contirgencies                                                 -   4.3  18.4  28.4  31.2   82.3          - 27.6  22.7
Sub-Total INCLUDINS CON(,RICES                                        -  31.0  84.7  98.6  88.9  303.3         3.0 36.6  111.1
Taxes                                                               -   0.5   1.3   1.5   1.3    4.5          - 0.0   0.O
Foreign Excharge                                                    -   12.0  31.9  36.0  31.3  111.1         -  0.0   0.0
D. PR0JS   PREPARATION AND T3CH ASSISTAN3E
TRAININS SERVICES                                                   -   3.9   6.4   5.9   3.9   20.2         0.3 80.0  16.2
FIRST PPF ADVANCE + AUDrr                                        65.4     -      -      -     -   65.4       0.7 80.0  52.3
EINEERING SERVICES                                              85.1     -  22.3  16.7  16.7  140.8         1.8 66.0  92.9
ONS,ULTINS SERVICES RURAL WAR S1PE3Y                                -  45.5  45.5       -     -   91.0       1.2 80.0  72.8
Sub-Total PR1EJEC PREPARATICN AND TE4H ASSISTANCE                  150.5  49.4  74.2  22.6  20.7  317.4         3.9 73.8  234.2
Physical Contingencies                                           15.1   4.9   7.4   2.3   2.1   31.7          - 73.8  23.4
Price Contirgencies                                               4.4   7.3  19.0   8.5  10.3   49.5          - 61.8  30.6
Sub-Total 15CIDIN  CONTIIENCIES                                    169.9  61.7  100.6  33.4  33.0  398.6        3.9 72.3  288.2
Foreign Exchange                                                121.8  48.7  74.3  22.2  21.2  288.2          - 0.0   0.0
Total INVESTMENI CoSTS                                                150.5  186.9  320.8  273.4  185.3 1,116.9    15.4 63.0  704.0
Physical Contirgencies                                              15.1  18.7  32.1  27.3  18.5  111.7          - 63.0  70.4
Price Contingencies                                                  4.4  29.5  87.5  109.1  99.9  330.4         - 47.1  355.5
Total INCLUDIES CONIINGENCIES                                         169.9  235.0  440.4  409.9  303.7 1,559.0    15.4 59.6  929.9
Taxes                                                                  -   1.0   2.2   2.5   2.1    7.9          - 0.0   0.0
Foreign Excharge                                                   121.8  151.1  269.3  231.0  156.7  929.9      -  0.0   0.0
Total EASELINE COSTS                                                   150.5  186.9  320.8  273.4  185.3 1,116.9    15.4 63.0  704.0
Physical Contingerr-ies                                              15.1  18.7  32.1  27.3  18.5  111.7          - 63.0  70.4
Price Contingencies                                                   4h4  29.5  87.5  109.1  99.9  330.4         - 47.1  155.5
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                    169.9 235.0 440.4 409.9  303.7 1,559.0    15.4 59.6  929.9
Taxes                                                                   -    1.0   2.2   2.5   2.1    7.9         -  0.0   0.0
Foreign Exchange                                                    121.8  151.1  269.3  231.0  356.7  929.9      - 0.0   0.0



FIBSr WATER SUPPLY PRIJEC
Implerentation Schedule
1982                       1983                                1984                                 1985                                1986                                  1987
Eineering Services 
Topo & Ceotectm. Woriks
Detailed Design
Clearanoe of Bid DoJeuents
(Electrcgaz, IWO)
Bids Iwitations                                                                    X
Bids Openir                                                                                  X
Bid Evaluation
Clearance Evaluation Reports
Award of Contracts                                                                                         X
Supervision of Construction                                                                                                                .                                                    . _
Preparation cd Final DocmierntE
Equip-lnt (pumpirg,  --atznt)
Marufacture
Traniport, Delivery
Installation
Pipes, Standpipes
Supply
Trarsport, Dellvery
Trenddiir
Civil Wlorks
Spriig Protection, Intakes
Treatment + Rtmpirg Statiors
Rerervoira
Trainirg Center                                                                                                                                                        =
Project Coapletion Date                                                                                                                                                                                                   X



- 46 -
ANNEX 9
RWANDA
FIRST WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule oi- Disbursements from the Credit
(IJS$ million)
Bank Fiscal Year       Disbursement        Accumulated      Cumulative Percent
Semester Ending      during Semester       Disbursement           Disbursed
FY84
Dec. 31, 1983             1.0                1.0                     8
June 30, 1984             1.5                2.5                    19
FY85
Dec. 31, 1984             1.5                4.0                    30
June 30, 1985             1.5                5.5                    42
FY86
Dec. 31, 1985             1.5                7.0                    54
June 30, 1986             1.5                8.5                    65
FY87
Dec. 31, 1986             1.5               10.0                    77
June 30, 1987             1.5               11.5                    88
FY88
Dec. 31, 1987             1.0               12.5                    96
June 30, 1988             0.5               13.0                   100
Assumption: That the Credit is alpproved by June 1983; that completion date
is June 30, 1987 and closing date is June 30, 1988.



- 47 -
ANNEX 1 O
RWAM
FIRST WATER SUPPLY PROJECI
Electrogaz's Organization Chart
DIRBtION
Service                                                                                        Service Technique                       Service
Administratif                                                                                        Flectricité                             Fau et (az
et Financjer
Stations                                                          Gestion et  |etfle et
Postes de    Contentmsox ieptabilité              Izspection         Approvi-                                    Planification                            Plan1fication
Traes et                         (rrale                             sioneenteIeI
Centrales
S/Stations                      lfcaoegrapPe      Vérification        GEniral  |rries
GEseau      Ccmtdeilité    |Statistiql                                                                          Exploitation                             Exploitation
Pesne  Ceotraisat|   |   Central    | o    dléoatiOn
Ird.xier



- 48 -                      ANNEX Il
Page 1 of 4
RWANDA
FIRST WAIER SUPPLY PROJECT
Training and Health Education Components
1.        Electrogaz's training needs were assessed by an expert from the
European Development Fund in 1978 but were not updated. Electrogaz was
unable to obtain funds to implement the training recommendations other than
for sending staff overseas for short or long courses generally financed
through fellowships granted by German aid. Applications for these
fellowships have to go through Government channels and procedures to be
followed are long and difficult. As a result only a few staff have
benefitted from these fellowships., Interaction and cooperation between the
formal technical/vocational education system exist only for a few skills
such as accounting, typing and surveying. For most of the other skills,
Electrogaz could not find real assistance from the formal technical/
vocational education system.
2.        Electrogaz in May 1982 had a water and power staff of 898 broken
down as follows:
Job title                                            Number
I.  High-level Management
Engineers                                         20
Administrative off-icers                           8
Total                                             28
II. Medium-level Management
Senior technicians                                14
Administrative assistants                         il
Medium-level technicians                          29
Accountants                                        4
Total                                             58
III. Other Employees
Clerks                                            33
Technicians                                       81
Foremen and work gang                            108
Skilled technical and administrative workers  270
Assistant workers                                 71
Unskilled staff (:Laborers, watchmen, etc.)    249
Total                                            812
IV.  Grand Total                                        898
Electrogaz is understaffed at the management and technician
level. It is estimated that 8 additional staff are needed at the high
management level and about 25 at lzhe medium management level. Allowing for
the large number of unskilled staff and staff whose training needs are not
power or water related (drivers, etc.), the balance, excluding professional



- 49 -                         ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 4
staff whose training needs cannot be met from the existing education and
training sector, amounts to about 463 staff. The breakdown of this group
is as follows:
- Medium level staff (higher level
technicians, administrative
assistants, accountants)                       81
-  Clerks                                          33
-  Technicians                                     81
-  Foremen and work gang                          108
-  Electricians                                    29
-  Plumbers, welders                                10
-  Store keepers                                    9
-  Plant operators                                 42
-  Mechanics                                       20
-  Meter readers                                   il
-  Other tradesmen                                 39
463
3.        The development of Electrogaz's manpower planning and training
capability and the implementation of the first phase of an Electrogaz
training program would require the assistance of two training experts
responsible for water and power respectively. As training will also be
provided under the management assistance to be financed by CCCE (para.
4.09), about 15 man-months of complementary external expert assistance
would be financed under the proposed project. The assistance would be
provided through short term missions over a three year period commencing
after credit effectiveness.
4.        A small training section comprising at the beginning, one
training officer and one training, assistant will be established within the
personnel department to work with the external training experts and
identify suitable and experienced Electrogaz staff to be trained as
instructors. The designated training staff will undergo thorough training
in the diagnosis of training needs, the design, planning, administration,
delivery and validation of programs for both on- and off-the-job training
in anappropriate overseas training institution.
5.        Training off-the-job of both water and electricity staff in basic
manual and trade skills will be provided in a small training center to be
built for Electrogaz in Kigali and financed under the project. This center
with about 360 m2 in total of covered area, will comprise three practical
workshops (hydraulic, electromechanic, control and measure), one conference
room, a hall, toilet facilities, a house for the caretaker and land areas
for training in pipe-laying and power-line erection. Training equipment
and materials will be supplied under the project.
6.        The workshops and the external areas would be used to provide
basic and refresher training in skills related to the construction,
extension, inspection, operation, maintenance and repair of water supply
and electric power production and distribution systems, including
techniques of leak detection. Follow-up on the job training will be
provided by works overseers, inspectors and foremen who will receive
training for this role.



- 50 -                     ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 4
7.        The conference room equipped with audio-visual training aids
would be used to provide lecture and seminar facilities to train Electrogaz
medium level and clerical staff of the technical, administrative and
financial departments.  The program will focus on orientation training and
inter-departmental communication and relationships.
8.        Under the project selected senior administrative, financial and
technical staff will follow short--term courses overseas in addition to the
fellowships obtained through other external aid agencies.
9.        The major elements and costs of the training component financed
under the project are as follows:
Local      Foreign    Total
…----    Million FRw-------
Training expert services             2.8          10.9       13.7
Overseas training of local
instructors and overseas
training of senior staiff           1.2           4.8       6.0
Civil works for construction
of a training center               21.6          14.4      36.0
Training equipment and
materials for training center       1.0           9.0      10.0
Total Base Costs (Jan. 1L983)       26.6          39.1      65.7
Health Education Component
10.       Individual citizens muslt know the benefits to their health and
convenience of improving their domestic and community water and sanitation
facilities and must play an active part in planning, building and operating
improved facilities.  Under the WIO/IBRD Cooperative program, WHO sent a
consultant to Rwanda in February 1982 to assess the needs for a health
education program which might be financed under the project. The
consultant's report, dated April 1982, indicates that the Rwandese
Government and non-governmental institutions have already provided specific
educational and training activitiies in relation to water supply and
sanitation, under the sanitary education and integrated hygienic program of
the Ministry of Health, the progriam of the health centers of Kirarambogo
and Murunda, the programs deliver,ad by the "Compagnons Fontaniers du
Rwanda" (COFORWA) and of the Dutcla volunteers and other programs. The
consultant made a few recommendations to complement the activities already
in progress. The proposed project would finance what was considered the
most urgent and appropriate among the consultant's recommendations:
- preparation publication, and distribution of 10,000 copies of a
handbook giving pedagogical advice to school teachers and
inspectors on the application of health and sanitary education
recommendations already prepared by the Information and



- 51 -
ANNEX il
Page 4 of 4
Education Office of the Ministry of Health, total cost:
US$20,000. The handbook would be prepared by a working group
consisting of the representatives of the Ministry of Health, of
Electrogaz and of the Ministry of National Education (Pedagogic
office); and
training courses to introduce the handbook to teachers and
inspectors in the 10 prefectures of the country. Total costs
including transportation allowances: US$5,000.



52 -
ANNEX 12
Page Î of 3
RWANDA
FIKST WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Electrogaz
Historical iricome Statements for Water Operations
FRw Millions
Year Ended December 31                                          1979       1980
Water Sales (millions F13)                                     3.092      3.076
Average price/M3 (FRW)                                          20.6       20.3
Revenue from Water Sales                                        63.8       62.5
Meter Rents, etc.                                                1.4        1.6
Contract works Gain/Deficit                                     -1.8        2.2
63.4      66.3
Operating Costs
Production
Maintenance                                                      2.3        4.3
Chemicals                                                       11.6       32.2
Electricity                                                     10.7        9.7
Personnel                                                        8.6       10.1
33.2      56.3
Distribution & Administration
Pipelines                                                         1.0       1.1
Connections                                                      2.5        3.6
Pers onnel                                                       8.6       10.1
Sundry                                                             .2       0.1
Common Expenses                                                 16.0       20.3
Head Office                                                     11.7       20.4
Depreciation                                                                4.7
40.0      60.3
Total Operating Cost                                       73.2      116.6
Operating Deficit on Water                                - 9.8      -50.3
Gas Operating Expenses                                           7.1       12.5
Total Deficit on Water and Gas                            - 16.9    -62.8



- 53 -
ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 3
RWANDA
FIRST WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Electrogaz
Historical Incomne Statements for Electricity
FRW Millions
Year Enaed December 31                                            1979       1980
Increase r0
GUJh Sold                                                         53.3       57.7
Average price/GWil (FRW)                                           5.5         S.05
Revenue troin Electricity Sales                                  Z91.i      291.4
Meter Rents                                                        3.7        5.4
Connections Gain                                                   5.5       79.6
Gain on Misc Sales (Both Water & Electricity)                     10.6       17.6
311.5      394.0
Operating Costs
Generation
Fuel & Consumables                                                11.6       18.1
Bulk Purchase                                                     86.5      106.6
Maintenance Thermal                                                2.8          .7
Personnel Thermal                                                  2.6        2.5
Personnel Hydro                                                    1.3         1.5
Maintenance Hyro                                                  23.8       28.0
128.6      157.4
Distribution & Administration
Maintenance - Distribution                                        19.9       16.7
Personnel - Distribution                                          12.5       12.8
Transport                                                            .3       0.5
Sundry                                                               .6       0.5
Common Expenses - Stations                                        48.0       47.5
Head Office                                                       61.8       91.5
143.1      169.5
Depreciation                                                                119.5
143.1      289.ù
Total Operating Cost                                        271.7      446.4
Operating Surplus/Deficit                                         39.8      -52.4
Non-operating Income (Electricity, lJater & Gas)                   2.5        6.6
Net Surplus/Deficit                                          42.3      -45.8



- 54 -                   ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 3
RWANDA
FIRST IWATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Electrogaz
Balance Sheets (E-lectricity and Water Combineu)
]FR'W Millions
Year Ended December 31                                    1978    1979    1980
Assets
Plant in Service (Historic Cost)                        3124.5  3022.2   3584.7 a/
Less: Accumulated Depreciation                             1.4      1.4    674.5
Operating Assets                                     3123.1  3020.8   2910.2 a/
Work in Progress                                         282.8   316.6    331.1
Current Assets
Cash                                                      38.1    57.3       34.6
Customers Receivables                                    202.5   264.1    356.9
Other Receivables                                         19.2    18.2       30.6
Inventories                                              198.5   213.8    187.3
Total Current Assets                                  458.3   553.4    609.4
Total Assets                                         3864.2  3890.8   3850.7
Equity and Liabilities
Lquity
Capital, Reserves, Subventions, etc.                    3250.3  3179.8   309b.9 a/
Accumulated Surplus                                       40.4    25.5       16.2
Total Equity                                         3290.7  3205.3   3115.1
Long Term Debt                                           343.1   367.9    367.9
Current Liabilities
Payables                                                 122.7   201.3    253.9
Customers Deposits                                        27.2    35.2       38.4
Contract Work in Advance                                  58.8    73.9       75.4
Bank Overdraft                                            21.7      7.2       -
Total Current Liabilities                             230.4   317.6    367.7
Total Equity and Liabilities                         3864.2  3890.8   3850.7
Debt/Equity Ratio                                        9/91   10/10    11/89
Current Ratio                                            2.0      1.7       1.7
Inventories as % of Gross Plant                          6.4%    7.1%       5.2%
a/ Prior to FY80 depreciation was incluciect in Capital, Reserves etc.



- 55 -
ANNEX 13
RWANDA
FIRST IATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ELECIR=AZ
FINiCIAL FCRECASTS   1982 - 1988
Il aoeE SEATMENr
( FRWMILLIONS)
1982      1983      1984       1985      1986       1987      1988
W%TER REVENUE           253        302       362        544       718       1075      1262
GAS REVENUE               43        43        43         54        59         74        74
ELECIRICrTY REVENUE      837       929      1003       1372      1657       2207      2235
METER'RENT-WATER           4         4         5          6         7          8         9
i4ETE  RNT-ELECT           5         5         6          7         8          9        10
OTHER REVENUE 5          34         37        40         44        49         54        60
TOTAL REVENUES          1176      1320       1459      2027      2498       3427      3650
OPERATINS EXPiNSES
PEMANENT SIAFF           227       260       299        341       386        437       495
CASUAL IABCR              22        25        29         32        37         41        48
TiRANSPCRT                55        65        76         89       104        120       139
WATER O&M                40         48        57         69        82         96       114
iELECIRITY OŒM           41         47        54         61        69         79        88
CDM1ICAIS WATIR          113       148       194        252       326       421        532
.UIK POWER                19         46        80        91        142       204        279
AMIENISTRATION            39        45         51        58        66         74        83
OPERATIONS               556       684       840        993      1212       1472      1778
DEPRECIAIICN            503        560       622        725       817       1053      1335
TOTAL EXPENSES          1059      1244      1462       1718      2029       2525      3113
OPERATING INCOME         117        76        -3        309       469        902       537
NET INCO(ME EFCRE
- INrEREST               117        76        -3        309       469        902       537
IN1SEST                  68         90       157        299       487       663        784
IDC                       2         16        63        187       300       405        189
-cCHRD OPERATI1O          66        74         94       112       187        258       595
Tr INCCME                51          2       -97        197       282        644       -58
RETAINED EARNIMNS         51         2       -97        197       282        644       -58
RATE BASE              10137     13454      14405     15872     17617      21018     26773
RATE CF RE'JN %          1.2       0.6      -0.0        1.9        2.7       4.3       2.0
OPERAlINS RATIO %       90.1      94.2      100.2      84.8      81.2       73.7      85.3



- 35 -
ARiE 14
RWANDA
FIRST WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ELEXnOA
FINANCIAL FPRECASIS   1982 - 1988
FUNDS FLOW SrEAfNr
( FRW,MILLIONS)
1982      1983      1984      1985       1986      1987      1988
TAL
INIERNL SCURCES
- OF FUNDS
OPERATINL IMfE                117        76        -3       309        469       902       537       2407
DEPREIIATION                 503        560       622       725        817      1053      1335       5615
TL INrERNAL
- F-NDS                      620        636       619       1034      1286      1955      1872       8022
OPERATIONAL
- REIJTRMS
INCREASE/DECREASE
- WEGI CAPITAL               604        122       -45        101       152       824       486       2244
INI'EREST a{ARoe)
-OPERATIONS                   66         74        94       112        187       258       595       1386
rBEr REPANEHT                 43         43        71        80         88       141       317        783
TOTAL OPE-ATIONAL
- REQ3IIS                    713        239       120       293        427      1223      1398      4413
INTERNAL FUNDS
- AVAnAJER FIE
-  INVESfMENT                -93        397       499       741        859       732       474       3609
CAPMAL INVESIMEN
TOTAL ODNSIRUCTION           1071       958      1989      3231       3210      2600       1318     14377
INR'EREST DURIl1
- CONSIRUCON                    2        16        63        187       300       405        189      1162
TOTAL CAPITAL
- INVESMENT                  1073       974i     2052      3418       3510      3005       1507     15539
- FINANCED                   1166       577      1553      2677       2651      2273      1033      11930
FINANIM] B
BROWINGS                     224        545      1345      2335       2448      2064      1204      10165
EQJTY                        896        220       182         0        320       400        130      2148
TOTAL CAPITAL
- ScJRCES                    1120       765      1527      2335       2768      2464       1334     12313
CASH nEEASE/
- DECEASE                     -46       183       -26      -342        117       191       301        383
CASH AT EGINNING
- OF YEAR                      20       -25       162        136      -206       -89        102        20
CASH AT )MAR END              -26       162       136      -206        -89       102       403        403
ANPJAL MENT SERVICE
- CJYERACE                    5.7       5.4       3.8        5.4       4.7       4.9        2.1       3.7
ANNUAL CONT13
- TO ONSTRUCrION             -8.7      40.8      24.3       21.7      24.5      24.4       31.5      23.2
- 3 YEAR AVERAGE % (F)      -4.0       29.1      23.2       24.8      25.9      27.4       30.2



-   7                               AMEX 15
RWANDA
FIRSr WATFR SUPPLY PRBJECI
EINANCIAL  REEASIS   1982 - 1988
lUANŒE SHEEIS
(FRWMILIONS)
1982       1983       1984        1985       1986       1987        1988
ASSETS
FIXEI ASSETS
PLANT IN SERVICE        14365       15989      17762      20706       23356      30079       38143
LESS: DEPRECIATON         1379       2066       2874       3849        4979       6420        8256
OPERATINC PLANT          12986      13923      14888       16857      18377      23659       29887
WR1 TN f8GRESS             101        773       2491        4510       7055       5159         948
CURRENT ASSEIS
CASH                        0         162        136          0           0        102        403
INVENIRIES                575         640        710         828        934       1504        1907
REfCIVA1ES                448         502        554         748        911       1226        1307
T(AL                      1023       1304       1400        1576       1845       2832        3617
OTEIR ASSETS                10         10         10          10         10         10          10
TOTAL ASSETS              14120     16010      18789      22953       27287      31660       34462
E=AND
- LIABILITIES
E(WI'IY
PAID IN CAPITAL         11290       11510      11692       11692      12012      12412       12542
REGAINED EARNINS        -232        -230       -327       -130         152        796         738
REVALUATON RESRVE          335       1530       2783        4078       5450       6884        8729
TOtAL E1,JITY          11393       12810      14148       15640      17614      20092       22009
LOS  TERM DEEr
DEBr LUE                 2350        2852       4126       6381        8741      10664       11551
CUR?JMN
- LBIALITIES
PAYABES                   217         233        378         563        645        671         624
THlER                      134        115        137         163        198        233         278
84( OVERDRAFT              26           0          0        206          89          0          0
TOTAL                      377        348        515         932        932        904         902
TOTAL EQUITY AND
- LIABILITIES            14120      16010      18789       22953      27287      31660       34462
INPE ASE IN
- (OESS PLANr %          72.2         2.1        2.1        7.9         4.7       21.0        19.0
DEET % OF
- DE0r + EOUITY          17.1        18.2       22.6       29.0        33.2       34.7        34.4
CJRRFN  RATIO             2.7         3.7        2.7         1.7        2.0        3.1         4.0



- 58 -
ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 2
RWANDA
FIRSI WTER SUPPLY ERtlECr
ELEROGAZ
TE&S OF BRORING SCHEUIE
INIERSr  M CHG Mff FEE  1ST RPMI GRAŒE  DS REPAY   REVAL
L{AN NME       LO4N AMr   PAL FW      RATE    RATE    RATE  HIRG  YRS  PRD /YR METH(1D  FACIOR
FA]) KIGALI        1115.0(   1037.00   1.7503  0.0000  0.0000 1982 40.0  2.0   2       2  1.0000
FAD ELTARE          360.00    360.00   1.7500  0.0000  0.0000  1980 40.0  5.0   2      2  1.0000
KFW/oevr NYANZA     185.00     0.00   5.0000  0.0000  O.0000 1982 40.0  5.0   2        2  1.0000
IIA/GoVT           1196.00     0.00  10.9700  0.0000  0.0000 1983 20.0  5.0   2        2  1.0000
CCE/0VT            1280.00     0.00   8.0000  0.0000  0.0000 1984 15.0  5.0   2        2  1.0000
KtGALI CLD FSOD     120.00      0.00   5.00C10  0.0000  0.0000  1986 15.0  5.0   2     2  1.0000
KIGALI 2PH PRC)     960.00     0.00   5.00C)O  0.0000  0.0000 1985  15.0  5.0   2      2  1.0000
GTZ/HO               85.00      0.00  10.0000  0.0000  0.0000  1982 40.0  5.0   1      2  1.0000
11ISCELIANECUS      240.00     0.00   8.0000  0.0000  0.0000 1988  15.0  5.0   2       2  1.0000
iCFW/GWxlr           90.00     90.00   5.0000  0.0000  0.0000  1977 15.0  5.0   1      2  1.0)00
KFW/CO12             47.00     47.00   5.0XU0   0.0000  0.0000 1981  15.0  5.0   1     2  1.0000
K.FW/oeVr3           83.00     83.00   5.0000  0.0000  0.0000 1981  15.0  5.0    1     2  1.0000
PDEAD              552.00    552.00   5.000)  0.0000  0.0000  1981  15.0  1.0   2      2  1.0000
KFW/GOVT4           477.00      0.00   5.0000  0.0000  0.0000  1982 15.0  5.0   1      2  1.0000
GIH(RA HYIRO LN     936.00     0.00   8.00)0  0.0000 .OO000  1983 15.0  5.0   2        2  1.0000
RURAL 1             417.00     0.00   8.0030  0.0000  0.0000 1983  15.0  5.0   1       2  1.0000
IRURAL 2            139.00     0.00   8.000  0.0000  0.0000  1983  15.0  5.0   1       2  1.0000
RURAL 3             403.00      0.00   8.0000  0.0000  0.0000  1984 15.0  5.0   1      2  1.0000
RURAL 4             271.00      0.00   8.0000  0.0000  0.0000 1984  15.0  5.0   1      2  1.0000
RURAL 5             308.00      0.00   8.00   0.0000  0.0000  1985 15.0  5.0   1       2  1.0000
IL 1 L(\N           101.00     0.00   8.0000           0.0000  1984  15.0  5.0   1     2  1.0000
TL 2&3 IDAN         436.00      0.00   8.0COO  0.0000  0.0000  1984 15.0  5.0    1     2  1.0000
TL4 LOAN            203.00     0.00   8.OC0   0.0000  0.0000 1985 15.0  5.0   1        2  1.0000
TL 5 LUAN           268.00     0.00   8.0000  0.0000  0.0000 1985 15.0  5.0   1        2  1.0000
TL 6 LOAN           354.00     0.00   8.000   0.0000  0.0000  1985  15.0  5.0   1      2  1.0000
IEL 1 IAN          250.00     0.00   8.0000  0.0000  0.0000  1983 15.0  5.0   1       2  1.0000
IEM 2 LON           125.00     0.00   8.0000  0.0000  0.0000 1984 15.0  5.0   1        2  1.0000
IEL 3 ILAN          436.00     0.00   8.0000  0.0000  0.0000  1985 15.0  5.0   1       2  1.0000
IEL 4 LOAN          524.00     0.00   8.0()00   0.0000  0.0000 1986  15.0  5.0   1     2  1.0000
(YiHE 1 IMAN        218.00     0.00   8.0000  0.0000  0.0000  1982 15.0  5.0   1       2  1.0000
(Y1HR 2 LàN         358.00     0.00   8.0000  0.0000  .O000  1986 15.0  5.0   1       2  1.0000



- 59 -              ~AX 16
Page 2 of 2
FIRST WATER SUPPLY FROJECT
ELECIROGAZ
BRRCINoe FOR FY 1982 - 1988
1982     1983     1984     1985     1986     1987     1988    TUL
FAD KIGALI          78.       0.       0.       0.       0.       0.       0.      78.
KFW/13VT NYANZA     35.      100.     50.      - 0.      0.       0.       0.      185.
IDA/(NT              0.       0.      92.     276.     276.     276.     230.    1150.
CCCE/GWrT            0.       0.      160.    320.     400.     400.       0.    1280.
KICALI (LD PR()      0.       0.       0.       0.      60.      60.       0.      120.
KIGALI 2PH PROU      0.       0.       0.      240.     240.     240.     240.     960.
GlZ/HO              25.      60.       0.       0.       0.       0.       0.      85.
MlSCELIANEOUS        0.       0.       0.       0.       0.       0.      240.     240.
KEW/GDvT            42.      182.     199.     54.       0.       0.       0.      477.
GIHARA HfYIR LN      0.      82.      358.     390.     106.      0.       0.      936.
RURAL 1              0.      37.      159.     174.     47.       0.       0.      417.
RURAL 2              0.       12.     54.      58.       15.      0.        0.     139.
RURAL 3              0.       0.      36.      154.     167.     46.       0.    403.
RURAL 4              0.       0.       24.     104.     113.      30.       0.     271.
RURAL 5              0.       0.       0.      27.      118.     127.     36.      308.
TL 1ITAN             0.       0.       9.      39.      42.       11.      0.      101.
TL 2&3 LLEAN         0.       0.      39.      169.     178.     50.       0.    436.
IL 4 LOAN            0.       0.       0.       18.     78.      84.       23.     203.
TL 5 LOAN            0.       0.       0.      24.      103.     111.     30.      268.
TL 6 LAN             0.       O.       0.      31.      136.     147.     40.      354.
IEL 1 IDN            0.      22.      96.      104.     28.       0.       0.      250.
IEL 2 LOAN           0.       0.      11.      48.      52.       14.      0.      125.
IEL 3 L(AN           0.       0.       0.      39.      167.     180.     50.     436.
IEL 4 L(N            0.       0.       0.       0.      47.     203.      219.     469.
I    1 LOAN         44.      50.      58.      66.       0.       0.       0.    218.
U-ER 2 LOAN          0.       O.       O.       O.       75.     85.       96.     256.
TOflAL           224.     545.    1345.    2335.    2448.    2064.    1204.   10165.



- 60 -                      ANNEX 17
Page 1 of 2
RWANDA
FIRST WJATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Assunptions in the Jinancial Projections
Revenues
1.        Average tarift levels for FYb2-FY84 have been assumed at the FY82
level as the revenues. derived from that level generate more than 25i. of the
average of tthe test, previous and tollowing years' construction
expenditures (the earnings covenant) except in FY84 when the percentage is
23 .5% due to the use of surplus cash generated in the previous year. For
FY85 and after assumed average tariff levels are those required to produce
the revenue needed to oeet the earnings covenaint.
2.        Water, electricity and gas average tariff levels have been
assumed to increase at the same rates each year after FY84. This
assumption will change when the management assistance team has produced
separate accounts for these activities and the separate revenues required
to cover the operating expenses, debt service, working capital and cash
generation for each operation can be forecast.
3.        Forecasts of water sales FY82-88 are based on mission estimates;
electricity sales are based on forecasts included in the Rwanda Energy
Assessment Report (Report No. 3379, 1982).
Operating Expenses
4.        Due to the dearth of basic information, operating expenses have
been estimated as follow:
Base       Real Increase p.a.  Escalation
Personnel        FYb2 budget             57.               12%
Transport                               1 P/0              11%
Administration                           57.
Water 0&i                               lÛ%
Electricity O&M                          5%
Chemicals        FRl 28.4/N13
Bulk Power       FRW 2.36/kWh
Depreciation
5.   Depreciation has been taken at 3.5% p.a., straight line, on assets
revalued from FY82.
Capital Expenditures
6.   Capital expenditures are as estimated by the mission for future water
projects and from various Government and Electrogaz reports for ongoing
projects. The accuracy of these reports is doubtful. Electric power
capital expenditures have been taken from various MPW reports for ongoing



- 61 -
ANNEX 17
Page 2 of 2
projects, also of aoubtfui accuracy, anc from tre Thira DevelopLient Plan
for future projects with phasing estimated by the mission.  Capital
expenditures have been escalated at the rates given in Para. 3.07.
Borrowings
7.   Borrowings have been assumed in accordance with Annex 15 at 80% of
total project costs, except for projects known to be financed from grant
funds. Terns of borrowing are given in Annex 16.
Receivables
8.         Receivables have been assumed at 33% of total revenue or the
equivalent of four months billing.
Inventories
9.         Inventories have been assuned at 4% of revalued gross assets for
FY82-86 and 5% thereafter.
Payables
10.       Payables have been assumed at two nionths cash operating
expenditure (16.66%), 1O0% of construction expenditure, and 25% of operating
interest.
Cas h
11.        working cash balances have been assurued at one mlith's cash
operating expenses, 5% of construction net of 5/. of borrowing, and 25% ot
debt service.



- 62 -                              ANNE( 18
RWANDA
FIRST WAI& SUPPLY PRQJECT
Average Increnental Cost of Water and Econoinc Rate of Return 1/
(FRw Millions)
Capital Costs
Benefits at
Periods  Foreign  Local   Cperating   Chemicals  Electricity    FRw 72.3/m3
1      34.50   22.00       -          -           -               -
2      62.10   39.00       -          -           -               -
3     117.30   74.00       -          -           -               -
4     111.55   70.00       -          -           -               -
5      75.90   48.00      12.00       2.58        1.80          43.38
6      97.75   61.00      12.00       3.14       2.20            52.78
7      97.75   61.00      12.00       3.66       2.60           61.48
8      37.95   24.00      12.00       4.08       2.80            68.68
9      18.40   12.00      12.00       4.52       3.20           75.92
10       -       -         12.00       4.94       3.50           83.14
il       -       -         19.54       5.38       3.70           90.38
12       -       -         19.54       5.81       4.00           97.61
13-36    -       -         19.54       6.24       4.35          104.84
Econ(xnic Rate of Return %              At FRW 72.3/n3
Pricad at 1.15 for Foreign Costs              4.86
-  Costs + 10%                                3.84
- Benefits + 10%.                             5.90
- Costs -10%                                  6.02
- Benefits -l(X                               3.73
Incremental Cost per m3 of Water    Present Value for 36 years           Incremental Cost
Cost FRw Millions  Consunption            per m3 FRW
Millions of m3
Discaurt rate    8                   962.1              10.1                  95.26
10%                  852.4               7.6                 112.16
15%                  661.2               4.1                 161.27
20G%                 535.9               2.5                 214.36
Nota 1/ Costs do not include training, part of PPF advance not directly related to the
project, rehabilitation wrks (37% of new works costs) and taxes.
Costs and benefits include phase ll of the developnent program of which the proposed
project represents only Phase 1.
Foreign excharge costs have been shaitw priced at 115%.



- 63 -
ANNEX 19
RWANDA
FIRST WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Project Monitoring Indicators
1. Management Indicators
1982
Total Electrogaz's staff per thousand
customers (water + electricity + gas)                 100
2. Financial Indicators
Operating ratios
Rates of return on revalued net fixed
assets in operation
Annual and future debt service coverage ratios
Annual contributions to construction from
internal cash generation
Debt/equity ratios
3. Contruction Indicators
Target dates
Bids invited by                                  November 1983
Contracts awarded by                             July      1984
Completion certificates issued by                July      1987
4. Technical Indicators
Five Secondary Centers
1980      1988
Total volume sold (m3/day)                                836     2,840
Total people served either through
private connections, public or
private standpipes, or neighbours                    19,800    60,260
5. Training
People trained during 1984 to 1987: Total                    460
(to be broken down by specialities. See
Annex 11 para. 2)



- 64 -                         ANNEX 20
RIJANDA
FIRST WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Selected Documents and Da,ta Available in the Project File
1. Decree Law number 18 of 1976.
2.  Financial projections - detai]ed computer prints.
3.  Internal rate of return and marginal price of water - detailed computer
prints.
4.  Cost estimates - detailed computer prints.
5.  Bank Working Paper.
6.  BCEOM Reports cinq centres secondaires April 1981 to March 1982
-  Ressources en eau                              Rapport No. 2
-  Systèmes existants                             Rapport No. 2A
-  Etudes socio-économiques                       Rapport No. 3
-  Demande en eau                                 Rapport No. 4A
-  Critères techniques et économiques             Rapport No. 5A
- Plan directeur et avant project
1° phase                                     Rapport No. 7A-8A
7.  {MO/IBRD Cooperative Program
-  Etude d'ensemble du secteur                    Vol. 1, juillet 78
-  Etude tarifaire d'Electrogaz                   Vol. 2, juillet 78
-  Plan de développement                          Vol. 3, juillet 78



280                                                    29°                                                      30°
;                          To~~~~~~~~~- Mbrarare, Kampalas  
RWANDA                                                                U G A N D A
FIRST WATER SUPPLY PROJECT                                                                 iv
PROJECT AREAS
Kibungo Project Cities                          <
- Main  Roads                                                                  \     '.
~~~ Rivers ~~~~~~~~~~Ruhengeri                               l 
N          c   ~~~~~Rivers                                      _@. u                    uhR« ondo                                     t 
N._  International                                                              Ryuhba/d
Boundaries
0   l0   2     0 30     4 0 Km.
o  lo    io      io~~~ mi     1e.  ..                                      . .                                            . lhern
-2-                                           "Vg0tf  ,   aaSg 
S~~~~~ 10                       0       30 MjI.J"
20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
280
UGANDA                 o
KENYA
,L  RuD                          f;r         \                                       n oo                  )                       .Rgwero             To Dar es Sa/aam
BURUNDI           'yy                     yongugu
rY  tanaan,vks   é X   ctiX  r~  *   ButoreJ   )  /
t                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~This stp ha- heon prparad by the Word  eeks tff otsvl  for thsonenso
MZAMBI               QUE
MA \   L  AW BIQ                    29B0           B     U      R    U    N     D    I         ccoptanoeofsooiboondaries.
,J  bA  _29°   >nTo Bujumbura                           30'






IBRD 16723
RWAN DA                                                              29-               0°  OCTOBER 1982
CYANGUGU WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM                                                                                  uA
E X I S T I N G            PROPOSED                                                  I
TO BE        TcOBE         TcOBE
ABANDONED   RETAINED   REHABILITATED          NEW                                                                           > 
- _          Mrins                              o       LK,r0    bK.gali       Z
QS                   9         Springs                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-2' ,0g$ R W  A N D A  -  2'-
Sprtngs                                                           > W N A r~2
Q                          Q              Q         Reserno,rs                                                         Z
$@        P,,Mping Stations                  <   Cngiogtr
E3                                         .or       Treatnent Plants
Main Roads          - -   District Boundaries                                     BURUNDI
Rive,s                   Internatonal Boundcares                           29           30°          31°
.5                                      1
X       .                                                   zq          °               ~~~~~~~~~~~   ~    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOIUETERS15
..... -.: .. - \ - t X 'I                                           r9
"Cm    -         /Kinini                        -
I~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ K-''scabrryeD:
X   ,         ,g      g     F    < \           k                                           ,~~~~~Cyogg
Tttin mnap has bnesn prepercd by' the Wor/d Bank s staff nxnlus,ncly fat rhncconvnnnenne\                     Ktrk
oJf rte renddns nf the repenf tn w.hkh it is attcttced The dnernnmin tlns unnd and the
bnundarienshown one thisstmap dn flot Imp»'. on thn pclrt of the World Btnk and ist
teffhtatet. anf jodgment on the Irga! st.tus 0f csf tetlr, tfr ctnYf etnronctent or
enneptenne cf sRuch beodardes






IBRD 16724
-.G;                                                        OCTOBER  1982
PI, /5m3
~~~ ~ ^4f fFxé9sbops House                    %
A Katrugondo                                mp                                                            AND
KIBUNGO WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM
(I              //                         /        ~~~~~~~~~~~~E X I S T I N  G       P RO PO SE D
5              //                         /        ~~~~~      ~    ~~~~~       ~    ~~~TO  BE  TO BE  Tc  BE
ABANDONED    RETAINED    REHABILITATED                 NEW
Pr/so,                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~moans
\   P,efeftct ure                         /                                                                               Spr ngs
Reser vc,,s
Pump,ng Stat,ons
T,eotrtent Plants
KabImbIz/,)                                                                                              Ma,n Roads
Distr cf Boundaries
- 1    - . _  nîernctionaI Bourdanrres
.                                10
Ki OM  TERS
29°       (    30'             31°
/~~~                                                                                              ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A>  N  DA
Th,s aaphas been pepared by the                              .Kgal,                           Z
/Woid Banks staff euc/s,,ely for                                  te                              2'-
the con,venence of the readers of                  -2
the report ta  'h,ch it is attached                                                           > I  D
The denominations used and the                              ,`                           )   Z
boundaries shown on th,s map                       r    t (                          r
do not tmp/y, on the part of the
Wor/d Bank and ts affibates, any
judgment on the legal status of
any territory or any endorsement                   -3°                                '           3°
or acceptance of such boundares                                     B U R U N D I






IBRD 16725
'29°            30        OCTOBER  1982
-  -    L-   ~O-    k         e            :           f                     :                                    iu  G   A  N  D  A                                        I
",",  V""","      ",""",'    ,,',  ,/   n\,,,  <J~?,   ,""",,"  ,,,             , 0,        10                  (                 ,     .    10
N -   .   4  Wcbid   he                                             KL K          -KRgaiî          z
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2    ,                                                                                  -      ,    "   I       . -,',>'n rt  ,2 0V  
z
30    ` r     -     r-) B U R U N  D I           3
29              30°        -1' 310
8                              Home ST; i@art\
lot Cygotnruv
RWANDA
KIBUYE WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM
E X I S T I N G                     PROPOSED
TO  BE            TO BE             TO  BE
ABANDONED   RETAINED   REHABILITATED                         NEW
Macins
A                               Springs
O                 C                                      O           Reservoirs
Trectment Plants
Main  Roads
District Boondaries
International Boundaries
O               .5               1.0              1 5
KILOMETIERS
r-ts tap has b-e pteP£td by -te Wor/d B-n -ssei ffteo ,Y£1y for the convet ce 
oI the radrs If the reponto i t,ch t 's tt tched Th/e den-tJttattonstused -hd hito9y g
botmd£nes sho-m tm tiis - tp do not mpl.p  on the prtnotf the Wonid b-k atdt ts                                              1
attiiates £ y,ndgtt.et on /th e htal srtatro of an; totttonytt Oan/ oodotstteotn or 
acttptence o- soch bo-nd-nes                                                                                                  @  Nyaothmywo






IBRD 16726
OCTOBER 1982
RWANDA
RUHENGERI WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM
KI LOAE TE RS
Kubaya
E X I S T I N G                     PROPOSED
TO  BE            TO  BE            TO  BE
ABANDONED   RETAINED   REHABILITATED                         NEW
A                                                                   Spr ngs
Q                                                        *          Reservoo,s
T,ectme,t Plcnts                                                         29-              3 O0             21,
Main Roaos                                                                                                                  U  G  A  N  D  A
DNt,aRct Boundor.es                   -I
Ite-rnat,oral Boandaries
-2° aK     '                6t  a             Z    2°
RWA NDA
Th's -ap has been prepar-d by the WoVId Bank s staff -ol-us,oOty for the ,onoosenoa                               jn,vorsrfy                  _         ,                             J
of the readors of eth report ow wh,O Ot 's attachod The denornisations used ard ehe°|f                                                                                                  D
boundares show-  on fhis map do fot imply, on tha pare of the WorId .ank a-d as                                        |1
aff,hates. any jdgreft os the legal otat-s of as, yerrsrr or a.y eodorsemeot or                              è- I
aooepeasoe sf such boundanes                                                                                                                                                             >   31-
9 t                          )  ~~~~~~~~B U R U N Dl   j
2,9«            3,0°     r!          1.






IBRD 16727
OCTOBER  1982
R WA N DA
RWAMAGANA WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM
E X I S T I N  G                 PROPOSED
TO  BE          TO BE            TO BE
ABANDONED    RETAINEC    REHABILITATED                  NEW
~ Dg  J)  -          °                @/                                              Reservoirs
Eitnpirg Stations
Tke-tnrent Plnis
Mo,o  Roads
MorshIaod
D,st,.ct Boundcotes
Inter-ctoncI Bouncar es
R!, /4nt
KILOMAETERS
1;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5  //,,
P,o rastorot                                                         -r---   rr 
M'Sss/on  a!            \                                            29° v-         30°             3°
U G A ND A
T//,s ,nap has been piepared by thn                                                                                             -2m    'I"          Ra-oa                  Z  2'
World Ban/ts staff esc/us,,e/y for                                                                                                       jI        R W maa na
t/te on vn,en e o  /t eaders ofRW ANDA
thte report to w/och tl is attachnd                                                                                                                                         >
/Tne denorniat,ons ssed and thn 
bnundar,es show- os th,s ,tap
do sotmp/v os thn part of t/se
Wor/d Bank aod,ts affilates, any                                                                                                              J
,dgoneot on the pegaf starts of t-\
any terrlitory or any endorsersent                                                                                                               B U R U N D I
or acceptance of such boundares.                                                                                               L                        3J
29 3,0°      3/     _



