Document of
The World Bank
FI LE COP.Y
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P -34 9 5-RW
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$13.0 MILLION
TO THE
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
FOR A
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
March 24, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00                      Rwandese franc (Rf) 92
RF 100                       US$1.09
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB         -   African Development Bank
AIDR         -   Association Internationale de Developpement Rural
(Belgium)
BCEOM        -   Bureau Central d'Etudes pour les Equipements d'Outre Mer
(France)
CCCE         -   Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
COFORWA      -   Compagnons Fontainiers du Rwanda
EDF          -   Electricite de France
Electrogaz   -   Etablissement Public de Production de Transport et de
Distribution d'Eau, de l'Electricite et de Gaz
FED          -   Fonds Europeen de Developpement
Government   -   Government of Rwanda
GTZ          -   Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit (Association
for Technical Cooperation)
KfW          -   Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MPW          -   Ministry of Public Works
SAUR         -   Societe d'Amenagement Urbain et Rurale (France)
UNDP         -   United Nations Development Program
WHO          -   World Health Organization
MEASUREMENT EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)                               = 39 inches = 3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)                          = 0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km2)                  = 0.386 square mile
1 hectare (ha)                            = 0.01 km  = 2.25 acres
1 cubic meter (m3)                        = 35.3 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 liter (1)                               = 0.26 US gallon
1 cubic meter per second (m3/sec)         = 35.3 cubic feet per second
1,000 cubic meters per day (1000 m3/d)  = 0.26 million gallon (US) per day
lcd                                       = liters per capita per day



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RWANDA
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:           Rwandese Republic
Beneficiary:        Electrogaz
Amount:             SDRs 12.0 million (US$13.0 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard
Relending Terms:   Government would onlend the IDA credit to Electrogaz for
a period of 25 years, including 5 years of grace at
10.97 percent. Electrogaz would assume the foreign
exchange risk.
Project
Description:        (i)  Objectives.  To (a) strengthen the capability of
Electrogaz in the planning, administrative,
financial and technical areas; (b) improve the
efficiency of Electrogaz operations and
maintenance; and (c) expand access to potable water
in rural areas.
(ii) Components: The project would provide for:
(a) improvement and expansion of water supply
facilities in the five secondary centers of
Cyangugu, Kibungo, Kibuye, Ruhengeri and
Rwamagana;
(b) improvement of the organization and
management of Electrogaz, including the
establishment of a system for the management of
inventories and of cost accounting, construction
and equipping of a training center (including the
supply of training equipment), and the carrying
out of a training program for Electrogaz
personnel;
(c) acquisition and distribution to primary and
secondary schools of text books on hygiene and
training of primary school teachers to teach
courses in hygiene;
(d) a study on tariffs (for water, gas and
electricity) covering policies and tariff
structure, a detailed engineering study for water
supply in the northern (lava) regions and an
organizational and management study for rural
water supply operations on the national level,
including cost-recovery mechanisms.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
(iii) Benefits: The project would satisfy water dCiLk.
in the project areas up to 1988 and provide safe
water to about 40,500 additional people and
improved service to about 20,000 people; needs cof
governmental institutions, commerce and industry
would be met. Electrogaz's water supply consumers
would benefit from improved management and staff
capabilities expected to result from the project;s
technical assistance/training components.
(iv)  Risks:  The main project risks relate to
Electrogaz's capacity to properly implement
projects, operate facilities once constructed, and
recover charges.  However, as detailed design of
the project would be practically completed by Board
presentation, the risk of delayed start of
implementation is minimized.  Other risks are
minimized since Electrogaz would be required to
continue to use consulting engineers for
supervision of project construction, to hire a
management assistance team and to implement a
training program.
ESTIMATED COSTS 1/:
Local          Foreign          Total
(US$ millions equivalent)
Secondary Centers
Cyangugu                           0.6             0.8             1.4
Kibuye                             0.2             0.4             0.6
Kibungo                            0.6             0.9             1.5
Ruhengeri                          0.9             1.2             2.1
Rwamagana                          1.0             1.5             2.5
Electrogaz General
Training/Health Education/
Consultant Services              1.2             2.8             4.02/
Total Base Costs (Jan. 1983)       4.5             7.6            12.1
Physical Contingencies           0.4             0.8             1.2
Price Contingencies              1.9             1.7             3.6
Total Project Costs                6.8            10.1            16.9
1/ Materials and equipment imported directly for the project will be exempt
from custom duties and import taxes.  Taxes included in the project
costs are negligible (0.6 percent of total project costs, or about
US$87,000 equivalent).
2/ Includes US$1,000,000 from the Project Preparation Facility to finance
master plan and feasibility studies and detailed design studies for the
proposed project and the first audit of the Electrogaz accounts.



(iii)
Financing Plan:
Local          Foreign          Total
(US$ millions equivalent)
IDA                                2.9             10.1            13.0
Electrogaz Internal
Cash Generation                  3.8              -               3.8
Totall/                            6.7             10.1            16.8
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year
(US$ millions equivalent)
1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
Annual:                           2.5      3.0      3.0     3.0      1.5
Cumulative:                       2.5      5.5      8.5    11.5    13.0
Appraisal Report:  No. 4145-RW of March 10, 1983.
Economic Rate of Return: 4.9 percent based on incremental water revenues
which do not fully measure unquantifiable health,
environmental and social benefits.
Map: IBRD 16722.
1/ See footnote 1/, page ii for explanation on taxes.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE RWANDESE REPUBLIC
FOR A
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed credit to
the Rwandese Republic for the equivalent of SDRs 12.0 million (US$13.0 million)
on standard IDA terms, to finance a Water Supply Project. Government would
onlend the IDA credit to Electrogaz for a period of 25 years, including five
years grace, at 10.97 percent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY _/
2.      A report, "Memorandum on the Economy of Rwanda" (No. 1108-RW), was
distributed to the Executive Directors on July 27, 1976. Rwanda was visited by
an economic mission in February 1979 and again in November/December 1981. The
major findings of this last mission are reflected below. Country data are
provided in Annex I.
3.      Rwanda is a small landlocked country, surrounded by Uganda, Tanzania,
Burundi and Zaire. It has the third highest population density of low income
countries, at 210 persons/km2 (following Bangladesh and Sri Lanka), and its GNP
per capita is among the lowest in the world, estimated at about US$240 in 1981.
Rwanda's population of 5.5 million in 1982 is predominantly rural (with only 4.5
percent in urban areas), and lives in small individual farms scattered over
hilly terrain. The balance between food production and population is
precarious, as potentially arable land is scarce, yields of most foodcrops have
been stagnant, and population is expanding at an estimated 3.6 percent
annually. Twice recently (1974 and 1980), Rwanda had to resort to emergency
food imports. Agriculture (coffee, tea, pyrethrum, cinchona) provides most of
the country's foreign exchange earnings from merchandise exports. Coffee is by
far the most important source (55 percent) followed by mining products (20
percent), mainly cassiterite and wolfram. Rwanda's manufacturing base is
narrow, and growth of modern manufacturing is limited by the small size of the
market and by the lack of raw materials, marketing facilities, entrepreneurial
1/ Part I of this report is substantially the same as that in Report No.
P-3487-RW on the BRD III Project to be considered by the Executive Directors
on April 5, 1983.



- 2 -
skills and skilled manpower. The country, consequently, imports capital goods,
steel, petroleum products, cement and other construction materials, and
virtually every modern consumer product. Its merchandise trade is hampered by
high transportation costs and dependence on neighboring countries for access to
the seaports at Mombasa and Dar es Salaam.
4.      A quantitative assessment of Rwanda's economic performance can only be
tentative, as the national accounts estimates are based upon data of dubious
reliability. These estimates suggest that during the period 1977-81 the rate of
growth of real GDP averaged over 5 percent per annum, on the strength of
reasonably good performance by most sectors, except those engaged in production
for export. The recent growth of the agricultural sector can be explained, to a
significant extent, by good weather conditions, increased world coffee prices in
the late 1970s, improvement of the road network, and the rapid growth of urban
and project-induced demand. Official production data indicate that foodcrop
output (36 percent of GDP) increased at an average annual rate of about 5
percent in the period 1977-81, but this estimate may prove to be overstated.  In
any event, it is the judgment of informed observers that the balance between
food production and population remains precarious, as food production is
vulnerable to weather conditions and population is increasing rapidly. With the
exception of tea, the production of export crops was disappointing during
1977-81. Largely influenced by weather, and in spite of substantial increases
in 1978 and 1981, coffee production tended to stagnate.   Absolute declines were
recorded for the country's two other export crops, pyrethrum and cinchona.
After having expanded at an average rate of 11 percent per annum, tea production
also declined in 1982, and the industry has experienced difficulties in
obtaining sufficient quantities of green leaves to process for export (due to
competition from other crops and lack of fertilizers).
5.      Mining production also declined during 1977-81, at an average annual
rate of 4 percent, and Rwanda failed to profit (until recently) from reasonably
favorable international prices, particularly of cassiterite (by far the most
important product). This poor performance has been a consequence of various
factors, among them management problems at SOMIRWA (the mining company),
equipment obsolescence, and substantial increases in production costs (mainly
the wage bill) while world market prices have fallen and the Rwandese franc
(which is linked to the United States dollar) has appreciated vis-a-vis the
country's major trading partners.
6.      Manufacturing growth was, on average, 6 percent during 1977-81, largely
reflecting agricultural performance as an estimated three-quarters of
manufacturing output consists of the transformation of agricultural products,
mainly banana and sorghum, into beer, and agro-industries (coffee, tea, sugar).
Modern manufacturing has been limited to import substitution industries such as
shoes, textiles, soap, plastic utensils, corrugated iron sheets, all of which
rely on imported raw materials. A cement plant located in Cyangugu (southwest
Rwanda) is due to start operations in the next two years and is expected to make
Rwanda self-sufficient in cement.



- 3 -
7.      Tertiary sector activities experienced a fairly rapid expansion during
1977-81.  Commerce and transportation increased at an average annual rate of 7
percent reflecting increases in marketed foodcrop production, manufacturing
output, and imports (especially of consumer and intermediate goods).  Traffic on
c         Rwandese roads is estimated to have expanded at about 7 percent per annum, the
fleet of pick-ups more than doubled during 1979-81, and imports of transport
equipment increased at nearly 11 percent in real terms, albeit all from a very
small base.
8.      Traditionally, the Government has pursued prudent fiscal policies.  A
principal indicator of this was the budget surpluses incurred during 1977-81 (on
average, 2.5 percent of GDP). The Government's ability to sustain these
surpluses was aided by favorable terms of trade, which served to raise export
duties (particularly in 1977-79, following the rise in coffee prices) and import
duties (insofar as Rwanda's exports financed a relatively large volume of
imports, upon which the revenue structure is highly dependent). Also,
substantial capital inflows facilitated the growth in imports, thereby adding to
government revenues. In 1977-81, nearly 50 percent of central government
revenues (which averaged 10 percent of GDP) came from import and export taxes,
with coffee exports alone contributing 21 percent; taxes on beverages, and on
income and property accounted for most of the remainder. Expenditures were
distributed mainly among administrative services (25 percent), education (26
percent), and defense (20 percent). Expenditures on agriculture and public
works have expanded faster than total expenditures in recent years.
9.      The fiscal situation, however, has deteriorated since 1981.  In contrast
to the preceding years, increases in revenue have fallen short of increases in
expenditure. Budgetary receipts from coffee export duties have stagnated at
lower levels than those of previous years as a result of declining coffee prices
and in spite of higher export volumes. At the same time, there has been a
significant expansion in government expenditures reflecting, inter alia, the
impact of the general wage awards granted in September 1980, the addition of a
new Ministry of Higher Education, and implementation of the education reform.
In an effort to expand the revenue base and increase revenue, the Government
introduced a new business tax in 1981 which, however, has not yielded sufficient
revenues to compensate for the decline in revenue from coffee. As a result of
these developments, the overall budgetary balance has shifted from a surplus of
RwF 1.2 billion in 1980 (equivalent to 1 percent of GDP) to deficits of RwF 2.2
billion and RwF 2.6 billion in 1981 and 1982, respectively. In an attempt to
arrest the fiscal deterioration, the Government increased import tariffs in
January 1982 and taxes on beer and cigarettes, in January 1983.
10.     The Government has been traditionally conservative in its monetary and
credit policies. Inflationary pressures have arisen mainly from supply
shortages caused by frequent disruptions of supply routes through neighboring



-4-
countries, increased international transport costs, and increased prices of
imports and domestic foodstuffs. Inflation averaged 10.6 percent per annum
during 1977-81;  it peaked at 15.8 percent in 1979, primarily as a result of the
closing of the Uganda border, but also reflecting higher transport costs
following the 1979-80  oil price rise.  The inflation rate fell to 7.3 percent
in 1980 and declined further to 6.5 percent in 1981, as trade flows through
Uganda were back to normal, and the rate of increase of import prices
decelerated.
11.     Rwanda's increased export earnings (until 1980) and large inflows of
foreign grants and loans enabled the country, during 1977-81, to increase
imports substantially and to build up international reserves. In real terms,
imports of goods and non-factor services expanded at an average annual rate of 5
percent and averaged 27 percent of GDP. At the same time, Rwanda's gross
international reserves reached, at end-1981, an amount equivalent to nearly
seven months of estimated 1982 imports of goods and non-factor services. In
1982, however, Rwanda suffered its first reserve loss in many years, as coffee
export receipts remained at about the same (depressed) levels of the previous
two years, foreign grants and loans declined, while imports continued to expand
rapidly. At end-1982, gross foreign official reserves were down to the
equivalent of five months of projected 1983 imports of goods and non-factor
services.
12.     Rwanda's Third Development Plan, like its predecessor, remains
essentially a qualitative document which provides a broad statement of national
development priorities 1/ but lacks a multi-year sectoral investment program,
key input and output targets (in physical as well as financial terms), and
an agenda of policy and institutional reforms for implementing the overall
strategy. Other important weaknesses of the planning process are: the absence
of a mechanism for periodically assessing the changing outlook regarding
resource availabilities and the feasibility of the projected levels of
investment and the weak linkage between the planning and budgetary processes.
In consequence of these deficiencies, Rwanda's plans have not served as
effective instruments of economic management. Nevertheless, the Government has
made serious efforts to pursue the Plan's objectives. The limited success of
these efforts has been largely due to the country's structural constraints
(among them the critical population problem), institutional weaknesses (stemming
largely from lack of skilled personnel), and insufficiency of domestic financial
resources. At the same time, the lack of skilled personnel, fragmentation of
institutional responsibilities, and poor coordination among concerned agencies
have limited the country's capacity to absorb external resources.
1/ As in the Second Plan, five of the six main goals of the Third Plan aim at
the satisfaction of basic needs: (i) food self-sufficiency; (ii) job
creation, to ensure an adequate family income; (iii) education and training;
(iv) improvement of basic health services; and (v) provision of minimum
standard housing.



- 5 -
13.     The Government has taken steps to address these problems.  Of particular
importance have been actions concerned with the extremely rapid population
growth, and the lack of education and training. In 1980 it established the
National Population Office (ONAPO) to plan, coordinate, and monitor all
population activities. ONAPO has started to sensitize the population about the
implications of excessive demographic pressure on the country's limited
resources, a few pilot family planning programs have been set up, and a
nationwide fertility survey is scheduled to start in mid-1983 which is expected
to provide valuable information on the potential demand for family planning.
Obviously, the impact of these measures will only be felt in the long-run.
Meanwhile, the population is growing at 3.6 percent annually and expected to
double by the year 2000. To address the problem of lack of education and
training, the Government introduced an education reform in 1979 whose objectives
are appropriate to the country's needs, but whose implementation has been
hampered by financial constraints and the lack of teachers.
14.     As mentioned earlier, external aid (of US$25-30 per capita) was an
important catalyst to the country's favorable economic performance during
1977-81. This aid has been mainly for infrastructure and technical assistance,
most of which (58 percent) has benefitted agriculture, education, and health
care. These three sectors, together with transport and communication, received
nearly 64 percent of the aid extended to Rwanda in 1981, an emphasis which is in
line with the country's objectives and priorities. The principal sources of
foreign assistance and their average share during 1977-81 were Belgium (27
percent), the European Development Fund (14 percent), the Federal Republic of
Germany (8 percent), IDA (7 percent), and France (6 percent).
15.     Economic management in recent years has been prudent, as evidenced by
relatively low inflation rates, low debt service ratio, and avoidance of
projects of dubious economic justification. This was undoubtedly facilitated by
substantial aid inflows and favorable terms of trade in the early part of the
period. The terms of trade have deteriorated since 1980 and are projected to
continue to deteriorate during the 80s. It is thus evident that the country's
need for external assistance will increase substantially. Its external debt is
still manageable. At end-1981, the medium- and long-term external debt
outstanding (disbursed only) amounted to US$172 million equivalent, or 15
percent of GDP, and the debt service ratio was equivalent to only 1.8 percent of
exports of goods and non-factor services. Hence, there remains scope for
further borrowing. However, given the poverty of the country, its overwhelming
constraints and vulnerability, and its unfavorable medium-term prospects,
external funds should continue to be provided in the form of grants or loans at
highly concessionary terms, and include a high proportion of local cost
financing and non-project assistance.



- 6 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN RWANDA _/
16.     Bank Group assistance started in 1970 and initially focused on the
improvement of the road network and the strengthening of agriculture
production. Rwanda has received eighteen IDA credits totalling US$188 million,
of which five (totalling US$69.0 million) were for roads, seven (US$80.6
million) for agriculture, two (US$9.2 million) for DFC projects, two (US$18.0
million reduced to US$16.4 million) for education, one (US$7.5 million) for
telecommunications and one (US$5.0 million) for technical assistance. There
have been no Bank loans. An IFC loan of US$535,000 for a tea factory was signed
in 1976; a second IFC loan of US$226,000 and contingent equity commitment of up
to US$60,000 to expand the tea factory were signed in September 1980. Annex II
contains a summary statement of IDA credits, IFC investments and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
17.     The first three highway projects are completed and totally disbursed.  A
fourth credit for a highway maintenance project (Credit 769-RW), which became
effective in August 1978, is three-quarters completed and is progressing
satisfactorily. A US$25.9 million credit for a Fifth Highway Project became
effective December 8, 1982.
18.     The first agricultural development (Mutara) project was completed in
July 1979 and funds have now been completely disbursed.   A second credit of
US$8.8 million, which supports the second phase of a long-term development for
the Mutara region, was declared effective in May 1980, experienced start-up
problems due to difficulties in recruiting technical assistance but is
proceeding satisfactorily now. The Cinchona Project (US$1.8 million) is nearing
completion and has progressed well. The Bugesera/Gisaka/Migongo mixed farming
and rural development project (BGM I) is about completed; construction,
procurement and budgeting have proceeded satisfactorily though the results of
foodcrop and plant improvement components are below appraisal estimates due to a
lack of appropriate technical packages for the relatively dry project area.
For this reason, the BGM II project, for which a US$16.3 million credit was
approved July 13, 1982, emphasizes research for semi-arid crop development. A
project to support reforestation programs in Kigali, Butare and Gisenyi
Prefectures (IDA Credit 1039-RW for US$21.0 million) became effective on
November 11, 1981; the project includes a study of renewable energy sources for
Rwanda. A US$15.0 million credit for a coffee improvement/foodcrops project in
the Lake Kivu region became effective January 18, 1982; all staff have been
recruited, the first year extension program has been completed successfully, and
research activities have commenced. A credit for an education project (US$8.0
million) became effective in 1975; physical implementation has been complicated
by procurement problems (para. 19 below). The first credit of US$4.0 million to
the Rwandese Development Bank (BRD) has now been fully committed. BRD's
1/ Part II of this report is substantially the same as that in Report
No. P-3487-RW on the BRD III Project to be considered by the Executive
Directors on April 5, 1983.



- 7 -
performance under the credit has been highly satisfactory.  A second credit of
US$5.2 million to BRD became effective in January 1980. The credit is nearly
fully committed. A third BRD credit will be considered by the Board shortly.
A credit for a telecommunications project (US$7.5 million) which aims at
reducing Rwanda's geographic isolation from other countries and at improving
internal telecommunications facilities, became effective July 7, 1981, and is
proceeding satisfactorily.
19.     In fiscal years 1979-81, disbursements for Rwanda totalled US$28.9
mllion compared to new colnmiLrlelits of US$42.4 million.  In the same period, the
average annual disbursement rate (ratio of change in disbursements to
undisbursed balance) was 20 percent; this is about average for countries of the
Eastern Africa Region. While disbursement performance in general is
satisfactory, notable difficulties have arisen in the case of the First
Education Project. The lack of acceptable record keeping caused significant
delays in the processing of disbursement requests. However, following a
UNESCO-assisted final inspection and evaluation mission for the workshops
financed under the project, disbursements have resumed. Implementation of the
Second Education Project, approved June 15, 1982, should be less affected by
similar weaknesses given the familiarity with Bank Group procedures now acquired
in the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education.
20.     One of the major constraints to Rwanda's development is the shortage of
technical/managerial capacity. This affects all sectors and inhibits project
preparation and implementation. Intensive technical assistance and on-the-job
training of Rwandese staff are therefore a salient feature of the Bank's program
for Rwanda, either under individual projects in the various sectors or through
the Technical Assistance Project (declared effective November 22, 1982).
21.     For the future, the primary emphasis of Bank operations will remain on
rural development, the main objective being to increase food production as well
as export crops, while maintaining soil fertility. A major emphasis will also
be placed on the development of human resources, focusing on population planning
and support to basic education and skills training to improve agricultural
productivity, provide skilled manpower, and influence attitudes on the
population issue. Further investment is also justified for infrastructure
(including critically needed water supply facilities) and, in particular, for
roads to reduce the country's isolation and provide incentives to further
intensification of agriculture as well as increased specialization and
diversification through better marketing. Another area requiring our special
attention is energy to lessen the demand for fuel imports and mitigate their
impact on the balance of payments. A study of renewable energy sources is being
financed under IDA credit 1039-RW (para. 18) and a regional hydroelectric power
project on the Ruzizi river is being prepared.



- 8 -
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND WASTE DISPOSAL SECTOR
General
22.     Health standards in Rwanda are comparable to low-income African
countries south of the Sahara and reflect the poor availability of safe water.
Life expectancy at birth is 45.2 years and infant mortality is about 137 per
thousandl/. Water-borne diseases, such as typhoid, enteritis, amebiasis,
diarrhea and viral hepatitis, are widespread. Hospitalized cases of diarrheal
diseases have increased from 25,000 cases in 1975 to 39,000 in 1979, with infant
mortality related to diarrhea increasing from 17 to 30 per thousand over the
same period.
23.     Water Resources.  Rwanda has relatively good water resources.  The
rainfall ranges from 730 mm to 1,600 mm per year. Surface water occurs
extensively throughout the central and western portions of the country. The
eastern portion is somewhat drier, with scattered lakes along the border.
Groundwater exists in most areas of the country. In the hills, springs are
numerous.
24.     Sector Organization.  Water supply in Kigali, the capital, and in
secondary centers is the responsibility of the state corporation, Electrogaz,
which also produces and distributes electricity in the country and operates a
pilot plant extracting methane gas from Lake Kivu. Electrogaz is responsible to
the Ministry of Public Works (MPW).
25.     Water supply in rural areas is under various institutions.  The
operation and maintenance of large aqueducts are generally entrusted to a
Belgian institution, Association Internationale de Developpement Rural (AIDR),
which is contracted to the Ministry of Public Works. Protected springs and
wells, with their handpumps, are entrusted to the local communities as also some
20 small gravity aqueducts recently constructed by volunteer organizations.
Fifty other rural water supply systems are operated by other institutions,
mainly religious or agricultural. For their water supply operations,
agricultural institutions report to the Division of Rural Engineering in the
Ministry of Agriculture.
26.     Collection and disposal of waste and drainage systems are under the
Urban Division of the MPW. The Hygiene Division of the Ministry of Health is
responsible for overseeing the health aspects of the water supply and sanitation
sector.
1/ Infant mortality is 102 in Madagascar, 33 in Mauritius, 20 in Europe and
15 in North America.



-9-
27.     Sector Objectives.  Initiated by the Drinking Water and Sanitation
Decade, a national Water Supply and Sanitation Committee was created in early
1981 and is headed by the Secretary General of the Ministry of Natural
Resources, Mines and Quarries, and includes representatives of all the
Ministries involved directly or indirectly in the sector. The Committee has
only a consultative role.  It should advise the Government on all matters
relating to water and sanitation, especially the organization of the sector and
the coordination of different activities. So far, its main achievement has been
to inform top Government officials of the sector needs and constraints, and to
study alternatives for reorganization of the rural water supply subsector. The
Government, however, has no comprehensive sector development plan. The water
decade objective of providing clean water for all by 1990 is not realistic as
domestic and foreign resources are not expected to be sufficient. In the
sanitation sub-sector, Government priorities are to provide a public sewer
system for part of Kigali and to stimulate the construction of individual
facilities for the rest of the population through health education related to
sanitation.
Levels of Service
28.     Water Supply.  Only about 37 percent of the total population has access
to piped water. The percentage is about the same in urban areas (41 percent) as
in rural areas (37 percent). In urban areas (Kigali and eleven secondary
centers), Electrogaz supplies 25 percent of the population through private
connections and another 16 percent is estimated to be served through public
standpipes or neighbours' private connections. About 3.5 million m3/year are
sold to about 4,300 customers. The water supply is often unsafe. Service is
intermittent except in Kigali and Butare where production facilities have been
recently extended. In rural areas about 65,000 families are served through
public standpipes in turn supplied by the 58 aqueducts operated by AIDR; about
another 350,000 families are supplied through 8,000 protected springs and about
a dozen aqueducts entrusted to local communities.
29.     Sanitation.  Public sewer systems do not exist in Rwanda.  In urban
areas, 20 percent of the population is served through private sewer systems
(hospital, soap factory, hotels, etc) or through septic tanks with soak-aways,
and 80 percent of the population is served through too few pit latrines. In
Kigali, population density is too high in certain areas to permit the
construction of pit latrines. The water table and small streams are polluted.
This causes concern as the Kigali public water system and part of the population
use these sources of water.  To remedy this situation, waterborne sewerage is
required in the administrative and commercial areas in the center of the city,
and it is necessary to upgrade and expand individual sanitation systems in the
low-income residential areas of the city. In this regard (and with a view to
preparing a future project) feasibility studies have been carried out by the
Government. In rural areas, only about one-third of the population is estimated
to be served through pit latrines often used by several families. The rest of
the rural population lacks formal waste disposal facilities.



- 10 -
Sector Development and Constraints
30.     In spite of the limited absorptive capacity and the institutional
weakness of the sector, several water supply projects are under construction or
under preparation. Water systems in Kigali and Butare, representing 65 percent
of Electrogaz water activity, have recently been developed under a project
financed by the African Development Bank (AfDB). External funds have been
identified (CCCE and KfW) and projects prepared to rehabilitate and extend water
supply systems in ten secondary centers. In rural areas, water supply is being
actively developed under a number of projects. Projects near completion include
rehabilitation of 5,600 small springs (cost: US$3 million--UNICEF assisted);
construction of six gravity aqueducts by Dutch volunteers and a number of small
gravity systems by the Compagnons Fontainiers du Rwanda (COFORWA) and other
non-Governmental organizations; and the construction of two rural water supply
systems (Belgium and FED assisted). Other projects expected to be constructed
soon (total cost: US$13.2 million) include systems for the Bugesera north
central region (FED assisted), the Mutara northeast region (IDA assisted), and
the construction and rehabilitation of aqueducts in the north eastern and
volcanic (extreme northwest) regions of the country. In parallel with
construction of water supply systems, training of water supply operators is
carried out under a UNICEF-assisted small springs project and a program of
health education related to water supply and sanitation is being undertaken
with the assistance of the World Health Organization (WHO).
31.     Virtually no development has occurred in the sanitation sub-sector.  The
first priority is in Kigali where a small sewerage system should be constructed,
existing pit latrines improved, and new septic tanks and pit latrines
constructed. This is estimated to cost about US$30 million to cover needs up to
about 1985. The feasibility report for this project was recently completed and
Government is seeking funds to implement the report's recommendations.
32.     Sector Constraints.  The main constraints in the water supply sector
are:
(a) the shortage of qualified staff in the ministries responsible for
the sector, resulting in insufficient planning, inadequate attention
to the economic aspects of projects and resistance to low-cost
technology, poor supervision of consultants and operating agencies and
slow or no decision making on organizational and cost recovery aspects.
(To help relieve this constraint, German aid (GTZ) is providing a
technical adviser to the Ministry of Natural Resources, Mines and
Quarries; however, more help is needed);
(b) the inadequacy of Electrogaz staff resources, especially at the
managerial level, and the lack of training of the existing staff; and
(c) the lack of suitable institutional arrangements in rural areas for
adequate programming, construction, operation, maintenance and cost
recovery.



Previous Bank Involvement
33.     In 1978, a water supply and sanitation sector study and a water tariff
study were carried out under the WHO/IBRD Cooperative Program. This helped in
the identification of the present project and in the improvement of the
structure and level of Electrogaz's water tariffs. The Bank has also been
indirectly involved in the sector through the Phase II Mutara Agricultural and
Livestock Development Project (Cr. 937-RW--see para. 18) which includes a rural
water supply component.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.     The proposed project originates in a Government request of the Bank to
identify a project in the water supply/sanitation sector. The identification
mission took place in September 1977 and was followed by a detailed IBRD/WHO
Cooperative Program analysis of the rural water subsector. Appraisal took place
in May 1982. Negotiations were held in Washington from February 25 to March 1,
1983; the Rwandese delegation was headed by Mr. Andre Nzabandora, Secretary
General of the Ministry of Finance. A Credit and Project Summary, highlighting
the main features of the project, is at the beginning of this report. A
detailed description of the project components is in the Staff Appraisal Report
(No. 4145-RW), dated March 10, 1983, being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors. Special conditions of the Credit are summarized in
Annex III.
Project Area
35.     The project areas comprise five secondary centers--Cyangugu, Kibungo,
Kibuye, Ruhengeri and Rwamagana--which are spread throughout the country (Map
IBRD 16722). Their 1982 populations range from 3,300 (Kibuye) to 19,480
(Ruhengeri); 1982 growth rates range from 3.5 percent (Kibungo) to 6.7 percent
(Rwamagana). The population of the five centers totalled 44,000 in 1982 and is
growing at an average rate of 5.4 percent p.a. Although considered as urban
according to the local definition (communities of more than 3,000 people) the
five secondary centers are mainly rural in their economies; all are
administrative centers at the level of "Prefecture" except Rwamagana which is a
"sous-Prefecture".  The centers are the focus of agro-industrial activities
(related to pyrethrum in Ruhengeri and rice in Rwamagana), livestock activity
(pig-farming in Cyangugu and slaughter-houses in Ruhengeri and Kibungo) or are
the headquarters of agricultural/forestry projects. The lack of villages in
Rwanda leaves these secondary centers as the main distribution, transport and
employment points for the surrounding regions. Efficient provision of services
in these centers is therefore important for improving off farm services and
rural productivity.
Objectives and Description of the Project
36.     The project objectives are to improve (a) the capability of Electrogaz
in the planning, administrative, financial and technical areas, (b) the
efficiency of Electrogaz operations and maintenance, (c) the level of service



- 12 -
in the five secondary centers identified (para. 35) and (d) the institutional
and cost recovery arrangements for the rural water supply systems. The project
will comprise:
(a) improvement and protection of springs, construction of intakes in
streams and a lake, and construction of one test well;
(b) construction of a water treatment plant for spring water in four centers
and lake water in one center, all of a simplified type because of the
remoteness of the centers and the need to keep maintenance uncompli-
cated;
(c) construction of four small pumping stations wdith a total of eight
groups of electric pumps of about 30 m3/h capacity each;
(d) construction of ten reservoirs of between 30-600 m3 capacity each;
(e) supply and laying of about 32 km of 50-200 mm transmission pipes, 64 km
of 50-300 mm distribution pipes and construction of about 100 public
standpipes with meters and one or two taps;
(f) a local training program for Electrogaz personnel covering both water
and electricity; construction of a small training center of about 360 m2
of covered area; supply of training equipment and materials; training of
personnel abroad (local training officers and advanced professional
training); and provision of books on sanitary education for primary
schools and training of teachers in delivery of the courses;
(g) completion of detailed design studies and construction supervision in
the five secondary centers; and
(h) a study on tariffs for water, gas and electricity covering policies and
tariff structure, a detailed engineering study for water supply in the
lava regions, and an organizational and management study for the rural
water supply subsector in Rwanda, including cost-recovery mechanisms.
Detailed Features
37.     Upgrading of Production and Distribution Facilities for Potable Water.
In the five secondary centers concerned, production and distribution facilities
need to be rehabilitated, reinforced and extended. Water resources for the
project areas consist of springs and stream water in Ruhengeri and Kibungo, and
lake water in Rwamagana. Although the springs are often conveniently located at
high elevation so that they can supply the centers by gravity (Kibuye,
Ruhengeri, Cyangugu), some springs are located lower than the centers (Kibungo,
Rwamagana, Cyangugu) and pumping is necessary. Spring flows are usually
adequate to meet medium-term water demand except in Kibungo where spring water
would have to be complemented by stream water and in Rwamagana where springs are
too small and water has to be taken from a lake located about 5 km away.
Although water resources are adequate to meet demand, production is inadequate



- 13 -
and there are frequent interruptions in the water supplies in all the centers
except Kibuye. Interruptions are due to poor design of the water intakes in
Cyangugu, clogged collection pipes in Kibungo and poor condition of the pumping
facilities in Ruhengeri and Rwamagana.
38.     Moreover, water from the springs is corrosive and the water from the
lake in Rwamagana is turbid (which tends to deposit incrustations) and is
polluted because of lack of protection around the existing water intake. Even
though chemicals are available to treat the water, operation and maintenance at
the water treatment facilities are poor because of lack of supervision and
training.
39.     Training.  Electrogaz, the proposed project's implementing agency, had a
staff of 898 in mid-1982 of whom 28 were university graduates. All categories
of staff are in need of training. Under the project, about 463 medium-level
technical, administrative and clerical staff would take refresher courses in
skills related to the construction, extension, inspection, operation,
maintenance and repair of water supply and electricity power production and
distribution systems, including techniques of leak detection. Selected senior
administrative, financial and technical staff will participate in short-term
courses overseas financed by the Project.
40.     To enable broader understanding of the benefits of improved domestic and
community water and sanitation facilities, the proposed project would also
finance the acquisition and distribution of text books on hygiene and the
training of primary school teachers to teach courses in hygiene.
41.     Audit.  An external audit has never been undertaken of Electrogaz's
accounts and financial statements. Checks have been made by the Commissioners
of Accounts (para. 45) but the doubts that persist on the accuracy and validity
of the asset and liability estimations support the view that these checks are
inadequate. It was therefore agreed that the first audit of Electrogaz be
carried out this year, financed by the PPF, and executed by a firm of auditors
acceptable to IDA. In February 1983, Electrogaz appointed Price Waterhouse and
Company, Africa for this purpose. Submission to the Association of this audit
would constitute a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 5.01 (b) of the
Development Credit Agreement). Thereafter, Electrogaz would have the annual
accounts audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and submit them
within six months of the end of each fiscal year. Electrogaz would also have
the external auditors verify that the actual cost and disbursements of the
project are properly recorded in the progress reports for the proposed project
at the end of each fiscal year; the audit and the reports would be submitted to
the Bank within three months of the end of each fiscal year (Section 4.02,
Project Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
42.     The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$16.9 million of
which about 60 percent, or US$10.1 million, represents foreign exchange costs.
Cost estimates are based on January 1983 prices and on the consultants' (BCEOM)
detailed design studies which were well advanced (more than 50 percent
completed) at the time of negotiations (February/March 1983). Physical
contingencies of 10 percent have been added to base costs, which is reasonable



- 14 -
in view of the relatively simple works. Provision for inflation of 27 percent
of base costs plus physical contingencies has been included, calculated on the
following basis: local costs at 12 percent per annum for 1983 to 1987; foreign
exchange costs at the rate of 8 percent per annum in 1983, 7.5 percent per
annum in 1984, 7 percent per annum in 1985 and 6 percent per annum in both 1986
and 1987.  Materials and equiment imported directly for the project will be
exempt from custom duties and import taxes.
43.      The base cost estimates for consulting and training services total about
US$2.78 million. Consulting services for the first external audit of Electrogaz
(para. 41) is estimated at US$100,000 and would require about 7 staffmonths of
high level experts at an average staffmonthl/ cost of US$14,300. Engineering
consulting services for topographical and geotechnical works, detailed design
and construction supervision for the five secondary centers would require about
80 staffmonths of professional services and 83.5 staffmonths of technicians,
surveyors, draftsmen, secretaries, provision of local labor and some surveying
and reproduction equiment. Detailed engineering design for the northern rural
aqueducts is estimated at US$700,000 and would require about 80 staffmonths of
engineering services. The average cost for engineering services is US$8,800 per
staffmonth. Management consulting services for the institutional and cost
recovery study in the rural water supply subsector, estimated at US$300,000,
would require 30 staffmonths. Expert training services estimated at US$149,000
would require 15 staffmonths. The average cost for management and training
services is US$9,900. An advance from the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of
US$500,000 financed the master plan and feasibility studies which led to the
proposed project. A supplemental PPF advance of US$500,000 was approved in
September 1982 to start up preparation of the detailed design studies and to
carry out the first external audit of Electrogaz. Detailed design studies and
detailed survey and geological works are underway.
44.      Financing of the project costs would be shared by Electrogaz and IDA in
the respective proportion of 23 and 77 percent. The proposed IDA Credit of
SDR's 12.0 million (US$13.0 million equivalent) would finance 100 percent of the
foreign costs (US$10.1 million equivalent) and about US$2.9 million equivalent
(43 percent) of local costs. Government would onlend the proceeds of the Credit
to Electrogaz for a period of twenty-five years, including five years of grace
at 10.97 percent. Execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between Government
(the Borrower) and Electrogaz constitutes a condition of credit effectiveness
(Section 5.01 (a) of the Development Credit Agreement). Electrogaz would assume
the foreign exchange risk.
Project Implementation
45.      Electrogaz, a parastatal organization which is wholly owned by the
Government, has a monopoly for the generation, production, transmission and
distribution of water in urban areas and electricity and gas throughout the
country; it would be the implementing agency for the proposed project.
Electrogaz is governed by a Board of Directors comprising five members including
a Chairman appointed by the President of the Republic. A state representative,
the Commissioner, oversees the activities of Electrogaz and monitors decisions
of the Board. The Board of Directors has all the authority needed to administer
1/ Staffmonth cost includes salary, costs, fees, international travel and
subsistence.



- 15 -
Electrogaz, including the authority to issue regulations governing operations.
Tariffs are fixed by the minister responsible for the economy with the agreement
of the minister of public works, on the basis of recommendations made by
Electrogaz. Two part time Commissioners of Accounts have the responsibility of
overseeing the accounting and financial operations of Electrogaz.
46.     Proposals have been made by consultants that two separate organizations
be created to cover water and gas, and electricity, and that the water and gas
organization should include rural water supplies. However, maximum use of
available staff and the need for economies of scale make it desirable that
water, gas and power operations remain under Electrogaz. Water and electricity
consumers number about 4,300 and 4,700 respectively, occupying the same
premises in the majority of cases. Many of the secondary centers have less than
100 consumers in total. A split in the operations would therefore be
uneconomical. Although the need to address problems in the rural water supply
subsector is urgent, the current management and organization situation of
Electrogaz precludes assumption of rural water responsibilities until a
capability to operate the urban supplies has been developed. During
negotiations agreement was obtained that IDA would be consulted prior to any
changes in Electrogaz's organizational structure and responsibilities (Section
3.02 of the Project Agreement).
47.     Electrogaz is currently organized into three departments:  (a) Water and
Gas; (b) Electricity; and (c) Administration and Finance. The three department
heads overseeing each of the departments report to the General Manager of
Electrogaz. Management effectiveness, which itself needs to be improved, is
hindered by a shortage of adequately qualified and experienced personnel as well
as by a lack of financial resources with which to operate efficiently (para.
32).
48.     The Chief of the Water Department of Electrogaz, assisted by consulting
engineers, would be responsible for project implementation in the five secondary
centers. Electrogaz's management needs to be improved in all areas--technical,
financial management (including tariff studies), accounting, inventory
management, procurement and planning. A management assistance team to support
this improvement will be financed by CCCE and will consist of experts
experienced in public utility management. As management improvement in
Electrogaz is a pre-requisite to the success of the proposed project, IDA has
been consulted and has approved the terms of reference of the management
assistance team. It was agreed at negotiations that the Bank would reserve the
right to suspend disbursements if financing of the team is terminated
prematurely (Section 4.01(e)(i)(A), Development Credit Agreement). The
management team is expected to be drawn from SAUR, the third largest water
utility in France.
49.     Accounting, Billing and Collection.  Electrogaz has a very detailed
accounting system which produces useful information on annual operating costs.
However, the accounts are compiled in a manner which makes it difficult to
obtain an overview of the operations. No accounting system exists for capital
works: costs of projects are obtained from estimates by the planning unit of
the Water Service and the Ministry of Public Works, estimates that are often



- 16 -
incomplete. Detailed information is available on receivables but other asset
and liability data in the balance sheet need verification work that Electrogaz
staff has begun. Since 1982 consumer billing is carried out on a
mini-computer. Water and electricity are billed together and although sales
quantities and revenues are separated, receivables are not. Improvement of
metering over the next few years and imposition of stricter disconnections
policy should clarify client obligations and expedite bill collection. However,
a large number of meters need replacement. About 4,000 new meters were recently
bought by Electrogaz to replace existing worn-out meters and to equip new
connections. This should allow full metering of all connections, old and new,
for the next several years. In time, payroll, stores and general accounting
will be transferred to the computer with expected improvement in the accounting
efficiency of these systems. A financial management/accounting expert will be
included in the proposed management assistance team (para. 48) to improve the
financial management and accounting of Electrogaz and install a capital
expenditure accounting system.
50.     Management Systems.  Currently, there is no systematic reporting to
management regarding Electrogaz's operations. Progress reports are produced for
AfDB financed projects when supervision missions require them; otherwise reports
related to physical and financial progress are not produced regularly. Annual
reports covering the technical and financial aspects of operations are produced
too long after the end of each year to be useful to management. Monthly,
quarterly or half-yearly financial reports are not produced. The management
assistance team (para. 48) is expected to establish a more relevant management
information system and accelerate production of the annual reports and
accounts. Although separate financial reports are produced annually for water,
gas and electricity operations for operating income and expenditure, separate
balance sheets and funds flow statements are not provided. The allocation of
common expenditures among water, gas and electricity operations is also rather
arbitrary. Electrogaz agreed at negotiations to produce income statements, cash
flow projections and balance sheets separately for water, gas and electricity
before December 31, 1986 (Section 4.03, Project Agreement).
51.     Consultant Services.  To carry out the detailed design studies in the
five secondary centers, including detailed surveys and geotechnical works,
assist in evaluation of tenders and drafting of contracts, and supervise
construction of the works, Electrogaz has appointed BCEOM (France) as
engineering consultants under conditions acceptable to IDA. During negotiations
assurances were obtained that for assistance in project implementation,
Electrogaz would continue to retain engineering consultants whose
qualifications, experience and conditions of employment are acceptable to IDA
(Section 2.02, Project Agreement).
52.     Training Component.  To implement the project training component (para.
39), Electrogaz would establish a training section within the personnel
department and hire training experts to develop a manpower planning and training
unit and assist in the implementation of the training program. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that for implementation of the training
program, Electrogaz would obtain the assistance of training experts whose



- 17 -
qualifications, experience and conditions of employment are acceptable to IDA
(Section 2.02, Project Agreement). Preparation of books and training of
teachers for health education related to water supply and sanitation would be
carried out through services of the Ministry of Health in coordination with
Electrogaz and the Pedagogic Office of the Ministry of Education.
53.      Schedule and Completion.  Engineering services for detailed survey and
geotechnical works started in August 1982. It is expected that detailed design
p           would be completed by July 1983, all major bids would be invited by November
1983 and all major contracts would be awarded by July 1984. Construction of the
project will be substantially completed by November 1986.
Procurement
54.     Goods:  Water treatment, pumping and training equipment totalling US$1.8
million, including contingencies, would be grouped in appropriate packages and
procured under international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
guidelines. It is expected that all equipment would come from abroad.
Miscellaneous items of training equipment, in contracts for less than US$20,000,
would be awarded in accordance with local procedures which are acceptable to
IDA; total expenditures under such contracts would not exceed US$100,000.
55.     Works.  Civil works and installation of pipes and public standpipes
totalling US$10.6 million including contingencies would be procured under
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Construction of 99 percent of the works would involve only two contracts, one
for construction of treatment and pumping stations, reservoirs and the training
center and one for supply, transport, and laying of pipes including earthworks.
Works of the same nature that are beyond the capability of local contractors
would be grouped in the same package in order to attract foreign bidders and
stimulate the competition which is necessary in the case of a small, landlocked
and isolated country like Rwanda. Miscellaneous works in contracts less than
US$50,000 would be awarded in accordance with local procedures which are
acceptable to IDA; total expenditures under such contracts would not exceed
US$200,000.
Disbursement
56.     Credit funds would be disbursed as follows:  for materials and equipment
(excluding pipes), 100 percent of foreign and 90 percent of local expenditures;
for pipes (supply and laying), 65 percent of total expenditures; for civil
works, 60 percent of total expenditures; and for consultants' services, 100
percent of foreign expenditures. All disbursements would be fully documented.
The proposed closing date is June 30, 1988. The PPF advances totalling US$1.0
million for project preparation (para. 43) would be refinanced from the proposed
Credit.
Financial Aspects
57.     Financial Performance.  Electrogaz's past financial performance has been
poor. Physical equipment, transport, and operating funds have been lacking, and
there have not been enough qualified and experienced managers to improve



- 18 -
efficiency of operations. The annual accounts for FY80 reveal that Electrogaz
suffered a net deficit of US$1.2 million equivalent after charging US$1.3
million for depreciation which, however, was based only on the historical value
of the assets.  This deficit shows that tariffs were too low and cost recovery
inadequate. No debt service was paid during the year because Government had not
charged interest on the foreign loans onlent to Electrogaz, and repayment on the
first of these loans was only due to begin in 1981. As indicated above (para.
49), Electrogaz's financial accounts are, in general, poorly kept and are not
sufficient to permit a comprehensive financial appraisal.  Schedules of assets
and projects in progress are not available. Neither could supporting schedules
be produced to provide details on the total long-term debt. Historical funds
flow statements are meaningless in view of the fact that Government has paid
directly to suppliers all capital costs, and the sums expended cannot be
ascertained with any degree of accuracy. In view of these shortcomings, an
audit of Electrogaz accounts to provide the major financial statements in
support of future operations and to verify medium-term projections is a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit (para. 41).
58.     Receivables had declined from the equivalent of one year's water and
electricity billing at end 1980 to seven months at end 1981. The total
receivables at end 1981 included 26 percent or US$0.7 miLllion for outstanding
Government bills. In addition to the receivables for water and electricity
billed, US$1.0 million was unpaid for the cost of contract and connections works
already billed. At negotiations, Electogaz informed the Association that
receivables at end 1982 were reduced to the equivalent of four months of water
and electricity billings due to the greater efficiency introduced with the new
computer installed at the beginning of 1982 and with the appointment of a new
head of the Administration and Finance Department also in early 1982. It was
agreed at negotiations that total outstanding private and Government accounts,
including the most recent month billed, would be kept below the equivalent of
four months billing for electricity, water and gas. It was also agreed that
payment for contract and connection works would be made for at least 60 percent
of such works with the balance to be paid at the end of construction. For
particularly poor customers, however, the advance payment would be 30 percent,
with the balance to be paid by installments over six to twelve months (Section
4.06 (a) and (b), Project Agreement).
59.     Financing of Future Investment.  The capital that Electrogaz is expected
to invest to meet the demand for water, gas and electricity through FY88 is
estimated at US$169 million equivalent at current prices including interest
during construction. Of this amount, US$35 million equivalent or 21 percent
would be provided from internal cash generation, and Government is expected to
provide US$23 million equivalent or 14 percent as equity.  The rest, US$111
million equivalent or 65 percent, would be obtained abroad.
60.     Electrogaz's debt/equity ratio is projected to increase from 17/83 in
FY82 to 34/66 in FY88, a satisfactory position. No difficulty would arise in
servicing debt as the annual debt servicing ratio would not fall below 2.1
through the seven year period of the forecast. However, to safeguard
Electrogaz's financial position and to ensure that future borrowings are for
economically justified projects, it was agreed at negotiations that the Bank
would be consulted on the incurrence of any debt if internal cash generation for



- 19 -
the year prior to the incurrence, were less than 1.5 times the estimated maximum
debt service on all loans including the loan to be incurred in any future year
(Section 4.04 of the Project Agreement).
61.      Water sales are expected to increase from 3.82 million m3 in FY82 to
11.0 million m3 in FY88, or at an average annual growth rate of 19.3 percent.
This growth rate arises from new water production installations in Kigali and
Butare (completed in FY81), the proposed project production facilities
and expanded supplies to be provided in four secondary centers by CCCE and one
secondary center by KfW. The expanded supplies will be made available primarily
to customers who previously suffered from intermittent and sparse water
supplies. Over the six-year period, total revenues are expected to grow from
US$12.8 million equivalent in FY82 to US$39.6 equivalent in FY88 at an annual
average growth rate of 20.8 percent, while total operating expenses are expected
to increase from US$11.5 million equivalent for FY82 to US$33.8 million
equivalent for FY88, an annual growth rate of 19.7 percent.   The financial
position of Electrogaz is thus expected to improve substantially in the future.
Electrogaz would be able to finance internally a large proportion of its needs
in local currency, relieving the Government budget of the greater part of the
local cost financing that it now provides.
62.     Tariffs were trebled on average from January 1, 1982 for water, from US
cents 22.3 to US cents 73/m3 and doubled on average for electricity, from US
cents 5.6 to US cents 12.0/kWh. These tariff levels are expected to yield
revenues adequate to provide the cash generation that Electrogaz will require to
assist in funding the total investment program through 1984. Thereafter,
assuming that Electrogaz will be able to borrow 65 percent of capital
expenditures, average tariff levels should be increased at the rates necessary
to provide about 25 percent of the capital expenditures from internally
generated funds, with the balance coming from Government as equity. To achieve
this objective, it was agreed at negotiations that Electrogaz shall adjust the
structure or level of its water, electricity and gas tariffs as required to
produce, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on December
31, 1982, funds from internal sources equivalent to not less than 25 percent of
the annual average of Electrogaz's capital expenditures incurred, or expected to
be incurred, during that year, the previous year and the next following fiscal
year (Section 4.05 of the draft Project Agreement).
63.     The average level of water tariffs in Rwanda is already relatively high
in comparison to other African countries. Despite the projected increase of 6
percent in real terms during the period through 1988, water consumption would
still be affordable since a family of six consuming 15 lcd would pay US$1.17 per
month at the lowest block rate, which for a poor family with an income of
US$38/month represents 3 percent of income. However, studies of the marginal
cost of water, electricity, and gas provision in urban areas are required in
order to recommend appropriate tariff policies and structures to the
Government. Assurances were therefore obtained at negotiations that the
management assistance team (para. 48) would carry out such studies by December
31, 1984, and Electrogaz would implement recommendations agreed with the
Association by December 31, 1985 (Section 2.05 of the Project Agreement).



- 20 -
Uniform tariffs throughout the country necessarily result in some degree of
cross-subsidization of consumers in the project areas by consumers in Kigali and
Butare, which is acceptable because consumers in small centers are generally
poorer than consumers in Kigali and Butare.
64.     Although a financial rate of return (FROR) on net revalued fixed assets
in operation would be preferable as an earnings convenant to that described in
para. 61 above, the uncertainty that exists regarding the accuracy and validity
of the recorded fixed assets renders use of the FROR impracticable at the
present time. However, it was agreed at negotiations that, starting in FY86,
Electrogaz would revalue net fixed assets in operation annually in accordance
with methods of revaluation acceptable to the Bank (Section 4.07 of the Project
Agreement). In the long run, this should enable Electrogaz to have a better
basis to determine its tariff levels.
Economic Analysis
65.     Benefits.  The project would satisfy the water supply demand in the
project areas up to 1988. It would improve service to about 20,000 people; meet
the needs of domestic consumers whose water consumption would be increased by
about 250 percent (by provision of safe water to about 40,000 additional
people); and meet the needs of governmental institutions, commerce and industry
whose water consumption would be increased by about 230 percent. By providing
piped water to people in the five secondary centers, the project is expected to
reduce the incidence and risk of diseases attributable to lack of safe water.
In general, all Electrogaz's water supply consumers would benefit from improved
management and staff capabilities to be brought about by the project's training
component. Through its institutional and financial covenants, the project is
expected to improve Electrogaz efficiency which should benefit not only
Electrogaz's consumers but also all tax payers in the country by reducing
Government contributions.
66.     In estimating the economic rate of return (ERR) of the project, capital
and operating costs and benefits of Phase II of the development program in the
five secondary centers for which common investments are included in the project,
were taken into account in the cost and benefit streams. The incremental water
revenues were taken as a best proxy of the benefits attributable to
investments. The ERR using the average selling price which will apply in 1987
(at 1981 price levels), the year the project will be operational, of US cents
79.5/m3 is 4.9 percent which is not out of line with similar projects Bankwide.
The ERR would be higher if the unquantifiable health, enviromental and social
benefits could have been included in the calculations and the consumers' surplus
could have been estimated. The rate of return is sensitive to a 10 percent
increase in costs or a 10 percent reduction in water revenues by about 1
percentage point.
67.     Risks.  The main project risks relate to Electrogaz's limited capacity
to implement properly projects, operate facilities once constructed, and recover
charges (paras. 57 and 58). As detailed design of the project would be
practically completed by Board presentation, the risk of delayed start-up is



- 21 -
minimized.  In order to alleviate the other risks, Electrogaz would be required
to continue to use consulting engineers for supervision of project construction,
to hire a management assistance team from a reputable utility company (para.
49), and to implement a training program.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENT AND AUTHORITY
68.         The  draft Development Credit Agrement between the Rwandese Republic
and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between Electrogaz and the
Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V,
Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
69.         Special Conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of Annex
III of the Report.
70.         I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
71.         I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
March 24, 1983



- 22 -                                                           ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
RWANDA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
RWANDA                              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEYACES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                      O- ST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL               26.3                                        MOST RECENT             LOW INCbAlE               MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL        14.5                   1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUbTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                         70.0        100.0       239.0                  250.8                    1053.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)             14.5         15.9       28.3                    66.5                    610.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)         2858.0       3695.0    5530.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)         2.4          3.2        4.3                    17.8                     28.3
POPULATION PKOJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                               10.4
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                                 38.1
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                          2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                             108.5        146.3      210.0                    27.7                     54.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND           189.3        240.7      393.0                    86.7                    129.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                                44.3         45.7       46.7                    44.8                     46.0
15-64 YRS.                                53.0         51.6       50.6                    52.3                     S1.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                          2.7          2.7        2.7                     2.9                      2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                     2.6          2.6        3.4                     2.7                      2.8
URBAN                                     5.4          5.4        6.3                     6.2                      5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)            51.2            ..       53.3                   47.3                     47.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)            27.2         22.3       20.1                    19.5                     15.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                      ..            ..        4.1                    3.2                       3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)           ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)                 81.0        102.0      105.0                   88.7                      90.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                         83.3          95.6       94.2/c                 90.2                      93.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)                 50.7         61.0       57.o0                  53.1                      54.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE             25.6          34.0       29.lT1                 18.4                      17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE            32.0         30.5       29.0                    26.7                     23.9
HEALTH
PIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)           37.2         42.1       45.2                    45.6                     51.0
INFANT MORTALITY BATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                 147.0        142.0      137.0                   129.9                    118.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                      ..            ..      31.014                  23.9
URBAN                                      ..           ..       41.0/7                 54.9
RURAL                                      ..           ..       37.0O                  18.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                      ..         53.0       57.0/e                 25.8
URBAS                                      ..         83.0       87.07i                 63.1
RURAL                                      ..         52.0       56.07o                 20.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              143285.7/f   59596.8   38791.7/c                 32097.3                   14185.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           11617.87?    8818.6   10460.77T                 3264.6                    2213.2
PUPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                      ..        790.4      650.0/c               1225.0                    1036.4
URBAN                                      ..         45.9       45.27i                249.5                     430.8
RURAL                                      . .      3097.0    1599.77E                1712.1                    3678.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                  ..         21.2       21.3/5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                      ..            ..
URBAN                                      ..           ..
RURAL                                      ..           ..        4.5/e
AVERAGE NLMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                      ..           ..
URBAN                                      ..           ..
RURAL                                      ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                      ..            ..
URBAN
RURAL                                                    ''



ANNEX I
- 23 -                                                   Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
RWANDA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
RWANDA                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE .AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 49.0         73.0      70.0                  63.2                    83.3
MALE                  68.0        83.0       74.0                  72.7                    96.1
FEMALE               30.0         64.0      67.0                  50.3                     80.4
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                   2.0          2.0       2.0                  10.2                    15.3
MALE                   2.0         3.0        3.0                  13.2                    19.4
FEMALE                 1.0         1.0        1.0                   6.6                    11.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY) 39.9           12.2      16.7                   7.9                     4.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            38.8         59.7      53.2                  47.4                    38.6
SECONDARY                          14.2         13.3      15.3                  26.2                    23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        16.4/f       23.0/h    49.5                  34.0                    35.6
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.4          0.9       1.5/e                 3.0                    31.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..          8.1      30.1                  34.8                    71.8
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           .            ..        ..                   1.7                    17.9
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    ..           ..       0.04/c                2.9                    19.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..      14.6/ei                1.1                     0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1617.8       2007.1    2679.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   49.1        48.6       48.4                  34.1                    36.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              95.0         93.0      91.0                  78.4                    56.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  1.0         2.0        2.0                   9.2                    17.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                56.6         54.3      51.8                  41.4                    37.0
MALE                                 58.9         56.9      54.7                  53.9                    46.9
FEMALE                               54.4         51.9      49.1                  29.1                    27.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.8          0.9       1.0                   1.2                     1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                            ..                 ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     148.O/c               134.3                   507.0
RURAL                                ..           ..      85.078                82.9                   200.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                  96.4                   523.9
RURAL                                ..           ..      43.0/c                60.4                   203.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      30.0/c                39.3
RURAL                                ..           ..      90.07                69.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are populatior-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estiimate, between 1978 and 1982.
/c   1977;  /d 1976;  /e 1975;  /f 1962;  /& 1974;  /h 1973.
May, 1982



-24-                                                                                ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DtPfNfTIwtI fY SOCLAL ifliCAIVtS
kan  ithoogh fta datLar  drac  fro  sonrcs  eneall  Jadsd thes   auth-iriratby  ad  -lebiai. ft  hboaid at be ootcd  tha  tihny may oar be iv.r.-
aaialyowrhe   a  oto   h   acpfcadrie  dtiiit   o   ooot   cdb   ifeetcnr  a L.oleto   h   at.Tn   aaae
t i..ecfL bo docbhoresfmantd. dicb    brees.1nd  harcinnic  cetaf  maor.iffrenes   oraencottec
itorsernc   goinsae  1)rhcaecootygceolthanijei  ootrco   (2) acatryropL                              bcmaaniinr 'eaeIt                 ne...      iecocryr
of, niec-..oor.eratfr                     'g    noe    i   ootr             ro    or   fdi    onNot   fiasdtdl                       Lac   loicao            Lh.coo  ctoog
sac ic-coitorci aft ititiec I.  in the re fereore groep data rho aoeragec are popolatico esighted  arithmetic  macc for each  bed boater ord cocan only ahe..n1-   ph"ti-   MIhifM
maorfr   f  hecoonba   o   too   hsdaa  o  tatro  caor    boa  hecveag  o   ocnie   tngrh   odicrrsAronsonco   naidelc   o  dt
gadisnotattoa.  acin  ta   h  eeroicd  o rlain   antaeeof  nero icro  toatthr.   traaaceags  ye  of  iefo  to  ctoin  te  claic
'!l                                   of      i.dit.l.c        ~~~~~~~~~~~~byalasccphict. fab  cncr  yro idfg   rncpll   ec
AILA pig. CAiAfhl-Ot  a   aiaetift    tcreterarpie.el                                                  il tar  ar  o   nldd    eo    opnl,hae,bceehat
celate  hr cme ronata m    methodas bo     -d   i.lA 6     ....c (198 1i97ai9 dt60.          arid medical       'd'! ce dtee no   th.neclys-afPea   inJ     hyibc(htb
Ti97.  ca  190dt.mdfaYeitc.   ne ds  saie   etc.). ohcc   -fIe  i- patbc_j_
Agtic.11-.1 - E.,~~~~~~- of nIj-Il-I -I-atictaed pocideaPilmped dcge.o  medIalbin i ofi i =s.tor satdbe
and ligite   -erota.  arrl  gas andh. hyIdr- .  otla  uod gieot mf               e- n.1rbhepti.ftl  rne"lspias'nledl                                                admtent
TarafdbyfZ Oocitin    Mid-Ya  fthooada(. -.I At of Jly. 1;1976-0. 1970. 1acd.. ihOG            itfilbyIhIfEi-(b.  b
daa                                                                                         Acrghaefteedlfect   prOdoacd-oa,ra.orr
OratPocator(ereo   f  oil  -rai  o  etntncaI  oplt ce                       hcchodceait  c  agoo  o   ndcbcl iOto  hoeIdcirqortr
ametacnebtres; 1960. YOb. acd 190 daca.                                  th  hPtarOd  ir snboth isnPa   iorcart.             .cpj/1I
ProjectL. ion parameter  for tniaf    ydrttoprs cchon lvei  tao.-etccei-  SareLl.d-P                                                                       di1lo
fentiiiaccrdigto   ncoe lcefaodPac-      ce    plannic   pdt1979mlyncd.
tech cecotry  is thee acs igoed one of theseP tine cosbed- Tat.bane,cifmdrtail bLtyOt OilTI-gi
POUiTaIONAND VITcAL,SAITo-InCS       ifnr   nplib    hr        cgot   ic                           Priar  scineo  -~ tda.  malteao  t         fei  -  ratta,maean   eml
dinfthe year 200.- and th  Aaro               ieo   etiiyrt   orpae                              hceayshol-ta,mlendeaLI     optds  aoa   eodr
sicoaii  heaacid.                                                                         cealy-o  ilto  0 yers f-ae;-brnlpcnrncrcoret  te gnergli
?cyelatter Oeoy45yd                                                                          eac.dILad       ..eAb..dd.,I                  -    I-  11          -IddL
total ariea;  196. 1970an  i979h.  daa..nloetrhebef.   _iodoi_l.o   te  pccsaihoprt   need
Pt  s -A.  arcoitOre1bn       optdooeefrancloa   adenco   adprmoco  aetendedy  i                                                              _t_tlea
(anin; 160.  970  and lYt data1.d                                                          Adol-t , o  f,ill   -.  literac    P'r(ecn        iearoolo(tl  cra   n   be
Loemain;   1960.-l 1970, andg180 daa.                                                           al i-b- leoitl-1
ni  t7rrt;l isoally  fo ic-eraeae   cdn   i   90   90   n   9                                tscotnac elIshd    cetii
Ptati . yrlnnn-AcrtraAcoi(hcand(-ocanc_re    ccptr                                              iiercaa   pr  hotndrroano(-0hrnier   orr-daa
fbt h 18'NT.pTi- -eho  rdayI  if itippearsPa   eOct fooyni-metoce ldrek.                                                                                                    
inatad  f saer)chi  of ar.dhe  n   etic        noyiat    e.gh....fe  and                       =     l d.1d  1                     Igh   f,J,             cI.;f
natoni= aerged      rdce -pic        eigt;Ih-O.17.edfdOdt.Ttl  anrPre  toansc lOfcaiall  acicap-rons  ioidn
ecehrgy.eoiaet20i      dlb  of        d-lon   opiir   cilaboe fincccty  par 1 capita.           ceeigpoeaitofolae.   bedlftlo1be-c inpcrets coorrbe. ar
per gap.Anailabl  corn le  ceetrit  domestc predec ion, imorta lea  cot ccparainln  1960. 170 and i80 cant
enpits  and chab        vece   tnsribee   oeaia   ed  ae-d.hFmal  (prcet) -7 female lite  goc  a   a                                                  g c  i- total...   labor fore
P-ets l, acr  esidated-n P           p aed on .. khy ilol-gcr  ed  for0 normal. acfi               tithing  aa  lerentag    ofn       aic  foce -16..17. ad190daa
h.oeseo1  fene;190 197105  190d    n 97  77d data.                                                 1960. lhPicand198 idata-.l'.                         hc              . .d
ne  ccpi   f  ed  e    day   -e COr-ny cI.foo  id-ia   as                  -dne   it-aIniy  rseaar  coImpare  as total, ma.lt,edfml   ae                               ca
poice pr9tin- 1 atOhc  19    rmtoldh   nmiprti9mc  stan-                                        relect- lo %ae-e   attInr  of te pod,yi  -Ti. oo..d bon  timetredL.A
a6 saeberta  toeo  75_mama o  total potein an  23 gram,. offa  siatsat-rm   aioa   oeb
Wend,, Pond homey; 191         190adit?dt,to the tota  ILaho  force.)-L-I   d1    .bet   bd-                                                                               i.
Pee eaita trreit apri  from  animal an -rl ce-Prti -pIr of  feed1 ide-p-el.o    L.                                         l  P. .- ,d15y-                   d
age groopi   1t-A  pleoo  tochlde   in tlhiod agCro,oNa doipagno-                                S  peTeoc,rcen2   ecn.poetd   ecn.adpoei6   ecn
trli.. daa  erve  tram60   life70  nanlc  1960, 190  a1M0dta                                      f  ooedls
Life ttac baon at  irth  lcara)- Aneragli toter      P of y ..r . di life rmbidgyThe P"        lle" o   esiercae  apaprti                 maeeeoPovry'eec
an hi_rh;1960, i70 cod 1960  data.                                                               end  h- l -hke bnortd0t   enieal   atin
Intact tsrclt   Rat e (ta Aheao  -_ taofl d..heanh  ofi               llnoe   one, yea           Istimed   _bslee   Oner  in Ooelvl(hproia -Irha  androai,-
pcrcsatage  oftereapcieppoait.Iaa                           a  aeanific                         persoat  inoeo ffothe d...      y      rhtier iOsy'-=   dtone   foa  th  rr
yooeaorcad yc ae   totmet  that g.    OARdeien  from 0   a70  hoc  map0  bleiaILI adjoatm hedtfrhga   oio  lnn    nbb aes
Freiy PI.abisj scAmetold. imlyI thtthe .....        if  or mate  atb th ccch                   TVaa Rorci .. jjpeenact at. papolatien  f          -rh -an   r fra) eto ate5abaat
family'                                                                   PZ cect-an                                                                 .  .meded T
doceac  o  Mootta gosecal (poneat  f oneattien)    tc_ai                           tordbaa. coed Zrparalnl- --    .                                        g I
Lstta   erafaa.ed O      ehao.cad reraf)                                                              ofsrdedlyhy earrada diaPpecad am
ihe amiltras aad diepotai, mathb or                                                  dem-idbbiently oiemettdffI n.t.atO                     1. -edsta
IrealbIas tar Podtymi.  pet -Ctpolata d1969d71d1hy    I.d.r of pecttCi-Absg phyadb-                                            ,ClpteoP mi ted,  bota  Raa           Oi!b
tacicge   eat lO, ao    era    tog1ltbsfgode  hy            , mt  fdrabida   lpi
mal  ca  tcaiagraaag  gatam   aaiata    art.trmi            dtca Icad-                                                                                        i
marcbag cod I_bertat.;I1IE.                                                    ...:ikt.l



-25-                             ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
COUNTRY DATA--RWANDA
AREA                                   POPIJLATION                      DENSITY (1982)
26.3 thousand sq. km.                  5.5 million (mid-1982)           210 per square km.
Rate of Growtlh:                393 per square km. of
3.6% (from 1978 to 1982)          arable land
POPULATION' CIHAPACTERISTICS (1978)                HEALTH (1977)
Crude Birth Rate (per 1,000)           54.0        Population per physician   38,792
Crude Death Rate (per 1,000)           21.0        Population per hospital bed   650
INCOMF DISTRIBUTION                               ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
X of national income, highest quintile ..         (Kilograms of coal equivalent) 28.3
lowest quintile
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (1976)                       ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
Vof population-total                   35.0       % of population - total
- rural
NUTRITION (1977)                                   EDUCATION (1980)
Calorie intake as % of requirements 94.2          Adult literacy rate %              23.0
Per capita protein intake              57.0        Primary school enrollment Z    60.0
(grams/day)
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1961 (1): US $239
CROSS MOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1981 (2)                         ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
(Z, constant 1976 prices) (3)
US $ Mln.      %                      1977-81
GDP at Market Prices          1,257.8        100.0                     5.8
Gross Domestic Investment        282.4        22.5                     8.0
Gross National Saving            109.8         8.7
Current Account Balance        -172.6        -13.7
Export of Goods, NFS             150.9        12.0                    -3.9
Import of Goods, NFS            332.0         26.4                     5.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(RwF Mln.)       % of GDP
1981 (2)    1981 (2)-   1972
Current Receipts                     l4Z827          12.7          8.3
Current Expenditure                  14,040          12.0         10.7
Current Surplus                          787         .0.7         -2.4
Capital Expenditures                  -2,562          2.2-          1.2
Overall surplus (4)                   -2,241         -1.9          -3.0
(1)  The Per Capita GNP estimate calculated by the same conversion technique as the World
Bank Atlas. All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average
exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
(2)  Provisional.
(3)  Trend rates based on least squares estimates.
(4)  The overall surplus is not equal to the difference between current savings and
development expenditures because the consolidated surplus or deficit of the
Treasury special accounts is not shown in this table.
not available.
not applicable.



- 26 -                               iLA .
COUNTRY DATA - RWANDA                          Page 5 of 5
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                      1977      1978      1979      i980      1981
(Million RwF outstaniding end period)
Money Supply (1)                             10,175   11,204   14,185   15,331   16,331
Bank Credit to Government (net)                 363        23   -1,350   -2,929   -1,939
Bank Credit to Private Sector                4,389    5,134    4,563    6,515    8,171
(Percentage or Inlex Numbers)
Money as % of GDP                           14.0      13.8      14.6      14.4      14.2
Consumar Price Index (Jan-Mar 1976=100) 116.7    131.3    152.1    163.2           173.8
Annual percentage changes in:
Consumer Price Index                        14.5      12.5      15.8       7.3       6.5
Banik credit to Government  (net)          -77.4    -93.7  -5970.0   -117.0         33.8
Bank credit to PrJvate Sector               60.1      17.0    -11.1       42.8      25.4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                -     MRCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1978-81)
1978   1979   1980   1981(2)               US$Mln.       Z
(US$ Millions)
Exports of Goods, NFS       126    227    166    161   Coffee            79.5       54.8
Imports of Goods, NFS    -261   -309   -323   -332   Tea                 10.6        8.0
Resource Gap (deficit-) -136    -82   -157   -181   Cassiterite   17.6              13.1
Wolfram         5.5        4.1
Factor Services (net)        -5      -2      5      12   Pyrethrum        1.3        0.9
Net transfers                -       5      -1      -3   Cinchona         D.9        1.5
Balance on Cur. Account  -141    -79   -155   -172   Other               23.9       17.6
Total       177.3      100.0
Official Grarts              95    128    106    106
Direct Private For.Invest. 10        13     17      19
Net MLT Loans                19     40      33      25   EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1981
Other M & LT (net)            1    -22      -2       2                                     USSMin.
net Short-Term Capital       21    -10      22      20   Public Debt, incl.guaranteed   172.1
Capital Flows, NEI           -6       1     -2      -9   Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Errors & Omissions            5      -1     -6       1   Total cutstanding & disbursed
Increase in Reserves (-)   -4    -70    -13         -1
Gross Reserves (end year) 100.0  177.6  208.8  199.2   NET DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1981 (4)
Petroleum imports (3)        17.0   23.0   30.0  32.0                                         _
Petroleum Exports (3)         .       .      .        .    Public Debt incl. guaranteed   1.8
Non-guaranteed Private Debt
Total outstanding & disbursed
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Annual             End             IDA LENDING,(July 31,1982)(US$Mln.)
Averages          Period                                            IDA
1974-80        Sept. 1982         Outstanding & Disbursed         74.96
USS  1.00-  RWF           92.84           92.84             Undisbursed                    40.08
RwF  1.00 - US$            0.011           0.011            Outstanding incl.
Undisbursed                   115.04
1) Includes Money and Quasi money
2) Provisional.
3) Crude and derivatives.
4) Debt Service net of interest earned on foreign exchange reserves as a
percentage of Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
not available
* not applicable
-- less than US $ 0.5 million



- 27 -                     ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN RWANDA
A. Statement of IDA Credits
(As of February 28, 1983)
Amount US$ million
(Less cancellations)
Credit No.   Fiscal Year   Borrower   Purpose                      IDA   Undisbursed
(Five credits have been fully disbursed)                          45.90
567-RW          1975       Rwanda       Education                 6.38        2.06
655-RW          1977                    DFC I                     4.00        0.13
656-RW          1977                    Agriculture Cinchona    1.80          0.01
769-RW          1978                    Road Maintenance         15.00        2.11
896-RW          1979                    DFC II                    5.20        4.13
937-RW          1979                    Mutara Agricultural
and Livestock
Development              8.75        4.56
1039-RW          1980                    Integrated Forestry and
Livestock Development  21.00        15.36
1057-RW          1981                    Telecommunications        7.50        6.87
1126-RW          1981                    Coffee/Foodcrops         12.86       11.15
1217-RW          1982                    Technical Assistance    4.69          4.66
1250-RW          1982                    Fifth Highway            25.40       25.32
1263-RW 1/       1982                    Second Education          9.81        9.81
1283-RW 1/       1982                    Phase II Bugesera/
Gisaka/Migongo          15.80       15.80
Total                                            184.09      101.97
Principal Repaid         2.71
Total Held             181.38
1/   Not yet effective.
Note: a) Rwanda has received no Bank loan.
b) US dollars amounts equivalent for IDA VI credits (expressed in SDRs) are
calculated at the rate as of February 28, 1983.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B.  Statement of IFC Investments
(As of September 30, 1982)
In 1976, IFC made a loan of US$535,000 for a tea factory. A second
IFC long-term loan of US$226,000 and contingent equity commitments of up to
US$60,000 for an expansion of the tea factory were signed in September 1980.
C. PROJECTS IN RWANDA 1/
(As of September 30, 1982)
Credit No. 567-RW      Education Project; US$8.0 Milion Credit of June 30, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
As now constituted, the project includes construction, equipping and
furnishing of 250 primary-school workshops, a school-textbook printshop, and
an office building for the School Financing and Construction Services (SFCS)
as well as furnishing and equipping of the Rural Agricultural Training Center
of Gitarama. The project also provides technical assistance, vehicles and
operating expenses for the SFCS. The project has been hampered by implementa-
tion difficulties centering on two misprocurements (an amount of US$130,000
was cancelled because of misprocurement of certain construction materials; a
second amount of US$1,491,000 was cancelled due to misprocurement of paper).
Most of the 250 workshops are nearly completed. The lack of acceptable record
keeping, however, has impeded the processing of disbursement requests. There-
fore, a final inspection and evaluation mission for the workshops, organized
by the Government (with IDA approval) was undertaken successfully in November
1981 with UNESCO assistance. Disbursements have resumed. The printshop is
now operational and construction of the office building for the SFCS completed.
The original Closing Date (June 30, 1982) was extended to December 31, 1982 by
which time the project is expected to be completed.
Credit No. 656-RW      Cinchona Project; US$1.8 million Credit of August 20, 1976
Date of Effectiveness: March 2, 1977
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project provides over a five year period inputs and extension
services to grow cinchona for export. Progress is satisfactory and there is
still a demand from farmers for planting material. World market prices
for cinchona derivates, however, remained low during 1979 and 1980, and OCIR
(the implementing agency) had to reduce the farm gate price for cinchona bark
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding they do not
purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weakness in
project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
and abolish the export tax and the OCIR levy. In September 1980 it was
decided to establish a cinchona bark processing plant in the Kirambo area, and
construction has since started and the factory is scheduled to be open in
early 1983.  This should give Rwanda a stronger position in the future to
compete with cinchona derivates on the world market. The original Closing
Date (June 30, 1982) was extended to March 31, 1983 by which time the project
is expected to be completed.
Credit 769-RW          Fourth Highway Project; US$15.0 Million Credit
of April 21, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: August 4, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Implementation of the Fourth Highway Project (a US$15.0 million
Credit for road maintenance) started in January 1978. Specialists financed
under the technical assistance program are performing satisfactorily. Procure-
ment of equipment is completed. On the suggestion of the Association, an
expert on labor intensive methods visited Rwanda for three weeks in June 1978
and recommended that one mechanized unit be replaced by one unit utilizing
labor intensive methods. Following the consultant's recommendation, the
Government has introduced labor-intensive methods for road maintenance.
Although the project is about one year behind schedule, implementation is now
at its anticipated progress rate and the project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Credit 896-RW          Second Rwandese Development Bank Project; US$5.2 Million;
Credit of July 13, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: January 4, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The Project aims at providing further assistance to the industrial
sector by supporting the activities of the Rwandese Development Bank. It
includes two components: (a) a second line of credit of US$5.0 million (which
is now about 90 percent committed) to finance BRD-s foreign exchange require-
ments and (b) a feasibility study for the establishment of an auditing firm
in Rwanda (US$0.2 million). Government has just finished reviewing the audit
study and its comments are currently under consideration by the Association.
Credit 937-RW          Mutara Agricultural and Livestock Development Project;
US$8.75 Million Credit of July 13, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: May 30, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project is the second phase of a long-term development program
for the Mutara region. It aims at developing techniques, procedures, and an
institutional environment which will make it possible to preserve the
production potential of the area, make a rational and more intensive use of
available resources, improve farming and ranching techniques, and integrate
the project into the local administration. Settlement of cattle owners has
proceeded in an orderly way and pasture production has improved, but destocking
activities and credit recovery have been disappointing due to lack of clear
policies and enforcement mechanisms.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
P-g-;e 4 of 5
Credit 1039-RW         Integrated Forestry and Livestock Development Project;
US$21.0 Million Credit of July 7, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: November 11, 1981;
Closing Date: September 30, 1986
The project is the first phase of a long-term program to develop
the forestry resources of Rwanda and to strengthen the livestock industry.
Technical assistance personnel and key local staff have been recruited and
start-up activities are progressing satisfactorily.
Credit 1057-RW         Telecommunications Project; US$7.5 Million;
Credit of August 13, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: July 7, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project aims at improving the quality of existing telecommuni-
cations services, while extending the coverage to geographical areas and
segments of the population which at present do not benefit from such
services. In addition to improving international and domestic telecommuni-
cations (telephone and telex) the project provides technical assistance and
training to the Ministry of Post and Telecommunications. The project is
cofinanced with FAC and CCCE (US$3.9 million equivalent) and CIDA (Can$4.95
million) and is proceeding satisfactorily.
Credit 1126-RW         Lake Kivu Coffee Improvement and Foodcrops Project;
US$15.0 Million Credit of April 29, 1981;
Date of Effectiveness: January 18, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project aims at building up an effective extension service
which would assist farmers in increasing foodcrop and coffee production using
field-tested techniques and also helping OCIR-Cafe (the implementing agency)
improve its financial management. Technical assistance personnel and key
local staff have been recruited and start-up activities are progressing
satisfactorily.
Credit 1217-RW         Technical Assistance Project; US$5.0 Million
Credit of April 5, 1982; Date of Effectiveness:
November 22. 1982: Closing Date: December 31. 1986.
The project aims at increasing Rwanda's absorptive capacity,
improving interministerial coordination in project preparation and monitoring,
and strengthening the Ministry of Planning (MINIPLAN). The project credit
agreement was signed April 5, 1982. The Project Economist to be assigned
to the Programming Directorate in the MINIPLAN has been recruited and has been
at his post since mid-June 1982.



ANNEX II
- 31-                          Page 5 of 5
Credit 1250-RW          Fifth Highway Project; US$25.9 Million Credit of
June 1, 1982; Date of Effectiveness: December 8, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The Credit became effective on December 8, 1982.  Bidding on the
project road is in progress.
Credit 1263-RW          Second Education Project; US$10.0 Million Credit of June
30, 1982; Date of Effectiveness: March 1, 1983; Closing
Date: September 30, 1987
The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) is established and the architect
for the PIU employed.  A remaining condition of effectiveness is employment by
the PIU of the project accountant. Effectiveness is set for March 1, 1983.
Credit 1283-RW          Phase II Bugesera Gisaka Migongo (Phase II) Project;
US$16.3 Million Credit of September 28, 1982; Date
of Effectiveness: April 1, 1983; Closing Date: December
31, 1988
Project start-up activities inluding the family planning component,
are proceeding satisfactorily under the PPF advance.  Effectiveness is
scheduled for April 1, 1983.
(



- 32 -
ANNEX III
RWANDA
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Origin of Project: Bank/WHO Cooperative Program study of priorities
in the sector.
(b)  Identification Mission:  September 1979
(c)  Appraisal Mission:  May 1982
(d)  Negotiations:  February 25-March 1, 1983
(e)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:  September 1983
II. Special Implementation Action
None.
III. Special Conditions
None.
IV. Conditions of Effectiveness
(a)  The Subsidiary Loan Agreement will have been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and Electrogaz (para. 44); and
(b)  The Association shall have received the report of the auditors on the
financial statements of Electrogaz for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 1981 (para. 41).



280                                           290                                           300
RWA N DA                                                  U G A N D A
FIRST   WATER   SUPPLY   PROJECT                                              Mb.-e, Kampla/re
PROJECT AREAS
Kibungo Project Cities
Main Roads                                .
N~~ Rivers rx )ZRbno%/   
International
Boundaries   X                                    ,aW                                                W
0  10  20  30  40  50 Km
0                  A 20  30   L           vu                                     IGI 
) X2.0, 's rsls ---  e a a <4   W" >e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Q~'2-
28'
UGNA KENYA
|   r    0 _  K N  y  ,4  X A </~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                ~ ~~~~~~~ cy 0 ,ooa 3     i
,,, \ 9?NIu Xf                                                                          pWReTo Dar es 35l/oo
BUR NDI                           Cyongugu
-    TANZANIA
<                   ~~~~~Ocean
N                                                                                                                                          0
ZAMBIA                                    T  B usas6o                                                         T of- th--0d Xe ,eades of the  pon to  td  h d t   sd i   e
bod-ite  th- e -o this  -ar dono - -ply,  nlthe pais tt the Wocd Sank-ad it 
7MOZAMBIQUE                            B    U    R   U  N    D   I             a
J        |MALAWI                                               To Bgui,mbura           30'



