OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS CREDIT NUMBER 1345 RW
Development Credit Agreement
(Water Supply Project)
between
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                            , 1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1345 RW
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                  C),      L    1983, between
the RWANDESE REPUBLIC (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION     (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the Etablissement
Public de Production, de Transport et de Distribution d'Eau, de
1'Electricite et de Gaz (hereinafter called ELECTROGAZ), a public
utility of the Borrower responsible for the production, trans-
portation and distribution of electricity, water and gas within
the Rwandese Republic, established and operating under Decree-law
No. 18-76 of April 20, 1976, as amended from time to time, with
the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to ELECTROGAZ the proceeds of the
Credit as hereinafter provided;
(C) the Borrower and the French Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique (hereinafter called CCCE) have entered
into an agreement (hereinafter called the CCCE Credit Agreement)
pursuant to which CCCE will grant a credit (hereinafter called
the CCCE Credit) to assist in financing Part B 1 of the Project;
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
ELECTROGAZ;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein


﻿-2-
said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Project Agreement" means the Agreement between the
Association and ELECTROGAZ of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
Schedules to the Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and ELECTROGAZ pursuant to Sec-
tion 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement; and
(c) "Project Preparation Advance" means the Project Pre-
paration Advances granted by the Association to the Borrower pur-
suant to exchanges of letters dated March 19, 1980 and August 1,
1980, and June 30, 1982 and September 21, 1982, between the
Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twelve million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 12,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or., if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-3-
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the prin-
cipal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1988, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. The
Borrower may request at any time the establishment of a later
date for the purposes of this Section.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.


﻿-4-
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 1
and November 1 commencing May 1, 1993, and ending November 1,
2032, each installment to and including the installment payable
on November 1, 2002, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.10. ELECTROGAZ is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall cause ELECTROGAZ to perform, in accor-
dance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, all the obligations therein set forth,
shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources
necessary or appropriate to enable ELECTROGAZ to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
ELECTROGAZ under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ELECTROGAZ under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Association and which shall
include a repayment period of 20 years including a five-year
grace period, an interest rate of ten and ninety-seven hundredths
per cent (10.97%) per annum and the assumption of exchange risks
by ELECTROGAZ. Such interest rate shall be subject to revision if
the Borrower, the Association and ELECTROGAZ, following an
exchange of views, agree that such rate threatens the financial
position of ELECTROGAZ.


﻿- 5 -
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit and, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall ensure that: (i) the total
amount of receivables on account of gas, electricity and water
supplied to all customers by ELECTROGAZ, including the most
recent month's billings, not exceed four months' billings; and
(ii) the total amount of such receivables due from governmental
customers not exceed three month's billings to such customers.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall take such steps as shall be
necessary on its part to permit ELECTROGAZ to comply with its
obligations under Section 4.05 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) ELECTROGAZ shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situa-
tion shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
ELECTROGAZ will be able to perform its obligations under the Pro-
ject Agreement.
(c) Decree-law No. 18-76 of the Bortower dated April 20,
1976, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
ELECTROGAZ to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(d) The Borrowet or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of ELECTROGAZ or for the suspension of its operations.


﻿- 6 -
(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the CCCE Credit shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreement providing therefor, or
(B) the CCCE Credit shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that: (A) such suspension, cancel-
lation, termination or prematuring is not caused
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of
its obligations under such agreement; and (B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to
the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Associa-
tion to the Borrower and ELECTROGAZ; and
(b) Any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) or (e) (i)
(B) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and ELECTROGAZ; and


﻿- 7 -
(b) the Association has received the report of the auditors
on the financial statements of ELECTROGAZ for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 1981.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized by
ELECTROGAZ and signed in its name and is legally binding upon
ELECTROGAZ in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized and signed by the Borrower and ELECTROGAZ and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and ELECTROGAZ in accordance
with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date October 12, 1983, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
3.02 of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 4.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances
Botte Postale 158
Kigali
Rwandese Republic


﻿-8-
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINIFIN                             04
Kigali
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                                440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                        248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI)
89650 (WUT) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 9 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                  1,840,000      60%
(2) Pipelines (includ-           4,420,000      65%
ing installation)
(3) Equipment and                1,470,000     100% of foreign
Materials; books,                          expenditures and
Part C of the                              90% of local
Project                                    expenditures (ex-
factory cost)
(4) Consultants'                 1,840,000     100% of foreign
Services, train-                           expenditures
ing
(5) Refunding of Project          920,000      Amount due under
Preparation Advance                        Section 2.02 (b)
(6) Unallocated                  1,510,000
TOTAL         12,000,000
2.   To the extent that the amount allocated to Category 5 is
in excess of the amount required, adjustment will be made by
reallocation to Category 6.
3.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods


﻿- 10-
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
4.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated, in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association, so that no proceeds
of the Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes
levied by or in the territory of the Borrower on goods or ser-
vices, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof. To that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on
or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice
to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Association.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expend-
itures prior to the date of this Agreement.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which, in the opinion of tae
Associatiot., are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such ex-
penditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.
7.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expend-
itures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or


﻿- 11 -
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are:
(a) to improve and expand water supply facilities in the
towns of Cyangugu, Kibungo, Kibuye, Rubengeri and Rwamagama; and
(b) in   conjunction  with   projects  financed  by  other
development organizations, to strengthen the management and staff
capabilities of ELECTROGAZ and improve the quality of its
services to consumers.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Improvement and Expansion of Water Supply Facilities in
the five towns, as follows:
1.   Cyangugu
(a) Intake in the Wigiti stream supplied by four springs
(Kabugi, Rugomero, Kabingo and Kareko);
(b) A water treatment plant with a capacity of about   520
m3/day in the Murangi area;
(c) A new reservoir of about 50 m3/day capacity to store
treated water and to supply houses in the Murangi area;
(d) A pumping station of about 330 m3/day capacity, to
supply the Cyangugu eastern and northern areas;
(e) A rising main, 100 mm diameter, 900 m long and a
transmission main, 100 mm diameter, 3.05 km long, to
supply the eastern and northern areas;
(f) Four new service reservoirs with capacities ranging
from 50 m3 to 200 m3, and rehabilitation of the fire
protection reservoir of the airport;
(g) Distribution pipelines, including 11.37 km of primary
distribution pipes of 50 mm to 140 mm diameter and
2.0 km of secondary distribution pipes of 50 mm dia-
meter; and
(h) About thirteen public standpipes.


﻿- 13 -
2.   Kibungo
(a) Rehabilitation of the two existing spring protection
units and improvement of new springs in the Rwasaburo
Valley between Kabinbizi spring and reservoir Rl;
(b) Construction of a test well near the Rwasaburo water
stream to prepare a second stage of the extension of
facilities in 1990;
(c) Supply lines, 75 to 100 mm diameter, 2 km long, between
the springs and reservoir Rl;
(d) A treatment plant of about 4 1/s capacity;
(e) A new pumping plant where new pumping equipment (one
pumping set 8 1/s, 300 m head, 45 kW) would be
installed in addition to the existing equipment;
(f) One rising main, 100 mm diameter, 3.4 km long;
(g) One reservoir of about 250 m3 capacity; and
(h) A distribution network including about 13 km of primary
distribution pipes 50 to 200 mm diameter, 1 km of
secondary distribution pipes 50 mm diameter, and 16
public standpipes.
3.   Kibuye
(a) Improvement of the protection of the three existing
spring units;
(b) A new treatment plant of about 625 m3/day capacity,
including lime and chlorine treatment facilities
equipped with gravity dosing units, storage facilities
for chemicals and a control room;
(c) A new concrete service reservoir, of 150 m3 capacity,
at ground level; and
(d) Distribution pipelines, including about     6.5 km of
primary distribution pipes 50 mm to 100 mm diameter,
and 1.0 km of secondary distribution pipes 50 mm
diameter, and 20 public standpipes.


﻿- 14 -
4.   Ruhengeri
(a) Tapping of Mutobo Springs at about 10 km from
Rahengeri;
(b) A treatment plant, 1,195 m3/day capacity, located at
2 km from Ruhengeri;
(c) A new concrete reservoir of about 600 m3 capacity, at
ground level;
(d) About 15 km of transmission pipelines 50 mm to 200 mm
in diameter;
(e) Distribution pipelines, including about 18 km of pri-
mary distribution pipes of 50 mm to 280 diameter and
km of secondary distribution pipes, 50 mm dia-
meter; and
(f) Twenty-nine public standpipes.
5.   Rwamagana
(a) A raw water intake in Lake Muhazi consisting of a
screen and a 100 m long, 140 mm diameter PVC pipe
supported by a foot-bridge;
(b) A   raw water pumping   station designed   to house   3
electric-drive pumps (30 mY/hour, 10 m head, 2.2 kW per
unit) but initially equipped with 2 pumps only (one in
operation and one in stand-by);
(c) A treatment plant including two treatment units of 600
m3/day capacity;
(d) A treated water pumping station designed to house 3
electric-drive pumps (30 m3/hour, 155 m head, 30 kW per
unit), but initially equipped with two pumps only;
(e) Rising main pipes 90 and 135 mm diameter, about 6 km
long;
(f)  Distribution pipelines including about 9 km of primary
distribution pipe, 50 to 250 mm diameter and 1 km of
secondary distribution pipes, 50 mm diameter; and
(g) Twenty-six public standpipes.


﻿- 15 -
Part B:   Improvement of the Organization and Management of
ELECTROGAZ:
1.   Strengthening  and   improving  the  organization  and
management of ELECTROGAZ so as to ensure efficient
operation of its facilities and upgrade the level and
quality of its services, including the establishment of
a system for the management of inventories and of cost
accounting.
2.   Construction and equipping of a training center, in-
cluding the supply of training equipment.
3.   Carrying out a training program for ELECTROGAZ person-
nel, including the award of fellowships for overseas
training.
Part C:   Hygiene:
1.   Acquisition and distribution to primary and secondary
schools of text books on hygiene.
2.   Training of primary school teachers to teach courses in
hygiene.
Part D:   Tariff Study
1.   A study on tariffs for water, gas and electricity, based on
long-term marginal costs nation-wide and covering policies and
tariff structure.
2.   Detailed engineering study for water supply in the lava
regions, including preparation of bidding documents.
3.   Organizational and management study for rural water supply
operations on the national level, including cost-recovery
mechanisms.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1987.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby'certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of   a      ,
198 3.
FOR SECRETARY


