Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
&ZI/Z 1977-73D
Report No. 7474-BO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT STRENGTHENING OPERATION
November 30, 1988
Latin America and Caribbean Region
Country Department III
Country Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency Unlt: Boliviano (Bs)
Exchange Rate Effective June 1, 1988
US$1.00 - Bs 2.30
Bs 1.00 = US$ 0.435
ABBREVIATIONS
DIP           -  Direccion de Inversion Publica
FDR           -  Regional Development Fund
GTZ           -  Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
(German Technical Cooperation Agency)
IBRD          -  International Bank for ReconstLuction and Development
IDA           -  International Development Association
IDB           -  InterAmerican Development Bank
IMF           -  International Monetary Fund
INE           -  Instituto Nacional de Estadisticas (National Institute of
Statistics)
MACA          - Ministerio de Asuntos Campesinos y Agropecuarios
MPC           - Ministerio de Planeamiento y Coordinacion
PCU           -  Project Coordinating Unit
PFMO          -  Public Financial Management Operation
PIP           -  Public Investment Program
PSM           -  Public Sector Management
PSIP          -  Public Sector Investment Program
RDC           -  Regional Development Corporation
SAFCO         -  Sistema de Administracion Financiera y Control
SISFIN        -  Sistema de Informacion y Seguimiento Financiero
SISIN         -  Sistema de Informacion y Seguimiento de la Inversion
SD 21060      -  Supreme Decree which inaugurated New Economic Policy
SDR           -  Special Drawing Right
UDAPE         -  Unit for Analysis of Economic Policies in Ministry of
Planning
UNDP          - United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



BOLIVIA                     FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
ECONOMIC FI.NAGEMENT STRENGTHENING OPERATION
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                            1-iji
I.     INTRODUCTION                                                    1
Background                                                      1
Overview of the Economy                                         1
II.    PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT - CONSTRAINTS AND REFORMS              2
Public Investment Programming and Implementation                3
Tax Administration                                              5
Decentralization of Public Services                             5
Public Sector Employment                                        7
Civil Service Policies                                          7
Salary policy                                                   8
Public Sector Management Strenethening Program                  8
Government Statistical Services                                 9
Bank Country Strategy and Support for Public Sector
Management                                                    9
III.   THE PROJECT                                                    10
Project Objectives                                             11
Project Description                                            11
A.  Economic Management                                        11
1. Public Investment Programming and Implementation        11
2. Training                                                13
3. Tax Administration                                      13
B.  Regional Planning and Management                           14
C.  Public Sector Management Strengthening Program             15
1. Program Secretariat                                     16
2. Civil Service Studies                                   16
- Staffing and Functional Review                        16
- Personnel Policies and Career Development             16
- Administration and Personnel Management               17
D.  Strengthening of Statistical Services                      17
IV.    PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND PROCUREMENT                       18
Project Costs                                                  18
Financing Plan                                                 19
Procurement                                                    20
Disbursements                                                  21
Accounts and Audit                                             21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offAcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
V.     PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                         22
Project Management                                             22
Annual Work Programs and Reporting                             23
VI.    BENEFITS AND RISKS                                             23
VII.   AGREEMENTS                                                     24
Agreements Reached                                             24
Recommenda:ion                                                 25
ANNEXES
A.     Implementation Schedule
B.     Project Cost Tables
Bl:  Project Cost Summary
B2t Project Components by Year
B3:  Summary Accounts Cost Summary
C.     Summary Disbursement Schedule
D.     Consultant Services Requirements
E.     Organization Charts
F.     Terms of Reference for Decentralization Studies
G.     Government Employment
H.     Selected Documents Available in Project File
MaP: IBRD No. 16591



REPUBlIC OP BOLIVIA
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT STRENGTHENING OPERATION
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borr,wer:          Republic of Bolivia
lmlnlmentini
Agencvt          Ministry of Planning and Cooi&ination
Credit Amount:    SDR 7.14 million (US$9.7 million)
Terms.             Standard, with 40 years maturity
Cofinancing:       IDB, US$0.8 million equivalent
Government of Switzerland, SWF 4 million (US$2.5 million
equivalent)
Government of Italy, US$2.4 million
Proiect
Description:    The central project objective is to support institutional
development and specific analytical work that will
facilitate the sustained implementation and consolidation
of the medium term macro-economic policy introduced in
August 1985. This operation focuses on strengthening
public investment management, statistical information,
and public sector management more broadly. Specific
project components are designed to: (i.) strengthen
economic policy making and management in the areas of
public investment programming, sectoral analysis, links
between investment and budgeting, implementation of the
investment program, and project monitoring and
evaluation; (ii) increase tax revenues through the
expansion of the on-going work in tax administration
financed under a complementary IDA credit; (iii) assist
Government in designing a coherent and well-phased
strategy for regional planning and management through
studies on the financial, fiscal, and institutional
implications of decentralization and resources to
implement the strategy; (iv) raise public sector
productivity by supporting the Government's Public Sector
Management (PSM) Strengthening Program in its efforts to
rationalize salaries and attract and retain skilled
manpower; (v) implement a living standards measurement
survey and support the expanded responsibilities of the
country's national statistics institute (INE). A Project
Coordinating Unit was established in May, 1988 to manage
the project and an acting director and technical
coordinator were appointed at that time. IDB will
cofinance the tax administration component. The Swiss
Government agreed to cofinance the public investment,
regional planning and public sector management
components. The Italian Government expects to finance
pre-investment studies.



^ ii. -
Estimated Costs
1 of
Foreign
Estimated Costs:                         Local      Foreign    Total  Exchange
-_____-- (US$ '000)-
A. Economic Management
PIP Formulation & Implementation       3,030      2,772     5,802      48
Tax Administration                       412        926     1,338      69
B. Regional Planning and Management         899        828     1,727      48
C. Public Sector Management
PSM Strengthening                        397        498       895      56
Civil Service Studies                    175        273       448      61
D. SurDort to Statistical Services        1,800        778     2,578      30
E. Project Management                       979        221     1,200      18
Total Base Costs                          7,692      6,296    13,988      45
Physical Contingencies                      327        127        454     28
Price Contingencies                       1,686        461     2,147      21
Total Project Costs                       9,705      6,884    16,589      41
Financing Sources:
Local      Forei2n   Total
------- (US$ million) -
IDB                                         .3           .5        .8
Government of Switzerland                  2.1           .4       2.5
Government of Italy                         .8          1.6       2.4
Government of Bolivia                      1.2'          -        1.2
IDA                                        5.3          4.4      9.7
Total                      9.7          6.9     16.6
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year
1988         1989          1990          1991
----------------11S$ Million----------------
Annual                             1.0           4.3          2.3           2.1
Cumulative                         1.0          5.3           7.6           9.7



- iii -
Proiect Benefits
and Risks:        The pro4ect benefits would come from better public
investmeent programming and implementation, especially
important given the magnitude of the undisbursed
pipeline, and from increased budgetary revenues due to
better tax administration. Overall efficiency of the
mnL.nistries and agencies dealing with economic and public
sector management would increase because of improved
working conditions, higher salaries and training
opportunities, permitting Government to attract and keep
qualified, motivated civil servants. There are two main
risks associated with the project: (a) the broad country
risk that the Government, during and following the 1989
presidential elections, cannot or will not sustain its
macro-economic program; and (b) the Government's limited
capability to manage complex projects proves inadequate.
The first risk is mitigated by the fact that project
activities address fundamental weaknesses in economic
management and entail such basic improvements that the
project already enjoys broad-based multi-partisan
support. Regarding (b), the Government's appointments to
the PCU are strong, experienced managers and the
management services contract will lessen the day-to-day
responsibilities of the PCU, thus allowing them to
concentrate on the substantive issues. In addition, the
project will be implemented by annual work programs which
permit flexibility and encourage discussion between
Government and IDA in order to reach a consensus on
priority needs for the coming year. A third risk, that
of Government resistance to depoliticizing the public
service, is being dealt with by covenants relating to the
PSM Strengthening Program. These include the
establishment of a Program Secretariat to manage the
Program and to ensure consistent application, oversight
and monitoring of the rationalized salary scheme,
employment conditions, and criteria for selection into
the civil service.
Economic Rate
of Return:        Not applicable
Staff ADPraisal
Report:           No. 7474-BO
Mans               IBRD No. 16591



ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT STRENGTHENING OPERATION
I. INTRODUCTION
Background
1.       The project originated from a Government request in 1985 for assistance
in implementing its Economic Reactivation Program. The first phase of IDA
assistance concentrated on resource mobilization and financial management,
financed under the Public Financial Management Operation (Cr. 1809-BO), but did
not touch on either investment planning or management of statistics. An
identification mission visited La Paz in late 1986 to discuss the main
components of the proposed project, the outline of which was further refined by
pre-appraisal missions in December 1987 and February 1988. The project was
appraised in May, 1988. A Project Preparation Advance (PPF 495 BO) was approved
in May, 1988 for US$0.75 million. PPF funding was designed to help prepare the
public investment programming component, define the regional management and
public sector management strengthening components, establish the
Financing/Disbursement Unit in the Ministry of Plan and Coordination (MPC),
develop a sector strategy in one sector ministry, initiate survey work on
poverty monitoring, and help prepare specific institutional development action
plans. A second PPP request for an additional US$0.25 million is under review.
In May, 1988 Government appointed an acting project director and a technical
coordinator to assume overall responsibility for project preparation.
Overview of the Economy
2.       Bolivia faces a particularly difficult set of development challenges.
Its 6.7 million inhabitants are among the poorest in Latin America, with social
indicators among the worst in the hemisphere. Bolivia's lari-locked position
and mountainous terrain make transport costs high and access difficult.
Subsistence 'arming in the inhospitable highlands of the altiplano employs
almost half of the labor force. Despite considerable mineral resources, lack of
exploration and investment have limited production, while the existing mining
industry has suffered from the severe decline in tin prices. All of these
problems have been compounded by political instability and economic
mismanagement, which culminated in economic crisis and hyperinflation in
1984-85.
3.       The Government of Paz Estenssoro, which took office in August of 1985,
undertook a far-reaching stabilization and adjustment policy. Inflation was
brought under control by drastically reducing the budget deficit. A new trade
regime was adopted, which aimed at maintaining a competitive exchange rate and
established a virtually uniform tariff. The Government eliminated restrictions
on financial transactions, eased labor-market regulations, lifted price
controls, and raised public sector prices from unrealistically low levels.
This report was based on the findings of a World Bank mission consisting of
Messrs./Mmes. J. Albert (Mission Leader), E. Talero, S. Chaudhry, (Bank) and Ms.
K. Baer (consultant) which visited Bolivia during May/June 1988 to appraise the
Project. Ms. E. Rodriguez provided secretarial support.



-2-
Negotiations were begun with both official and private external creditors,
resulting in an IMF Stand-by approved in December 1986, a Paris Club agreement
and, in 1987, a program to repurchase the country's commercial bank debt thiough
repurchases and debt-equity swaps. These efforts have continued during the past
year, with the Government having obtained a loan under an IMF Enhanced
Structural Adjustment Facility, repurchased half of its commerical bank debt,
and concluded a second Paris Club agreement in November, 1988. At the same
time, longer-term measures were initiated to raise public revenues through
reforming the tax system, to reorganize the more inefficiently-run State
Enterprises and Government ministries, L.ad to overhaul the public sector
investment program by eliminating the larger and more risky proposals and
strengthening the review and control of investment projects.
4.       Despite the considerable improvements in policies under the present
Government, the economy continues to face serious difficulties. While GDP rose
in 1987, compared to six successive years of decline between 1981 and 1986, the
rate of growth of output remains below that of the population. Terms of trade
declines and delays in payments for Bolivian gas shipments have severely reduced
Government revenues and lowered international reserves. High real interest
rates have discouraged investment and threatened the solvency of many
businesses, with grave implications for banks' balance sheets. Over the longer
term, Bolivia must generate the savings (both external and internal, public and
private) necessary to reorient production to the new structure of relative
prices resulting from the radical changes in the econiomy discussed above.
Continued macroeconomic stability, commitment Lo a liberal economic policy
framework, greater efforts at resource mobilization, improved public sector
management and enhanced support from the international donor community are all
essential elements of Bolivia's development strategy.
-I. PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT - CONSTRAINTS AND REFORMS
5.       Fundamental reasons for the economic crisis were both the size of and
excessive interference by a large public sector, and total deterioration of the
institutions responsible for economic management. Because of the severity of
the years of economic crisis facing the country, virtually all Government
agencies have suffered major declines in productivity and effectiveness. Poor
organization and management, and complic&ted processes limit the Government's
administrative capacity, especially with regard to project implementation.
Deterioration of salaries for the civil service has severely eroded the human
resource base for proper functioning of Government. As a result, policies of
key economic agencies have been determined and executed by a very small group of
political and technocratic figures, who have orchestrated economic policy in an
atmosphere of continuous crisis management. The top level of administration has
received only limited assistance from career civil servants and from externally-
financed technical assistance.
6.       In response to this crisis, Government decided to address the severe
institutional constraints which threatened to undermine implementation of its
ambitious economic reform program. A central goal of Government is to reduce
considerably the size and costliness of the public sector while building up the
capacity to manage more efficiently a smaller public sector. Government chose
to concentrate first on improving the financial management of its economy.
Supported by the IDA-financed Public Financial Management Operation



-3-
(Cr. 1809-BO), Government initiated major changes in its fiscal and financial
systemss in early 1986, the Ministry of Tax Collection was created with a
mandate to broaden the tax base; a comprehensive programi was formulated to
improve basic financial management systems--accounting, cash management, budget
programming--in key ministries and public entities; the Central Bank of Bolivia
was fundamentally restructured with the goal of strengthening the Bank's
management of the monetary system, eliminating from its portfolio commercial and
development banking activities, establishing accounting systems and
strengthening economic research. With major reform of the financ.al system well
under way, Government has turned to other pressing problems facing economic
management.
Public Investment Programming and Implementation
7.       Formulation of the public investment program (PIP) is the
responsibility of the Ministry of Planning and Coordination (MPC). MPC is also
in charge of coordination of national and regional development planning; project
monitoring and evaluation; coordination and monitoring of international
cooperation agreements; establishment of the basic organizational structure for
the public sector; and application of rules governing salaries and employment
conditions.
8.       In theory, MPC, and specifically the Public Investments Division (DIP)
evaluates each proposed investment submitted to it by the sect'r ministries in
terms of its economic viability, social effects, and its impo;.tance to the
overall country development strategy and objectives. The projects wb4ch meet
HPC's criteria then move to the Council for Economic Affairs and Pla,ning
(CONEPLAN), an interministerial group which gives the project its final
approval. In reality,the sector ministries as well as MPC lack the technical
capability to identify, prepare, appraise and select investment projects.
Hence, most externally funded investment projects are largely prepared by
donors. As well, MPC's links with the Ministry of Finance in managing the
public investment program are weak. Recurrent and capital expenditures are not
well calculated and investment planning does not sufficiently take account of
the implications for external debt management and macroeconomic policy. Links
with the strategy and development planning divisions of MPC are also weak. When
added to the problem of incomplete data on investment plans from both the sector
ministries as well as the Regional Development Corporations (RDC), the
usefulness of the PIP as a government-wide planning document is far from what it
should be.
9.       The Government has taken steps to try to strengthen the public
investment and planning system. During the 1974-78 period, the Government took
several actions in an effort to strengthen planning mechanisms an" establish a
medium-term development strategy. These actions included the creation of (a)
planning offices in all ministries and regional corporations to perform planning
and supervisory tasks at the sectoral and regional levels; (b) a specialized
pre-investment agency to identify, promote, finance, and follow-up the
preparation of adequate feasibility studies in priority sectors; and (c) a
follow-up system of plans, programs and projects involving the entire public
sector. In addition, the Ministry of Planning and Coordination was accorded a
higher position within the Cabinet, and the Planning Minister designated head of



-4-
the economic team and chairman of CONEPLAN, tc.!. economic nlanning council. The
challenge now facing the Goverment, that the roles of the various entities
involved in the planning process are defined, is to make the system work.
10.      Implementation of the public investment program continues to be a major
problem facing Bolivia; its ability to contract additional assistance has been
somewhat hindered by the existence of up to US$1 billion in early 1988 in
undisbursed external commitments. Almost 50Z of this amount consists of loans
committed in the first half of the 1980s. During this period, political
instability, hyperinflation and exchange rate overvaluation resulted in
administrative disorganization, huge cost overruns and frequent renegotiations
of contracts. Lack of budgetary resources limited the availability of
counterpart funds, while Government's inability to service outstanding loans
resulted in suspensions of assistance from several donors. More recently,
delays in disbursements stem from institutional weaknesses: slowness in
obtaining the necessary Congressional approval for entering into foreign loans
(which can take up to two years); lack of provision of counterpart funds owing
to concern over violating overall credit limits; and lack of qualified staff,
resulting in overburdened seniior officials and slow decision making, along with
an extreme degree of disorganization in many sectoral ministries. However,
loans to Government increased sharply after 1986 (US$560 million of new
commitments were received by Government in 1986-87). The disbursement pace did
begin to pick up in 1987 so that nearly half of the total disbursements for the
1980-1987 period (approximately US$360 million) was disbursed during this year.
11.      Cognizant of the vital importance of the eff.i.ient use of scarce
resotrces, Government has taken a number of bold steps to address some of the
institutional weaknesses and constraints to program implementation. These
include: (a) overhaul of the Central Bank Department administering the private
credit lines and the simplification of the subloan processing procedures; (b)
hir'ng of procurement agents as an interim solution to the cumbersome
procurement procedures; (c) initiation of a more systematic programming of the
annual internal and external financing requirements of public investment
projects; and (d) establishment of an interministerial committee supported by a
Financing/Disbursement Unit within MPC to follow up disbursement progress and
help resolve bottlenecks. Although these measures bode well for the future,
they are in the early stages of implementation and have only slowly demonstrated
their impact on the improvement of disbursements.
12.      To improve the basic data needed by MPC to better formulate &nd
implement the investment program, Government has installed a financial
information and monitoring system in MPC, called SISIN. The SISIN is a full-
function registration and life cycle tracking tool for all public investment
projects in Bolivia. It has been developed during the past two years with
financial support and technical assistance from the Interamerican Development
Bank (IDB).  The purpose of the system is to organize information on investient
projects to facilitate dissemination and analysis according to sector,
geographical location and financing source. Under a second phase of the IDB-
financed Technical Cooperation Agreement, the scope of the SISIN is to be
expanded functionally and implemented in the sector ministries and the main
executing agencies within them. The Ministries of Transportation, Mining,
Health and Agriculture have already been integrated into the System. What
remains to be done is to expand the system to the RDCs and to consolidate the
operation of the System where it is installed.



Tax Administration
13.      In May 1986, Government passed a Tax Reform Law which aimed at
broadening the country's fiscal revenue base, reducing the incidence of deficit
financing through monetary emission--a practice which had contributed to
hyperinriation in the previous years. The tax reform introduced a simpler tax
system based on value added and wealth taxes instead of income taxes. A newly
formed Ministry of Tax Collection became responsible for implementing the
legislation, with oversight responsibility over the t&x collection offices in
the Ministry of Finance, the Internal Revenue Service, and Customs
Administration.  The Ministry of Tax Collection was merged with the Ministry of
Finance ii September, 1988. With financial assistance provided by IDB, UNDP and
the World Bank (PFMO, para 6), Government has established systems for taxpayer
registration, collection, and compilation of computerized tax data through the
private banking system; work is also progressing well on restructuring of the
Internal Revenue Service and on the design of tax auditing procedures.
Considering its fairly recent establishment and the major innovations in tax
administration which have been implemented in a short period, the new tax
collection system has been successful in increasing tax revenues. Whereas tax
collections (through Internal Revenue) represented only 12 of GDP in 1984, they
rose to 42 of GDP in 1986, to 6.62 of GDP in 1987, and are expected to reach 92
of GDP for 1988.
14.      While in the first two years the tax reform program has achieved
impressive results, efforts need to be made to consolidate progress to date,
expand the tax administration system to Customs and to the regions, and to
institutionalize the system by training staff in the Ministry of Finance's Tax
Directorate. The expansion of the system to Customs could result in significant
revenue increases, considering that during 1987 alone, import tax evasion
resulted in an estimated Bs loo million in foregone revenue, about a fourth of
all taxes collected that year. In view of the Government's recent proposa'ls to
decentralize the provision of several basic services, assistance to the regions
in tax collection and administration will be a crucial determinant of their
ability to finance future expenditures from their own fiscal resources.
Decentralization of Public Services
15.      The Government has announced its intentions to further decentralize and
delegate many of the central administration's economic management responsibili-
ties to the RDCs, municipalities, and other local authorities. This decentrali-
zation is implicit in the 1986 tax reform which decentr3lized substantial
revenues; and given Bolivia's geography, it is seen as essential to effective
development of services. Far ranging decentralization legislation was proposed
to the Congress in 1988, but failed to pass. Government intends to present a
modified, more clearly analyzed and modest version in the 1989 session, and
decentralization is a central part of the platform of all three political
parties. In fact, there is a strong tradition of regional government in
Bolivia; the RDCs are successors to the Public Works Committees formed in the
1970's. The RDC's, which come under the aegis of the MPC, were established as
decentralized public entities with administrative, technical and financial
autonomy in 1972 by the Law for the Administrative Organization of the Executive
Sector. Bolivia's nine regions--La Paz, Chuquisaca, Cochabamba, Potosi, Oruro,
Santa Cruz, Tarija, Ben! and Pando--are administered by these RDCs; their
objectives are to promote the economic and social development of the regions



-6-
through planning, research, and the identification and implementation of
investment programs. In 1986, Government decided to decentralize some public
enterprise operations by first dismantling the Bolivian Development Corporation
and traneferring the enterprises under its jurisdiction to the RDCs. Thus, the
RDCs now provide public services and operate their own enterprises, including
agrobusinesse;, cement and textile plants. Some of the public enterprises have
operated with substantial losses, and constitute a major drain on the
Government's financial resources, leading Government to consider selling or
liquidating several of these enterprises.
16.      The municipalities (alcaldias) also provide public services, such as
road maintenance and water supply and sanitation. These are financed through
property and vehicle taxes, user fees, plus transfers from the central
Government. The division of responsibility for some services between the
municipalities and the RDCs varies according to the financial resources of each
entity. For example, the municipalities of La Paz and Cochabamba have
considerable resources and responsibilities and thus, the RDCs are relatively
weak. In the rural areas, the inverse is true. Santa Cruz is the exception
with both a strong municipality and RDC.
17.      By further decentralizing the provision of basic services--beginning in
1989 with the health and education sectors--to the RDCs and municipalities, the
Government expects to improve the delivery of services (or at least render the
regional and municipal governments more accountable for the quality of services
provided), increase local participation in regional development and alleviate
the budgetary and administrative burdens on central Government. However, there
are no legal or procedural norms established for the decentralization process in
which the respective powers, responsibilities and budgetary resources of central
and regional authorities are defined. Implications of decentralization in
taxation and revenue have proven to be especially difficult to assess and
require thorough analysis. For example, Government has proposed to establish a
National Fund for Regional Development (Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Regional,
FDR). The FDR is expected to provide financing for the small and medium sized
investors from municipalities, RDCs and other local entities which, because of
their size, are not currently included under the Government's public investment
program. The FDR is seen as a mechanism to distribute financial resources to
some of the departments which lack their own resources. Its role and functions
within the public investment system require further definition, especially its
relationships with the RDCs.
18.      Other problem areas which require further analysis include the need for
clear delineation of responsibilities between local authorities and the regions.
Also, the technical capacity of the RDC's--with the partial exception of Santa
Cruz and the municipalities--to formulate regional development strategies, to
identify, appraise, and execute investment projects, and to interact with the
private sector is severely limited by lack of an adequate data base, trained
personnel, and in some cases, of financial resources.   The weak capacity of the
RDCs and municipalities to manage basic services to ensure adequate service
provisions for local populations including managing a large technical staff,
counterpart staff needed for logistical support, and a complex aupply system
must be strengthened. The complexity of managing a decentralization process as
envisioned now by Government will require the strong leadership of the MPC,



-7-
given its responsibility for designing and overseeing the decentralization
process. Considerable resources will be needed to strengthen the regional and
local governeents' capacity to successfully fulfill their new roles.
Public Sector Employment
19.      Public service employment in Bolivia has traditionally been highly
politicized, accounting in part for the frequent turnover in personnel and for
the rapid increase in the size of public sector employment. From 1971 to 1985,
the total Government workforce more than doubled, from 115,000 employees to over
245,000.  Growth was most rapid in the Central Government.   However, during the
1970's, public sector employment was accompanied by general economic growth.
From 1980 to 1985, employment continued growing at its previous pace while the
economy declined. The swelling Government wage bill, accounting for
approximately 80Z of total public expenditure in 1986, and high inflation rates
led to a real decrease in public sector wages. This, in turn, has caused many
of the most qualified civil servants to leave public service in search of higher
paying jobs in the private sector.
20.      In an effort to deal with the high wage bill and the poor performance
of many of the Government entities, Government introduced a series of measures
in 1985 to redress the situation. In addition to introducing voluntary
incentives for retirement, agencies were asked to prepare and implement programs
for staff reductions. As a result, the central government reduced its labor
force by 33,000 persons between 1985 and 1987, with the bulk of these reductions
(about 18,000) taking place in the public corporations (from 58,000 to 39,000).
The State Mining Company, COMIBOL, had its employment pared down from 20,000 to
about 7,000 employees. The overall effect of these reductions is that the
p-lic corporations have leaner work forces but pay their employees relatively
well. Total public sector employment now numbers about 212,000. About 129,000
employees work for the central government administration, 66,000 for public
enterprises, development corporations and other public institutions, and the
remainder for local government and the universities. Government has avoided
awarding a sizeable wage increase because of its acute financial situation (the
last general wage increase was about 15Z--two to three percent in real terms--in
May 1988, roughly the same percentage as in the previous year).
Civil Service Policies
21.      Personnel administration, management and salary policy are the
responsibility of the individual ministries so that no two agencies have
identical policies or salary scales. Staff are recruited by a particular
agency or ministry and must resign from one agency to be recruited by another.
Personnel administrative policy is encoded in a law (Ley de Carrera
Administrativa) which sets out in considerable detail the rules governing
recruitment, promotion, performance evaluation, sanctions and compensation in
the public service. This law is rarely applied, however, and its provisions are
frequently ignored since the government office responsible for its application
(located within the MPC) lacks staff and other resources required to fulfill
these responsibilities. This has resulted in a further politicization of the
civil service.



-8-
22.      There is no central government office which has current information on
numbers and deployment of civil servants; this means that there is no central
agency capable of redeploying skilled personnel as required. In addition, there
are no programs aimed at developing professional skills within the ministries
through in-service training and little emphasis is placed on performance
evaluation and career advancement.
Salary Policy
23.      Salary policy is by far the most contentious issue facing public sector
management today. Real wages in the public sector plummeted during the 1980s
and have fallen to well below wages received for comparable, competing jobs in
the private sector. Central government salaries range between US$31/month for a
messenger to US$210/month for a director-general position, US$480 for a Sub-
Secretary and US$960 for a Minister. These salaries are roughly half that paid
by the state enterprises (which also add on other benefits) and the private
sector. In order to attract competent people, government paid salary
supplements to roughly 500 people (about 110 in the economic ministries) through
a special arrangement with UNDP. However, the scheme has become the subject of
much controversy lately, and as a result the Government is looking for
alternative ways to address the salary issue. Salary supplements are also paid
by aid agencies to personnel in their projects who occupy critical positions and
who receive inadequate remuneration under the government's pay policies (see
civil service working paper in project file for more detailed information on
salary supplements). Because there is currently no rational, equitable system
for awarding bonuses, in.ernational donors Eind themselves competing for the
scarce human resources available _n Bolivia, while the local consultancy market
flourishes with consultants frequently jumping from assignment to assignment,
depending on the salaries donors are willing to pay.
24.      Analytical studies relating to salary levels and salary supplements,
especially with regard to the 1989 budget, will be undertaken as part of the
program to improve Government-wide financial administration (Sistema de
Administracion Financiera y Control, SAFCO) financed under PFMO. The first
study will survey actual salaries, including benefits received by Government
officials and a sample of comparators from the private and parastatal sectors
and propose a salary rationalization policy in time for inclusion in the 1989
budget. The second study will examine the budgetary implications of the salary
rationalization scheme.
Public Sector Management Strengthening Program
25.      In response to the public sector management (PSM) crisis described
above, Government, with the assistance of a team of consultants fielded by the
UNDP and the World Bank, prepared the broad outline and structure of a PSM
Strengthening Program in June, 1988. The Program was discussed at the
Consultative Group meeting in July; details are to be worked out by December 30,
1988. The Program's main objectives are (a) to rationalize the existing uneven
wage structure; and (b) to create conditions of stability in the public sector
which would attract qualified personnel to the public sector, eventually leading
to the establishment of a stable technical and professional cadre of public
servants. Government recognizes that it will take at least ten to fifteen years
to reach these objectives for the central Government, the decentralized
agencies, the RDCs, the major public and mixed enterprises, and the large and



-9-
medium-sized municipalities. In the first three to five years, the Program
would focus on the core central Government agencies, initially encompassing
roughly 500 core staff positions at the level of directors to mid-level managers
(chiefs, advisors, economists). UNDP and the international donor community have
expressed an interest in providing non-project assistance to the Program under
certain conditions. Although an advisory board composed of Government and donor
representatives would set an overall policy governing the use of the pool,
specific staffing decisions would be the sole prerogative of Government.
Government Statistical Services
26.      The lack of adequate statistics makes it difficult to assess the
performance of various sectors and the economy as a whole, and represents a
major impediment to effective economic management. Data collection and analysis
is the responsibility of the National Institute of Statistics (INE), a
decentralized institution which falls under the tutelage of MPC. Its main
function is to generate economic and social statistics ani then present these
statistics in a standard and consistent format for the entire public sector.
INE has two main departments: the Department of Social Statistics, which
collects data on demography, housing, health, education, employment, and other
social indicators; and the Department of Economic Statistics, which gathers
basic economic information to be used in formulating the national income
accounts. TLis latter responsibility originally belonged to the Central Bank
but was transferred to INE in January, 1987 during the major restructuring of
the Bank. In addition, INE has five support departments concerned with data
processing, analysis, public information, administration and cartography.
27.      INE is a relatively young and seriously underfunded agency.  Much of
the present data collection efforts are limited to the major cities which
represents only 35 percent of the country's population. Surveys on health,
nutrition, literacy, education, and fertility are either non-existent or
collected so that information is not easily analyzed. With regard to national
income accounts, prices and output data are available, but have not been updated
for years (the current consumer price index is based on a 1967 consumer survey).
Data collection is limited by the lack of data processing equipment, inadequate
office facilities, lack of vehicles and operating furnds to reach rural areas,
difficulties in attracting and keeping qualified personnel because of the low
salary levels, and insufficient resources to process the data collected.
Bank C.untry Strategy and Support for Public Sector Management
28.      IDA's broad country program objectives represent an intensive effort to
continue supporting Bolivia's economic program, and could be su,marized as
follows:
(a)    to assist Government to implement its medium term economic program for
achieving increases in productivity and employment;
(b)    to continue to provide strong analytical support and maintain an
effective policy dialogue on the macro-economic framework;
(c)    to provide further assistance to Government to develop social policies
and programs, building upon the successful experience with the
Emergency Social Fund. This will focus on developing a strategy for



-10-
dealing with poverty, measures to improve the management and quality of
health services and education, and defining the appropriate fiture
institutional arrangements to continue the activities of the ESF;
(d)    to assist Bolivia in resolving its debt problems; and
(e)    to strengthen aid coordination for Bolivia, through the Consultative
Group and other vehicles, including mobilizing increased cofinancing to
supplement the limited IDA resources available to Bolivia (i.e.,
through the Public Sector Management Strengthening Program).
29.      The major focus of the Bank program for PY89 will be on deepening
understanding of the medium term economic perspectives through analysis
focussed on resource mobilization and management issues, policy reform and
investment in the major productive sectors, and launching sustainable
programs for social sector development. Implementation will remain the
watchword at all levels from macroeconomic policy to individual project
operations. A key factor affecting the Bank's work throughout this period
will be the elections which take place in May 1989.
30.      The status of Bank operations in Bolivia is summarized as follows:
total lending to date stands at US$645.9 million, consisting of 14 loans
for US$275 million and 24 credits totalling US$371 million. The Financial
Sector Adjustment Credit, equivalent to US$70 million, has been approved by
the Executive Board and became effective on September 30, 1988. As of June
30, 1988, thirteen of the 14 loans and 14 of the 24 credits have been fully
disbursed for a total of US$442.5 million. The remaining ten credits
consisting primarily of new operations essentially make up the current
portfolio, and have US$203 million undisbursed. Bolivia has repaid the
Bank US$102.8 million, and thus has a total estimated outstanding of
US$543.1 million.
31.      In addition to the broad objectives described above, the Bank's
country program in Bolivia has also focussed on supporting improvements in
public sector management through rebuilding the institutions and tra!.ning
of managers and staff in the public sector. While other donors, especially
UNDP with its salary support program, have also been involved in limited
aspects of public sector management reform, the Bank has taken the lead
role in this area, through the ongoing Public Financial Management
Operation (Cr. 1809-BO), which seeks to improve basic financial management
systems--accounting, cash management, budget programming--and broaden the
tax base (see also paras. 6, 14, 24). The proposed Economic Management
Strengthening Operation focuses on complementary economic management and
public service reform issues. Both Government and the donor community are
looking to the Bank to continue coordination of reforms in these areas.
III. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives
32.      Economic management requires skilled individuals and strong
institutions capable of formulating and implementing the far-reaching
policy changes proposed in the Government's program. The project would



-11-
support the Government's commitment and on-going efforts to improve
economic and public sector management and would help lay the foundation for
longer-term, sustainable administrative reform.
33.      Specifically, the project would be directed to:
(a) strengthening core economic policy making and management processes,
especially the formulation and implementation of the public investment
program, and revenue mobilization;
(b)  assisting Government to design its program of decentralization and
regional economic management, to establish its Regional Development
Fund, and to train regional and local government staff to implement
these programs;
(c) increasing civil service productivity through the immediate
rationalization of the salary structure, and in the medium term,
through the establishment of a sound management and personnel system in
tht public sector, in order to attract and keep motivated civil
servants; and
(d) monitoring the impact of economic policies on vulnerable population
groups through a living standards measurement survey and generally
improving the quality and coverage of national statistics.
Project Description
A. Economic Management
(1) Public Investment Programming and Implementation (USS6.9m)
34.      The project would address the major weaknesses of the public investment
programming system. It would support on-going efforts within the MPC's Public
Investment Division (DIP) to improve its sector strategy formulation, investment
analysis, links to the budget, project implementation, project monitoring and
evaluation, and overall information management. First, DIP would expand its
project analysis unit in order to better evaluate project and sector investment
plans prepared by the responsible sector ministries, notably through employment
of sector specialists. Terms of reference for the four sector analysts have
been agreed to by IDA. Second, DIP would develop systematic and transparent
procedures to guide the annual preparation of the rolling PIP, and would be
responsible for assuring consistency with overall resource availability,
macroeconomic objectives and Government intersectoral investment priorities.
Third, DIP would establish clear links with the Ministry of Finance budget
divisions to ensure that recurrent expenditures have been accurately estimated
and are reflected in the operating budget calculations of the PIP.
35.      Improving the sector ministries' capacity to formulate sector
strategies, develop an investment program, implement and monitor projects is
considered crucial to the success of the Government's PIP. In the first year of
the project, Swiss Government financing would be targeted towards improving the
capacity of the Ministry of Agriculture to formulate an overall agricultural
development strategy and to implement its reorganization plan. Terms of
reference for sector analysts and sector economists to begin drafting the



-12-
strategy have been approved by IDA. Continued implementation of the Ministry's
reorganization plan and an intensive training program in project analysis and
evaluation would be supported by the project.
36.      In order to remedy the serious bottlenecks which currently impede the
implementation of the Goverr,ment's public investment program, the project would
support a range of measures, including strengthening of the MPC's Financing and
Disbursement Unit through the addition of consultants, including co-financing
specialists and support staff. They would be responsible for monitoring the
progress of planned investments, especially of those investments receiving donor
financing, and for trouble-shooting in case of delays in processing. Terms of
reference for the Unit have been agreed to by IDA and the first three
consultants are being financed with PPF funds. It was agreed during
negotiations that the project director would coordinate the Unit's work program,
including that of consultants funded by the U.S. Agency for International
Development. In addition, funds have been included in the project to conduct
mid-term and final evaluations of the Government's new procurement system (para
11) and to provide support for the management of the procurement system once the
current funding is terminated (1990).
37.      To improve the management of the Ministry's information system--and
especially of its usefulness in the formulation of the public investment
program--the project would support the expansion of the recently installed
information technology system (SISIN). First, in a joint effort with IDB, the
System would be extended to the RDCs and the additional resources necessary to
consolidate and fully integrate the system in the sector ministries and RDCs
would be provided. During negotiations, arrangements were worked out clearly
delineating the respective roles of IDB and the IDA in financing and
implementing the SISIN system in the RDCs and sector ministries (para 70).
Second, to help alleviate the bottlenecks in the disbursement pipeline, the
existing System would be expanded to monitor project financing and disbursement
(SISFIN). The SISFIN would be the main working tool to evaluate and monitor the
internal and external financing of the investment program, and would help
expedite the disbursements on approved loans or lines of credit by providing
information on progress of disbursements on a timely basis. Third, to help
locate and manage the large numbers of both local and international technical
assistance, the project would finance the creation of a new computerized
Technical Assistance Monitoring system.
38.      Finally, the project would support the undertaking of pre-investment
studies (including agriculture and energy sector pre-feasibility studies) in
sector ministries and in the RDCs. Studies would be selected in accordance with
criteria and procedures defined by the PIP and approved by IDA. Development of
guidelines for investments has been funded with PPF financing. These criteria
which were reviewed and approved in draft form by IDA during negotiations
(para 70) would be applied to funds from other donors as well as to the IDA
credit. The Italian Government expects to contribute US$2.4 million for pre-
investment activities and IDB is assessing proposals to add US$7 million to
their pre-investment fund in 1989.
39.      The project would support the Public Investments Division of the MPC by
financing long-term consultants including disbursement officers and procurement
specialists in the Financing and Disbursement Unit, sectoral analysts in the DIP
and in the Ministry of Agriculture, an advisor for pre-investment activities,



-13-
information technology specialists to design and operate the expansion of the
SISIN, in-country and limited overseas training, office and computer equipment,
and special studies monies for DIP to undertake specific studies relating to the
public investment program (which would not be appropriate for pre-investment
funds) under terms of reference approved by IDA.
(2) Training
40.      The project would include an exte  Lve training program for MPC, sector
ministries and regional development corporation staff in economic analysis and
planning, national accounts and statistics, regional planning, and tax
administration. Government agreed to appoint a training coordinator no later
than March 15, 1989 (para 70). The training coordinator, with consultant
support, would immediately begin to develop a training plan for the project,
including courses which have already been identified and tested in national
accounts and statistics, and tax administration, as well as further specific
courses in economic analysis, project evaluation and information systems
technology. Government would present a detailed project training plan to IDA
for review by June 15, 1989 (para 70). MPC would adopt existing methodologies
for project economic analysis and evaluation and would hold training courses for
personnel in line and sector ministries and RDCs responsible for investment
analysis and project evaluation. Training is already underway in preparation
for conducting national surveys and calculating the national accounts, and a
detailed training plan has been drawn up for tax administration, an area where
training has already been conducted under the PFMO. Regional planning will be
an area requiring substantial training for personnel from all three levels of
government in project and program formulation, analysis and management. The
precise courses and timing of training for RDCs are being identified as part of
the preparatory work for the regional planning component (training needs
assessment), and will be implemented beginning in June, 1989.
(3) Tax Administration (US$l.5m)
41.      This component would assist the Government to consolidate the critical
work in implementing tax reform and increasing tax revenues which is now the
responsibility of the Tax Directorate of the Ministry of Finance (paras. 13-14).
The component has four main activities: (i) continued development of the
existing tax collection systems and improving the organizational structure of
the Internal Revenue Service; this would be undertaken with IDB financing;
(ii) development and establishment of a new tax collection system for the
consolidated collection and control of all import taxes and tariffs. By
establishing this system through the General Customs Directorate, the objective
is to improve the system for controlling the payment of import taxes (Value
Added and Specific Consumption taxes) at the moment the goods enter the country;
(iii) implementation of the new tax collection system in the regions by regional
tax administration officials; and (iv) development and implementation of the
current account fojr taxpayers, a computerized system used for registering and
controlling tax payments and credits. (A complete description of the activities
to be financed by IDA and IDB can be found in the tax administration working
paper in the project file.) IDA financed inputs include 74 person-months of
international technical assistance, the equivalent of 280 person months of
incremental local salaries to be financed on a decreasing scale and terminated



-14-
by 1989, office equipment and computers, field visits and training. Since this
component is a follow-up to work begun under PFMO activities are expected to be
completed by end-1989.
B. Regional Planning and Management (US$2m)
42.      The objective of this component would be to help Government to
formulate a coherent regional planning and decentralization strategy and to
assist in implementing this strategy according to a politically and financially
feasible time horizon. With proposed legislative debate delayed to late 1989,
Government proposes to design a decentralization plan which would encompass a
broad perspective, taking into a-count not only sectoral concerns but also the
institutional and financial limitations that exist at the central, regional and
local levels. Work on decentralization will be clearly divided into two stages.
In the first phase, the Regional Corporations Unit of MPC would carry out
studies which would provide the Government with the basic information and
analysis necessary to formulate an overall decentralization strategy. The
strategy would address issues of the division of responsibilities between the
central, regional and municipal governments, identification of central
government functions which can be transferred and the phasing of the devolution
of responsibility to the regions and municipalities. The three main studies
would focus on (i) an assessment of regional entities' institutional capacity,
including a training needs assessment, and resulting ability to formulate and
execute regional development plans in the national context; (ii) an assessment
of regional entities' fiscal and financial capacity. Special emphasis would be
given to the structure and operations of the Regional Development Fund (FDR),
which was created as a mechanism for providing additional resources to the
regions (para 17); and (iii) an evaluation of the impact of budgetary
decentralization on the health, education and transport sectors.    These sector
studies would be conducted ,ointly by the MPC, the Health and Education
Ministries, and the National Roads Service, the national agency responsible for
road maintenance. Terms of reference for each study (attached as Annex F) have
been agreed to with IDA. During negotiations, IDA and Government agreed to the
formal establishment of a working group consisting of representatives from
sector ministries, RDCs and local Government, and chaired by MPC to ensure
coordination on the sector studies, would be formed by January 15, 1989 (para
70). Project-financed inputs include all foreign and local costs associated
with the studies, and word processing equipment.
43.      Second phase activities, whose cost is estimated at about US$1.3
million, would be designed based on recommendations contained in the studies.
Project activities would likely focus on establJshing systems and procedures for
the gradual transfer of responsibility to the regions, and on general
strengthening of central, regional and local institutions to enable them to take
on the additional technical, financial and managerial tasks associated with
decentralization. Training would be provided for personnel from all three
levels of government in project and program formulation, analysis, management
and evaluation (para 40). Improved systems of financial management in the
regions, including the capacity for saving, application of user fees, tax
collection, and use of credit to finance development projects would be designed
and staff trained to manage the new systems. The credit would finance training,
technical assistance, and equipment for the implementation of decentralization
activities. As a condition of disbursement against credit funds for
implementation of regional decentralization activities, Government would have



-15-
issued a Supreme Decree describing its decentralization policy and strategy for
implementation (para 72). A working group composed of the ministries and RDCs
described above, but also including the Ministry of Finance would be responsible
for formulating and reviewing proposals for activities to be funded under the
Credit. The Project Coordinating Unit would present these proposals to IDA for
its review and approval as part of the annual work program (para 66).
C.  Public Sector Management Strengthening Program
44.      In response to the crisis in public sector management, Government
proposed at the July 1988 Consultative Group meetings to begin rationalizing the
existing public service system by launching a long-term (10-15 year) Public
Sector Management (PSM) Strengthening Program (for more details on the PSM
program, see para 25 and aide-memoire dated June 10, 1988 in the project file).
The Program does not aim to reform the entire public service, but rather to
begin rationalizing the existing structure which is characterized by an uneven
and inequitable salary scale, poor or unarticulated employment conditions, and
unclear advancement and promotion policies. In the first three to five years,
the Program would focus on the core central Government agencies, initially
encompassing roughly 500 core staff positions at the level of directors to
mid-level managers (chiefs, advisors, economists). Currently, at least 400
senior civil positions receive salary supplements, so that the proposed
rationalization scheme would entail a limited number of additional positions to
be included in the program, at least in the first year. Depending on the
results of the early years of the Program's operation, the number of positions
financed might expand to 2000. Consistent salary levels would be proposed for
these positions, based on recommendations of the salary policy study to be
completed by the SAFCO administrative board by December 1988 (para 24). The
SAFCO administrative board would also be responsible for identifying with the
sector ministries the key posts to be included in the scheme.
45.      The PSM Program would be established and financed with resources from
two sources: Government budgetary resources and local currency funds generated
by the international donor community. Funding from other donors, which
currently supports salaries for many specific civil service positions, would be
put into a Government/donor pool. Government's financial contribution to the
ponl would increase from its current level of financing of salaries to absorb a
larger percentage of the cost of the program as its budgetary resources and the
Program's scope expand. The estimated costs for the first year of the program's
operation in U.S. dollars would be US$6 million (2.5? of the estimated US$236
million wage bill in 1987).
46.      The two main types of activities to be financed under this component
are (i) the creation of the PSM Strengthening Program Secretariat; and (ii)
studies to provide Government with the data, analysis and recommendations
necessary for it to make informed policy decisions on both the PSM Strengthening
Program, and, more generally, on the future reform of the public service. The
results of the studies would provide crucial information fir the reformulation
of a salary rationalization policy and other policies relating to personnel
management and administration, career advancement, and staffing levels. The
work undertaken here would expand and complement the analytical work on public
sector management reform currently being undertaken by the SAFCO administrative



-16-
board with PFMO financing (para 44), which includes a comprehensive survey of
salary and employment conditions for the central public sector and a number of
decentralized public entities.
47.      The project costs and proposed activities involve technical support in
the final design and preliminary implementation of the PSM Program. Project
costs include no salary costs except the incremental costs of staff directly
involved in the project. They specifically do not include the financing of
incremental salaries for the broader program for which alternative financing
from the donor community will be arranged. Considerable interest in program
assistance has been expressed by the Swiss, Italian, United States and French
Governments. During negotiations, Government agreed to appoint a Director for
the Program by March 15, 1989 (para 70). As a condition of disbursement against
the PSM Program's implementation activities, the Program's detailed structure
and operations would have been established, and Government would have issued an
Executive Decree formally establishing the Program (para 72).
(1) Program Secretariat (USSlm)
48.      The Program Secretariat would be the formal body respons'ble not Dnly
for administering the Program, but for also supervising all work on salary
policy implementation setting, employment conditions, and other studies
discussed below. The Secretariat would work closely with the central ministries
participating in the scheme and with the SAFCO administrative board to help
identify the key positions and would set up the arrangements to administer
payments to the individuals holding these posts. In addition, it would
collaborate closely with SAFCO on the salary policy review currently underway.
49.      If the recommendations of the personnel administration study (para 52)
strongly endorse that the Secretariat become a permanent structure responsible
for civil service matters, the Government has indicated that it would seek IDA
support in designing a financing plan and in mobilizing additional resources
required to sustain the program over the medium-term implementation period.
Project costs include financing requirements for establishing and administering
the Program for its first three years. This would include the salaries of local
staff and of at least one internationally-recruited advisor, as well as
operating costs, office furniture, computers, and staff training.
(2) Civil Service Studies (US$0.5m)
50.      Staffing and Functional Review.  Given the lack of reliable data
regarding public sector employment, an accurate baseline estimate of the numbers
and deployment of civil servants, and an indication of under or overstaffing by
ministry and skill category are needed. Using generally accepted norms for
staffing coefficients, the staffing and functional review would identify gaps
and surpluses in the existing staffing structure and would recommend actions
Government might take to modify the situation. The study would limit itself to
ten central Government ministries and agencies and three regional development
corporations.
51.      Personnel Policies and Career Development.  This study would examine
recruitment and staffing policies, benefit packages and pension policies, in-
service training opportunities and their links with pay and promotion. Thle
objective is to assess the existing situation and to recommend policy changes in



-17-
order to attract and keep well-qualified, motivated career staff. Especially
important would be the design of a transparent and fair personnel performance
evaluation system which would provide added incentives to career civil servants.
The study would focus initially on establishing the necessary conditions for the
creation of a senior executive service composed of staff occupying key positions
in each central ministry.
52.      Administration end Personnel Management.  A sound, professional civil
service management system must be able to monitor public service manpower
levels, salary levels, and deployment. The study would explore the possibility
of consolidating the currently fragmented and ministry-based personnel
administration system into a central Office of Personnel Management or Civil
Service Administration. This office would be responsible for relating the
staffing levels of ministries to functions on an on-going basis, and would also
be responsible for job grading, staffing policies, and manpower development.
Any personnel system should also be closely dovetailed with the payroll so as to
reinforce the internal checks of the payroll. The study would propose an
organizational structure, staffing plan, and terms of reference for this office,
and would identify the investment and recurrent expenditures necessary to
operate the office. Specifically, the study would investigate the possibility
of expanding the PSM Program Secretariat to become a permanent structure
responsible for civil service matters.
53.      Project costs include both local (78 person months) and international
consultants (24 person months) to refine draft terms of reference, undertake the
studies, field visits, equipment, and vehicles.
D. Strengthening of Statistical Services (US$3.lm)
54.      In order to improve the economic and social data the Government needs
to formulate and monitor the effects of policy changes, the project would help
expand the scope and geographical cove:age of existing socio-economic survey
work. Secondly, the project would assist INE in its efforts to regionalize the
national income accounts, a responsibility shifted tu INE from the Central Bank
in early 1987. The first phase of the socio-economic survey work includes a
household income and expenditure survey to analyze the impact of the Emergency
Social Fund. The survey designs are based on a household survey developed by
the World Bank's Living Standard Measurement Study (LSMS). Information from the
surveys will include data on employment, education and job training, use of
health facilities, housing conditions, net and gross household income, food and
non-food consumption, agricultural production at both the household and
commercial level, migration, fertility, anthropomorphic measurement, and lending
and savings. In addition, INE would conduct a year-long income and expenditure
survey during 1989 in La Paz, Santa Cruz, and Cochabamba with the results being
used to calculate new weights for the consumer price index. This work would be
supported by the World Bank LSMS staff and consultants.
55.      Project supported work on national accounts includes:  (i)
disaggregating the accounts to the department and regional levels; (ii)
changing the base year for national account calculations from 1980 to a more
recent year made necessary by the serious structural changes in the economy
since 1980; (iii) calculating the non-factor service account of the balance of



-18-
payments statistics; (iv) broadening the accounts to include the fiscal
accounts; (v) issuing the national accounts on a quarterly basis in nominal
terms; and (vi) improving the quality of the fiscal accounts.
56.      Project costs include foreign and local technical assistance,
equipment, and costs of survey work, including data processing and analysis.
IV. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING AND PROCUREMENT
Project Costs
57.      Total project tosts are estimated at US$16.59 million (Sb 53.9
million), including taxes and duties of US$0.8 million (Sb 2.6 milliol). The
estimated foreign exchange component is US$6.88 million, or 41Z of total costs.
Details by project component are provided below:
ESTIMATED COSTS
3 of
Foreign
Estimated Costs                          Local      Foreign    Total  Exchange
-_______ (US$ '000)----
A. Economic Management
PIP Formulation & Implementation    3,030       2,772      5,802       48
Tax Administration                      412        926     1,338       69
B. Regional Planning and Management        899        828     1,727       48
C. Public Sector Management
PSM Strengthening                       397        498       895       56
Civil Service Studies                   175        273       448       61
D. Support to Statistical Services       1,800        778     2,578       30
E. Proiect Management                      979        221     1,200       18
Total Base Costs                         7,692      6,296    13,988       45
Physical Contingencies                     327        127       454       28
Price Contingencies                      1,686        461     2,147       21
Total Project Costs                      9.705      6.884    16,589       41
58.      Base cost estimates are in mid-1988 prices.  Physical contingen-
cies amounting to 31 of base costs are included. Price contingencies have
been estimated at 151 of base costs. Annual rates of inflation used are
those projected in the June 1988 Bolivia Updating Economic Memorandum.



-19-
Assumed Inflation Rates (percent per annum):
1988     1989      1990      1991
Local                    17        10        10       10
Foreign                 8.3       3.7      3.7       3.7
Financing Plan
59.      The proposed IDA credit of US$9.7 million equivalent would finance
approximately 61Z of total project costs net of duties and taxes; this
would cover approximately US$4.4 million of foreign costs and US$5.3 mil-
lion of local costs. A PPF in the amount of US$0.75, approved in May 1988,
has supported (i) preparation of the public investment program comsonent;
(ii) expansion of the SISIN; (iii) expanding the Financing/Disbursement
Unit in the DIP; (iv) initial studies on decentralization and the Public
Sector Management Strengthening Program; (v) prtliminary survey work for
INE's household surveys; and (vi) consultant services to help prepare
detailed project action plans. A second PPF request for an additional
US$0.25 million to complete preparation work is currently being reviewed by
IDA and up to SDR .5 million of retroactive financing could be required and
is reflected in the legal documents. The Government's contribution of
US$1.2 million would finance all duties and taxes, a small number of
incremental salaries and some survey costs for INE. Cofinancing estimated
at US$0.775 million by IDB would finance the extension of ongoing work in
the Tax Directorate. During negotiations, the Swiss Government committeC
SWF 4 million (US$2.5 million equivalent) to cofinance public investment
programming, regional planning and public sector management strengthening
activities. The Government of Italy expects to provide US$2.4 million in
parallel financing earmarked for pre-investment studies. The financing
plan is set out belowt
PROPOSED PROJECT FINANCING
Swiss    Italian  Govt. of          X IDA
IDA   IDB   Cooperation   Govt.   Bolivia    Total Contribution
 ---  - --- --------- (US1 millon) ---------_
Consultont Services      2.9   .8         .5        .4        -       4.6     64
Studies /I               1.2     -        .4       2.0        .4      4.0      so
Training                 1.9              . 6       -         -       1.5     60
EquIpment/VehIclIs       1.2     -        .4        -         .a      1.9     Go
Incr eme ntal Salaries   2.6     -                  -         .4      8.4     78
Operating Cost /k         .8     -                                             s1 o1  0
Project Administration    .7     -         -        -         -         7     led
Project Total            9.7     8        2.6      2.4       1.2    16.6    Ise
La Includes all costs of undertaking studios except for consultants'
fees.
tb Includes operating costo of computers, office supplies, and visit. to
the regions for training.



-20-
Procurement
60.      As there are no civil works envisioned under the Credit,
procurement would be limited to purchases of goods and consultancy
services. For local consultancy contracts each valued at US$15,000 or less
(mostly mid-level positions within MPC), IDA would review the first ten
such contracts to ensure that the selection procedure is consistent with
IDA guidelines and, if it is found to be acceptable, would then agree that
the Project Coordinating Unit, in collaboration with the management
senrices contractor (para 65) would select the remaining consultants
without IDA's prior review. However, all supporting documentation for
these contracts would be held available locally for inspection by IDA
supervision missions. In addition, a trimestrial plan for hiring of local
consultants would be submitted to IDA for review and approval before any of
the local contracts could be signed. Consultancies valued at more than
US$15,000 would be subject to normal IDA review procedures as set out in
the World Bank's Guidelines for Use of Consultants. Equipment and vehicles
valued at US$75,000 or more would be procured through international
competitive bidding (ICB) through government procurement agents according
to World Bank guidelines. All ICB packages would be subject to prior
review by IDA. Items worth US$75,000 or less but more than $20,000 could
be procured through local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to IDA.
Payments against these contracts would be documented through Statements of
Expenditure with the underlying documentation held available locally for
inspection by IDA supervision mission. Bidding packages for goods
totalling over US$20,000 would be subject to the Bank's prior review of
procurement documentation. Minor items costing US$20,000 or less, in an
aggregate amount not to exceed US$.8 million wou'd be purchased following
local shopping procedures by obtaining quotations from at leasc three
suppliers. A procurement table is presented on the following page.



-21-
AMOUNTS AND METHODS OF PROCUREMENT /a
L'rocurement Method        Total
Project Element                        ICE      LCB        Other      Cost
------------(US$ million) --------
Consultant Services and Studies         -          -        9.2         9.2
Management Services Contract          -          -       (4.8)       (4.8)
Training                                -          -        1.5        1.5
-         -       (0.9)       (.9)
Equipment and Vehicles                 1.2         .8        -          2.0
(1.0)      (.2)       _         (1.2)
Incremental Salaries                    -          -        3.4         3.4
(2.5)      (2.5)
Operating Costs /b                      -          .3        .2          .5
(.2)      (.1)       (.3)
Total                     1.2       1.1      14.3        16.6
(1.0)      (.4)     (8.3)       (9.7)
/a  Contingencies and expenditures financed by the PPF are included in
the amounts shown. IDA contribution is indicated in parenthesis.
lb Consists predominantly of operating supplies.
Disbursements
61.      The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed against:  100? of
the cost of consultants, local or foreign; 100? of training costs; 95? of
studies expenditures; 100Z of foreign expenditures and 902 of local
expenditures for equipment, vehicles, operating supplies, materials and
maintenance expenditures; 100Z of repayment of the PPF. Initially, 100? of
incremental salaries will be financed under the project. Government agreed
during negotiations on a declining scale for IDA participation in the
financing of incremental salaries (para 70).  A summary disbursement
schedule is attached as Annex C. Although the specific implementation
plans call for a relatively rapid implementation schedule, and could result
in disbursement of al: credit funds within 30 months, the disbursement plan
is based on a more conservative four year schedule. IDA would disburse
against certified Statements of Expenditures for consultant services whose
contract value would be less than US$15,000, for equipment and vehicles for
contracts valued less than US$20,000 and all incremental salaries and
operating costs. The Project Coordinating Unit would retain documentation
for expenditures and make it available for the independent auditors and for
review by IDA during supervision missions. Conditions of disbursement are
described in para 72.
Accounts and Audit
62.      The Project Coordinating Unit would maintain separate accounts for
all expenditures funded under the Credit.  Project accounts would be
audited annually by independent auditors satisfactory to IDA, including an



-22-
audit of the Management Services Contract and an audit of Statements of
Expenditures. The audit reports, of such scope and in such detail ae IDA
shall reasonably request, would be submitted to IDA no later than six
months following the end of the Government's fiscal year.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Proiect Management
63.      The Ministry of Planning and Coordination (MPC) would have overall
responsibility for project direction, management and administration. The
Ministry has provisionally appointed the Undersecretary for Public
Investment, Regional Development and International Cooperation as project
director. Government has indicated that it intends to appoint a project
director who would report to the Undersecretary but whose main
responsibility would be implementing the project. Formal appointment of a
project director is a condition of project effectiveness (para 71).
64.      The specific programs for each component would be formulated and
implemented by the agencies directly concerned (MPC. INE, PSM Program
Secretariat and Ministry of Finance). MPC would be responsible for
coordinating activities under the regional planning and management with the
RDCs and with the three sector ministries and agencies primarily involved
in decentralization (health, education, and transport). Each implementing
agency would name a project liaison officer to report to the project
director.
65.      Overall project administration would be handled by the Project
Coordinating Unit (PCU) which has been established in MPC under the
guidance of the acting project director and staffed with a technical
coordinator. Government agreed to formalize the existing project
management arrangements as a condition of project effectiveness (para 71).
The main responsibilities of the PCU would includes
(a) ensuring coordination among components and between implementing
agencies, the Management Services Contractor and IDA;
(b) assisting implementir,g agencies in the preparation of annual work
plans and budgets;
(c) preparing semi-annual progress monitoring reports;
(d) coordinating project-related training activities of participating
agencies with local and/or overseas training institutions; and
(e) with assistance from a procurement agent, overseeing the
procurement of goods and services to be financed under the credit.
PCU staff would include a project director, a project administrator, two
bilingual secretaries, and a training coordinator. Terms of reference for
the PCU have been agreed to by IDA. Given the high proportion of technical
assistance foreseen under the credit and the complexity and administrative
burden of managing the large number of contracts, funds have been included



-23-
to finance management support to PCU on a permanent basis. Currently, the
PPF is administered successfully under a Management Services Agreement
(NSA) with UNDP Office of Project Support (OPS). UNDP-OPS serves as a
procurement agent, contracting and paying consultants on behalf of
Government. IDA retains all regular technical supervision functions.
UNDP-OPS was considered as a possible contractor along with other local
procurement agents in La Paz; the draft contract with UNDP-OPS was
discussed during negotiations. Signing of an administrative services
agreement with a local procurement agent acceptable to IDA would be a
condition of credit effectiveness (para 71).
Anna Wk Pro m  andRportin
66.      The project would be implemented on the basis of an annual work
program for each component which would serve as a flexible planning,
implementation and monitoring tool. Work programs of each implementing
agency do not depend on activities by another agency to attain objectives.
Each annual work program would include: (i) an evaluation of the previous
year's work program; (ii) a statement of monitorable objectives to be
pursued and a description and timetable of the activities to be carried out
to realize those objectives; (iii) detailed budgets and financing plans as
well as a procurement program and timetable; and (iv) staffing and training
plans. Work programs are to be prepared and implemented by each agency
concerned. These work plans would be submitted to PCU, which would
synthesize them and prepare a project-wide budget and procurement plan and
submit this for IDA review and approval. The first-year work program
covering the December, 1988-June, 1989 period was agreed to during
negotiations (para 70). A proposed schedule for implementing project
activities is attached as Annex I. Annual disbursements of IDA funds would
be conditional upon satisfactory completion of yearly work programs (para
72).
67.      PCU would also prepare semi-annual progress reports for submission
to IDA and would prepare the project completion report and submit it to IDA
no later than six months after the credit closing date. Each implementing
agency would be responsible for providing PCU with the necessary
documentation to enable it to prepare the progress as well as the
completion reports.
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
68.      The project is a fundamental part of the Government's strategy to
successfully implement and sustain the momentum for economic change
achieved thus far under the New Economic Policy. The project would address
the medium- and long-term issues of sustainability and cost-effectiveness
of public institutions. The benefits to be expected from successful
project implementation include: more economically viable investment
decisions, greater immediate benefits from more rapid implementation of
projects to be financed from already committed donor funds, increased
budget revenues from improved tax administration, and overall increased
efficiency of the ministries and agencies dealing with economic and public
sector management.   For the civil service activities, benefits would come
from significant foreign exchange savings from hiring fewer internation:al



-24-
consultants. In addition, improved working conditions, logistical support,
higher salaries (from the establishment of the PSH Strengthening Program)
and training opportunities would permit the Government to attract and keep
more qualified civil servants.
69.      The main r'sk associated with this project, applicable to all
donor activities in Bolivia, is of a weakening of Government commitment to
economic reform. The uncertainty and the future course of economic policy
is accentuated by presidential elections which are to take place in mid-
1989. These risks are mitigated by the fact that the proposed activities
address fundamental weaknesses in the way the economy is managed and
propose such basic improvements (i.e. information management, public
investment programming and implementation) that the project already enjoys
support beyond the party in power. For the component which is potentially
the most controversial and politically sensitive, the regional management
and planning activities, IDA would concentrate during the first year on
helping the Government design an analytical framework and gather basic data
on the costs, benefits, and institutional implications of decentralization.
Only after a new Gove nment takes office and on the basis of an
implementation strategy formulated with the new Government would IDA funds
for implementation of decentralization activities be made available.
Finally, the public sector management reform scheme is plainly an
innovative and potentially controversial scheme and entails difficult
issues, notably the parallel need to designate and fill key positions and
to insulate the program from political pressures. The potential problems
have been discussed with Government officials at all levels, with unanimous
support for the program. External donor support for the PSM Strengthening
Program is conditioned on Government undertaking analytical work to
determine the key positions and salary levels which are included under the
project. In addition, the establishment of a Program Secretariat would
ensure consistent application, oversight and monitoring of th3 rationalized
salary scheme, employment conditions, and criteria for selection into the
civil service.
VII. AGREEMENTS
Agreements Reached
70.      During negotiations, agreement was reached:
(a) on respective roles of Government, IDB and the World Bank in the
implementation of the SISIN system in the MPC, RDCs and sector
ministries (para 37);
(b)  on the guidelines and criteria for the use of preinvestment
studies funds to be financed by the Credit (para 38);
(c)  that Government would appoint a project training coordinator by
March 15, 1989 and submit to IDA a project training plan by
June 15, 1989 (para 40);



-25-
(d) that a working group composed of MPC and sector ministry staff
(chaired by MPC) to ensure close collaboration between MPC and the
sector ministries on the implementation of the sector studies of
the regional planning component would be established by
January 15, 1989 (pap.a 42);
(e) that the Director for the PSM Strengthening Program would be
appointed by March 15, 1989 (para 47);
(f) on the declining scale for IDA participation in the financing of
incremental salaries (para 61); and
(g) on the annual work program to cover the December, 1988-June 1989
period (para 66).
71. As conditions of effectiveness:
(a) Government would have signed an administrative services agreement
with a procurement agent acceptable to IDA (para 65);
(b) Government would have (i) appointed a project director; and (ii)
formally established the Project Coordinating Unit (paras 63 and
65);
72. As conditions of disbursement:
(a) against Regional Management and Planning implementation
activities, Government would have issued a Supreme Decree stating
its decentralization program and strategy for implementation
(para 43);
(b) against the PSM Program Secretariat, the Program's detailed
structure and organization would have been established, and
Government would have issued %n Executive Decree formally
establishing the PSM Program (para 47); and
(c) under contracts entered into after December 31 of each year unless
IDA shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views regarding the
annual work program with (i) the progress achieved by the
Government in the carrying out of the Project; and (ii) the work
program to be carried out under the Project during the following
year (para 66).
Recommendation
73.      Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project is suitable
for a credit of US$9.7 million equivalent to the Republic of Bolivia on
standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity.



- 26 -
ANNEX A
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT STRENGTHENING OPERATION
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
P r o i e c t Y e a r
1 9 88      1 9 89       1 9 9 0      1 9 9 .
- -  - -- -     U A R T E R S - - - - - - -
Activity:                    1121314      112/3/4      112/3/4      1/2/3/4
A. Ecunomic Management
1. Public Investment Program
-development of procedures
to guide preparation of PIP        X X      X
-preparation of PIP                 X X      X X X X     X X X X      X X
-creation of financing and
Disbursement Unit; hiring
of IDA-financed Consultants        X X     X
-mid-term and final evalua-
of gov't new procurement
system                                     X X          X X
2. Information Systems
-adquisition of 3 micro-
computers                          x
-training in revelation             X X
-design of SISFIN                   X X
-integration of SISFIN
with Min. of Finance               X X      X X XX
-adquisition of remaining
10 microcumputers                          X X
-installation of SISIN in
Regional Dvpmt. Corps.                     X X X X      X X
-dvpmt. and installation
of SISFINISISAT                            X X X X
-dvpmt. and installation
of SISAT                                   X X X X
-expansions of SISIN,
SIFIN, SISAT                                                         X X XX
-dvpmt. of other systems or
conversion to new program-
ing language                                                         X X X X



- 27 -
ANNEX A
Page 2 of 3
P r o j e c t Y e a r
1 9 8 8     1 989 8      1 9 9 0      1 9 9 1
- -   - -- -Q U A R T E R S - - - - - - -
Activity:                    112/314     1/2/3/4      1/21314      1121314
3. Training
-appt. of proj. training
coordinator                          X
-formulation of proj.
training plan                        X     X
-training for MPC staff                     X X X X      X X X X      X X XX
-extension of project
analysis methodologies
to sector ministries, RDCs                      XX      XX X X       X X X X
4. Pre-Investment Studies
-dvpmt. of guidelines for
selection of investments           X X
-begin funding studies                      X X X X      X X X X      X X XX
5. Tax Administration
-training of regional tax
officials                            X     X X
-dvpmt. of Current Account          X X     X X X
-dvpmt. of tax system for
customs                              X     X X
B. Regional Planning
1. Undertake study of insti-
tutional capacity of region-
dvpmt. corps., principal
municipalities and other
regional entities (9 depts.)    X X X       X
2. Undertake study of fiscal
and financial capacity of
regional dvpmt. corps.,
principal municipalities
and other regional entities
(9 depts.)                       X X X      X
-operations and financing
of the Reg'l Dvpmt. Fund         X X
-financial implications of
decentralization on educa-
tion services                    X X X
-financial implications of
decentralization of health
services                         X X X
-financial implications of
decentralization on nat'l
roads service (SNC)              X X X



- 28 -
ANNEX A
Page 3 of 3
P r o i e c t Y e a r
1 9 8a8      1 9 8 9      1 9 9 0      1 9 9 1
-                - - Q U A R T E R S - - - - - - -
Acti- ity:                   1!21/34       1121Ll4      1/213/14     112/3/4
3. Analysis of formulation of
reg'l dvpmt. strategies at
regl level.                                   X
4. Institutional strengthening
Corps. Unit of MPC                            X X X X      X X X X      X X X X
5. Institutional strengthening
of reg'l dvpmt. corps.                          X X X      X X X X      X X X X
6. Institutional strengthening
of municipalities                                 X X      X X X X      X X X X
C. Public Sector Management
Strengthening Program
1. Appointment of Exec. Dir.
to PSM Program                       X X
2. Creation of PSM Secretariat                   X X X
3. Completion of Salary Policy
Study                                  X     X
4. Implementation of salary
study recommendations                           X X X      X X X X      X X X X
5. Initiation of Civil Service
studies: staffing, function-
al review, personnel, poli-
cies, administration                              X X      X X
D. Strengthening of Statistical
Services
1. National Integrated House-
hold Survey                                   X X X X      X XX XXXXX
2. Agricultural Survey                             XXX X      XX           XXXX
3. National Accounts                    X X      X XX X       XX           XXXX
4. Income and Expenditure
Survey                                 X      X XX



Table 1
C4LIVIA
ECOIIOIC  MNA   T STUN5TIENINS OPERATION
PROJECT COST SWY
CKVUYIS'000)                                 (LSS '000)
Z Total                                  z rotal
Z Foreign  gmse                          Z Foreign  imse
Loeal  Forei*   Totl  Exchae    Costs   Local Forein  Total  Exchange  Costs
zz== _   m- ~ :=zM=
A. CCC   MENOT
PIP FWL*TIN I IIOTATION             6,968.1  6,376.5 13v344.6      48     41 3,029.6 2M7.4  5,802.0         48     41
TAX AIKIWISTIATIGN                   948.0 2,129.6 39077.6        69      10   412.2  925.9 19338.1         69     10
Sub-Tutal EOIIC fVEENT                7,916*1  B,506.2 169422.2      52      51 39441,8 3,698.3 7,140.1        52     51
3. I.E   . PLMII  MD P9WAEGENT        2066.*6 1,905.6 39M.1          48      12   898.5  828.5 1,727.0         48     12
C. FULIC SECTU NNA6EJET
P  STIMSTSEN GII                     913.4  1sI44.1 2v057.6       56       6   397.2  497.5   894.6         56      6
CIVIL 5EPUiCE STlIDES                 402*9   628.1  1,030.8      61       3   175.1  273.1   448.2         61      3
Sbb-Total PUCLIC SECTUR WEBJENT       14316.2 1.772  3,099.4         57      10   57.3  770.5  19342.8         57     10
3. S lI TO STATISTICAL SERFICES       4140.9 173.5 5,929.4           30      18 1,800.4  777.6 257.0           30     19
E. PI   IWUT                          2252.3   507.5 2t759.          18       9   979.3  220.6  1,199,9        19      9
ToW   AIB   COM                        179692.0f 14479.9 32,17.9       45    100 7469*2 629.6 13P987*.          45    100
Pihuical C Artmitzes                   73.1   2M2.0 1.06.1          23       3   327.4  127.0   454*4         28      3
Prim CntiigEclhs                     13116.9 7,51.4 20hd7.3         37      64 1615.  461.6 2147.2            21     15
low   rT  am                                    M     S.3   43         41    16  9M,.2 69*2 U6504               41    119
mr                             n                            m_    - @    __m    _



Table 2
BOLIVIA
ECONOMIC MNAEET STRENGTHENING OPERATION
a                                                                              Project Coaunts bu Year
Totals Includins  Cnntingeties            Totals Including Contirngecies
(BLIVIANOS '000)                              (USS '000)
198     1989    1990   1991    Total    1988   199    190    1991    Total
A. ECOOMIC I|NMEIET
PIP FRILTION I IKLETATI'O            1,403.5  7P669.0 11,598.5 2,772.2 239443.2   610.2 29556.3 3,052.2  693.1  6,911.8
TAX ADNINISTRATION                     644.6 39726.0         -       -  4,370.7   290.3 19242.0        -      -  1,52Z.3
Sub-Total ECUWC IMIENENt                2,048.1 1143951 11591.5 2772.2 27P913,9   890.5 3,798.4 39052.2  693.1  9,434.1
3. REDIDI_ PLMIB AS  IN*MGEJENT           713.0 29053.1 2,295.4 19724.7  607833    310.0   684.4   604.1  430.4  24029.
C. PtULIC SECTOR MNAUEENT
PS9 STREO1nBIEN                        137.0  1,08663  1,452*9  929.4  3,604.5    59.6   362.1  392.3  232.1  1 036.1
CIVIL SERVICE STUDIES                  367.0  1,083.9        -       -  1,450.9   159.6  361.3        -       -    520.9
Sub-Total PtJLIC SECTOR IAWMEIENT         504.0 2,170.2  19452.9  928.4  59055*5   219.1   723.4  382.3  232.1  1,557.0
D. SUPORT TQ STATISTICAL SERVICES       2,461.6  3,551*5  19969.7 lY425.9 9,408.7 1,070.3 19183.8  518.3  356.5  3,128,9
E. PROJECT MNAIEENTi                      456.7  14548.1  1,435*9 1,392.2  49833*0   198.6   516.0   377.9  348.1  19440,6
Total PROJECT COSTS                       6,183.5 20,718.0 18,752.4 89240.4 53,894.3  2,698.5 6,906.0 49934,8 2,060,1 16,599.4
Nomber 30. 188  11:37



Table 3
BOLIVIA
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT STRENGTHENING OPERATION
Sumarv Account bu Project Coanent
(BOIVIANS '1000)
a*n                                                                                             PUBLIC SECTOR MANGEMENT
05                                              ECONOIC  ANAGEMENT                                                                                           Phusica1
f                   ---                                                           REGSIONAL                       CIVIL   SUPPORT TO                           Continsenoies
PIP FORMULATION S       T4X        PLANNING AND          PS"        SERVICE  STATISTICAL   PROJECT
IMPLEK"NTATION   ADMINISTRAT!ON   MANA EMENT      STRENGTHENING  STUDIES   SERVICES    MANAGEMENT   Tetal         I   Asount
1. INVESTMENT CQSTS
A. CONSULTANT SERVICES
OCAL.                                        1,177.6           141.7       '.097.1              27.6    322.0         402.5            -   3YI68.5    5.0   158.4
FOREIGN                                        834.9        29197.7        1,085.6             765.9    538.2         437.0            -   59859.3    0.0      0.0
Sub-Total CONSULTANT SERVICES                   2,012.5        2,339.3        2,182.7             793.5    860.2         839.5            -   99027.7    1.8   158.4
B. STUDIES                                     7?521.0                -         '95.5                 -     96.6             -            -   7,B13.'    5.0   390.7
C. TRAINING                                     1,228.2               -         897.0             299.0         -        303.6            -   2,727.9    5.0   136.4
D. OFFICE EOUIPhENT                               931.0            59.8         696.9             466.9     46.0       1,591,6       266.8   49059.0    0.0       0.0
r'      E. VEHICLES                                           -               -              -                 -     2e.0             -        34.5      62.5    0.0      0.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                            11,692.7        2,399.1        3,972.1'          1,559.4  '1030.8       2,734,7        301.3  23.690.2    2.9   685.5
II. RECURRENT C4STS
A. INCRSMENTAL SALARIES                        1,405.1          644.0              -             498.2        -       2,716.3       961.6   6,125.1    5.0   306.3
B, COIhUTER OPERATING COSTS                                          -             -                 -        -         232.3            -     232.3    9.0    1B.6
C. OPERATING COSTS                               101.2               -             -                 -        -         246.1        90.4      437.7    5.0    21.9
D. PROJECT ADMiNISTRATION                            -                             -                 -        -             -     1,428.3   1,428.3    0.0       0.0
E. OFFICE SUPPLIES                                50.6               -             -                 -        -             -        43.7       94.3    5.0      4.7
F. FIELD VISITS                                   95.0           34.5              -                 -        -             -        34,5      164.0    5.0      8.2
Total RECURRENT COSTS                              1,651.9           673.5             -             499.2         -      39194.7     2,459.5   8,481.7    4,2   359.6
Total BASELINE COSTS                               139344.6         3,077.6       3,972.1           2,057.6  1,030.8       5,929.4      2,759.8  32,1?1.9    3.2 1,045.1
Phvsical Continsmncies                             578.9            41.0         109.5              41.2     20.9         202.0        51.5   1,045.1    0.0       0.0
Price Continsencies                              9,519,7         1,252.0       2,701.7           1,505.7    399.2       3,277.3     2,021.7  20,6?7.3    3,5   726.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                                237443.2         4,370,7       6,783,3           3,604.5  1,450.9       9,408.7     4,B33.0  53,894.3    3.3 1,771.1
Taxes                                            1,644.4            16.9         269.8             150.6     26.0         466.2        85.7   2,659.7    2.6    69.9
ForEign Exchlane                                10,787.0        2,?55.8        2,986.7           1,912.1    797.8       2,338.4       754.3  22,332.3    2.1   476.5



- 32 -
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT STRENGTHENING OPERATION
SUMMARY DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Disbursements
Cateory                      Amount                         Z
(uSS million)
Consultant services            1.9                 100! (of expenditures)
Studies /a                      .7                  95! (of expenditures)
Training                        .9                 10OZ (of expenditures)
Equipment/vehicles              .85                100! (of foreign and
9O0 (of local expenditures)
Incremental Salaries /b        2.2                 100! (of expendutures)
Operating costs /c              .2                 10O! (of foreign and
90! (of local expenditures)
Project administration          .5                 10O! (of expenditures)
Refinancing of project                            Amount due pursuant to section
Preparation advance          7.5                 2.02 (c) of Development Credit
Agreement.
Unallocated                    1.7
TOTAL                 9.7
/a  Includes all costs of undertaking studies except for consultants' fees.
1b Includes local consultant salaries doing tasks which will become civil
service positions by the end of the project.
/c  Includes operating costs of computers, office supplies, and visits to the
regions for training.
Estimated IDA Disbursements                  IDA Fiscal Year
88    89    90    91
---(US$ million)----
Annual                                    1.0   4.3   2.3   2.1
Cumulative                                1.0   5.3   7.6   9.7



- 33 -
ANNEX D
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
ECONOMIC MANGEMENT STRENGTHENING OPERATION
CONSULTANT SERVICES REQUIRMENTS
Component                Study/Task                           Person-months
Public Investment    1. MPC: Public Investments Division:
Programming and          a) Fiscal economist to &ssist in
Implementation           investment analysis;                         lCG
b) Invesment evaluation specialist
to help formulated guidelines for
evaluation of investment projects.          10
2. MPC: Financing and Disbursements
Unit: Procurement specialist to help
in evaluating the new procurement system
and in revising procrements procedures.   2
3. Specialist on investment information
systems to help expand the information
technology system for public investment
projects.                                   12
Tax Administration   4. MFOF  Tax Director's Officet
a) Tax Administration and Computer Systems
specialists to decign extended tax
administration reform program and assist
in implementation;                          26
(IDB-financed)
b) Tax Directorate: Specialists in
tax collection, tax auditing, tax law
and automatic data processing to assist
staff in central Directorate consolidate
new tax system.                             42
(IDB-financed)
5. Regional Tax Offices: Experts in tax
administration, training, publicity, and
computer programming to train regional
tax officials and help extend new tax
administration system to the nine
departments.                                45
6. HO0: Customs Directorate:
Tax administration specialists and
computer programmers to install tax
administration system in Customs



- 34 -
ANNEX D
Page 2 of 4
Directorate.                                20
7. Tax Directorate: Computer specialists
and programers to assist in completing
the design of and installing the current
account for taxpayers.                      9
8. Tax Directorate: Systems analysts and
programmers to support staff and
consultants in the Tax Directorate,
nine regional tax offices, and Customs
in installing computerized tax collection
and auditing system.                        46
(IDB-financed)
9. Publicity specialists to help design
and carry out publicity campaigns for
tax payment.                                24
(IDB-financed)
Regional Planning
and Management        10. MPCs Regional Corporations Unit:
a) Regional development and planning
experts to supervise three analytical
studies in regional planning;               16
b) Fiscal analyst to undertake
comprehensive review of fiscal and
financial capacity of regional
entities;                                   8
c) Institutional development specialist
to assess institutional capacity of
regional entities;                          16
d) Economist/Regional planner to review
regional development strategies and
assist in evaluating their effectiveness
and consistency with national development
plans.                                      6
11. MPC: Regional Development Fund:
Financial analyst and development
finance expert to assist in defining
guidelines for' structure and operations
of Regional Development Fund.               11
12. MPC and Ministry of Healths
Health financing expert and health
administrator to assess implications of
budgetary decentralization on health



- 35 -
ANNEX D
Page 3 of 4
services and assist in formulating a
decentralization strategy for the health
sector.                                     18
13. MPC and Ministry of Education:
Education economist and education planner
to determine impact of budgetary
decentralization on education services
and help define a decentralization
strategy for the education sector.          18
14. MPC and National Roads Service:
Transport economist and financial
analyst to assess impact of budgetary
decentralization on national roads service
and propose alternative decentralization
plan for national roads services.           12
Public Sector
Management
Strengthening
Program               15. Public management specialists and
personnel administrators to establish
program secretariat and assist in
designing and implementing a scheme for
rationalized public sector salaries and
employment condicions.                      50
16. Human resources and public sector
management specialists to undertake
staffing and functional review for civil
service.                                    44
17. Human resources expert and career
planning P'anning specialist to undertake
personnel policies and management study. 21
18. Public management expert and
institutional development specialist to
research feasibility of consolidating
current administration system into
central Personnel Management Office.        30
Government Statistical
Services
19. INE: Department of Economic Statistics:
a) Economist specializing in national accounts
to assist in producing national accounts at
the national and regional level;
15



- 36 -
ANNEX D
Page 4 of 4
b) Statisticians to provide support for
lead team responsible for producing natiornal
accounts and disaggregating accounts to the
department and regional levels;
19
20. INE: Department of Social Statistics:
a) Economist and statistician to help
conduct household and income and expenditure
surveys;
15
b) Statisticians and field surveyors
to provide support for household
survey;                                     40
c) Statisticians and field surveyors
to provide support for year-long
income and expenditure survey.              50
TOTAL                                                                 639



ANNEX E
Page Iof 2
- 37 -
3~~~~~3
ia!



MK*ty dP Finonc
Exceculve                        Nnse
ua _4                                                                                             Counci for
Coordartion
}~~~~XCL"LW9                                      I                              I    1               I                  I                    IW                           I                  I 
SuseaectotW af               SubaswceaIt ~         Sscetou1otof          ecrtail  far      Submtr   .                  UsecrefostfrSjeatarea far    .esertow1atf
Tax Colecthon               of IntertS R&everue         of               Tre-a           Generd Coordon                  nnF l Polky         onetry Polc
A*VMY Level                                                                       I                                    
Adoay Group          AdrrIft ond                         Leal         Internal      Sectard
Advisry GrouP                                                Mong                              Matters        Control                       S U.
1I~~~]        FINEX  ~~        Manetary and
Crealt Policy
DIrection    drate    I Dlrectorate
l                                                                  | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Directarate  ta fr Persne
|Control 8 Doc-c   |   |  -QPP
Opera               . k5;;;; brel    l                                                                  }  DtentrDp
Level           } *                  I          | Directote ot
|Generol Cuf|n          A | AADAA         =     ternolReverue      Nati
[lrectoro]e   I                             Dir I   ;   8ectGorate
3s I. Ll                                                                                             I
".ilffl@S   |   AADAA  lnterra l            |    |r-s            r-, 1                                                  et        i RI|    State        |
Doorcentaed                                                                                                                                               '                      Ir
Enflwb                                                                A n||CNO                                                                          Rlr                    1 



39 -                         ANNEX F
page 1 of 10
Terms of Referencet Study of the Fiscal and Financial Capacity of the
Regions
Background
Among the key issues related to the decentralization of basic
services are the definition of the services to be decentralized, the
estimated cost of decentralization, and the capacity of the regions to
finance current and additional activities. Until now, decentralization of
health and education services had been proposed without the necessary
analysis having been performed of the cost of such a trasferal to the
central government and regional entities, nor of the financial status and
capacities of local and regional organizations to mobilize additional
resources. This kind of analysis is an essential requirement for a
proposal for decentralization, not only because it would determine the
feasibility of transfering specific services to the regions, but also
because under the present tax regime, there are significant imbalances in
the distribution of fiscal resources to the regions which will necesaarily
determine the scope and timing of decentralization.
Law t843 establishes a system of co-participation of tax revenues,
whereby a predetermined percentage of all collections is distributed to the
national treasury (75Z), the regional corporations (10Z), the
municipalities (10Z), and the universities (5Z). However, the
coparticipation scheme has resulted in an inequitable distribution of
resources to the regions for several reasons: first, the regions with the
most economic activity receive a relatively higher percentage of fiscal
resources than the poorer regions; second, in order to simplify tax
payment, companies with branches in several cities pay all taxes in the
city where the company's headquarters are located, resulting in a
concentration of payment in the three largest cities of La Paz, Cochabamba,
and Santa Cruz; third, efforts to establish the new tax collection system
have been concentrated primarily in the most populated and wealthiest
regions of the country, with the Tax Collection Ministry only recently
having begun to train tax administration officials in less populated and
poorer regions in tax collection, auditing, and enforcement. As a result
of the current distribution of resources under the coparticipation scheme,
it was estimated that the decentralization of health and education services
to the regional corporations and municipalities in 1988 would have resulted
in a deficit for all regions with the possible exception of Santa Cruz. As
a consequence of this scenario, legislation is being considered to create
the Regional Development Fund (FDR), a mechanism by which the Government
would provide the regional corporations and municipalities with the
additional resources needed to finance health and education services.
Although the FDR has been legally established, its operations and mode of
financing have not been clearly defined, a task which will depend on the
specific services to be decentralized and the resulting financial needs of
the regional corporations and municipalities.



- 40 -                          ANNEX F
page 2 of 10
Objectives
This study will evaluate the fiscal and financial capacity of the
corporations and municipalities to finance services they currently provide;
it will also measure these entities' potential to mobilize additional
resources in the event that certain services were decentralized to the
regions. Based on this latter evaluation, the study will define the
structure, functions, and financial resources of the Regional Development
Fund needed to support the expansion of services to the regions.
Specifically, the study will:
1) Determine the current financial status of the regional
corporations and departmental municipalities as a result of the
coparticipation of taxes, focusing on a) the resulting financial
gains/losses from coparticipation; and b) the entities' real fiscal
contribution based on the determination of income-by-sources. The
financial analysis vill be based on the determination of income-by-sources
and expenditures-by-category for the period 1.985-1988 and on the analysis
of relevant financial indicators. (Here, coordination with the SAFCO
program will be essential to ensure the complementarity of tasks in the
entities).
2) Measure the potential fiscal capacity of the regional entities
to finance future responsibilities resulting from decentralization. This
will include first, a review of tax collection rates to date and an
evaluation of the entity's capacity to collect revenues from tax
instruments under its control; and second, a determination of potential
yields which could result from a) improvement in the present tax collection
system; b) the introduction of additional tax instruments at the regional
level.
3) Based on the existing proposal for the Regional Development
Fund and the results of the above analisies, determine the adequate
structure, functions, and financial resources of the Regional Development
Fund which would be needed to finance the provision of additional services.
4) Determine the financial implications of decentralization of
health, education and transport services, with emphasis on the regions'
ability to cover the costs of service provision.
Expected Results
Based on this study, it is expected that there will be the
necessary information on the corporations' and municipalities' current and
potential fiscal capacity to determine their ability to take on the
additional responsibilities resulting from the decentralization of basic
services.   As a result of the evaluation of the regions' fiscal capacities
and financial needs, the study will also propose a ccncrete financing
scheme through the Regional Development Fund. Since part of this study
will consist of an analysis of the effects of decentralization on the
health, education, and transport sectors (see attached TORs), it is also
expected that a clear strategy will be defined jointly by the Planning
Ministry and the sectoral ministries regarding the financing of
decentralized health, education and transport services.



- 41 -                         ANNEX F
page 3 of 10
Terms of Reference: Institutional Analysis Required for the lorrmulation
of Descentralization Proposals
Background
In the context of the New Economic Policy, the Government has
attempted to streamline central government activities, and has trasferred
several important economic responsibilities to the Regional Development
Corporations. The regional coprorations today are responsible for a variety
of public services and economic activities which were formerly under the
purview of the central government, including rural electrification,
secondary roads, forestry services, comm.unity development, some
agricultural extension services, and various industries. However, these
responsibilities have often been transferred without taking into
c(isideration the corporations' technical, administrative and financial
capacities. This has resulted in a change in the role envisioned for the
corporations so that these important entities now concentrate moze efforts
and resources in the short-term demands of managing additional public
services instead of planning and fostering regional economic and social
development. Also, several corporations that do not receive royalties from
the exploitation of their natural resources have not had the necessary
financial resources to bear the additional technical and administrative
burdens, and have consequently been unable to play as active a role in
regional development as other larger entities. From an interregional
perspective, this has resulted in a situation of an inequitable
distribution of resources, an uneven development of Bolivia's regions, and
a lack of a strong national identity at the regional level.
Objectives
This study will provide the analy-ical framework to evaluate the
ability of several kinds of regional entities (Regional development
Corporations, major municipalities, and other large regional organizations)
to manage existing public services as well as additional responsibilities
that the Government is considering transfering to the regions in the
context of decentralization. The study will focus on:
(1) Identifying the Regional Corporations' and municipalities'
current functions, organization, and relations with other regional and
national entities;
(2) providing basic information about regional entities' ability
to handle investment projects;
(3) determining the major deficiencies of the corporations and
municipalities in handling the various reponsibilities which have already
been transferred to them by the central governmetnt to date (i.e., in
industry, agriculture, infrastructure, and energy);
(4) defining the new structure, as well as the additional human
and financial resouLces needed for the regional entities to fulfill new
functions resulting from a possible descentralization of services in the
health, education, transport and housing sectors ;



- 42 -                         ANNEX F
page 4 of 10
5) gauging the degree of political consensus at the regional level
regarding additional responsibilities transfered from the central
government;
6) determining the division of responsibilities between central,
regional, and local entities; and,
7) analyzing the institutional implications of decentralization of
health, education and transport services (see attached TORs).
Expected Results
This study will provide essential information on the institutional
status and capacity of regional entities, including their ability to
formulate stid manage investment projects, which would be necessary for the
formulation of any solid decentralization strategy within various
political contexts. Since the study counts on the active participation of
the major regional entities in the provision and analysis of basic
institutional information, it is expected that this comprehensive analysis
will reflect t'ie point of view of different regional entities in Bolivia's
nine departments concerning decentralization.



ANNEX F
-43 -                          Page 5 of 10
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR ASSESSMENT OF IMPLICATIONS OF DECENTRALIZATION ON
HEALTH SECTOR
Background
Health conditions in Bolivia have been among the worst in the
hemisphere since the 1950's and have deteriorated in recent years under the
impact of lower average per capita incomes and reduced health care
services. Health statistics attest to poor health status: in 1985,
mortality rates were above 120 per 1000 live births for infants; 37 per
1000 for children aged 1 to 4 years; and 48 per 10,000 births for mothers,
all of them 8 times higher than in the most advanced Latin American
countries.
Unpromising fiscal prospects for the health sector dictate
refocussing attention on improving the equity and efficiency of health
services within stringent financial constraints. Efficiency improvement
effJrts will be based on a planned budgetary decentralization program
within the Ministry of Health structure and improved coordination with non-
line agencies (decentralized health units, municipalities and NGO's). On
the inter-governmental level, efforts are likely to include a clear
definition of the division of labor and responsibilities between non-line
health agencies and the Health Ministry, as well as a determination of the
extent of oversight by the Health Ministry over municipalities and NGO's
with regard to training in, management, and financing of health services.
Within the Health Ministry, efforts are likely to include reorienting
resources from expensive secondary and tertiary hospital care to basic
health care; from expenditures in personnel remuneration to purchase of
drugs and other medical inputs; from new physical infrastructure to
rehabilitation and maintenance and other support services; and from hiring
of physicians to hiring of allied professional staff.
Objectives
The proposed study will assist the government in determining the
institutional and fiscal implications of the planned regional
decentralization of health services, and help define the broad outline of
an action plan to implement the proposed decentralization. Drawing on the
work already done for the preparation of the Integrated Health Development
Project, the study will assess the main organization and management
weaknesses of the Bolivian health services and focus on the following
areas:
1.       Evaluation of the present financial policies of the health sector
from a national perspective, and determination of the relationship between
sector priorities and resource allocation policies at a national and
regional level;
2.       Definition of the budgetary and accounting relationship between
the central government and the regions;
3.       Determination of various financing sources for and income
generation policies of the Ministry of Health, local government,
decentralized health units, and NGO's;



ANNEX F
- 44 -                      Page 6 of 10
4.       Analysis of the management systems of the health sector for both
the Ministry of Health, non-line health agencies and NGO's, and an
evaluation of the institutional capacity which exists within the regions to
manage a decentralization of the provision of health services;
5.       A proposal of mechanisms for improving the cost-effectiveness of
health care provision at regional and local levels; and,
6.       Design of a scheme to strengthen the negotiating capacity of the
Health Ministry in the process of formulation of the national budget and
investment program, and definintion of the mechanisms for coordination
between the Ministry of Health, decentralized health units, local
government and NGO's for investment programming.
Expected Results
The study will not be geared to providing an exhaustive analysis
of health needs and adequacy of services. As a result of this study, it is
expected that the budgetary and accounting relationship between the central
government and non-line health agencies will be defined in order to 1)
assist the Ministry of Health in designing the appropriate action plan for
the continued trasfer of health services to the regions; and 2) strengthen
the Ministry's negotiating power in the process of national budget
formulation and execution. It is also expe-ted that the study will
quantify the main sector problems based on the analysis of present
conditions, and recommend costed short-term and medium-term improvements
and mechanisms for introducing reforms. The analysis will be synthesized
in a proposal based on priorities and critical paths for improving the cost
effectiveness of the main elements of health care services at the regional
and subregional levels. The proposal will include analysis of
institutional arrangements in the sector, an annalized five-year
implementation schedule for main activities and investments, and estimates
of annualized unit and total investment and recurrent costs.



- 45 -                       ANNEX F
page 7 of 10
Study on Decentralization of National Roads Service (SNC)
Background
As part of its global decentralization strategy, the Government is
considering decentralizing transport services to the regions. In the
process of decentralizaticn of transport services, special attention is
being given to the National Roads Service (SNC), a branch of the Transport
Ministry responsible for executing road projects and providing road
maintenance services in the regions. As the public institution responsible
for road maintenance services both at the national and regional levels, the
SNC is the most importnant transport authority in terms of investment in
the transport sector. To a certain extent, the SNC already functions in a
decentralized manner: while the SNC is in charge of maintaining primary
roads, the regional corporations construct and maintaln small rural roads.
Because of the budgetary restrictions it currently faces, the SNC is
overburdened by the responsibility of financing and administering the
maintenance of primary and secondary roads in the regions. As a result,
the Transport Ministry has begun to identify further resources and
responsibiities that the SNC should delegate to the regions.
The decentralization of road maintenance and construction services
will require that a number of issues be addressed before the regions can
take on additional responsibilities for road maintenance services and
investment. Under the current system, for example, a decentralization of
these services to the regions would not be feasible:  the regions do not
have the administrative and financial autonomy to provide ioad maintenance
services. Toll rates are too low to cover any service costs, and there are
few returns on SNC investments at the regional level due co the low
priority given to cost recovery in project design and exeuction. Finally,
any decentralization of these services to the regions will have to be in
the context of a well defined national transportation strategy which
clearly establishes the division of responsibilities between the Transport
Ministry and the regional entities, and which will ensure the coordination
of regional decisions on investment, construction, and the contracting of
public debt to finance road services.
Objectives
This study will assist in determining the institutional structure
of the SNC and the financial needs arising from the transfer of further
responsibilities for road service and maintenance to the regions. It will
also define the division of functions bwteeen the central and regional
governments. Specifically, it will:



- 46 -                         ANNEX F
page 8 of 10
1) Determine the capacity of regional corporations to mobilize
and invest resources needed to finance and expand road
maintenance services;
2) Identify better cost-recovery methods for road maintenance at
the regional level, so that returns on investments in road
construction are sufficiently high to cover maintenance coots
and the execution of additional projects. These methods might
include: i) increasing tolls; ii) determining additional
financing capacity by the regional corporations from other
sources such as taxes and royalties; and iii) creating
mechanisms for increasing the agroindustrial sector's
contribution to road maintenance;
3)  Examine the possibility of cost-sharing between national and
regional governments for financing various road categories,
i.e. regional financ'ng of small roads, regional and national
financing of secondary roads, and national financing of major
roads;
4) Based on 2) and 3), define the regional corporations' and
de artmental municipalities' financial responsibilities to
maj.ntain roads;
5) Determine the institutional and administrative capacity of a
region to take on additional responsibilities for road
maintenance, and on this basis, propose mechanisms for SNC's
administrative and institutional decentralization; and
6) Once the necessary procedures have been defined to
decentralize road maintenance services, establish the rules to
coordinate corporations' and municipalities' planning methods
for road maintenance and related decisions on investments,
construction and contracting.
Expected Results
As a result of this study, it is expected that sufficient basic
information will be produced on the current status of road maintenance
services, the cost of financing these services, and the degree of control
of these services by central and regional agencies to determine the
division of functions between the national and regional entities regarding
road maintenance and construction services. On this basis, it is expected
that the Transport Ministry will have an indication of those services
presently provided by the SNC which could be feasibly transferred to the
regions. Also, the study will provide information on the financial and
institutional capacities of the regional entities that are currently
providing some road mtl ,tenance services, and on the potential financial
capacities that could stem from greater attention to cost recovery methods
by regional transport agencies.



- 47 -
ANNEX F
Page 9 of 10
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR STUDY ON DECENTRALIZATION OF
EDUCATION SERVICES
Introduction
The Government's strategy for the social sectors requires that
mechanisms be designed to improve the qaality and efficiency of basic
services, including education. The main components of the Government's
decentralization strategy for education should be: a definition of the
scope of services (i.e., clear delineation of services in the urban, rural,
and border areas); a determination of the means to achieve budgetary
decentralization for financing decentralized education services; limits on
recurrent costs for education;  identification of incentives to improve the
performance of teachers and education administrators; and, determination of
the role of private education.
When considering the possibility of a future decentralization of
public education services, the transferral of resources and
responsibilities to the corporations and municipalities will require an in-
depth analysis of the division of functions between the Ministry of
Education and the regional education administrations, as well as an
evaluation of the financial, institutional, and administrative capacities
of the regions to take on additional responsibilities of providing
education services.
Obiectives
This study will concentrate on key issues relating to the
decentralization of education services, and include: a) an assessment of
the current operations and finances of educational services at the national
level; b? an evaluation of the institutional, financial, and
administrative capacity of the regions under a scheme of decerntralized
education services; and, c) recommendations for the necessary measures to
decentralize education services and provide the regions with higher quality
education.
In order to attain these objectives, the following activities will be
undertaken:
- determination of the current distribution of public and private
financial resources for eduwation at the national, departmental,
and local level, and an estimate of financial needs at the
regional level arising from decentralization;
- evaluation of regicnal development corporations' and
municipalities' current organizationl structure and
institutional and administrative capacity to provide
education services;
- analysis of human resource policies in the education sector,
including recruitment, transferral of personnel, remuneration
and tzaining.



- 48 -
ANNEX F
Page 10 of 10
- redefinition of functions which are the responsibility of the
Ministry of Education and those which would correspond to the
regional corporations and municipalities under a decentralized
education scheme.
Expected Results
As a result of this study, it is expected that there will be a
solid analytical basis to define the division of labor and responsibilities
between the national, regional, and local institutions providing and
administering education servicesi. Based on this analysis, the Ministry of
Planning, in conjunction with the H4nistry of Education, will formulate a
proposal defining the s .ope of and setting forth and action plan for the
decentralization of education services to the regional corporations and
municipalities.



- 49                                             ANNEX G
Table I: BOLIVIA: i4PLeO EN EL SECTOR PU%ICQ
(Numaro de Personal)
Instruc3ion*o                     1980        1981        1982       1988        *1984       1985       1986     1987(e)
Total General                          193,118     199,962    204,016    224,436      235,922     245,579    220,793    212,443
Al      Administracion Central          97.207     101,441     103,852    119,860     127,094     132,080    124,393     129,29s
1.     Poder Executivo                  95,217      99,793     102,399    117,502     124,862     127,671    121,281     138,152
1.1    Prcaidencni de la Republlcs       1,904       2,295       2,712      2,712       2,710       2,550      1,421       1,402
1.1.1  Pronidencia                         486        S80        1,294      1,274       1,211       1,210        268         270
1.1.2   I.N.S.O.S                        1.418       1.867       1,413      1,418       1,477       1,340      1,153       1,132
1.1.3   Con-ojo Not. Maritimo                0           0           0          0           0           0          0           0
1.1.4  Conal                                 0           0           0          0           0           0          0           0
1.2    Minist.rios del Eatado           93,283      97,663      99,655    115,058     121,921     126,491    '17,327     124,721
1.2.1  Relaclones Exterior.                712         768         774        778         791         802        743         s32
1.2.2  Interior Min. Justicis           12,048      12,463      12,474     12,516      13,792      14,366     15,347      15,369
1.2.3   Dfvnxa Nacional                      0           0           0     11,047      11,047      11,460     11.272      11.270
1.2.4  Aeranautica                           0           0           0      2,713       2,713       2,821      2.581       2.580
1.2 5  Plane.. y Coordinwcion              398         891         346        351         357         367        314         8ll
1.2.3   Finanzae                         3,395       8,891       3,613      4.620       4,257       8,414      3,149       S,112
1.2.7   Ecucacion y Cultura  1/         62,718      66,559      68,173     69,686      74,089      76,956     73,570      78,000
1.2.8  Tranap. y Co uniceciona           2,127       2,152       2,045      2,060       2,187       2,254        109         149
1.2.9   Industra s  Comercio               357         354         379        384         890         405        254         254
1.2.10 Trabajo y Des. Laboral              362         402         874        403         410         480        321         321
1.2.11  Provision y Salud                9.604       9,600       9,774      9,801      10.121      10,199     10,046      11,02S
1.2.12  Mineris y Htatlurgis               247         247         241        262         289         804        166         170
1.2.13  Agric. y Asuntos Camp.             869         841         841        803         824         80         779         677
1.2.1'  Energis E Hidrocarburos             72          74          74         77          83          89         67          67
1.2.15  Urbcnios  Y Vivicndn               S76         416         388        398         416         430        330         330
1.2.16  Informcionos                         0           0         164        184         154         164        121         112
1.3    Tribunal Fiscal                      SO          80          32         32          S1          S0         81          29
2.      Poder Logislntivo                  351           0           0        346         721         733        706         706
8.      Poder Judicial                   1,429       1,453       1.453      1,692       1,692       2,065      2.872       2.375
4.      Corte Nacional Eloctroral          210           0           0         20          19         206         34          62
B.     Adm. Descontralizada             81,399      83,379      83,791    88,004       90,491      93.745     79,811      66,344
1.     Corporeclon do Dsarrollo          2.295       2,868       8,17       3677        3,702       4,377      2.862       2,885
2.      Inatituclonos Publicas          25,913      2s,872      24,730    24,609       2s,973      27,834     22,1S2      22,182
S.      Empressa Publica.               51,994      53,417      52,600    56,283       57,991      58,347     61,671      88,171
4.      Emprosa  Hixtux                  3,199       3,226       3,288      3,455       2,860       3,167      3.156       3,156
C.      Adm. Doscouc.ntrads                589         591         602        602         575         61O        482         490
1.     Prefecturas                         589         591         602        602         575         610        482         490
0.      Adminlstrocion Local             9,333       9,547       8,962      8,953      10,30s      10,695      8,656       8.66s
1.     Municipal ded..                   9,333       9,547       8,962      8,953      10,305      10,695      8,658       8,663
E.      Adoinistraclon Autonama          5,590       6,005       6.809      7.016       7,457       9,449      7,641       7,680
1.     Univerasidados                    8,590       6,005       6,809      7,016       7,457       9,449)     7,841       7,650
I/ Incluye personal decents dol Ministorio de Educacion (urbane, rural y provincial)
iU Inforeaclon presentxda por of CBEL. Datao para 19`1 - 1986.
(o) Estado
Source:  Government of Bolivia, Ministry of Finance



- 50 -
ANNEX H
REPUBLIC 'v BOLIVIA
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT STRENGTHENING OPERATION
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
A. Background Papers
Al.      IMF. Bolivia: Cambios Estructurales en los Sistemas y
Procedimientos de la Administracion Tributaria, October 1987.
A2.      MPC. Descentralizacion de los Servicios de Educacion y
Salud. April, 1988.
B. Proiect Documents
B3.      Tax Reform Law No. 843 of May 28, 1986, introducing a new tax
system based on the Value Added Tax, and a new tax administration
system.
B2.      Supreme Decree No. 21964 of July 1, 1988, creating the Regional
Development Fund, and delineating its main structure and
functions.
B3.      Statement of Objectives of the Public Sector Management Scheme
B4.      Terms of Reference for Investment Planning and Programming
consultants
B5.      Terms of Reference for Tax Administration consultants
B6.      Terms of Reference for Government Statistics consultants
C. Proiect Working Papers
Cl.      IDA. Regional Planning and Decentralization, June, 1988.
C2.      IDA. Continuation of the Tax Administration Reform Program,
June, 1988.
C3.      IDA. Information Systems for Investment Planning in the MPC,
June, 1988.



,I                4J                                                        I S
,0.   > t                            4                                             ,~BOLIVIA,
-       ^ r Moin Roads                 Relief lmetes)            Climotic Zones
~*  __    /,    \'iSecondary Roads                              9;6o AND ABEOV
500 - 600COLD (4500 -~ .nd obo.)
< ; _      /t IBERALTA    -a--.-- Roilroods                      4     000 _ =E         P R
-                                          - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers          3000 - 4000               )COOL (3000-4500na)
\          P  AA N    Da       O' -D,N5X5-         i   3Deportment Boundaries                                     Ioo  _ 2000                SUB-TROPICAL
International Boundaries         0 - 1000                 TROPICAL
K,                                 }                                    .~1   t   e  .  , 6     B RAZIL
Ix  7  LA    PA Z               R       B       EjN           I                                                                  PERU             Tan!
.14                                                       Snt Ano
TRINIDAD                                                                                 v    ,FARAG*A. -  L_.io
.  A R G E Nrto                                                                                                         I             NA'~ .  
-a
0 RU   I
---a-                                                                                              
P.ja,~~~~~~~~a,,,     OLOMETEOS~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~    1 BLII
22-~~~~~~~~0
6fl                                                     'l64'                                                      6_                   _  _  _   _  _  _



