Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16106
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT STRENGTHENING OPERATION
(Cr. 1977-BO)
November 12, 1996
Country Operations Division I
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit: Boliviano (Bs)
Exchange Rate: June 1995
Bs 1.00 = US$ 0.21
US$1.00 = Bs 4.78
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AEDP        Agro-Export Development Program
CG          Consultative Group
CLAD        Centro Latinoamericano de Administraci6n para el Desarrollo (Latin America Center for Administrative
Development
CNV         Comisi6n Nacional de Valores (Stock Exchange Commission)
CSU         Civil Service Unit
DGII        Direcci6n General de Impuestos Internos (National Internal Revenue Directorate)
DIP         Direcci6n de Inversi6n Pzublica (Public Investment Unit)
EIH         Encuesta Integrada de Hogares (Integrated Household Survey)
EMSO        Economic Management Strengthening Operation
ENHAR       Rural Household Survey
FIS         Fondo de Inversi6n Social (Social Investment Fund)
FNDR        Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Regional (National Fund for Regional Development)
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
IBTA        Agricultural Technology Development Program
IDA         International Development Association
IDB         Inter-American Development Bank
INE         Instituto Nacional de Estadisticas (National Institute of Statistics)
LPP         Ley de Participacion Popular (Popular Participation Law)
LSMS        Living Standard Measurement Survey
MACA        Ministry of Agriculture and Peasant Affairs
MDH         Ministry of Human Development
MFED        Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
MOF         Ministry of Finance
MPC         Ministry of Planning and Coordination
MSA         Management Service Agreement
MSDE        Ministry of Sustainable Development and Environment
PCU         Project Coordinating Unit
PFMO        Public Financial Management Operation
PIP          Public Investment Program
PIU         Public Investment Unit
PPU         Popular Participation Unit
PSM         Public Sector Management
RDC         Regional Development Corporation
SAFCO       Sistema de Administracion Financieray Control Gubernamental (Financial Admin. & Control System)
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
SDR         Special Drawing Right
SISIN       Sistema de Informacion y Seguimiento de Inversi6n (Investment Information & Monitoring System)
SNIP        Sistema Nacional de Inversi6n Publica (National System of Public Investment)
UDAPE        Unidad de Andlisis de Politicas Economicas (Economic Policy Analysis Unit)
UDAPSO       Unidad de Analisis de Politicas Sociales (Social Policy Analysis Unit)
UNDP/OPS  United Nations Development Program, Office for Project Services
USAID       US Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface ..............................................................
Evaluation Summary ............................................................                                                   iii
Part I. Project Implementation  Assessment .............................................................                           1
Introduction and Background .............................................................1
Project Objectives and Description ............................................................1l
Achievement of Project Objectives .............................................................2
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ...........................2
Association Performance ............................................................                                   14
Borrower Performance ............................................................                                      15
Assessment of Outcome and Project Sustainability ............................................... 15
Current and Future Operations ............................................................                            16
Key Lessons Learned ............................................................                                      16
Part II. Statistical Annexes
Table  1. Summary of Assessments ............................................................                         18
Table 2. Related Bank Credits ............................................................                            20
Table 3. Project Timetable ............................................................                               21
Table 4. Staff Resources used in Credit Preparation/Supervision ......................... 22
Table 5. Estimated Project Costs ............................................................                         23
Table 6. Estimated Component Cost by Year ........................................................ 24
Table 7. Use of Credit Funds and Swiss Co-financing by Project Component
and Source of Funds ............................................................                         25
Table 8. Disbursements by Fiscal Year by Component ......................................... 26
Table 9. Status of Legal Covenants ............................................................                       27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
ofricial duties. Its contents may not other%ise be disclosed %idhout World Bank authorization.l



i



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT STRENGTHENING OPERATION (EMSO)
(CREDIT 1977-BO)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Economic Management
Strengthening Operation (EMSO) for which Credit 1977-BO in the amount of SDR 7.14 million
(at appraisal US$ 9.7 million equivalent) was approved on December 22, 1988 and made
effective on May 24, 1989. The Credit was closed on June 30, 1995 after three extensions for a
total of three years. The last disbursement of the project was in July 1995. A Swiss Grant in the
amount of SwF 4 million (at appraisal US$ 2.5 million) to assist in the financing of the project
was administered by the Association. IDB also provided cofinancing for certain project
activities.
The ICR was prepared by the Country Operations Division I, Country Department III,
Latin America and the Caribbean Region (LA3C1). The Borrower prepared a separate report
which has been made part of the official project files. Preparation of this ICR is based, inter alia,
on the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the Credit Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence
between the Association and the Borrower, reports by the Borrower, and internal memorandum
of the Association. There has been no special ICR mission. Comments on the draft ICR
received from the Borrower in correspondence dated September 24, 1996 have been largely
incorporated into this final version.
Acting Vice President       Mr. Gobind Nankani
Director                    Mr. Paul Isenman
Division Chief              Mr. Dan Morrow
Country Officer             Ms. Deborah Bateman



I



-iii-
Implementation Completion Report                                                   Bolivia EMSO (Cr. 1977-BO)
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT STRENGTHENING OPERATION
(CREDIT 1977-BO)
BOLIVIA
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives and Implementation Results
i.      Objectives: The central objective of the Economic Management Strengthening Operation
(EMSO) was to support institutional development and specific analytical work to facilitate the
sustained implementation and consolidation of the medium term macro-economic policy
introduced in August 1985.
ii.     Content and Implementation Results: To attain this overall objective, this technical
assistance contained five distinct components each with more specific objectives. The overall
outcome of the project was rated as satisfactory in every major area. The objectives of each of
the components, along with the implementation results are presented in the following table.
Component Objective                         | Implementation Results
Strengthen economic policy making and        This objective was met to a large extent, although with considerable
management in the areas of public investment  delays. Current public investment procedures are significantly improved
programming, sectoral analysis, links between  and considerable efforts have gone toward establishing the norms and
investment and budgeting, implementation of the   providing training, including more recently at the municipal level.
investment program, and project monitoring and   Substantial pogress has been made in developing and implementing
evaluation.                                  technologies for these purposes.
Increase tax revenues through the expansion of    As tax collections increased from 5% of GDP in 1988 to over 7% of GDP
on-going work in tax administration.         in 1990, this objective was met to a large extent within the given time
period. Nevertheless, there are additional measures that are now being
undertaken to further strengthen and improve tax administration and tax
collection efforts (including reorganizing the internal revenue office and
establishing a unit to focus on the largest 500 taxpayers).
Assist in the design of a coherent and well-  The objectives of this component were partially met, however, with
phased strategy for regional planning and     significant delays and diversions. The project provided support to the
management by supporting studies on the       successful Popular Participation Program, however, ended before the more
financial, fiscal, and institutional implications of   recently passed Administrative Decentralization Law.
decentralization and resources to implement the
strategy.
Improve public sector productivity by supporting   This objective was met to a limited degree. While considerable progress
the Government's Public Sector Management     was made in developing the program, including developing and testing a
Strengthening Program, including its efforts to  manual outlining procedures for identifying, selecting and evaluating
rationalize salaries and attract and retain skilled    candidates, and about 300 positions were incorporated into a formal civil
manpower.                                    service program, before mid-I 995, little progress was made rationalizing
the overall public service salary scale. However, since the closing of the
project, the Government has shown a strong commitment to implementing
the civil service program.
Implement a living standards measurement     These objectives were partially met. While work remains to fully achieve
survey and support the expanded responsibilities  these, the project contributed significantly to developing tools to monitor
of the National Statistics Institute (INE).  the impacts of economic policies on the poor and improving national
statistics.



-iv-
Implementation Completion Report                           Bolivia EMSO (Cr. 1977-BO)
Project Sustainability
iii.   The prospects for the long-term sustainability of most of the sub-components are
generally favorable. Despite a high dependence on foreign-financing for consultants operating in
Government line positions, many of the functions supported by the project-especially, public
investment planning, and statistical services-are essential and will have to be continued even in
the absence of project financing. Furthermore, given the current Government's commitment to
the Popular Participation program and the general popular/political support for decentralization,
the sustainability of these programs are also generally favorable. In order for the PSM
component to be sustainable, a number of important things will be required. Most importantly,
future Govermments will need to: (i) continue to provide strong and integrated leadership and
coordination of the implementation of the reform process; (ii) maintain political commitment
across successive changes in Governments-i.e., the reform supported by the Civil Service and
Administrative Reform (CSAR) will not be completely implemented until 2005; and (iii) ensure
that the program remains fiscally sustainable-i.e., future Governments will be required to
continue increasing the treasury share of financing for the program. While the current
Government strongly supports these principles, they must be carried forward into future
administrations. The proposed CSAR Project-widely supported by the donor community and
currently at an advanced stage of preparation-includes measures to help to ensure such
continuity. Finally, as currently designed and intended by the Government-to incorporate only
about 2,500 public employees-the Civil Service program is fiscally feasible. Nevertheless,
there are likely to be pressures to expand the program-including granting significant salary
increases-to additional groups of public sector employees-for example, at the prefectura
and/or municipal levels. If the program is not contained, the fiscal consequences would likely be
unsustainable.
Lessons Learned
iv.   The key lessons learned may be summarized as follows:
*  It is difficult to implement a complex and comprehensive technical assistance project
through more than one change in administration. In addition to shifts in philosophy
and basic strategies, each change in administration can bring changes in priorities,
personnel, and the roles of different Government agencies. The lack of continuity
resulting from these changes results in slow progress.
*  Government commitment, general policies, priorities, sectoral objectives and
manpower needs must be clearly defined and monitored for such a program to be
implemented successfully and in a timely manner.
*  The success of certain reform programs is dependent on the environment in which
the reform takes place. As institutional strengthening aims at changing the behavior
of institutions and the personnel in these institutions, introduction of change is often
in conflict with existing norms and may threaten the informal institutional culture.



_v_
Implementation Completion Report                               Bolivia EMSO (Cr. 1977-BO)
*  Communication and coordination among all entities involved is critical to the
success of such a technical assistance project with numerous components, many
agencies and many small contracts. Successful implementation requires close
cooperation, clear-cut decisions at the highest levels and clear delineation of
responsibility.
*  To effect capacity building and strengthening activities, an adaptive approach has to
be taken. A great deal of flexibility is required, especially in a politically sensitive
environment, and the process is lengthy.
*  While the design of a comprehensive and complex technical assistance project may
be cost effective in terms of project preparation, it can be costly to effectively
supervise and manage, both on the part of the Bank and on the part of the
Government. In this case, the level of complexity led to many extensions and
reduced project effectiveness. The number of objectives/components must be
prioritized and limited within any project to ensure achieving those objectives.
*  For implementing agencies, institutional strengthening technical assistance projects
are often viewed as "budgetary support". It is essential that such projects do not
allow institutions to place greater reliance on external sources to finance day-to-day
activities of Government.
*  Existing institutional capabilities must be factored into project design. If the long-
term objectives are to be achieved, then more attention must be paid to the presence
of counterparts, counterpart funds, and the political and institutional environment.
*  The developmental impacts of training personnel, providing computers and other
equipment, designing and implementing procedures, regulations, norms and systems
are not short-term. They can only be measured in terms of increased productivity,
efficiency and viability of economic institutions over many years.



I~ ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~       ~~~~       ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT STRENGTHENING OPERATION
(EMSO; CREDIT 1977-BO)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction and Background
1.    Faced with an economic crisis and hyperinflation in 1984-85, the Government that took
office in August 1985 undertook a comprehensive stabilization and adjustment program. Despite
the success of the stabilization efforts, during the late-i 980s GDP growth per capita remained
negative, Bolivia's terms of trade declined, revenue raising efforts were poor, and noticeable
public sector inefficiencies persisted. Fundamental reasons for the economic crisis were both the
size of and excessive interference by a large public sector and total deterioration of the
institutions responsible for economic management. Because of the severity of the prolonged
economic crisis during the 1980s, many Government agencies had suffered substantial declines
in productivity and effectiveness. Poor organization and management, and complicated
processes had limited the Government's administrative capacity, especially with regard to project
implementation. Furthermore, civil service salaries had deteriorated, severely eroding the
Government's human resource base and limiting its ability to formulate and carry out prudent
economic management of the country.
Project Objectives and Description
2.    Project Objectives: The central objective of the Economic Management Strengthening
Operation (EMSO), appraised in June 1988 and approved by the Board in December 1988, was
to support institutional development and specific analytical work to facilitate the sustained
implementation and consolidation of the medium term macro-economic policy introduced in
August 1985.
3.    Project Components: In order to attain this overall objective, this technical assistance
project contained five distinct components each with more specific objectives. The components
intended to: (i) strengthen economic policy making and management in the areas of public
investment programming, sectoral analysis, links between investment and budgeting,
implementation of the investment program, and project monitoring and evaluation-supported
by the Public Investment Programming and Implementation Component (US$6.9 million);
(ii) increase tax revenues through the expansion of on-going work in tax administration-
supported by the Tax Administration Component (US$1.5 million); (iii) assist the Government
in designing a coherent and well-phased strategy for regional planning and management by
supporting studies on the financial, fiscal and institutional implications of decentralization and



-2-
Implementation Completion Report                          Bolivia EMSO (Cr. 1977-BO)
resources to implement the strategy-supported by the Regional Planning and Management
Component (US$2 million); (iv) improve public sector productivity by supporting the
Government's Public Sector Management (PSM) Strengthening Program, including its efforts to
rationalize salaries and attract and retain skilled manpower-supported by the PSM Component
(US$1.5 million); and (v) implement a living standards measurement survey and support the
expanded responsibilities of the country's National Statistics Institute (INE)-supported by the
Strengthening of Statistical Services Component (US$3.1 million).
4.    Linkage with Macro Strategy: Included among the key reasons behind the economic
crisis of the mid-1980s were: (i) both the size of and excessive interference by a large public
sector; and (ii) total deterioration of the institutions responsible for economic management.
Complementing the IDA-financed Public Financial Management Operation (PFMO I; Cr. 1809-
BO) that was intended to improve financial management, this operation was designed to address
other pressing problems facing economic management and was deemed important for achieving
IDA's broad country program objectives. Most notably, the country objectives at the time
included assisting the Government to implement its medium term economic program and
providing analytical support and helping to maintain an effective policy dialogue on the macro-
economic framework.
Achievement of Project Objectives
5.    As indicated by Table 1 in the Statistical Annex, the overall outcome of the project was
rated satisfactory. Despite some shortcomings, given the prevailing economic and public sector
conditions, the project was necessary and relevant. However, the number of project components,
the complexity of each of the components, the number of implementing agencies, and the
numerous changes in Government led to implementation delays that required extending the
closing date for a period three years past the originally anticipated date. Overall, project
sustainability is deemed likely, however, this will depend to a large extent on implementing the
Civil Service Program within the key Governmental units supported by the project. Even now,
to a large extent, these units-most notably, the Public Investment Unit (PIU), the secretariats
responsible for implementing the popular participation and decentralization initiatives, the
National Statistical Institute and the Civil Service Unit-continue to be financed by donors.
With the closing of the project, alternative sources of donor funding were secured for all units,
but the only sustainable alternative is to incorporate these units into the Civil Service Program
and for the treasury to gradually assume responsibility for financing the key personnel
responsible for these functions. Provided that subsequent Governments continue to do this,
project sustainability is likely.
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
6.    Public Investment Programming: The objectives of the public investment programming
and implementation component were to: (i) support efforts within the Public Investment Division
(DIP) of the Ministry of Planning and Coordination (MPC) to improve its ability to formulate a
public investment strategy that included carrying out investment analysis, implementation,
monitoring and evaluation, as well as overall information management by providing training and



-3-
Implementation Completion Report                                 Bolivia EMSO (Cr. 1977-BO)
technical assistance; (ii) expand and strengthen the Financing Disbursement Unit of the DIP; (iii)
train personnel within DIP, sector ministries, and the Regional Development Corporations
(RDCs) in project analysis and evaluation; (iv) manage pre-investmentlfeasibility studies of
RDCs and sector ministries; (v) assist sector ministries, including the Ministry of Agriculture and
Peasant Affairs (MACA), to formulate sector strategies and to strengthen their public investment
programming and implementation capabilities; (vi) consolidate the operations of the Sistema de
Informacion y Seguimiento de la Inversion (SISIN) and the National Public Investment System
(SNIP) and expand these systems to the RDCs'; and (vii) acquire and provide training in the
related computer hardware and software.
7.    The DIP started to develop the information systems in late-1988, and the preliminary
systems were extended to several regions and some sector ministries in the next few years.
Project-financed consultants developed and operated the systems, provided training to four RDCs
(Santa Cruz, Tarija, Cochabamba and Beni), and provided computer equipment in a number of
institutions. During this time, the project also financed consultants within the DIP, including a
pre-investment advisor, sector specialists and financing experts.2 However, when attempts were
made to expand the systems to additional institutions, problems were encountered because
certain sub-systems were not fully developed, others were not being used due to lack of
information, and the MPC had no leverage to force other institutions to use the systems.
Additional problems developed, and it was determined that the system was flawed in design.
Consultants prepared a diagnostic report, developed a plan to redesign the system (including
overhauling the organization of the database), and as a result, SISIN training to additional
institutions was suspended in early- 1991.
8.    Nevertheless, during the remainder of 1991, the SISIN and project evaluation
methodologies continued to be introduced into more sectoral ministries, and several of the
Fondos (FIS and FNDR). During 1991, the development of methodologies for carrying out
economic and social analysis of projects was also initiated. Prior to the end of 1991, real
progress in implementing this component was slow in part due to financing problems, partially
caused by disagreements over the design and emphasis of the proposed DIP work program.
More specifically, IDB financing lapsed for a significant period of time, resumed only when
there was agreement on the objectives and work programs (August 1992). At the end of 1992,
several key DIP positions remained unfilled, and high turnover had led to additional delays in the
development and implementation of the SISIN/SNIP systems. Specifically, many consultants
contracted for these development activities were required to carry the entire workload of the unit
and often carried out the day to day activities of the unit, including developing and monitoring
the three-year Public Investment Program (PIP).
SISIN is the financial information and monitoring system for public investment projects. SNIP is a system for
tracking individual projects through their various stages, including identification, appraisal, approval, and post
evaluation.
2   A financing unit was created in 1989 to overcoming major disbursement bottlenecks that had resulted in low
disbursement ratios.



-4-
Implementation Completion Report                                       Bolivia EMSO (Cr. 1977-BO)
9.     Beginning in 1993, implementation improved with the joint IDA/IDB support. In
addition to the fact that the activities of the DIP were fully financed, the joint IDA/IDB support
signified full agreement between all parties on the priorities and work program of the unit. With
the change in Government (August 1993), a new director for the Public Investment Unit (PIU)
was appointed, the PIU was restructured, and the central team was substantially reduced (from 35
to 19). Despite these changes, the unit's quality of the work improved. However, in the early
days of the new administration, the Executive Branch was restructured (October 1993) and
overall responsibility for public investment planning became unclear as the MPC was dissolved
and its responsibilities fragmented among three different ministries.3 Furthermore, the passage
of the Popular Participation Law (LPP; April 1994) imposed new and additional work on the
staff of the PIU.4 This law imposed a fundamental change in the public investment process and
presented a substantial implementation challenge to the PIU. To transfer investment projects and
prepare the municipalities for their new roles, a number of activities were initiated by the PIU,
including training, developing manuals with instructions on defining and developing sectoral
investment projects, and developing the norms and regulations for the new system.
10.    As a result of these changes in course, limited progress was made during the year with
regard to developing and adapting the technical instruments and methodologies. Nevertheless,
the transferring of existing investments and providing training in the investment project cycle
proceeded fairly successfully and in a timely manner. In addition, the activities of the unit
towards achieving the mandates of popular participation were well-defined and carried out with a
great deal of inter-Governmental coordination, including the Popular Participation Unit (PPU)
During 1995, the Govermnent finally made significant progress towards completing development
of public investment methodologies and systems and establishing the enabling norms and
regulations. Within the past six months, norms for many of the systems mandated by the
Financial Administration and Control Law of July 1990 (SAFCO) were issued (including those
for SNIP and the National Planning System), thus legally establishing the framework that needs
to be followed for public investment planning by all public institutions.
11.    As part of this component, $0.5 million of the Swiss contribution was allocated to
strengthen the ability of the Ministry of Agriculture and Peasant Affairs (MACA) to plan sectoral
investments. The project financed studies relating to different aspects of agriculture and the
organization of MACA.5 These studies assisted in providing the basis for some important
Under the new structure, the Ministry of Sustainable Development and Environment (MSDE) assumed the
responsibility for pre-investment studies, the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development (MFED)
became responsible for developing the normative framework, aggregating/centralizing the processing of public
investment information, and the overall execution of the PIP, including ex-post evaluation, and the Ministry of
Human Development (MHD) became responsible for formulating social sector public investments using the
framework established by the MFED.
4   Through this law, much of the existing social sector infrastructure in health, education, culture, sports, rural
roads and irrigation was to be transferred to the municipalities. They would in tum assume the responsibility
for maintaining existing investments and planning/executing future investments. The law established 310
municipalities in the country, of which 198 were created for the first time.
This work included: (i) an assessment of training needs and development of a training program; (ii)
development of guidelines for the preparation of livestock and agricultural projects; (iii) a review of export



-5-
Implementation Completion Report                                     Bolivia EMSO (Cr. 1977-BO)
programs in the sector, including helping to lay the framework for some future Bank projects,
including the Agro-Export Development Program (AEDP), the Agricultural Technology
Development Project (IBTA), and the National Land Administration Reform.
12.    The project also provided a limited amount of funding for pre-investment studies. Given
the importance of the pre-investment phase in identifying and preparing investments, as a
condition for use of the funds allocated for pre-investment studies, the Government revised the
guidelines and criteria for selecting studies. It was agreed that the project could finance pre-
investment studies for high-priority public sector projects included in the PIP, and that proposals
meeting the criteria would be submitted and approved by IDA prior to initiation. A large portion
of these funds were used to carry out feasibility studies for the proposed multi-purpose
MISICUNI dam, a large public investment project which has been the subject of considerable
discussions between IDA and Bolivia for a number of years.
Summary: The objective of the component to strengthen core economic policy making
and management processes, especially the formulation and implementation of the public
investment program was met to a large extent, although with considerable delays. The
current public investment procedures are significantly improved and considerable efforts
have gone toward establishing the norms and providing training, including more recently
at the municipal level.
13.   Tax Administration Component: Following up on work begun under PFMO, the tax
administration component (cofinanced by IDB) supported four main activities anticipated to be
completed by end-1989. Included were: (i) finalizing development of the tax collection system
and improving the organizational structure of the Direccion de Impuestos Internos (DGII); (ii)
developing and establishing a new tax collection and control system for import tariffs; (iii)
implementing the new tax collection systems in the regions; and (iv) developing and
implementing a computerized system for registering and controlling tax payments and credits.
For these activities, the project financed international technical advisors, incremental local
salaries, equipment, field visits and training.6
14.   During the project, there was successful implementation of: (i) a new regional tax
administration; (ii) organizational changes within the DGII; (iii) training of central and regional
tax officials; and (iv) publicity campaigns. As a result of the expansion of regional tax collection
efforts, the performance of tax collection improved significantly, in part due to "Emergency
Program", introduced in response to the decline in tax collection and the virtual lack of auditing,
publicity and tax enforcement measures during the pre-1989 election period. By early-1989, the
incentives; (iv) a legal analysis of MACA's proposed restructuring and responsibilities; (v) research on transfer
of technology; (vi) development of an evaluation and monitoring system; (vii) a review of public investment in
agriculture and an analysis of agricultural aid coordination; (viii) a study of agricultural financing prospects;
(ix) analysis of land use and tenure; and (ix) development of an operational strategy, policy framework, and
strengthening plan.
6   Project financing ended in June 1990, and afterwards, due to difficulties in securing counterpart financing for
the local consultants, the ability of the DGII to undertake verification, auditing and enforcement was affected
temporarily.



-6-
Implementation Completion Report                                Bolivia EMSO (Cr. 1977-BO)
new tax collection system was extended to the regions, a new system for import tax collection
declarations and payments through Customs was implemented, and work had begun on
developing the computerized system for registering and controlling tax payments and credits.
Starting from a base of 5% of GDP in 1988, tax collections increased to 6% of GDP in 1988, and
to over 7% of GDP in 1990. In terms of achieving measurable results, this component was the
most successful. Nevertheless, the component did suffer a number of setbacks-including lack of
counterpart funding for publicity and auditing and delays in developing enforcement programs-
which slowed the implementation of tax collection, auditing and control efforts. Furthermore,
lack of counterpart funding led to delays in training tax administrators and establishing the
offices for Large Taxpayers in Santa Cruz and Cochabamba. As with other components, there
were problems of high staff turnover, especially in key positions in the regional offices.
Summary: The objective of the component to strengthen the ability to mobilize revenues
was met to a large extent within the time period. Nevertheless, there are additional
measures that can and are being undertaken to further strengthen and improve tax
administration and tax collection efforts, including reorganizing the internal revenue
office and establishing a unit to focus on the largest 500 taxpayers.
15.   Regional Planning and Management Component: Activities supported under this
component included: (i) assisting to formulate a coherent decentralization strategy, including
legal norms for resource allocation and division of responsibility; (ii) designing mechanisms and
institutional improvements for strengthening coordination between the regions, sectors, and the
private sector; (iii) strengthening regional planning and coordination at the center; and (iv)
strengthening the ability of regional authorities to improve resource management and to
formulate regional strategies and investment programs.
16.   During the early phases of the project, activities focused on the preparation of numerous
diagnostic studies on the institutional and fiscal/financial status of the: (i) nine RDCs; (ii) main
municipalities; and (iii) selected sectors, including health, education, road maintenance, basic
sanitation, and agriculture. However, the Government was slow in articulating an overall
decentralization strategy. Drawing upon the diagnostic studies, a draft plan (prepared by MPC
and discussed in July 1991) encompassed a broad range of topics, including sectoral concerns as
well as the institutional and financial limitations that existed at the central, regional and local
levels. Simultaneously, in early-1990, the project also assisted the process of drafting
decentralization legislation, but by mid-1991, there were four different draft decentralization laws
on the agenda before a special session of Congress.7 Disagreements over the decentralization
concept in general, and hesitation to raise the issue before a full congressional debate resulted in
a lack of action. Following discussions among all the concerned parties, the draft law prepared
under the project was revised, re-submitted, approved "en grande" by the Senate in late-1992, but
never approved by the Congress. A very general law was redrafted (with the intention to
incorporate the details in the regulations), but set aside by the new administration in August 1993
These included two Government proposals (one prepared by EMSO consultants), a proposal from the civic
committees, and a congressional proposal.



-7-
Implementation Completion Report                                       Bolivia EMSO (Cr. 1977-BO)
to give priority to Popular Participation. Nevertheless, other pressures (primarily from the civil
committees) led to the eventual passage of a Decentralization Law (July 1995). 8
17.    During the early years of the project, the component suffered from weak leadership and
from a lack of clear institutional structure, as the various consultants were scattered throughout a
number of different institutions. In mid-1992, a Regional Policy Unit was established in the
MPC, a coordinator was named, and operational proposals incorporating decentralization into the
public investment planning process were prepared. This new unit was intended to coordinate
within the Executive branch all activities related to the decentralization process, and quickly
turned into an appropriate counterpart that was able to coordinate and integrate the works of the
project into the ministries and RDCs. The efforts at coordinating and promoting the
decentralization process were further strengthened through the establishment of an inter-sectoral
committee (mid-1992), and the design of decentralization pilot programs for the key sectors.
18.    As indicated, the 1993 change in administration brought with it a change in strategy or
"Popular Participation"-a program intended to decentralize political and economic decision
making process by transferring the administration of key public services and investment
resources to the municipalities. With this, responsibility for the component was transferred to the
newly created Popular Participation Unit (PPU) within the Ministry of Sustainable Development
8   The Popular Participation Law (April 20, 1994) "municipalized" the entire country, expanded the functions of
municipalities and restricted the role of RDCs. This law transfers to the municipalities the responsibilities to:
(i) operate and maintain facilities linked to basic infrastructure and human resources: (ii) deliver and supervise
municipal services, particularly in health and education; (iii) determine allocation of resources for capital
investment; and (iv) manage cadastre and vehicle registries linked to municipal revenues. Certain Central
Government assets--in primary and secondary education, primary health care, culture, sports, rural roads, and
irrigation--were transferred to the municipalities; however, at that time there was no transfer of costs
associated with personnel to the municipalities. This law (along with Law 1606-Modifications to the Tax
Law): (i) transfers to the municipalities responsibility for administering a number of local taxes-including
urban and rural property tax, municipal transfer taxes, and vehicle registration taxes; and (ii) allocates 20% of
"national income"-defined to include collections from the value added tax, the complementary value added
tax, the specific consumption tax, the transactions tax, the estimated corporate profits tax, customs taxes, the
tax on foreign travel,and other minor taxes-to the municipal governments. The "co-participation" funds are
to be distributed according to the population in each municipal jurisdiction and in each municipality, at least
90 percent of co-participation funds must be allocated to public investments. The Administrative
Decentralization Law (July 28, 1995) established the organizational structure of the Executive Branch at the
departmental ("prefectura") level, abolished the RDCs, and established an economic and financial regime to
improve and strengthen the efficiency and effectiveness of the public administration. Subject to the
established Government policies in each sector, responsibility is transferred to the prefectura for the: (i)
administration of departmental economic and financial resources; (ii) formulation and execution of regional
public investment projects; (iii) administration, supervision and control of the human resources and the
national budget items allocated to the operation of the education, health and social assistance services, subject
to the Government's policies for those sectors; (iv) administration, supervision and control of the operation of
services related to social assistance, agriculture and livestock and roads, in conformity with Central
Government policies; and (v) execution of the departmental budget, subject to the use of the SAFCO norms
and regulations. With regard to resources, among others, the prefectura receives: (i) departmental royalties;
(ii) resources from the Regional Compensation Fund; (iii) 25% of the collections of the special tax on
hydrocarbons; and (iv) resources provided by the National Budget for personnel expenditures in the health,
education, and social assistance sectors.



-8-
Implementation Completion Report                           Bolivia EMSO (Cr. 1977-BO)
and the Environment (MSDE), and the focus shifted from regional to municipal governments as
the level responsible for implementation. As a consequence, the program as originally envisioned
was radically modified and new work programs and terms of reference were developed to
support popular participation, for which the enabling law was approved in April 1994. The
project providing support for four different types of Popular Participation activities: (i) analysis
of municipal finances and economies, including development of financial systems; (ii)
development of a communication/dissemination program; (iii) definition and documentation of
districts responsible for the provision of key services; and (iv) development and implementation
of municipal strengthening programs. In addition, substantial progress was made toward
developing norms and regulations, designing and providing municipal training, and defining and
documenting districts. By early-1995, a significant number of municipalities had developed
operating plans and budgets-a notable achievement in that 198 of the 300 municipalities did not
exist prior to the passage of the law.
19.   As indicated, initially this component received little policy guidance and supervision
from the Government with implementation problems stemming from the lack of leadership and
coordination between the EMSO-supported work sectoral ministries, and other projects.
Furthermore, while there was somewhat of a general consensus (at the central and regional
levels) that the Central Government should relinquish some of its control, there was little
consensus regarding how much power should be transferred and to what level (RDC or
municipal). For any decentralization proposal to proceed beyond the study phase, a clear political
definition of and commitment to the degree of political and financial autonomy of
regional/municipal governments was necessary. The originally proposed legislation simply
expressed a general political intent to decentralize the public sector, with specifics to be included
in the regulations. The contents of the early decentralization laws posed concerns, as they did not
provide a clear framework for the division of responsibilities and functions between the different
levels of Government and ignored an evaluation of the potential fiscal and financial implications
of the proposed scheme. Although many studies of these and other issues related to
decentralization were carried out, little of the analysis and few of the proposals were utilized in
the formulating the strategy of drafting the law. This reflecting the Government's lack of
commitment and involvement at the time.
20.   Despite the limited progress towards developing the envisioned-decentralization
legislation, the project did provide important assistance to allow for the development of key
background studies and-the development and initial implementation of Popular Participation and
municipal strengthening. In that there is still limited capacity at the municipal level, more recent
Bank projects have continued to support the program. More specifically, a Municipal Sector
Development Project (FY94) is helping to improve municipal management and provided
resources for municipal investments, particularly in the disadvantaged regions, and a Rural
Communities Development Project (FY96), is supporting rural investment identification and
formulation and training in the participatory planning methodologies. Nevertheless, the problem
of improving Bolivia's limited implementation capacity-at the national, regional and municipal
levels-will continue to be a challenge for a number of years.



-9-
Implementation Completion Report                           Bolivia EMSO (Cr. 1977-BO)
Summary: The component's objectives to assist the Government to design its program
of decentralization and regional economic management and to train regional and local
government staff to implement these programs were partially met, however, with
significant delays and diversions. Although the project has provided support to the
successful Popular Participation program, the recently passed Decentralization Law
contains some previously identified problems, including the lack of a clear framework for
the division of responsibilities and functions between the different levels of Government.
Nevertheless, these deficiencies were dealt with in the regulations to the law.
21.   Public Sector Management Component: As initially designed, the two major objectives of
the PSM program were: (i) the immediate need to fill approximately 500 core higher level
positions (directors to mid-level managers) in the central ministries; and (ii) the longer-term
objective to develop and implement a comprehensive civil service reform. The purpose of the
PSM program was to improve the quality and efficiency of the delivery of public services in part
by implementing a system to attract, select, hire, retain and develop highly technical and
competent public servants. To achieve these objectives, the project supported a PSM Secretariat
(responsible for administering the program and carrying out policy related work), and a number
of important civil service studies (including analyzing 10 agencies and 3 RDCs) designed to
provide data so that decisions could be made about public employment, including defining the
scope and focus of the comprehensive reform. Additional analytical would define pay and
employment conditions, including policies on hiring, firing, salary increases, and evaluations,
and help to determine the "critical" Government positions.
22.   The first Government proposal for the PSM program was presented at the 1988 meeting
of the Consultative Group (CG), and the donors expressed a willingness to support the program
as long as steps were taken toward fundamental reform. Over the next few years, there was
considerable progress toward developing the program, including developing and testing a manual
outlining procedures for identifying, selecting, and evaluating candidates for key positions.
However, there were also disruptions caused by transferring institutional responsibility for the
program (from the MPC to the Ministry of Finance), and the lack of a director for one year (from
mid- 1991 to mid- 1992). In mid- 1992. efforts intensified as a new Director was appointed, the
PSM Secretariat was created, and a long-term contract to the Centro Latinoamericano de
Administracion para el Desarrollo (CLAD) was awarded for studies (including estimating the
costs of the reform ), establishing a personnel management system, and preparing a training
program. Also in 1992, a framework for a PSM program was developed, including section
criteria and terms of reference for key positions in the pilot agencies (MOF, MACA, and DGII).
The studies on the financial aspects of the scheme-pay and employment conditions,
management, financial control, and auditing procedures-and on the design and implementation
of the comprehensive program, proceeded slower than expected, but progress was made. In close
collaboration with donors (primarily the Dutch and Swiss) the pilot programs were introduced,
and through this process the recruitment and selection procedures were developed, tested, and
refined.
23.   Through the CLAD contract, a comprehensive organization and human resources
information system (Sistema de Organizaci6n y Recursos Humanos--ORH) was developed and



-10-
Implementation Completion Report                             Bolivia EMSO (Cr. 1977-BO)
piloted in the Ministry of Finance. Based on the result of the studies and pilots, in late-1992 the
Government re-focused its efforts and launched a civil service reform program. This program
was partly designed in response to concerns expressed both by IDA and other donors on the need
to: (i) place the program within an overall framework that tackled the central public
administration and established appropriate institutional structures and staffing; (ii) ensure fiscal
feasibility; and (iii) apply transparent procedures for the selection of public employees. The
program targeted the central public administration (about 14,600 employees) and through a
realignment of the skills mix, envisioned a reduction to approximately 9,500 employees over a
10 year period. The program introduced the use of transparent selection processes (that were
implemented with donor participation), and established a more favorable compensation scale for
selected public employees. The salaries of those incorporated into the program were increased
significantly with some financing provided by the treasury, but substantial contributions by the
donors.
24.   The new Government (1993) expressed its commitment to civil service reform and
established a goal of incorporating 460 public servants into the program by end-1994. Despite a
change in the program's director, there was a high degree of continuity with respect to technical
personnel and program design. However, mainly due to the executive branch reorganization and
the fiscal implications of the Government's ambitious reform program, the scope of the civil
service program was questioned and reassessed. At the 1994 CG Meeting, it was announced that
the program had been scaled down and would be limited to 1,200 management level positions. In
early-1995, the scope and coverage of the program was again reassessed and another program
(incorporating about 2,500 positions) announced. Additional personnel and institutions continued
to be incorporated into the program during these years, but by end- 1995, the program had
incorporated less than 300 positions.
25.   Since the late-1980s, there has been consensus between the Government and the donors
that the lack of highly qualified public servants has affected the implementation of economic and
social programs. The low remuneration of civil servants led to a constant exodus of qualified
staff, especially at the managerial and technical levels and in turn resulted in the emergence of an
ad hoc system by which international organizations competed for human resources and financed
Government line positions as "consultants". For example, all line positions at the middle and
upper levels of several key central ministries (including the MPC), were occupied by externally-
financed consultants working under different contracts, salary scales, terms of employment and
terms of reference. As there was no universal salary structure, many donor-financed consultants
operating in line positions jumped from one assignment to another in search of higher salaries,
and the competition among the donors for the limited supply of well-trained Bolivians increased
the salaries. In early- 1990, job classifications and a salary scale were established, but the use of
the scale was not enforced and not adhered to.
26.   In some respects, the accomplishments of this component were weak with regard to what
was accomplished, because of: (i) frequent changes in leadership that contributed to a lack of
continuity and momentum; and (ii) numerous changes in the scope/coverage of the program with
little emphasis on analyzing the aggregate financial effects, including fiscal feasibility. On the
part of the Government, there was also some hesitation in settling the salary issue mainly because



-11-
Implementation Completion Report                              Bolivia EMSO (Cr. 197 7-BO)
of the benefits received by the few well qualified individuals who resigned from the public
service to become foreign-financed "consultants". In addition, real political commitment to the
program was sometimes questioned, as public sector jobs in Bolivia had traditionally been used
as rewards for political loyalty. Thus, a change in administration was accompanied not only by
changes in philosophy, but with extensive replacement of personnel at all levels. However,
during the 1993 administrative transition, the incoming Government generally respected the
formal appointments made in the Civil Service Program. Furthermore, since early-1995, the
Government has undertaken a number of actions-including reformulating and integrating the
civil service and administrative reform strategy, demonstrating leadership required for the
effective implementation of the program, and establishing the required legal and regulatory
framework-to demonstrate its commitment to implementing a serious civil service reform
program in conjunction with other administrative reforms to strengthen its ability to deliver
services. This reform continues to receive IDA support from the Civil Service and
Administrative Reform Project (CSAR) currently under preparation.
Summary: The objective to increase civil service productivity through the immediate
rationalization of the salary structure, and in the medium term, through the establishment
of a sound public sector management and personnel system in order to attract and keep
motivated civil servants was met to a limited degree. While considerable progress was
made in developing the program, including developing and testing a manual outlining
procedures for identifying, selecting and evaluating candidates and about 300 positions
were incorporated into a formal civil service program, before mid- 1995, little progress
was made rationalizing the overall public service salary structure (i.e., there was no
standard government or donor pay structure). However, since the closing of the project,
the Government has shown a commitment to implementing a civil service reform
program. The program developed in conjunction with the proposed Civil Service and
Administrative Reform Project (CSAR)-at an advanced stage of preparation-
demonstrates the substantial progress that has been made in realizing this reform
program.
27.   Strengthening of Statistical Services: This component was designed to strengthen the
ability of the National Statistical Institute (INE) to carry out socio-economic survey work and
improve their national income accounting capabilities. Thus, the program supported: (i)
improvements in the national accounts, including the development of regional national accounts,
an income and expenditure survey, and new consumer price indices9; (ii) a number of rounds of
the Integrated Household Survey (EIH); and (iii) a multipurpose LSMS-style Living Standard
Measurement Survey and a rural household survey. With regard to the latter, it was agreed that
INE would: (i) conduct two surveys each year that would contain the same base questionnaire
and a supplementary section; (ii) gradually extend the coverage of the survey, making it
nationwide by 1990; and (iii) undertake rural household surveys starting in 1990.
28.   Project support to INE, primarily through computers, personnel and vehicles, began in
late- 1988. Following the appointment of a new Director (fall 1989), a priority became updating
The supplements--modules on education, health, expenditures, labor market activities, demographic
information and housing characteristics--would vary, but each year one survey would contain a supplement on
economic data and the other contain a supplement on social data.



-12-
Implementation Completion Report                           Bolivia EMSO (Cr. 1977-BO)
the national accounts, including changing the methodology/base year (from 1980 to 1988) and
starting to develop regional accounts. Despite numerous significant delays, the 1988-based
Regional National and Sectoral Accounts (1988-92) for five sectors and all regions were
complete and published in 1994. While there were also delays in carrying out the EIH-the
project provided total or partial support for five different rounds-they were done annually and
during late- 1992, the project supported computer-assisted programs and training that enabled
more rapid collection and processing of information. In summary, the project provided support
for numerous socioeconomic surveys, including: (i) five rounds of the EIH (to monitor the
impact of economic policies on vulnerable groups); (ii) the Food Consumption Monitoring
Survey, that provided information for standardizing weights and measurements for different
products in different regions; (iii) the Consumer Price Index survey, that resulted in an improved
methodology incorporating price data from more cities; (iv) Regional and Sectoral National
Accounts that were re-based and used a new methodology; (v) the Geographic System that
allowed for the digitalization of data and maps; and (vi) development of a comprehensive
economic and social database (the National System of Statistical Information). The technical
support provided by the project was complemented by assistance provided by USAID and the US
Bureau of the Census.
Summary: The objective of monitoring the impact of economic policies on vulnerable
population groups through a living standards measurement survey and generally
improving the quality and coverage of national statistics was met in p2art While work
remains to fully achieve these objectives, the project contributed significantly to
developing tools to monitor the impact of economic policies on the poor and improving
national statistics. Nevertheless, the component faced a number of challenges, including
frequent changes in management and staff. Furthermore, given INE's high dependence on
foreign financing, future rounds of surveys developed under the project are in no way
ensured.
29.   Training. Although not a separate component, the project supported considerable training
activities and the maintenance of a project training coordinator (with the responsibility for
developing a training plan) was included as a legal covenant. Prior to mid- 1992, training was
very active, with courses held for the MPC (public investment planning) and INE. The training
coordinator was also good in establishing relationships with training institutions in other
countries and in securing additional funds for courses. While the training did contribute to
improving human capital in the supported institutions, the benefits were somewhat limited given
the high staff turnover. In addition, for a number of years, the implementation of the public
investment training program was limited due to a weak overall strategy between the MPC, sector
ministries, and RDCs. For this reason and a change in the training coordinator, training activities
were limited after mid-1992, and the role of the training coordinator was changed to include
following up on work programs and evaluating the output of the various components. More
comprehensive training strategies were developed for each component, and specific training
activities were developed by component specific training coordinators (most important for civil
service and public investment). At various times, concerns were expressed about the: (i) high
reliance on international consultants to even teach the most basic courses on financial and
economic analysis; and (ii) length, complexity, and intensity of courses. Finally, administrative



-13-
Implementation Completion Report                           Bolivia EMSO (Cr. 1977-BO)
procedures imposed by U`NDP/OPS placed a burden on the training program and on occasion led
to delays in payments to service providers.
30.   Furthermore, in the final six months of the project, limited support to strengthen and
produce important studies and/or legislation was provided to three additional key economic
institutions: (i) the Unidad de Andlisis de Politicas Economicas (UDAPE), the Government's
economic policy unit; (ii) the Comision Nacional de Valores (CNV), the Stock Exchange
Commission; and (iii) the Unidad de Andlisis de Politicas Sociales (UDAPSO), the
Government's social policy unit.
31.   Project Management: To minimize disruptions from changes in administration, the
project required: (i) establishing a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) and appointing a project
director; and (ii) entering into Management Services Agreement (MSA) with a local procurement
agency. The main responsibilities of the PCU were to: (i) ensure coordination among the
different implementing agencies, cofinanciers, and IDA; (ii) assist implementing agencies in
preparing annual work plans and budgetsl1; (iii) prepare progress reports; and (iv) oversee the
procurement of goods and services. The Government entered into an MSA with UNDP/OPS
(April 1988), that was subsequently extended throughout the life of the project.
32.  In part due to the two administration changes, there were five different project
coordinators during the life of the project. Since the day-to-day responsibilities for substantive
project matters were in the hands of the various implementing agencies and UNDP/OPS was
responsible for contracting services, project activities continued even during the transition
periods. While the intention had been to create a PCU with only administrative responsibilities,
at times the PCU became rather top-heavy and expensive. Initially, a significant share of funds
went to the PCU, making project management the most costly "component" of the project. At
other times, the large PCU made significant contributions to improving the quality of the work,
including maintaining tighter control over the use of project funds. During periods of strong
implementing agencies, the size of the PCU was reduced, but nevertheless, project management
absorbed more than 10 percent of the credit funds.
33.   At times, the use of UNDP/OPS imposed serious impediments to project implementation.
Although UNDP/OPS procedures were viewed as overly bureaucratic and inflexible, they
contributed to better control over the use of project funds. However, the most serious problems
with the use of the MSA were caused by a sometimes unclear relationship between the
UNDP/OPS operating unit in La Paz and their headquarters. More specifically, mostly the
responsibility of headquarters, there were delays in submitting withdrawal applications,
justifying use of funds, and in renewing the MSA. For example, a delay in submitting a
withdrawal application to IDA resulted in UNDP being without funds for four months (early-
1991), and the MSA lapsing (11/91 to 1/92) meant that no new contracts and other expenditures
could be committed for three months. Starting in mid-1992, a number of steps were taken to
alleviate these and the other types of problems. Further MSAs were amended to allow for: (i) the
I0  Annual work programs and budgets for each component were prepared and discussed in November/December
of each year.



-14-
Implementation Completion Report                          Bolivia EMSO (Cr. 1977-BO)
use of two different types of contracts- "line positions" and lump-sum contracts for specific
outputs-for local consultants; (ii) revised contract clauses that established a closer relationship
between the Government and the consultants; (iii) UNDP/OPS management of the Swiss funds;
and (iv) inclusion of performance criteria to address processing delays. Audits for the credit
were not carried out by the Government because they were under the umbrella of the MSA with
UNDP/OPS. However, copies of the annual audited statements prepared by the designated
auditors of UNDP/OPS were provided.
34.   Cofinancing: In April 1989, the Governments of Bolivia and Switzerland signed an
agreement for a non-reimbursable contribution of SwF 4 million (US$2.5 million equivalent at
the time of appraisal, however, equivalent to US$2.9 million by the last year of the project) to
cofinance the project. The funds were administered by IDA based on a 1987 Procedural
Arrangement. The funds contributed to the public investment, regional management and public
sector management components of the project. US$0.5 million of the Swiss fund was earmarked
to assist the MACA to improve its sectoral analysis and public investment programming
capabilities. The IDB also cofinanced the tax administration component in the amount of
US$0.8 million, and provided parallel financing to the public investment component. In the
SAR, the Government's contribution to the project was estimated at US$1.2 million, but by
project closing, the actual Government contribution was noticeably higher (about US$2.2
million). The SAR anticipated financing from the Government of Italy that never materialized.
At project closing, undisbursed balances remained-SDR 72,206.11 from the IDA Credit and
SwF 397,793.10 from the Swiss cofinancing (a total equivalent of US$0.42 million at current
exchange rates)-that were subsequently canceled.
Association Performance
35.   The first identification mission for the project took place in late-1986, the project was
appraised in May 1988, and the project was approved in December 1988. Prior to Board
presentation, total time allocated to the project was 115 staff weeks during FY88-FY89, or an
average of about 70 staff weeks per fiscal year. Given the complexity of the project, many of the
project components were supervised independently, adding significantly to the supervision costs.
During the supervision period, FY89 to FY95 a total of about 170 staff weeks were spent on
supervision or an average of about 25 staff weeks per fiscal year. On average, one large stand-
alone supervision mission was carried out each year, but at least during the latter years of the
project, partial supervision missions were held on average three times a year. The Bank's task
manager for the project changed in March 1992 and supervision intensified with greater
supervision responsibility also given to the Resident Mission. These actions resulted in a more
closely supervised project that was also more able to adapt and respond to events occurring in
Bolivia. However, the considerable resources devoted to preparing and supervising the project
were unavoidable given the number of components and the complexity of the project.
36.   The project was implemented on the basis of work programs that were discussed and
agreed on annually. While such a system worked well to establish priorities for a given year,
actual follow up on fulfillment of work programs was often lacking. Finally, the project
contributed significantly to the perpetuation of the current system of donor-financed consultants



-15-
Implementation Completion Report                            Bolivia EMSO (Cr. 1977-BO)
operating in Government line positions. During project design and implementation, greater
efforts should have been taken to minimize the use of project funds for this purpose.
Borrower Performance
37.   New Governments meant shifts in strategy, changes in priorities and in personnel, as well
as changes in the basic philosophy and role played by different Government agencies, especially
those involved in economic planning and development.- The changes in administration-all of
which involved changes in project management and frequently changes in institutional
responsibility for project components-contributed to a lack of continuity and a decrease in
momentum. The project was appraised and negotiated under one Government, and implemented
under two different Governments. Changes in administration meant uncertainty about the
specific elements of the policy framework and generally resulted in the introduction of a "new"
set of priority reforms. Naturally, such changes in administration are inevitable and can be
managed through well-planned and smooth transition processes that include maintaining key
personnel. However, the "reforms" and measures supported by the project-primarily civil
service and decentralization-were generally not on the list of new Government's priorities, as a
result, generally for at least six months prior to and six months proceeding an election project
activities slowed substantially. Furthermore, many components of the project suffered from
frequent high turnover in personnel, both at the technical and director levels.
38.   In addition, the Government institutions that benefited from the project continue to have a
high reliance on foreign financing, both for personnel and for other current expenditures
associated with carrying out the day-to-day activities of the units. As such a practice is likely not
to be sustainable in the longer run, the Government should have made greater efforts to carry out
day-to-day activities using Treasury resources and using the foreign technical assistance funds to
overcome the identified institutional weaknesses.
Assessment of Outcome and Project Sustainability
39.   During the lifetime of the project, the development objectives and implementation status
were generally rated satisfactory. At times, however, due to changes in key project personnel,
lack of counterpart financing and project management problems related to the status of the MSA,
ratings in other specific categories suffered.
40.   The prospects for the long-term sustainability of most of the sub-components are
generally favorable. Despite a high dependence on foreign-financing for consultants operating in
Government line positions, many of the functions supported by the project-especially, public
investment planning, and statistical services-are essential and will have to be continued even in
the absence of project financing. Furthermore, given the current Government's commitment to
the Popular Participation program and the general popular/political support for decentralization,
the sustainability of these programs are also generally favorable. The component that is most
questionable in terms of sustainability is the PSM because of a number of factors, including
implementation risks that: (i) leadership and coordination of the implementation of the reform
process may not be sufficiently strong and integrated to ensure success; (ii) political commitment
may not be sustained across successive changes in Governments-i.e., the reform supported by



-16-
Implementation Completion Report                                Bolivia EMSO (Cr. 1977-BO)
the CSAR will not be completely implemented until 2005 or after another three
congressional/presidential elections ; and (iii) the program proves to be fiscally unsustainable.
As currently designed and intended by the Government-to incorporate only about 2,500 public
employees-the program is fiscally feasible. However, there are likely to be pressures to expand
the program (i.e., grant significant salary increases) to additional groups of public sector
employees-for example, at the prefectura and/or municipal levels. If the program is not
contained, the fiscal consequences would likely be unsustainable.
Current and Future Operations
41.   The proposed Civil Service and Administrative Reform Project, currently under
preparation, will continue to assist the Government in further strengthening its economic
management abilities. Specifically, this credit will support the implementation of a civil service
reform that is linked to implementation of the administrative support systems mandated by the
Financial Administration and Control (SAFCO) Law and the introduction of management reform
initiatives and meeting key performance targets. Related operations currently on-going include:
(i) the Municipal Sector Development Project, that is supporting strengthening the economic
management capabilities at the municipal level, including development of a municipal civil
service; and (ii) the Rural Communities Development Project, that is helping to operationalize
and institutionalize the participatory planning processes at the municipal and community levels,
following the principals laid down in the Popular Participation Law; and (iii) the Second Public
Financial Management Operation (PFMO II), that supports complementary efforts to strengthen
the Government's financial management ability. The proposed Public Financial
Decentralization and Accountability Project is related to the latter project and will provide
support to strengthening financial management capabilities at the decentralized levels (i.e.,
prefecturas and municipalities).
Key Lessons Learned
42.   The key lessons leamed may be summarized as follows:
*   It is difficult to implement a complex and comprehensive technical assistance project
through more than one change in administration. In addition to shifts in philosophy
and basic strategies, each change in administration can bring changes in priorities,
personnel, and the roles of different Government agencies. The lack of continuity
resulting from these changes results in slow progress.
*   Government commitment, general policies, priorities, sectoral objectives and
manpower needs must be clearly defined and monitored for such a program to be
implemented successfully and in a timely manner.
These risks and the other identified risks of the CSAR--i.e., management reform risks and financial
sustainability risks--are discussed in more detail in the Public Information Document on this project.



-17-
Implementation Completion Report                              Bolivia EMSO (Cr. 1977-BO)
* The success of certain reform programs is dependent on the environment in which
the reform takes place. As institutional strengthening aims at changing the behavior
of institutions and the personnel in these institutions, introduction of change is often
in conflict with existing norms and may threaten the informal institutional culture.
*  Communication and coordination among all entities involved is critical to the
success of such a technical assistance project with numerous components, many
agencies and many small contracts. Successful implementation requires close
cooperation, clear-cut decisions at the highest levels and clear delineation of
responsibility.
*  To effect capacity building and strengthening activities, an adaptive approach has to
be taken. A great deal of flexibility is required, especially in a politically sensitive
environment, and the process is lengthy.
*  While the design of a comprehensive and complex technical assistance project may
be cost effective in terms of project preparation, it can be costly to effectively
supervise and manage, both on the part of the Bank and on the part of the
Government. In this case, the level of complexity led to many extensions and
reduced project effectiveness. The number of objectives/components must be
prioritized and limited within any project to ensure achieving those objectives.
-  For implementing agencies, institutional strengthening technical assistance projects
are often viewed as "budgetary support". It is essential that such projects do not
allow institutions to place greater reliance on external sources to finance day-to-day
activities of Government.
E Existing institutional capabilities must be factored into project design. If the long-
term objectives are to be achieved, then more attention must be paid to the presence
of counterparts, counterpart funds, and the political and institutional environment.
* The developmental impacts of training personnel, providing computers and other
equipment, designing and implementing procedures, regulations, norms and systems
are not short-term. They can only be measured in terms of increased productivity,
efficiency and viability of economic institutions over many years.



-18-
Implementation Completion Report                                     Bolivia EMSO (Cr. 1977-BO)
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives Substantial    Partial       Negligible    NotApplicable
Macro policies                  O            E3               0                 a
Sector policies                 E            2l               O 
Financial objectives            O            E2l              O                 O
Institutional development       E            21               O                 E
Physical objectives             a            0                0                 El
Poverty reduction               [            21               0                 a
Gender issues                   E            El               01
Other social objectives         0            [1               El                0
Environmental objectives        E            0                O                 21
Public sector management        0            0                0                 0
Private sector development      0            El               0                 0
Other (specify)                 El           O                C1                21



-19-
Implementation Completion Report                                     Bolivia EMSO (Cr. 1977-BO)
B. Project sustainability           Likelv         Unlikely      Uncertain
0          ~~~~0 El
Highly
C. Bank performance                 Satisfactorv    Satisfactory   Deficient
(1)            (v")          (V)
Identification                           a             El              [1
Preparation assistance                   E             El              O
Appraisal                                E              0l             E
Supervision                              El            El              E
Highly
D. Borrower performance             Satisfactoa     Satisfactr    Deficient
(v')           (V)           (/)
Identification                            E             El              E
Preparation assistance                    E             El              E
Appraisal                                El             0               a
Supervision                               El            0               0
Highly                                       Highly
E. Assessment of outcome     Satisfactor    Satisfactr    Deficient      Unsatisfactory
(1)         (V)              (V)              (V)



-20-
Implementation Completion Report                           Bolivia EMSO (Cr. 1977-BO)
Table 2: Related Bank Credits
Year of
Credit Title                         Purpose                    Approval  Status
Operations Preceding EMSO
Public Financial Management          Improve Government's         1987    Closed
Cr. 1809-BO                          Financial Management
Ability, including tax
collection
Operations Following EMSO
Public Financial Management II       Continue strengthening       1991    On-going
Cr. 2279-BO                          financial management ability
Municipal Sector Development Project    Improve municipal         1994    On-going
Cr. 2560-BO                          management, including civil
service
Rural Communities Development Project  Support to participatory   1995    On-going
Cr. 2772-BO                          planning process
Civil Service and Administrative Reform   Implementation of civil  Expected  Proposed
service reform               1997



-21-
Implementation Completion Report                                           Bolivia EMSO (Cr. 1977-BO)
Table 3: Project Timetable
Measures                                      Planned Date                  Actual date
Time taken by Country to Prepare Credit                                     18 months
Identification Mission                                                      April 1987
Initial Preparation Mission                                                 December 1987
Pre-Appraisal Missions                                                      May-June 1988
First Presentation to the Bank                                              August 1988
Appraisal Mission                                                           June 19881'
Delivery and Discussion of Project                                          August 1988
Negotiations                                                                November 10- 11, 1988
Approval By Board Directors                                                 December 22, 1988
Credit Signing                                                              January 1, 1989
Date of Effectiveness                         February 1989                 May 24, 1989
Supervision Missions                                                       September 1988
(Partial and for Specific Components)
March 1989
September 1989
March/April 1990
October 1990
January 1991
July 1991
September 1991
March 1992
December 1992
February 1993
April 1993
November 1993
March 1994
June 1994
November 1994
March 1995
Closing date EMSO and Swiss Grant Agreement   June 30, 1992                 June 30, 1995L
Notes:
1.     After approving the report from the pre-appraisal mission, Regional Management decided to consider that
mission the appraisal mission.
2.     Closing date was extended three times: (i) December 31, 1993; (ii) December 31, 1994; and (iii) June 30,
1995



-22-
Implementation Completion Report                             Bolivia EMSO (Cr. 1977-BO)
Table 4: Staff Resources used in Credit Preparation/Supervision
(Staff Weeks)
Stage/Fiscal Year 1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996 Total
Pre-appraisal     97.5                                                    97.5
Appraisal         17.6  17.6                                              35.2
Negotiations              6.6                                              6.6
Supervision              18.9  33.3 20.4  33.4  33.6  19.4  13.1         172.1
Completion Report                                                  4.0    4.0
Total 115.1  43.1  33.3 20.4  33.4  33.6  19.4  13.1  4.0  315.4



-23-
Implementation Completion Report                           Bolivia EMSO (Cr. 1977-BO)
Table 5: Estimated Project Costs
(US$ Thousands)
Estimated Costs                  Local  Foreign   Total    % of Foreign
Exchange
Economic Management
PIP Fonnulation & Implementation    3,030   2,772   5,802         69
Tax Administration                 412    926       1,338         48
Regional Planning and Management    899    828      1,727         48
Public Sector Management
PSM Strengthening                  397    498        895          56
Civil Service Studies               175    273       448          61
Support to Statistical Services   1,800    778      2,578         30
Project Management                  979    221      1,200         18
Total Base Costs                  7,692   6,296    13,988         45
Physical Contingencies              327    127       454          28
Price Contingencies               1,686    461      2,147         21
Total Project Costs               9,705   6,884    16,589         41



-24-
Implementation Completion Report                                        Bolivia EMSO (Cr. 1977-BO)
Table 6: Estimated Cost by Component by Year
(US$ Thousands)
1988    1989    1990    1991         Total
Economic Management
PIP Formulation & Implementation         610.2  2,556.3   3,052.   693.1   6,911.8
Tax Administration                        280.3  1,242.0       -       -     1,522.3
Sub-Total Economic Management              890.5  3,798.4   3,052.   693.1   8,434.1
Regional Planning and Management           310.0    684.4     604.   430.4   2,028.9
Public Sector Management
PSM Strengthening                         59.6    362.1      382.   232.1   1,036.1
Civil Service Studies                    159.6    361.3        -      -       520.9
Sub-Total Public Sector Management         219.1    723.4     382.   232.1   1,557.0
Support to Statistical Services          1,070    1,183.8     518.   365.5   3,128.9
Project Management                         198.6    516.0     377.   348.1   1,440.6
Total Project Costs                      2,688.5  6,906.0   4,934. 2,060.1  16,589.5



-25-
Implementation Completion Report                                    Bolivia EMSO (Cr. 1977-BO)
Table 7: Use of Credit Funds and Swiss Co-financing
by Project Component and Source of Funds
(US$ Thousands)
Component/Source             IDA                   Swiss                 Total
Public Investment            2,092.74                                     2,092.74
MACA                           504.50                34.37                  538.87
Tax Administration             738.00                                       738.00
Regional                       869.56               683.47                1,553.03
Civil Service                  841.83              1,417.21               2,259.04
INE                          2,232.74               154.81                2,387.55
Coordinating Unit              851.02                                       851.02
Administration1                500.81               135.95                  636.76
PPF2                           959.10               294.19                1,253.29
Total                        9,590.29              2720.00               12,310.30
Notes: I Administration Costs primarily include the fee for the MSA.
2 PPF funds supported: (i) preparation of the Public Investment Component;
(ii) expansion of the SISIN; (iii) expanding the financing unit in the DIP;
(iv) initial studies for the Regional and PSM components; (v) preliminary
survey work for the INE household surveys; and (vi) consultants to prepare
detailed project action plans.



-26-
Implementation Completion Report                              Bolivia EMSO (Cr. 1977-BO)
Table 8: Disbursements by Fiscal Year(l)
(US$ Millions)
Source        FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95  TOTAL
IDA Planned      1.0    4.3    2.3    2.1                                      9.7
IDA Actual             1.76   1.01    1.00   2.62    3.00   0.05   0.15       9.59
Swiss Actual           0.33                                 1.39   1.00       2.72
Total Actual           2.09    1.01    1.00   2.62   3.00    1.42    1.12    12.31
Note: (1) As the majority of project and Swiss funds were included in the Management Service
Agreement with UNDP/OPS, the majority of disbursements reflect replenishments of
funds with UNDP/OPS and not actual project expenditures.



Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Original    Revised
Covenant            Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Section   type      Status    date        date         Description of covenant                     Comnments
2.01                C                                  Credit Amount:
SDR 7.2 million
2.03                C         06/30/92     12/31/92    Closing Date
12/31/94
06/30/95
2.04                NYD       04/14 and                Payment dates (commitment charges and
10/15 each              services charges)
year
3.01 (a)   3/4      C                                  Government shall carry out the project through
the Project Implementing Agencies, and shall
provide the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
3.03 (a)   3        C                                  The borrower shall: (i) enter into an agreement   Effectiveness condition
(b)                                                    (MSA) satisfactory to IDA with a procurement
agency for the purposes of providing
administrative services for the Project on behalf
of the Government; and (ii) exercise its rights
under the MSA.
3.04 (a)   5        C                                  The borrower shall maintain a project       Effectiveness condition,
coordinating unit.                          along with appointment of
Project Director
3.04 (b)  5         CD        01/15/89                 The borrower shall establish and maintain a
working group who shall be responsible for the
formulation and review of proposals under parts
B.2, B.3, and B.4 (decentralization).
3.04 (c)   5        C                                  Issue the necessary supreme decree for the
implementation of the decentralization strategy.



Origia R..... ievised.....
Covenxant     0      0gwOnFCRVe ulf.lle   ulllmt.                                        ::
Section   type  Status    date  daeDsipino covenatCmet
3.04 (d)   5        C                                  Issue the necessary executive decree and
implementing regulations establishing and
maintaining the PSM program.
3.05 (a)   9        C         not later                The borrower and association, shall exchange
than 11/30               views on the progress achieved in carry out the
of each                  Project and the working program for the
year                    following year.
3.05 (b)  9         C         4 wks prior              The borrower shall furnish to IDA a report that
to exchange              includes: (i) evaluation of programs and (ii) a
of views                 draft work program for each project
each year                implementing agency for the following year.
3.05 (c)   9        C         not later                The borrower shall furnish a finalized work
than 12/31               program.
of each
year
3.06     9          CD        03/15/89                 The borrower shall submit proposals
(satisfactory to IDA) in respect of the criteria
and procedures governing the use of funds for
the pre-investment studies.
3.07     9          CD        06/15/89                 The borrower shall submit a training plan
(satisfactory to IDA) for carrying out the
provision of training and TA.
3.08      5         CD        03/15/89     09/15/89    The borrower shall appoint, both the director for
the PSM program and the project training
coordinator.



Original     Revised
Covenant              Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Section   type        Status    date          date          Description of covenant                         Comments
3.09      5           C                                     The borrower shall ensure at all times that the
director for the PSM program and both project
director and project training coordinator is each
a person whose qualifications, experience, etc. is
acceptable to IDA.
4.01 (a),  9          C          At all times               Maintain separate records and accounts, have    Official records maintained
(b), (c)                                                    the records and accounts audited, retain records   by UNDP/OPS
until at least one year after IDA has received
audit.
4.01 (b)   9          CD         by 6/30                    Furnish to IDA certified copies of audit reports.   Given that the MSA was with
(ii)                             each year                                                                  UNDP/OPS, in the early
years there were problems
obtaining audit reports from
UNDP/OPS
6.03       10         C          04/07/89     07/18/89      Deadline for effectiveness
Key:
Covenant types:                                                                     Status:
1. Accounts/audit                                                                   C   Complied with
2. Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries                      CD = Complied with delay
3. Flow and utilization of project funds                                            CP = Complied with partially
4. Counterpart funding                                                              NC = Not yet complied with
5. Management aspects of the project or executing agency                            NYD = Not yet due
6. Environmental covenants
7. Involuntary resettlement
8. Indigenous people
9. Monitoring, review, and reporting
10. Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
11. Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12. Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
13. Other









JT'ric~ A  _~iJ
,I M   , AiI   %. i  r
-r             -r ,- -,P



