Page  1
October 4, 1993
Mr. Fernando Illanes
Minister of Finance and Economic Development
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
Avda. Arce No. 2147
La Paz, Bolivia
RE:
Dutch Grant Related to PPF Nos. 638-0-BO and 638-1-BO and to 
Credits Number 1809-BO, 1977-BO and 2092-130 Amendment to 
the Dutch Grant Agreement
Dear Mr. Illanes:
We refer to the Dutch Grant Agreement between the Republic of Bolivia and 
the International Development Association as Administrator of Grant Funds 
provided by the Minister for Development Cooperation of the Netherlands dated 
July 29, 1993 (the Dutch Grant Agreement).
We are pleased to inform you that we agree with your Government's proposal 
to modify certain provisions of the Dutch Grant Agreement as follows: 
1. Section 2.02
Paragraph (a): The words "the Schedule" are deleted and replaced by the 
words "Schedule 1";
Paragraph (b): Paragraph "(b)" is deleted and replaced by a n new 
paragraph "(b)" to read as follows:
"(b) The Recipient shall, for the purposes of the Project, open 
and maintain in dollars in its Central Bank:
(i)
for expenditures related to the PPF, a special deposit 
account (the PPF Special Account);
(ii)
for expenditures related to the First IDA Agreement, a 
special deposit account (the First IDA Agreement 
Special Account);
(iii)
for expenditures related to the Second MA Agreement, a 
special deposit account (the Second IDA Agreement 
Special Account); and
(iv)
for expenditures related to the Third IDA Agreement, a 
special deposit account (the Third IDA Agreement 
Special Account);
all on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator. Deposits into, 
and 
payments out of the PPF Special Account, the First IDA Special Account, 
the Second IDA Special Account, and the Third IDA Special Account shall be made 
in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement".
2.
Section 3.01. The words "Dutch Special Account" are deleted and replaced 
by "the PPF 
Special Account, the First IDA Agreement Special Account, the 
Second IDA Agreement Special Account, and the Third IDA Agreement Special 
Account (collectively, the Special Accounts)".
3.
In Schedule 1 to the Dutch Grant Agreement, paragraph 2 (c) is amended by 
adding 
after the word "quality," and before the word "and" the following 
words: "and the 
cost of consultants (including fees, per them and travel 
expenses, and related materials and services) and logistical support for the 
preparation and dissemination of information and promotion of public discussion 
on topics related to education".
4.
A new Schedule 2 is added as per Attachment I to this amendment letter.
Page  2
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and 
dating both duplicate originals of this letter in the space provided below, and 
returning one of the duplicate originals to us at your earliest convenience.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by the Minister for Development
Cooperation of the Netherlands
Yoshiaki Abe
Country Director
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Confirmed:
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Fernando Illanes de la Rioa
Authorized Representative
Date:
October 15, 1993
Attachment I
SCHEDULE 2
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Category (1) for the PPF 
Special Account, Category (2) for the First IDA Agreement special account, 
Category (3) for the Second IDA Agreement Special Account and Category (4) for 
the Third IDA Agreement Special Account, all as set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the amount of the Grant allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories In accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(c)
the term "PFF Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
US$86,600 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited in the PPF 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule;
(d)
the term "First IDA Agreement Authorized Allocation" means an 
amount equivalent to US$48,200 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and 
deposited in the First IDA Agreement Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) 
of this Schedule;
(e)
the term "Second IDA Agreement Authorized Allocation" means an 
amount equivalent to US$17,200 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and 
deposited in the second IDA Agreement special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 
(a) of this schedule;
(f)
the term "Third IDA Agreement Authorized Allocation" means an 
amount equivalent to US$7,000 to be withdrawn from the Dutch Account and 
deposited in the Third IDA Agreement Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) 
of this Schedule; and
(g)
the PPF Authorized Allocation, the First IDA Agreement Authorized 
Allocation, the Second IDA Agreement Authorized Allocation and the Third IDA 
Page  3
Agreement Authorized Allocation shall be collectively referred to as Authorized 
Allocations.
2.
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
respective Special Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocations Of the Special Accounts so opened and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the respective Special Accounts shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the respective Authorized Allocations, the 
Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator a request or requests for a deposit 
or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the respective 
Authorized Allocations. On the basis of such request or requests, the 
Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account 
and deposit in the respective Special Accounts such amount or amounts as the 
Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Accounts, the Recipient 
shall furnish to the Administrator requests for deposits 
into the respective. Special Accounts at such intervals as 
the Administrator shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient 
shall furnish to the Administrator the' documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule 
for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Accounts such amount as the Recipient 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
respective Special Accounts for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Grant Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the respective Special 
Accounts, the Recipient shall, at such time as the Administrator shall 
reasonably request, furnish to the Administrator such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the respective 
Special Accounts:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all 
further withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions 
and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
respective eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special 
commitment entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the respective Authorized Allocations. Thereafter, 
withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Grant allocated to the respective eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the respective Special Accounts as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any 
payment out of the respective Special Accounts: (i) was made for an expenditure 
or in an amount not eligible a pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Recipient 
Page  4
shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator: (A) provide such additional- 
evidence as the Administrator may request; or (3) deposit into the respective 
special Accounts (or, if the Administrator shall so request, refund to the 
Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Administrator shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the respective Special 
Accounts shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding in the respective Special Accounts will not be required to 
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding 
amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the respective 
Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs (a), (b) 
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account gar subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in, accordance with the relevant provisions of 
this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
