Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1977-BO
Development Credit Agreement
(Economic Management Strengthening Operation)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 4, 1989
 CREDIT NUMBER 1977-BO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 4, 1989, between THE REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to obtain from The Inter-American Development Bank 
(IDB) a grant (the IDB Grant) in an amount equivalent to seven hundred and 
seventy-five thousand dollars ($775,000) to assist in financing Part A.2 of the 
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the IDB Grant 
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and IDB;
(C)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the Government of the Swiss  
Confederation (Switzerland) a non-reimbursable contribution in an amount of  four 
million Swiss Francs (SwF 4,000,000) (the Swiss Contribution) to assist in financing 
Parts A.l, B and C of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an 
agreement (the Swiss Contribution Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower 
and Switzerland;
(D)
Switzerland has appointed the Association to administer the Swiss 
Contribution in accordance with the provisions of a Procedural Arrangement dated April 
9, 1987 (the Arrangement) between Switzerland and the Association, and the Association 
has accepted such appointment;
Page  2
(E)
the Borrower intends to pursue the possibility of obtaining from the 
Government of Italy (Italy) an amount to be determined on the terms and conditions to 
be set forth in an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and Italy; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agreed as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Swiss Contribution Accounts" means the account established by 
Switzerland for the purposes of the Swiss Contribution;
(b)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the advance granted by the 
Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated February 12, 1988 
and May 5, 1988 between the Borrower and the Association;
(c)
"MPC" means Ministerio de Planeamiento y Coordinacion, the Borrower's 
Ministry of Planning and Coordination;
(d)
"MF" means Ministerio de Finanzas, the Borrower's Ministry of Finance;
 
(e)
"PSM Program" means the Public Sector Management Strengthening Program, a 
program to be established under the direction of the Borrower in accordance with 
paragraph (c) of Section 3.04 of this Agreement, and "PSM Secretariat" means the 
secretariat to be established under Part C.2 of the Project to administer such 
program;
(f)
"INE" means Instituto Nacional de Estadisticas, the Borrower's National 
Institute of Statistics;
(g)
"MACA" means Ministerio de Asuntos Campesinos y Agropecuarios, the 
Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
(h)
"Project Implementing Agencies" means MPC, MF, MACA and INE, and  
"Project Implementing Agency" means any one of the Project Implementing Agencies; and
(i)
"Proposed Decentralized Ministries" means the Borrower's Ministries of 
Health, Transport and Education, and "Proposed Decentralized Ministry" means  any one 
of the Proposed Decentralized Ministries and "Sector Ministries" means  the Proposed 
Decentralized Ministries and the Borrower's ministries of Energy, Mining, Industry and 
Agriculture, and "Sector Ministry" means any one of the Sector Ministries;
(j)
"RDCs n means Regional Development Corporations, the public entities 
established by the Law for Administrative Organization of the Executive Branch of the 
Borrower published in the Borrower's Official Gazette of September 1972 to administer 
the Borrower's regions, and "RDC" means any one of the RDCs;
(k)
"Administrative Services Agreement" means the agreement referred to in 
Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(l)
"PCU" means the unit established by the Borrower within MPC to administer 
the Project, and referred to in Sections 3.04 (a) of and 6.01 (b), and Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement;
(m)
"SISIN" means Sistema de Informacion y Seguimiento de la Inversion,  a 
computerized information and financial monitoring system established in MPC, RDCs and 
Page  3
the Sector Ministries; and
(n)
"Prior Project" means a project (the Public Financial Management 
Operation) for which a credit (Credit No. 1809-BO) was granted to the Borrower by the 
Association pursuant to a development credit agreement dated July 31, 1987.  
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent  to nine million seven hundred thousand dollars ($9,700,000) (SDR 
7,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn form the Credit 
Account and the amount of the Swiss Contribution may be withdrawn from the Swiss 
Contribution Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
for expenditures made or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the credit.
(b)
Except as the Association and Switzerland shall otherwise agree,  the 
allocation and withdrawal of the Swiss Contribution shall be governed mutatis mutandis 
by the provisions.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1992 or such later date  as the 
Association shall establish. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year  but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from a date sixty days after the 
date of this Agreement (the Accrual Date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from  the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the Accrual Date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied as of the next payment date in 
that year, specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, except that the rate set as of 
June 30, 1988 shall be allied as of July 1, 1988.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of l%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall by payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
April 15 and October 15 commencing April 15, 1999 and ending October 15, 2028. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on October 15, 2008 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%)  of such principal amount.
Page  4
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive 
Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the development of 
the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph 
(a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment 
not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so 
requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to include, in 
lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment 
of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment 
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under 
the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph  (b) 
above,  the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America to hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through the Project Implementing Agencies with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate personnel management, financial and 
economic practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
cause the Proposed Decentralized Ministries, RDCs and such other 
public entities as shall be required to carry out the Project or 
any Part thereof, to participate and assist in the implementation 
of the Project; and
(ii)
ensure that, unless otherwise agreed by the Association, the 
following Project Implementing Agencies shall have primary 
responsibility for carrying out the stated Part of the  Project:
Part A.1
-
MPC
 
Part A.2
-
MF
 
Part B
-
MPC (with Proposed
 
-
Decentralized
 
-
Ministries and RDCs
 
Part C 
-
MPC and PSM Secretariat
 
Part D
-
INE
 
Further provisions relating to the Project Implementing Agencies shall be as set 
forth in Part B of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,  procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
Page  5
(a)
enter into an agreement satisfactory to the Association (the 
Administrative Services Agreement) with a procurement agent acceptable to the 
Association for the purposes of providing administrative services for the Project on 
behalf of the Borrower including the contracting of consultants, arranging of training 
activities and procurement of goods to be financed from the proceeds of the Credit; 
and
(b)
exercise its rights under the Administrative Services Agreement in such a 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Association and the Project 
Implementing Agencies and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Administrative Services Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, for the purposes of carrying out the Project:
(a)
maintain, in a form and with functions and staffing satisfactory to the 
Association, a project coordinating unit (the PCU) having overall responsibility for 
the administration of the Project. Further provisions relating to the PCU shall be as 
set forth in Part A of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(b)
establish and maintain, not later than January 15, 1989, in a form and 
with functions satisfactory to the Association, a working group composed of 
representatives  from the Proposed Decentralized Ministries and RDCs, and chaired by a 
representative of MPC, who shall be responsible for the formulation and review of 
proposals for the carrying out of the activities to be carried out under Parts B.2, 
B.3 and B.4 of the Project;
(c)
issue the necessary supreme decree for the implementation of the 
decentralization strategy referred to in Part B.l of the Project;
(d)
issue the necessary executive decree and implementing regulations  
establishing and maintaining in a form and with functions satisfactory to the 
Association the PSM Program;
(e)
without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, furnish, promptly as needed, the funds,  facilities, 
services and other resources required for purposes of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section 3.04; and
(f)
at the request of the Association, meet with representatives of the 
Association and IDB, and with representatives of the Association and  Switzerland, for 
the purposes of coordinating, and exchanging views on, the carrying out and progress  
in implementating Part A.2 and Parts A.l, B and C of the Project, respectively.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall, not later than 
November 30 of each year, exchange views on: 
(i)
the progress achieved in carrying out the Project; and
 
(ii)
the work program for the following year for each Part of the 
Project.
(b)
Not later than four weeks prior to such exchange of views, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association a report in such detail and scope as the Association 
shall request, which report shall include:
(i)
an evaluation of progress achieved by the Borrower and by each 
Project Implementing Agency in the carrying out of the Project 
during such year; and
(ii)
a draft work program for each Project Implementing Agency in 
respect of the Part of the Project to be implemented by such 
Agency for the following year, including:
(A)
a statement of the objectives to be achieved and a 
description and timetable of the activities to be carried 
out to achieve such objectives;
(B)
detailed operating budgets,
 
(C)
a financing plan indicating the source of funds for each 
activity;
Page  6
(D)
a procurement program detailing the goods and services to be 
procured; and
(E)
detailed staffing, training and other technical assistance 
plans.
(c)
Not later than December 31 of each year the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association a finalized work program, satisfactory to the Association, by each Project 
Implementing Agency in respect of the Part of the Program to be implemented by such 
Agency for the following year including, without  limitation, the details set out in 
subparagraph (b) (ii) of this Section 3.05.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall submit to the Association, not later than March 
15, 1989, proposals, satisfactory to the Association in respect of the criteria and 
procedures governing the use of funds under the Credit for the pre-investment studies 
referred to in Part A.1 (b) of the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall submit to the Association, not later than June 
1, 1989, a training plan, satisfactory to the Association, for carrying out the 
provision of the training and technical assistance referred to in Part A.l (a) of the 
Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall appoint, not later than March 15, 1989,  both 
the Director for the PSM Program and the Project training coordinator (referred to in 
Part A.l of Schedule 4 to this Agreement), both with qualifications and experience, 
and whose conditions and terms of referene of employment, are all acceptable to the 
Association.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall ensure at all times that the Director for the 
PSM Program and both Project Director and the Project training coordinator (both 
referred to in Part A.l of Schedule 4 to this Agreement) is each a person whose 
qualifications and experience, and whose conditions and terms of reference of 
employment, are all acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained, 
separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the execution of 
the Project of each of the Project Implementing Agencies.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Swiss Contribution, for each 
fiscal year audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, or 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account or the Swiss Contribution Account were made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain in each of the Project Implementing Agencies, in 
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and 
accounts reflecting such _________________________;
(ii)
retain in each of the Project Implementing Agencies, until at 
least one year after the Association has received the audit for 
Page  7
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account or the Swiss Contribution Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following  Additional event is specified:
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this Section 5.01:
 
(A)
The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the 
Swiss Contribution or the IDB Grant or any grant, loan or 
credit made to the Borrower for the financing of the Project 
shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole 
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing 
there for, or
(B)
Any loan or credit for the financing of the Project shall 
have become due and payable prior to the agreed maturity 
thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any of the events  specified in 
sub-paragraph (i) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the 
proviso contained in sub-paragraph (ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the  
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b)  of the 
General Conditions namely: (a) that the Borrower has entered into the Administrative 
Services Agreement referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement; (b) that the 
Borrower shall have established the PCU in a form and with functions satisfactory to 
the Association; and (c) that the Borrower shall have appointed the Project Director 
(referred to in Part A.l of Schedule 4 to this Agreement) with qualifications and 
experience, and whose conditions and terms of reference of employment are all 
acceptable to the Association.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or Opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, a separate opinion on behalf 
of each party thereto showing that the Administrative Services Agreement has been duly 
executed and authorized or ratified by, and is legally binding upon each of the 
parties thereto in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date April 4, 1989, is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Page  8
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles III and IV of this 
Agreement shall cease on the date on which this Agreement shall terminate, or on the 
date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
Section 6.05. In the event that Switzerland or the Association terminate  the 
functions of the Association as administrator pursuant to paragraph 8 of the 
Arrangement, the Association shall notify the Borrower promptly of the date on which 
Switzerland shall assume the rights and obligations of the Association under this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning and Coordination is designated as the 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Planeamiento y Coordinacion
La Paz
Bolivia
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINPLANEACION
3280 (MINCORD BV)
La Paz-Bolivia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
THE REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Carlos Delius
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Rainer Steckhan
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
Page  9
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
and the Swiss Contribution
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                  Amount of
                    Amount of     the Swiss
                   the Credit   Contribution          % of
                    Allocated     Allocated       Expenditures
                   (Expressed   (Expressed in   to be Financed by
                     in SDR     Swiss Francs   Associa-  Switzer-
      Category     Equivalent)   Equivalent)       tion  land
(1)   Consul-
      tants'
      services:
      (a) for Parts    750,000     600,000      100%      100%
          A.l, A.2,              (for Parts
          B.2, B.3,               A.1, B.2
          D.l, D.2               and B.3 of
          and D.3               the Project)
          of the
          Project
      (b) for Part     650,000     100,000      100%      100%
          C.2 of
          the Project
      (c) for Parts    500,000     100,000      95%       95%
          B.l and
          C.l of the
          Project
(2)   Training         700,000     600,000      100%      100%
(3)   (a) Equip-       560,000     400,000      100% of foreign
          ment                                  expenditures and
          (other                                90% of local
          than                                  expenditures
          building
          equipment)
          and vehicles
      (b) Building      40,000                  100% of foreign
          equipment                             expenditures and
          and mate-                             90% of local
          rial                                  expenditures
(4)   Personnel      1,500,000     500,000      100%
      Costs
(5)   Incremental      150,000     100,000      100% of foreign
      Operating                                 expenditures and
      Costs                                     90% of local
(6)   Project          400,000                  100%
      Admini-
      stration
      Costs
(7)   Refunding        750,000                  Amount due pursuant
      Project                                   to Section 2.02 (c)
      Prepa-                                    of this Agreement
      ration
      Advance
Page  10
(8)   Unallocated    1,200,000     100,000
      TOTAL         $7,200,000   2,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower, or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term "Personnel Costs" means payments made for expenditures on 
account of salaries of members, acceptable to the association, having employment 
contracts  approved by the Association for, and for the duration of,  the execution of 
the Project;
(d)
the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means payments made for 
expenditures on account of the operation and maintenance of the office equipment, 
including computer hardware and software, to be purchased out of the proceeds of the 
Credit; and
(e)
the term "Project Administration Costs" means payments made for 
expenditures or account of services provided under the Administrative Services 
Agreement.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made other than under Category 7 of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule, in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement,  
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
500,000 nay be made in respect of Category (1) of said table on account of payments 
made for expenditures before that date but after August 1, 1988;
(b)
payments made for expenditures on account of Parts B.2, B.3 and B.4 
(except as it applies to Part B.l of the Project) of the Project, unless the Borrower 
has issued the supreme decree referred to in Section 3.04 (c) of this Agreement;
(c)
payments made for expenditures on account of Part C.2 of the Project, 
unless the Borrower has fulfilled the provisions of Section 3.04 (c) of this 
Agreement;
(d)
payments made on account of Category 3 (b), unless the Association shall 
have received from the Borrower and approved a plan for the establishment of office 
space for Project personnel;
(e)
payments made for expenditures after December 31 of each year unless the 
Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 
3.05 of this Agreement with: (i) the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying 
out of the Project; and (ii) the work program to be carried out under the Project 
during the following year by each Project Implementing Agency.
4.
Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the disbursement 
percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 3 above, the disbursements percentages 
for Category (4) shall be reduced to: (a) 90% once the aggregate amount of 
disbursements made under such Category shall have reached the amount of $1,800,000; 
and (b) 70% once the aggregate amount of disbursements made under such Category shall 
have reached the amount of $2,200,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to strengthen the Borrower's capacity to 
efficiently manage its economy and public sector and to establish the basis for its 
long-term administrative reform. The Project consists of the following parts, subject 
to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Page  11
Part A:
Economic Management
 
1.
Public Investment Programming
 
(a)
Strengthening of MPC's Public Investment Division (DIP) with a view to 
improving DIP's ability to formulate a public sector investment strategy including 
investment analysis, implementation, monitoring and evaluation and overall information 
management through the provision of training and technical assistance.
(b)
Expanding and strengthening the Financing Disbursement Unit of the DIP.
 
(c)
Training of MPC, Sector Ministries and RDCs Staff in Project analysis and 
evaluation.
(d)
Managing pre-investment and feasibility studies of RDCs and Sector 
Ministries.
(e)
Assisting Sector Ministries and MACA to formulate a sector strategy and 
to strengthen their public investment programming and implementation capabilities.
(f)
Consolidation of operations of SISIN and expansion of its networks to RDC 
Offices.
(g)
Acquisition and utilization of office equipment and computer hardware and 
software required to carry out all of the foregoing.
2.
Tax Administration:
 
Expansion and continuation of the activities commenced under Part B of the Prior 
Project including, but not limited to: 
(a)
extension of systems established thereunder to the Borrower Customs 
Directorate and to offices of the Borrower's regional public entities;
(b)
establishment of a computerized accounting system to be used by the 
Borrower's tax authorities to register and monitor tax credit applications and 
payments by the Borrower's tax payers;
(c)
acquisition and utilization of office equipment and computer hardware and 
software required to carry out all of the foregoing; and
(d)
provision of technical assistance and training to assist in the 
foregoing.
Part B:
Regional Planning and Management
 
1.
Carrying out analytical studies on the Borrower's central, regional and 
municipal public entities to assist the Borrower in formulating a decentralization 
strategy of governmental functions in respect of the Proposed Decentralized 
Ministries.
2.
Establishment of systems and procedures for gradual transfer of responsibility 
to the Borrower's regional and municipal public entities in respect of the Proposed 
Decentralized Ministries.
3.
Strengthening of the Borrower's central, regional and municipal public entities 
to enable such entities to take on additional tasks associated with decentralization 
through training and technical assistance.
4.
Acquisition and utilization of equipment required to carry out all of the 
foregoing.
Part C:
Public Sector Management Strengthening
 
1.
Carrying out of studies within the Borrower's civil service on functions, 
staffing, personnel policies and career development, and on the administration of 
personnel management in order to assist the Borrower in making policy decisions on 
implementation of PSM Program and on future reform of the Borrower's civil 
__________________.
2.
Creation and administration of Public Sector Management Strengthening Program 
Secretariat (PSM Secretariat) to administer PSM Program and to supervise the studies 
Page  12
referred to in Part C.l of the Project.
Part D:
Strengthening of Statistical Services
 
1.
Expansion of geographical coverage and social scope of existing socio-economic 
survey work.
2.
Design and establishment of the Borrower's national and regional accounts.
 
3.
Carrying out of income and expenditure surveys in La Paz Santa Cruz and 
Cochabamba for purposes of calculating new weights for consumer price indices.
4.
Provision of technical assistance and acquisition and utilization of equipment 
and computer hardware and software required to carry out Part D.l, D.2 and D.3 of the 
Project. 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1991.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in may 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Local competitive bidding
 
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $75,000 or less, but more than the 
equivalent of $20,000, per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Association.
2.
Shopping:
 
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $20 000 or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $800,000 may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list 
of at least three suppliers eligible under the  guidelines, in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to goods procured under Part A hereof, and to contracts 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.  Where payments for such contract are to be made by the procurement agent 
referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement, such procedures shall be modified 
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other 
information required to be furnished to the Association pursuant be furnished to the 
Association furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the 
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.  Such contracts shall be 
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) or this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Page  13
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981. 
2.
Upon notification to that effect given to the Borrower by the Association, 
consultant's contracts estimated to cost an amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$15,000 per contract, on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals 
on the basis of statements of expenditures, may be entered into without prior review 
by the Association provided, however, that the Borrower shall present to the 
Association on or before the first day of each quarter, a list satisfactory to the 
Association and in such detail and scope as the Association shall request, of the 
contracts to be entered into in such quarter under this paragraph including, in 
respect of each such contract,  the terms of reference, qualifications and experience 
of the consultant to be hired thereunder such contracts shall be retained in 
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
3.
If at any time the Association shall not be satisfied with the implementation or 
outcome of the procedures set forth in paragraph 2 of this Section, the Association, 
at its option, may, by notice to the Borrower declare that the said procedures shall 
cease to apply and upon such declaration, paragraph 1 of this Section shall thereafter 
apply to the selection of all consultants to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit.
SCHEDULE 4
A.
Project Coordinating Unit (PCU)
 
1.
The PCU shall be headed by a Project Director and shall be staffed with a 
project administrator, a training coordinator and two secretaries proficient in both 
English and Spanish. 
2.
The PCU shall be responsible, inter alia, for:
 
(a)
ensuring coordination of the activities to be carried out under the 
Project and between the Project Implementing Agencies and the Association;
(b)
supervising and monitoring the performance of the procurement agent 
referred to in Section 3.03(a) of  this Agreement;
(c)
assisting the Project Implementing Agencies in preparation of annual work 
program and budgets under paragraph B.2 of this Schedule;
(d)
coordinating and reviewing said annual work programs and budgets;
(e)
synthesizing proposals made by the working group to be established under 
Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement in respect of Parts B.2, B.3 and B.4 of the Project 
and incorporating such proposals into the annual work program for Part B of the 
Project;
(f)
preparing the annual progress monitoring reports referred to in Section 
3.05 (b)(i) of this Agreement;
(g)
coordinating Project - related training activities with Project 
Implementing Agencies, local training institutions and other agencies;
(h)
supervising and monitoring procurement of goods and services to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit;
(i)
processing disbursement applications and supporting documents in 
accordance with Section 2.02 of, and Schedule 4 to, this Agreement; and
(j)
consolidating Project completion reports prepared by each Project 
Implementing Agency under paragraph B.3 of this Schedule in respect of the Part of the 
Project Implemented by such Agency for presentation to the Association in accordance 
with Section 9.07 (c) of the General Conditions.
Page  14
B.
Project Implementing Agencies
 
Each Project Implementing Agency shall:
1.
appoint a project liaison officer, acceptable to the Association, who shall be 
in charge of coordination with PCU and shall periodically report to the Project 
Director on the progress of the Part of the Project implemented or to be implemented 
by such Agency;
2.
prepare an annual work program and budget for each year in accordance with 
Section 3.05 (b)(ii) and (c) of this Agreement in respect of the Part of the Project 
to be implemented by such Agency;  and
3.
prepare a Project completion report in respect of the Part of the Project 
implemented by such Agency. 
