LOAN NUMBER 307 IN
Loan Agreement
(Third Indian Iron and Steel Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
THE INDIAN IRON AND STEEL COMPANY, LIMITED
DATED DECEMBER 22, 1961


﻿LOAN NUMBER 307 IN
Loan Agreement
(Third Indian Iron and Steel Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
THE INDIAN IRON AND STEEL COMPANY, LIMITED
DATED DECEMBER 22, 1961


﻿AGREEMENT, dated December 22, 1961, between INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(hereinafter called the Bank) and THE INDIAN IRON AND
STEEL COMPANY, LIMITED, a company duly incorporated
under the laws of India (hereinafter called the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) By a loan agreement dated December 18,
1952, between the Bank and the Borrower, the Bank agreed
to make a loan (hereinafter called the first loan) to the
Borrower of $31,500,000, or the equivalent thereof in cur-
rencies other than dollars, for the purpose of financing a
project for the expansion and modernization of its pro-
duction facilities;
(B) By a loan agreement dated December 19, 1956,
between the Bank and the Borrower, the Bank agreed to
make a further loan (hereinafter called the second loan)
to the Borrower of $20,000,000, or the equivalent thereof
in currencies other than dollars, for the further expansion
and modernization of its production facilities (hereinafter
called the second project);
(C) The first loan and the second loan were guaranteed
as to payment of principal, interest and other charges by
the Guarantor;
(D) By the 1958 Trust Deed (as hereinafter defined)
the Borrower created, as security for the first loan and
the second loan, a first fixed mortgage upon the immovable
properties to which it then was or might thereafter become
beneficially entitled and a first floating charge upon the
remainder of its undert, king and assets, including uncalled
capital;


﻿4
(E) The Bank has been requested to make a third loan
to the Borrower to be similarly guaranteed by the Guar-
antor upon the terms of a Guarantee Agreement of even
date herewith;
(F) The security constituted by the 1958 Trust Deed is
to be appropriately modified and extended, as hereinafter
in Section 5.03 provided, so that the first loan, the second
loan and such third loan shall rank pari passu in respect
of such security as so modified; and
(G) By various instruments the Borrower has created
in favor of the President of India and the State Bank of
India certain mortgages and charges all of which rank
subsequent to the security created by the 1958 Trust Deed
and it is intended that such securities be varied so as to
permit the security for the said third loan also to rank
in priority thereto;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed to make a loan to the
Borrower upon the terms and the conditions hereinafter
set forth;
Now THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed as follows:
ARTICLE I
Loan Regulations; Special Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Loan Agreement
accept all the provisions of Loan Regulations No. 4 of
the Bank dated February 15, 1961, subject, however, to
the modifications thereof set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement (said Loan Regulations No. 4 as so modified
being hereinafter called the Loan Regulations), with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein.
SECTION 1.02. Except where the context otherwise re-
quires, the following terms have the following meanings
wherever used in this Agreement or any schedule thereto:
(a) The term "1954 Trust Deed" means the Trust Deed
dated 28th September, 1954 made between the Borrower


﻿5
and others, and Baring Brothers & Co., Limited (here-
inafter called Barings), as trustees, and the Bank, secur-
ing mortgage bonds of the first loan in the principal
amount of $31,500,000, or the equivalent in various cur-
rencies, and (except where the context otherwise requires)
shall include any deed or instrument supplemental thereto.
(b) The term "1958 Trust Deed" means the 1954 Trust
Deed as modified and supplemented by the Supplemental
Trust Deed dated 29th April, 1958 made also between the
Borrower and others, and Barings, as trustees, and the
Bank, securing the first loan, the second loan, and the
bonds issuable in respect thereof, all in the aggregate
principal amount of $51,500,000, or the equivalent in other
currencies, and (except where the context otherwise re-
quires) shall include any deed or instrument supplemental
thereto.
(c) The term "Supplemental Indenture" means the
deed or deeds and other instruments which shall be exe-
cuted by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions
of Section 5.03 of this Agreement in order to modify and
extend the security of the 1958 Trust Deed as in said Sec-
tion provided.
(d) The term "Trust Deed" means the 1958 Trust Deed
as modified by the Supplemental Indenture and shall,
except where the context otherwise requires, include each
deed and other instrument included in the Supplemental
Indenture and any deed or deeds supplemental to the 1958
Trust Deed as so modified which shall be executed and
delivered in accordance with the provisions thereof.
(e) The term "subsidiary" means any company which
is a subsidiary of the Borrower within the meaning of
the Companies Act, 1956 of India (or any amendment
thereof).
(f) The term "rupees" and the letters "Rs." mean
currency of the Guarantor.


﻿6
ARTICLE II
The Loan
SECTION 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in this Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to nineteen million, five hundred thousand dollars
($19,500,000).
SECTION 2.02. The Bank shall open a Loan Account on
its books in the name of the Borrower and shall credit
to such Account the amount of the Loan. The amount of
the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account as
provided in, and subject to the rights of cancellation and
suspension set forth in, this Loan Agreement; provided,
however, that, until the Borrower shall have complied with
the provisions of Sections 5.03 and 5.04 of this Agreement,
no more than an amount equivalent to six million dollars
($6,000,000) shall be withdrawn from the Loan Account,
except as the Bank may otherwise agree.
SECTION 2.03. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
per cent (3/4 of 17o) per annum on the principal amount
of the Loan not so withdrawn from time to time.
SECTION 2.04. The Borrower shall pay interest at the
rate of five and three-fourths per cent (53/4%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan so withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.05. Except as the Bank and the Borrower
shall otherwise agree, the charge payable for special com-
mitments entered into by the Bank at the request of the
Borrower pursuant to Section 4.02 of the Loan Regula-
tions shall be at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of any such
special commitments outstanding from time to time.


﻿7
SECTION 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be pay-
able semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 in each
year.
SECTION 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Loan
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall apply the proceeds
of the Loan exclusively to financing the cost of goods
required to carry out the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement. The specific goods to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan and the methods and proce-
dures for procurement of such goods shall be determined
by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower, subject
to modification by furi-her agreement between them.
SECTION 3.02. The Borrower shall cause all goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be imported
into the territories of the Guarantor and there to be used
exclusively in the carrying out of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Bonds
SECTION 4.01. The Borrower shall execute and duly
deliver Bonds (in registered or bearer form as the Bank
shall request) representing the principal amount of the
Loan of the form, tenor and purport prescribed in the
Trust Deed and as provided thereby and in the Loan
Regulations.
SECTION 4.02. Except as the Bank and the Borrower
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, against pay-
ment by the Bank of any amount to be withdrawn from


﻿8
the Loan Account pursuant to Article II of this Agree-
ment, execute and deliver to or on the order of the Bank,
Bonds in the aggregate principal amount so paid, provided
that the Bank may, at its option, require the Borrower,
instead, within such period not less than 60 days after the
date of any request therefor as the Bank shall specify
in such request, to execute and deliver to or on the order
of the Bank, Bonds in the aggregate principal amount
specified in such request, not exceeding, however, the
aggregate principal amount of the Loan which shall have
been withdrawn and shall be outstanding and unpaid at
the date of such request and for which Bonds shall not
theretofore have been so delivered or requested.
SECTION 4.03. Any one of the Directors for the time
being of the Borrower and such other person or persons
(acting jointly or severally as may be specified) as it may
appoint in writing are designated as authorized repre-
sentatives of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
6.12 (a) of the Loan Regulations. The signature of any
such authorized representative shall be countersigned by
the Managing Agents of the Borrower so long as the
Articles of Association of the Borrower shall so require.
SECTION 4.04. The Borrower shall effect original issues
of the Bonds only as iin this Loan Agreement provided.
SECTION 4.05. The Bank and the Borrower shall be at
liberty to make such arrangements as they may from time
to time mutually agree as to procedure for the issue,
authentication and delivery of Bonds and such arr-ange-
ments may be in addition to or in substitution for any of the
provisions of this Agreement or of the Loan Regulations.
ARTICLE V
Particular Covenants
SECTION 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with sound engineering and financial practices.


﻿9
(b) Upon request from time to time by the Bank, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications and construction
schedules for the Project and any material modifications
subsequently made therein, in such detail as the Bank
shall request.
(c) The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to
identify the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
to disclose the use thereof in the Project, to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices the operations and financial condition
of the Borrower; shall enable the Bank's representatives
to inspect the Project, the goods, all other plants, works,
properties, equipment and operations of the Borrower and
its subsidiaries, and any relevant books, records and docu-
ments; and shall furnish to the Bank all such information
as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the Project, the
goods, and the operations and financial condition of the
Borrower.
SECTION 5.02. (a) The Bank and the Borrower shall
cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Loan
will be accomplished. To that end, each of them   shall
furnish to the other all such information as it shall rea-
sonably request with regard to the general status of the
Loan.
(b) The Bank and the Borrower shall from time to time
exchange views through their representatives with regard
to matters relating to the purposes of the Loan and the
maintenance of the service thereof. The Borrower shall
promptly inform the Bank of any condition which inter-
feres with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the Loan or the maintenance of
the service thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall cause each of its subsidiaries
(if any) to observe and perform the obligations of the


﻿10
Borrower hereunder to the extent to which the same may
be applicable thereto as though such obligations were bind-
ing upon each of such subsidiaries.
SECTION 5.03. (a) The Borrower shall execute and de-
liver, and shall cause all other necessary parties to execute
and deliver, all such deeds and other instruments, in such
form, as the Bank may reasonably require to cause the
1958 Trust Deed to be so modified and extended that as
so modified and extended it will constitute by way of
security for the principal of, interest on and premium on
prepayment, if any, on the Loan, the Bonds, the first loan
and the bonds issuable in respect thereof and the second
loan and the bonds issuable in respect thereof, all of which
shall rank pari passu inter se in respect of such security:
(1) a first fixed mortgage upon all the properties now owned
or hereafter acquired by the Borrower and expressed in
the 1958 Trust Deed to be the specifically mortgaged prem-
ises thereunder and (2) a first floating charge upon all
the property and assets expressed in the 1958 Trust Deed
to be charged or intended so to be by the first floating
charge created thereby, such mortgage and charge to rank
in point of security prior to any other mortgage, charge
or lien upon any of the properties or assets of the Bor-
rower, now existing or hereafter created, provided, how-
ever, that the Trust Deed shall empower the Borrower to
create or allow to remain outstanding mortgages or charges
(specific or floating) ranking in priority to the floating
charge existing, or to be created, under or pursuant to
the Trust Deed and securing any indebtedness towards
bankers incurred in the ordinary course of business and
maturing on demand or not more than one year after
the date upon which it is originally incurred, the aggre-
gate amount of such indebtedness not to exceed fifty mil-
lion rupees (Rs. 50,000,000) in principal amount at any
one time outstanding.
(b) Subject as aforesaid, the Borrower shall take all
necessary steps and shall cause all necessary parties to


﻿11
take all necessary steps to ensure that all liens outstanding
upon the property and assets to which it is beneficially
entitled shall be discharged or be varied to the reasonable
satisfaction of the Bank, and of the trustees under the
Trust Deed, so as to ensure that full effect may be given
to the foregoing provisions of this Section.
(c) The Borrower shall obtain all necessary consents
for the valid execution and delivery of the Supplemental
Indenture and shall duly register, or cause to be duly
registered, the Supplemental Indenture and the Trust
Deed, together with such other documents as may be
necessary or proper in order to render the same fully
effective in accordance with its terms.
SECTION 5.04. The Borrower shall., within six weeks after
the completion of all action required to be taken pursuant
to the provisions of the last preceding Section, furnish
evidence thereof satisfactory to the Bank. As part of
such evidence there shall be furnished an opinion or opin-
ions satisfactory to the Bank of counsel acceptable to the
Bank showing (a) in respect to all immovable property
or interests therein which by the terms of the Trust Deed
is charged or is intended to be charged under the first
fixed mortgage, that the Borrower and all other necessary
parties for the purpose of effecting such charge have a
good and marketable title to such property; (b) that the
Supplemental Indenture has been duly authorized and
executed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower and all
other necessary parties thereto, that the Trust Deed con-
stitutes a valid and effective mortgage and charge securing
the Loan, the Bonds, the first loan and the bonds issuable
in respect thereof and the second loan and the bonds issu-
able in respect thereof and enjoying priority in accord-
ance with its terms, and that no prior or pari passu secu-
rity (other than as mentioned in the last preceding Sec-
tion) exists on any part of the properties or assets to
which the Borrower is then beneficially entitled.


﻿12
SECION 5.05. Except as the Bank and the Borrower
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not incur, and
shall niot permit any subsidiary to incur, indebtedness if
at the time and as a result thereof the consolidated un-
impaired capital and surplus of the Borrower and its
subsidiaries would be less than the consolidated indebted-
ness of the Borrower and its subsidiaries.
For the purposes of and in making any calculation
pursuant to this Section:
(a) The term "indebtedness" shall not include commer-
cial and trade liabilities (including in such liabilities
accrued liabilities to the Indian Iron and Steel Con-
troller but not including in such liabilities obliga-
tions to bankers or in respect of deposits accepted
by the Borrower) incurred in the ordinary course
of business and payable not more than one year
after the date as of which such calculation is re-
quired to be made for the purposes of this Section.
(b) There shall be included in "capital and surplus",
and excluded from "indebtedness", the amount then
outstanding of the Government advance provided
for in the Agreement dated July 15, 1953, between
the President of India and the Borrower.
(c) Amounts in currency other than currency of the
Guarantor shall be converted into currency of the
Guarantor at such rate as the Bank may determine
for such other currency on the date on which the
Borrower proposes to incur the debt in question.
(d) The term "consolidated indebtedness" shall mean
the total amount of indebtedness of the Borrower
and all its subsidiaries (if any) excluding indebt-
edness owed by the Borrower to any subsidiary or
by any subsidiary to the Borrower or to any other
subsidiary.
(e) The term "capital and surplus" shall mean capital
and surplus determined in accordance with sound
accounting procedures.


﻿13
(f) The term "consolidated capital and surplus" shall
mean the total capital and surplus of the Borrower
and all its subsidiaries after excluding such items
of capital and surplus of the Borrower as shall
represent equity interest of the Borrower in any
subsidiary and after excluding such items of capital
and surplus of any subsidiary as shall represent
equity interest of that subsidiary in the Borrower
or any other subsidiary.
SECTION 5.06. (a) The Borrower shall at all times take
all steps necessary to maintain its corporate existence
and right to carry on operations and shall, except as the
Bank may otherwise agree, take all steps necessary to
acquire such land, interests in land and properties and
to acquire, maintain and renew such rights, powers, priv-
ileges and franchises, as may be necessary or proper for
the construction and operation of the Project and the
conduct of its busiress.
(b) The Borrower shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound business,
industrial and financial practices and shall operate, main-
tain, renew and repair its plants, machinery, equipment
and property as required in accordance with sound engi-
neering practices.
SECTION 5.07. Subject to such exemption as shall be
conferred by the provisions of Sections 3.03 and 3.04 of
the Guarantee Agreement, the Borrower shall pay or cause
to be paid all taxes, if any, imposed under the laws of the
Guarantor or laws in effect in the territories of the Guar-
antor on or in connection with the execution, issue, delivery
or registration of this Agreement, the Guarantee Agree-
ment, the Trust Deed or the Bonds, or the payment of
principal, interest or other charges thereunder; provided,
however, that the provisions of this Section shall not apply
to taxation of (including duties levied in respect of, or
fees or impositions upon) payments under any Bond to a


﻿14
holder thereof other than the Bank when such Bond is
beneficially owned by an individual or corporate resident
of the Guarantor.
SECTION 5.08. The Borrower shall pay or cause to be
paid all taxes, if any, imposed under the laws of the United
Kingdom or under the laws of the country or countries
in whose currency the Loan and the Bonds are payable or
imposed under laws in effect in the territories either of the
United Kingdom or of such country or countries on or in
connection with the exedution, issue, delivery or registration
of the Loan Agreement, the Guarantee Agreement, the
Trust Deed or the Bonds.
SECTION 5.09. Except as shall be otherwise agreed be-
tween the Bank 2nd the Borrower, the Borrower shall
insure or cause to be insured the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan against risks incident to their
purchase and importation into the territories of the Guar-
antor. Such insurance shall be consistent with sound
commercial practice and shall be payable in dollars or in
the currency in which the cost of the goods insured there-
under shall be payable.
SECTION 5.10. The Borrower shall not consent to any
action taken at any meeting of bondholders or by written
instrument pursuant to the provisions of the 1958 Trust
Deed or of the Supplemental Indenture which would
change the terms of the Bonds or adversely affect the
holders thereof unless the Bank shall have expressed in
writing its approval of such action or such consent.
SECTION 5.11. Except as the Bank and the Borrower
shall otherwise reasonably agree the Borrower shall not
until the completion of the Project undertake, or make any
investment in, any additions to, or expansion. of, its exist-
ing facilities (other than the Project and the second


﻿15
project), or any new venture, project or enterprise, if the
total aggregate estimated cost of all the foregoing would
exceed Rs. 10,000,000, or its equivalent, except in accordance
with a financial plan approved in advance by the Bank.
This limitation shall not apply to normal replacement and
repairs of existing facilities.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
SECTION 6.01. (i) If any event specified in paragraph (a),
paragraph (b), paragraph (e) or paragraph (f) of Sec-
tion 5.02 of the Loan Regulations shall occur and shall
continue for a period of thirty days, or (ii) if any event
specified in paragraph (j) of Section 5.02 of the Loan
Regulations shall occur, or (iii) if any event specified in
paragraph (c) of Section 5.02 of the Loan Regulations
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower, then at any subsequent time during the
continuance thereof, the Bank, at its option, may declare
the principal of the Loan and of all the Bonds then out-
standing to be due and payable immediately, and upon
any such declaration such principal shall become due and
payable immediately, anything in this Agreement, the
Trust Deed or the Bonds to the contrary notwithstanding.
SECTION 6.02. The following are hereby specified as
additional events for the purposes of Section 5.02 (j) of
the Loan Regulations:
(i) The Agreement dated July 15, 1953, between the
Guarantor and the Borrower shall be amended or can-
celled without the consent of the Bank.
(ii) Any lien securing any loan from the Bank to the
Borrower, or securing any bonds issued or issuable there-
under, shall become enforceable.


﻿16
ARTICLE VII
Modifications of Loan Agreement dated December 18,
1952 and of Loan Agreement dated December 19, 1956
SECTION 7.01. For the purposes of the Loan Agreement
dated December 18, 1952, between the Bank and the Bor-
rower, paragraph (c) of Section 5.02 of Loan Regulations
No. 4 of the Bank, dated October 15, 1952 is amended to
read:
" (c) A default shall have occurred in the perform-
ance of any other covenant or agreement on the part
of the Borrower or the Guarantor under the Loan Agree-
ment, the Guarantee Agreement or the Bonds, or under
the Loan Agreement dated December 22, 1961, the
Guarantee Agreement of even date therewith, or the
bonds therein provided for.";
and the term "Loan Regulations" as used for the pur-
poses of the said Loan Agreement shall mean Loan Regu-
lations No. 4 of the Bank, dated October 15, 1952, as
amended by said Loan Agreement and as further amended
hereby.
SECTION 7.02. For the purposes of the Loan Agreement
dated December 19, 1956, between the Bank and the Bor-
rower, paragraph (c) of Section 5.02 of Loan Regulations
No. 4 of the Bank, dated June 15, 1956 is amended to read:
" (c) A default shall have occurred in the perform-
ance of any other covenant or agreement on the part
of the Borrower or the Guarantor under the Loan Agree-
ment, the Guarantee Agreement or the Bonds, or under
the Loan Agreement dated December 22, 1961, the Guar-
antee Agreement of even date therewith, or the bonds
therein provided for.'';
and the term "Loan Regulations" as used for the pur-
poses of the said Loan Agreement shall mean Loan Regu-
lations No. 4 of the Bank, dated June 15, 1956, as amended
by said Loan Agreement and as further amended hereby.


﻿17
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 8.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement
within the meaning of Section 9.01 (c) of the Loan Regu-
lations: (a) the President of India and the State Bank
of India shall have agreed (in form satisfactory to the
Bank) to subordinate the securities held by them respec-
tively to the security to be constituted by the Trust Deed
or intended so to be;
(b) the Borrower shall certify in writing to the Bank
that, as of a date to be agreed between the Borrower and
the Bank, there has been no material adverse change in
its condition since the date of this Agreement;
(c) the Borrower has satisfied the Bank that the Bor-
rower will be able to acquire all land, interests in land,
properties, adequate electric power supply and all such
rights, privileges and franchises as shall be necessary for
the diligent carrying out of the Project and for its
operation.
SECTION 8.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 9.02 (c) of the Loan
Regulations, to be included in the opinion or opinions to
be furnished to the Bank: that the Borrower has full
power and authority to construct and operate the Project
and that all corporate and governmental acts, consents
and approvals necessary therefor have been duly and
validly performed or given.
SECTION 8.03. A date 90 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
9.04 of the Loan Regulations.


﻿18
ARTICLE IX
Miscellaneous
SECTION 9.01. The Closing Date shall be January 31,
1967, or such other date as shall be agreed upon by the
Borrower and the Bank.
SECTION 9.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 8.01 of the Loan Regulations:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington 25, D. C.
United States of America
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
Intbafrad
Washington, D. C.
For the Borrower:
The Indian Iron and Steel Company, Limited
12 Mission Row
Calcutta, 1, India
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
Inisco
Calcutta
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Loan Agreement to be signed in their respective


﻿19
names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By J. BuRKE KNAPP
Vice President
THE INDIAN IRON AND
STEEL COMPANY, LIMITED
By A. D. VICKERS
Authorized Representative


﻿20
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*
February 1, 1967                    1,060,000
August 1, 1967                      1,090,000
February 1, 1968                    1,120,000
August 1, 1968                      1,150,000
February 1, 1969                    1,185,000
August 1, 1969                      1,220,000
February 1, 1970                    1,255,000
August 1, 1970                      1,290,000
February 1, 1971                    1,330,000
August 1, 1971                      1,365,000
February 1, 1972                    1,405,000
August 1, 1972                      1,445,000
February 1, 1973                    1,485,000
August 1, 1973                      1,530,000
February 1, 1974                    1,570,000
* To the extent that any part of the Loan is repayable in a currency
other than dollars (see Loan Regulations, Section 3.03), the figures in
this column represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes
of withdrawal.


﻿21
Premiums on Prepayment and Redemption
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any part
of the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section
2.05 (b) of the Loan Regulations or on the redemption of
any Bond prior to its maturity pursuant to Section 6.16
of the Loan Regulations:
Time of Prepayment or Redemption     Premium
Not more than 2 years before maturity    '/2%
More than 2 years but not more than 4
years before maturity ..............    y2%
More than 4 years but not more than 8
years before maturity ..............  3/%
More than 8 years but not more than 10
years before maturity ..............  43/4%
More than 10 years before maturity ....  53/%


﻿22
SCHEDULE 2
Description of Project
The project consists of a program to increase the Bor-
rower's coal production capacity from about 300,000 tons
to about 2,200,000 tons per annum and to install a ropeway
system for coal transportation. It is intended to satisfy
the bulk of the Borrower's coal requirements without de-
pendence on purchased coal or rail transport.
The project includes:
(i) Development of the Chasnalla coal property and
modernization and improvement of the Jitpur and
Ramnagore collieries. Annual output at full ca-
pacity of individual mines is estimated as follows:
Chasnalla:
Opencast          Up to 660,000 tons
No. 2 West               450,000 tons
No. 4 East               600,000 tons
Jitpur:                   450,000 tons
Ramnagore:                 300,000 tons
(ii) Installation and improvement of facilities for
gathering sand and transporting it by ropeway to
mines for stowing;
(iii) Installation of a coal washing plant at Chasnalla
with a capacity to handle about 550 tons of raw
coal per hour;
(iv) Installation of ropeways to transport coal from
Jitpur to Chasnalla (about 6 miles long) and from
Chasnalla to Burnpur (about 32 miles long) with
a capacity of about 200 and about 500 tons per
hour respectively.
The project is expected to be completed by March 31,
1967.


﻿23
SCHEDULE 3
Modifications of Loan Regulations No. 4
For the purposes of this Agreement the provisions of
Loan Regulations No. 4 of the Bank, dated February 15,
1961, shall be deemed to be modified as follows:
(a) By the deletion of Section 6.01.
(b) By the deletion of Section 6.03.
(c) By the deletion in Sections 6.05, 6.06 and 6.10 of
the words "under Section 6.03 or".
(d) Section 6.07 is amended to read as follows:
"Section 6.07. Form of Bonds. (a) The Bonds
shall be fully registered bonds without coupons
(hereinafter sometimes called registered Bonds)
or bearer bonds with coupons for semi-annual in-
terest attached (hereinafter sometimes called cou-
pon Bonds). Bonds delivered to the Bank shall
be registered Bonds or coupon Bonds in such
temporary or definitive form (authorized by the
Trust Deed) as the Bank shall request. Registered
Bonds and coupon Bonds payable in dollars and
the coupons attached thereto shall be substantially
in the forms respectively set forth in the Trust
Deed. Bonds payable in any currency other than
dollars shall be substantially in the forms respee-
tively set forth in the Trust Deed, as the case
may be, except that they shall (i) provide for
payment of principal, interest and premium on
redemption, if any, in such other currency, (ii)
provide for such place of payment as the Bank
shall specify, and (iii) contain such other modifica-
tions as the Bank shall reasonably request in order
to conform to the laws or to the financial usage
of the place where they are payable.


﻿24
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of
the Loan Agreement or these Regulations, if the
Bank shall so require, the Borrower shall execute
and deliver bonds pursuant to Section 4.02 of the
Loan Agreement before the execution and delivery
of the Supplemental Indenture. The provisions
of Section 6.07 of Loan Regulations No. 4 of the
Bank, dated February 15, 1961, but before modifi-
cation by subparagraph (a) of this Section, shall
apply to the form of any such bonds, with appro-
priate changes therein satisfactory to the Bank, to
provide for the exchange thereof, free of cost to
the Bank, for Bonds of the same respective
amounts, currencies and maturities issued under
the Trust Deed, the Loan Agreement and these
Regulations. All other provisions of the Loan
Agreement, the Guarantee Agreement and these
Regulations relating or referring to Bonds shall
apply mutatis mutandis to such bonds except
where such application would be clearly incon-
sistent with the requirements of this subpara-
graph.
" (c) All Bonds shall have the guarantee of the
Guarantor endorsed thereon substantially in the
form set forth in Schedule 3 to these Regulations."
(e) By the addition at the beginning of Section 6.09
of the words following, namely:
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, Bonds shall be dated as herein-
after in this Section provided."
(f) By the deletion in Section 6.11 of paragraph (c)
thereof and the substitution of the following new para-
graph (c) therefor:
"(c) Subject to the provisions of Sections 6.05
and 6.06 of these Regulations, Bonds payable in
any currency may be exchanged for Bonds of the


﻿25
same or an equivalent aggregate principal amount
payable in the same or any other currency or cur-
rencies and having the same or any other maturity
or maturities. For the purposes of determining
the equivalent of one currency in terms of another
the value of each shall be as determined by the
Bank."
(g) By the deletion of Section 6.18.
(h) By the addition in Section 7.01, after the words
"Guarantee Agreement" where those words occur, of the
words ", the Trust Deed".
(i) By the deletion of subparagraphs (b) to (f) in-
clusive and (j) of Section 7.04 and the substitution there-
for of the following subparagraphs, namely:
"(b) The parties to such arbitration shall be
the Bank, the Borrower and the Guarantor.
" (c) The Arbitral Tribunal shall consist of
three arbitrators, each to be agreed upon by the
parties or, if and to the extent to which they shall
not agree, to be appointed by the President of the
International Court of Justice or, failing appoint-
iment by him, by the Secretary-General of the
United Nations. In case any arbitrator shall re-
sign, die or become unable to act, a successor arbi-
trator shall be selected or appointed in the same
manner as herein prescribed for the selection or
appointment of the original arbitrator and such
successor shall have all the powers and duties of
such original arbitrator.
" (d) An arbitration proceeding may be insti-
tuted under this Settion upon notice by the party
instituting such proceeding to the other parties.
Such notice shall contain a statement setting forth
the nature of the controversy or claim to be sub-
mitted to arbitration and the nature of the relief
sought.


﻿26
"(e) If, within 60 days after the giving of such
notice instituting the arbitration proceeding, the
parties shall not have agreed upon the three arbi-
trators, any party may request such appointment
as is provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section.
" (f) The Ar)itral Tribunal shall determine
where and when ;.t shall convene and sit.
" (j) The provisions for arbitration set forth
in this Section shall be in lieu of any other pro-
cedure for the determination of controversies be-
tween the parties under the Loan Agreement and
Guarantue Agreement or any claim by any such
party against any other such party arising there-
under provided, however, that nothing herein
shall be deemed to preclude any of the said
parties from exercising, or instituting any legal
or equitable action to enforce, any right or claim
arising out of or pursuant to the Trust Deed or
the Bonds, and submission to arbitration here-
under shall not be deemed to be a condition pre-
cedent or in any way to prejudice such exercise
or other enforcement of any such right or claim."
(j) By the deletion in Section 7.04 (i) of the words
"Bank on the one side and the Borrower and Guarantor
on the other.", and the substitution therefor of the words
"parties.".
(k) By the deletion in Section 9.02 of part (ii) of para-
graph (a).
(1) By the deletion of paragraph 6 of Section 10.01
and the substitution therefor of the following new para-
graph, namely:
"6. The term 'Borrower' means the party to the
Loan Agreement to which the Loan is made; and
the term 'Guarantor' means India, acting by its
President."


﻿27
(m) By the deletion of paragraph 9 of Section 10.01
and the substitution therefor of the following new para-
graph, namely:
"9. The term 'Bonds' means Bonds issued and
authenticated pursuant to the Trust Deed (except
as otherwise provided in Section 6.07 (b)), with
the guarantee of the Guarantor endorsed thereon
as provided in the Loan Agreement and the Guar-
antee Agreement."


