Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
Report No.:  
AB3407 
 
Project Name 
Indonesia Infrastructure Development Policy Loan 
 
Region 
East Asia 
Sector 
Water Supply (30%), Power (30%), Roads and Highways (25%), 
General Transportation (10%), Telecommunications (5%) 
Project ID 
P107163 
Borrower(s) 
The Republic of Indonesia 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Mr. Rio Silaban 
Jl. Lapangan Banteng Timur no 2-4 
Jakarta 10710 
–
Indonesia 
Ph: 62-21-(384-1067)/ Fax: 62-21-(380-8395) 
Date PID Prepared 
October 24, 2007 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
October 12, 2007 
Date of Board Approval 
December 04, 2007 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Prior to the 1997 financial crisis, infrastructure investment of 5-6 % of GDP contributed 
substantially to Indonesia’s good progress on growth and poverty reduction. The first priority of 
successive governments since the crisis has been to restore macro-economic stability, reducing 
inflation, stabilizing the Rupiah, and reducing public debt as a share of GDP. The World Bank 
has recognized these substantial macro-economic achievements in a program of four annual 
policy loans, commencing in 2004 (DPL 1, DPL 2, DPL 3, and DPL 4). 
 
While the priority lay with restoring macro-economic stability, infrastructure investment 
suffered, falling to a low of less than 2 percent of GDP in 2000, and reaching less than 3 percent 
of GDP in 2004.  In 2004, the World Bank published a major study of Indonesia’s infrastructure 
crisis, urging that infrastructure investment be increased by 2% of GDP, and providing 
recommendations for a host of sectoral reforms to remove policy blockages to investment. The 
Yudhoyono Government, elected in September 2004, recognized the importance of these 
recommendations, and set infrastructure as a major priority.  
 
An Infrastructure Summit was held in January 2005, offering 91 public-private partnership (PPP) 
transactions to the private sector. The reaction to these offerings was disappointing; many 
existing policy blockages remained to the preparation of bankable projects, and in practice many 
projects were not well prepared.  The Government has recognized these weaknesses, and has 
taken strong steps to address them.  During the course of 2005, new regulations were put in place 
requiring competitive bidding of PPPs and appropriate risk management of guarantees for PPPs. 
New institutions were developed to support project preparation.  During 2006 the Government 
Page  2
prepared a wide-
ranging “Infrastructure Policy Package” aiming to encourage competition, to 
eliminate discriminatory practices that obstruct the private sector’s participation in infrastructure 
provision, and to redefine the government’s role, including separating policy-making, regulatory 
and operational responsibilities. A second Infrastructure Summit was held in December 2006, 
where ten PPP transactions were identified to be the particular focus of efforts to improve the 
quality of project preparation.  In 2007, the PPP initiatives to boost infrastructure investment 
were complemented with major increases in budgeted public spending, made possible by the 
Government’s improved fiscal situation. 
 
Indonesia’s improved fiscal position has permitted increases in public investment in 
infrastructure. Total national public expenditure (all levels of government) was Rp. 536 trillion 
(about US$ 60 billion) in 2005.  The Government is reviewing its overall PSO strategy in 
Electricity, it has a draft WSS strategy which includes development of fiscal incentives for sub-
national governments to improve PDAM financial performance, addressing PDAM debt arrears, 
and opening up PDAM access to new borrowing, and it has doubled its roads investment budget 
for 2008 from about US$1.1 billion equivalent in 2007 to about US$ 1.9 billion equivalent 
planned for 2008.   
 
The government has created a Risk Management Unit to ensure that appropriate forms and levels 
of government support are given to individual public private partnerships, and to ensure that the 
overall level of contingent support is consistent with sound fiscal management.  It is working 
towards the creation of a guarantee fund for private infrastructure projects and developing a 
pipeline of PPPs.   
 
Regarding land, environment and governance, a National Land Agency Implementation 
Guideline (3/2007) has been introduced covering land acquisition.  Initiatives to improve 
environmental management are going forward, both through the environmental impact 
assessment process and through decentralized governments.  At the forefront of public 
procurement reform is the imminent creation/ establishment of a fully independent 
Goods/Services Procurement Policy Development Institution  
 
2.  Operation Objectives  
 
The reform agenda will be supported through a programmatic budget support instrument. This 
would be implemented through a series of three tranches of financial support under the proposed 
Infrastructure Development Policy Loan.  Prior actions for the loan include: (i) increasing the 
central government budget allocation for infrastructure by 30% 2007-2008 (ii) publication of the 
PLN PSO compensation payment by region and customer category; (iii) ending government 
support for infrastructure projects that are Perpres 67 non-compliant and lack a project specific 
Perpres allowing for non-compliance; (iv) allocating Rp 3 trillion in the 2008 budget for the 
Indonesia Infrastructure Fund, the Guarantee Fund and land acquisition (v) issuing a decree to 
establish an inter-ministerial Land Working Group; and (vi) use of semi-e-procurement system 
for all national roads projects in Java and Sumatra above Rp. 10 billion
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
Page  3
Now that substantial macroeconomic progress has been achieved, inadequate infrastructure has 
emerged as one of the main factors that could prevent Indonesia from reaching its full growth 
potential. The Government is committed to addressing an infrastructure agenda that is complex, 
technically detailed, and challenging.  A separate IDPL series provides the flexibility to adjust 
the timing of operations to actual progress in relatively risky infrastructure reform. 
 
Establishment of a new IDPL series also responds to strong country demand. The Government as 
a
whole recognizes the importance of Bank support in advancing key reforms within the 
bureaucracy, as well as the intellectual leadership and assistance the Bank can provide on the 
details of particular reforms. 
 
The launching of a new infrastructure series provides a strong signal of Bank support for the 
infrastructure policy loans of the ADB and JBIC. The policy loans provide a platform for all 
three development partners to work together in support of the Government’s infrastructure 
program. 
 
4. Financing 
 
The Borrower is the Republic of Indonesia and this operation is a single-tranche IBRD loan of 
US$ 200 million that would be made available upon loan effectiveness, as all policy actions 
supported by the loan/credit would have been completed prior to Board presentation. For the 
IBRD loan, the Government has confirmed that Indonesia would borrow this amount as a Fixed 
Spread Loan (FSL) in US$ currency with annuity repayment schedule linked to commitments. 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The Ministry of Finance will be in charge of implementation.  Bank staff will focus on the 
impact outcomes of the program and the adjustments that need to be made to the operation as it 
evolves, to take into account the latest country developments, stakeholder support, and feasible 
options for realizing the intended development goals. 
 
6.   Benefits and Risks 
 
The IDPL is expected to support a considerable increase in the extent and quality of 
infrastructure provision in Indonesia, on the basis of a 25 percent increase in spending on 
national infrastructure and a 20 percent increase in subnational infrastructure capital expenditure 
2006 – 2010 as well as sectoral reform that will encourage private investment and improved 
efficiency of both public and private financing.  This will support (inter alia) the extension and 
improved condition of the national road network, an expansion in access to electricity and piped 
water, improved environmental monitoring and a decline in the open-dump disposal of solid 
waste and expanded and fair compensation for land acquisition. 
 
There remain strong political pressures to circumvent competitive bidding pressures, to bring 
projects to market before they are adequately prepared, or to support the bankability of PPP 
Page  4
projects with inappropriate government guarantees.  At the same time, the present Government 
appears strongly committed to the reform program.  In addition, the launch of the IDPL series is 
itself aimed at mitigating commitment risks since future loans will be delayed if the reform 
agenda stalls (Moderate Risk). 
 
The Government’s infrastructure reform program is undoubtedly complex and it is clear that the 
relatively slow pace of progress so far is due at least in part to capacity constraints.  The 
Government is well aware of these issues and the Government’s request for Bank support 
through the IDPL series is aimed in part at enlisting Bank’s assistance in this regard (High Risk). 
 
Indonesia is struggling with issues of corruption, and corruption could certainly have an impact 
on the success of the IDPL series.  The Bank is pursuing multiple anti-corruption initiatives in 
Indonesia, including in respect of infrastructure. There are anti-corruption initiatives in multiple 
Bank infrastructure projects, and the procurement reforms set out in the IDPL are part of the 
anti-corruption effort (High Risk). 
 
Macroeconomic performance is subject to multiple risks, of varying likelihood and gravity.  The 
potential risks to macro-economic stability which are most likely to be realized are shocks over 
which the Government has little or no control (natural disasters, the world economy).  The 
mitigation strategy is to improve the Government’s overall fiscal and monetary management, to 
improve the economy’s resilience. Moderate risk) 
 
6.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
International experience indicates strong linkages between infrastructure service provision and 
poverty reduction. Several IDPL reforms are focused on directly increasing household access to 
services, including rural electrification and access to piped water. Access to such services is 
currently highly regressive. Network expansion is likely to reduce this regressivity. Policies 
addressing sub-national governments’ incentives to invest in infrastructure may, in time, improve 
the provision of rural roads. Rural roads typically have significant effects on the reduction of 
poverty.  Upward electricity tariff revisions would adversely affect those who already have 
connections, but would help to expand the rate of connection, particularly in the eastern 
provinces where poverty rates tend to be higher. 
 
Notwithstanding the many social benefits of improved infrastructure, there may be some social 
costs associated with expanded infrastructure investment. In particular, land acquisition 
associated with road construction may have adverse social consequences. The IDPL reforms 
which envisage improved compensation standards may help to mitigate the adverse social 
consequences. 
 
Many of the reforms supported by the IDPL will help improve environmental outcomes in 
priority areas, such as sanitation and energy efficiency.  Investments in water supply, quality and 
access have the potential to improve sanitation and environmental health outcomes for affected 
populations.  The operation has been designed to help mitigate or strengthen the Government’s 
capacity to address potential negative environmental impacts.  The implementation of the IDPL 
will be accompanied by the provision of technical assistance to help the Ministry of Public 
Works improve its environmental performance. The first step will involve the conduct of an 
Page  5
assessment of the capacity and needs of the Ministry to carry out environmental assessments of 
infrastructure projects. The proposed work will build on the existing work done on AMDAL at 
national and local level and will be led jointly by the Ministry of Environment and the World 
Bank. It is expected that this assessment will inform a complementary capacity building effort to 
ensure that projects comply with the existing environmental legislation (and that which is in the 
process of being updated) at planning, construction and implementation stages. 
 
7. Contact point 
 
Hongjoo J. Hahm 
Lead Infrastructure Specialist 
World Bank Indonesia
 
Jakarta Stock Exchange Building, Tower 2, 12th & 13th Floor 
Telephone: +(62-21) 5299-3000 
Fax: +(62-21) 5299-3111 
hhahm@worldbank.org 
 
8.  For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop)
 
wb282386 
M:\GH\Hanny\PPP\IDPL AND GUARANTEE FUND\DOCUMENTS\idplpid2.doc 
10/30/2007 6:22:00 PM
 
