Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3273 
Operation Name 
ID-Infrastructure DPL (IDPL) 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
Water supply (30%);Power (30%);Roads and highways 
(25%);General transportation sector (10%);Telecommunications 
(5%) 
Project ID 
P107163 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Mr. Rio Silaban  
Ministry of Finance 
Jl. Lapangan Banteng Timur No 2-4 
Jakarta 10710  
Indonesia 
Tel: +62 (0)21 384-1067 
Fax: +62 (0)21 380-8395 
Date PID Prepared 
August 20, 2007 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
September 26, 2007 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
December 18, 2007 
Background.
 
Prior to the 1997 financial crisis, infrastructure investment of 5-6 % of GDP contributed 
su
bstantially to Indonesia’s progress on growth and poverty reduction.  While Indonesia made substantial 
progress with restoring macroeconomic stability, infrastructure investment suffered, falling to a low of less 
than 2 percent of GDP in 2000 and reaching less than 3 percent of GDP in 2004.  The Yudhoyono 
Government, elected in September 2004, recognized the importance of infrastructure and set infrastructure 
as a major priority.  The Government has prepared a wide-ranging “Infrastructure Policy Package” aimed at 
encouraging competition and redefining the role of government, including separating policy-making, 
regulatory and operational responsibilities. The Government has also adopted new regulations requiring 
competitive bidding of public-private partnerships (PPPs) and appropriate risk management of guarantees 
for PPPs.  
 
Prospects
.
The Government of Indonesia is now determined to increase its public investment in 
infrastructure.  The Government is reviewing its overall PSO (subsidy) strategy for the Electricity sector, 
and has a draft WSS strategy which includes development of fiscal incentives for sub-national governments 
to improve PDAM (water utilities) financial performance, opening them up to potentially new borrowing.  
It has also doubled its roads investment budget from about US$1.1 billion equivalent in 2007 to about 
US$1.9 billion equivalent planned for 2008.   
 
Proposed objective(s):  
To support the reform agenda through a programmatic budget support instrument 
through a series of three single tranche operations of financial support under the proposed IDPL.
 
Preliminary description:  
The four pillars cover a carefully selected subset of the Government’s broader 
reform agenda.  Policy actions or triggers were designed to maximize: (i) focus on reforms that are seen as 
key priorities by the GOI; (ii) linkage to fiscal management; (iii) potential for near term impact; and (iv) 
cross-sectoral reforms. 
 
Page  2
National Infrastructure:
 The first policy area focuses on public expenditures on national government 
infrastructure, supporting increased public spending and more effective spending through improved sectoral 
strategies. These strengthened infrastructure strategies will address key weaknesses specific to each sector: 
·
Roads: The strategy will clearly identify sources of funds for both investment and maintenance to 
ensure adequate protection of the maintenance budget. 
·
Power: The strategy will focus on (i) a medium term strategy for PLN that is agreed by all 
responsible entities and (ii) a policy framework for rural electrification which clarifies modes of 
cooperation between PLN and local governments. 
 
Sub-National Infrastructure:
 Policy Area II deals with the infrastructure of sub-national governments. 
There are various legal impediments to sub-national borrowing, the most important of which is a 
prohibition on new borrowing when a government is in arrears to the national government on existing debt. 
There are three elements involved in the Government’s response to this issue.  The first is to restructure 
existing debts so that sub-national governments are no longer in arrears on their payments. The second is to 
put in place a system of sanctions to ensure no recurrence of arrears. The final element is to provide a 
system of positive incentives to increase sub-national spending on infrastructure. The IDPL will also focus 
on improving in the framework for restructuring of PDAM operations and debt arrears, to speed up the 
PDAM reform process. 
 
Public-Private Partnerships:
 Over the next three years, substantial progress should be made in developing a 
few transactions that will serve as models for subsequent PPP project preparation, and signal Indonesia’s 
readiness for private investment. This pillar supports the Government’s PPP efforts by focusing on three 
main areas: (i) clarification of the legal ambiguities surrounding potential public support to sub-national 
PPP projects and projects that are non-compliant with Perpres 67; (ii) mobilization of sustainable sources of 
PPP financing through establishment of the Indonesia Infrastructure Fund and the Guarantee Fund; and (iii) 
preparation and implementation of a few initial demonstration PPP projects. 
 
Land, Environment, and Procurement: 
This pillar supports government efforts in land acquisition covering 
streamlined and equitable processes for acquisition of and compensation for land to be used in infrastructure 
rollout.  In addition, the pillar supports the AMDAL process for environmental assessment which will allow 
for greater public participation, earlier review for environmental concerns, project adjustment for 
mitigation, and follow up monitoring and reporting.  On governance, the pillars described above have 
significant governance components.  In addition, this pillar will support expanding procurement capacity 
and extending e-procurement. 
 
Environment Aspects:
 On environmental and social aspects the IDPL will help to strengthen institutional 
capacity for the management of the social and environmental costs of infrastructure expansion. 
 
Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
200 
 Total 
200 
 
Contact point 
Hongjoo J. Hahm 
Lead Infrastructure Specialist 
World Bank Indonesia 
Jakarta Stock Exchange Building, Tower 2, 12th Floor 
Telephone: +(62-21) 5299-3000 
Fax: +(62-21) 5299-3111  
E-mail: 
hhahm@worldbank.org
