D_nat of
The World Bank
OFMCAL VUE oNy
Rupat N 12341
PROJECT COUPLETON REPORT
COLOMBLA
COAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2349-CO)
SEPTEMBER 23, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: 12341
Type: PCR
Industry, Trade, Finance, Industry and Energy Operations
Country Uepartment III
Latin America and Caribbean Region
Tkis document has a rtid dstributon aod may be used by rcipos only in te perfornceu of
thdr offlicial duies. Its contes ay not othwwwse be dicosed without World Bank authorzation.



PRQ113aCOMPPIJL
LOAN 24<
ABBREYIAlQtS
CARBOCOL            Carbones de Colombia, S.A.
DNP                 Departmeo Nacional de Planeaci6n
ECOMINAS            Empresa Colombiana de Minas
ECOPETROL           Empresa Colombiana de Petrdleos
FNC                 Fondo Nacional de Carb6n (National Coal Fund)
FONADE              Foado Nacional de Proyects de Desarrollo
(National Fund for Development Projects)
INGEOMINAS          Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Geoldgico-
Mineras
ISA                 Interconexi6n Electriza, S.A.
MME                 Ministerio de Minas y Energfa
PR                  RePort and Recommendation of the President of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development
tpy                 metric tonnes per year
UNDP                United Nations Development Program
CURRENEUALENTS
At Proiect Appraisal (July 19831
US$1 = Col$ 78.61
Col$ I = US$ 0.10272
At Project Completion Report Preparation (MLarch 19931
US$1 = Col$
Col$1 = US$



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
THE WOWLD BANK
Washngh, D.C. 20433
USA
OM" of DIr.otoi.em              '
Op       Evlon
September 23, 1993
SUBJECT:        !roject Completion Report on Colombia -
Coa Exploratlo Yroject (Loan L11
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Colombia - Coal Exploration PzqJiect oan 2349-
CO) prepared by the Latin America Regional Office. Pan H was prepared by the Borrower.
ITe PCR is of satsfactoy quality. It ccludes that the original objecdve of establishing a solid
basis for maldng investment decisions for coal use has been achieved. The institutional stngtnin of
Carbones de Colombia SA (Carbocol) in the ateas of contractig for coal development, geological
evaltion, coal marketing and financial planing, has also been substantially achieved. In the course of
implementation Carbocol decided to focus exploratory work on only two of the six deposits envisaged in
the project The resut was the delneation of two large deposits at Alto San Jorge and El Descanso.
While the cost of extraction and the coal quality at Alto San Jorge make the mine suitable for mine-4ead
electric power generation, the larger El Descanso deposit could be developed for expors. This latter
deposit has already been offered to the private sector for development but the depressed stt of the
international coal market and the problems with El Cerrejon project have worked against such an outcome.
Nonetheless, El Descanso deposit remaim a likely candidate for development once international markets
for coal improve.
This project was prepared at a time when the Cano Limon petroleum field had not yet been
discovered in Colombia and coal was, therefore, considered to be the preferred energy resource for the
Colombian economy. Moreover, during the early 1980s, the world still expected a potentially near teWn
petroleum shortage and coal exploration and development was very much the order of the day, especially
for exports.
Given the positive outcomes of the exploratory work and the technical assistance received by
Carbocol, the benefits of the project are considered to be sustainable.
An audit of this project is not planned.
Attachment
This documenthasa ticd ditibutionand may be used by recipients only in the performnof their official duties. be cents
may no othewi be disclosed without Word  athorza



FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
PROJEaCQMLEUQO REPORT
COLOMBIA  COAL EXPLORATIOQN PROECT
LOAN 2349 C;0
Table cf Contet
Preface ..................................... i
Eva!uatlonSunmawy    ..................                ..................  ii
PART 1: Review from the Perspective of the Bank
Proiject Identity ................................... 1
Background .................................... I
Project Preparation, Design and Organization .................................  3
Objectives and Description   ................................... 5
P>rojectlinplementation ......................................... 5
Project Results                          .......... 7
Sustainabiity of Projet Beneflts ....................  10
ConsultingServices .................... I1
ProjectIDocumentation .......................  11
rroject Relationsbips .................... . 11
Performance of the Borrower ....................  11
Performance of the Bank ....................  12
Perfornance of UNDP .................... 12
C onclusions and Lessons Learned. .L eare                                          12
PART I: Revlew from theP rPpecdveoftheBorrower .......................  14
PARTIII: Statisticallnfornadon  ................*...................... 23
Previous Related Bank Loam ....................................... 24
Project Timetable ...................................... 24
Cumulative Loan Disbursements .....................................   25
Implementation Indicators ....................................... 26
Project Costs ..................................... 27
Project Financing . . . ..................................... 28
Project Results ..................................... 29
Status of Project Covenants ...................................... 32
Use of Bank Staff Resources ...................................... 35
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officia duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-i
PROECT COMPLETIO REPORT
COLOMBIA COAL EXPLORA=ION PROJECT
LOAN NO, 23492C
- ~~PREAa
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Colombia Coal Exploration Project (Loan No. 2349-
CO). The Board approved this project on October 11, 1983 for a loan amount of US$9.5 million. The
ortginal closing date for the project was January 31, 1988 but after two extensions the loan account closed
on January 15, 1992. The Bank disbursed a total of US$6.3 million and cancelled US$3.2 million, of
which US$1.7 million were cancelled at an earlier date.
The Industry, Trade, Finance and Energy Operations Division prepared the review of tie project from
the Bank's perspective (Part 1) and basic statistical information on the project's execution (Part III).
Carbones de Colombia, S.A. (CARBOCOL) prepared the review of the project from the perspective of
the Borrower (Part II). The basis for Parts I and HI consists of the President's Report, the Loan
Agreemc,nt, project files, discussions with Bank project supervisory staff, and corresponce and discussions
with Carbocol.



ii-
PROJECrT CQMPLEllQ  REPOR
COLOMBICOAL           fl,AQ         PROJECr
LOAN N. 2349O
EX&LUATION SUMMARY
i. As part of the Colombia's Economic Plan for 1982-86, the Government had a two-fold objective
for developing Colombia's abundant coal resources: (a) meeting part of Colombia's energy requirem
with coal instead of oil, thus saving foreign exchange and (b) expanding the country's export earnings
to generate foreign exchange for development programs. To achieve these objectives, the focus of the
Government strategy was on attacting foreign risk capital for "ploration and, evenually, joint venwes
for coal producdon with Carboco!, the national eoal company. The Goverment had fcussed on areas
near the Adantic coast as a priority region for coal development. The rtionale for this was that because
of their proximity to ocean transpor, coal production in these areas could serve both domestic and export
markets. MTe Coal Exploration project (Loan No. 2349-CO) was part of this exploration strategy (pars
2.1).
Ubiectives
ii. The project had two fundamental objectives. The first was the establishment of a solid basis for
making decisions on investment options for coal use. To this effect, the exploration component of the
project was to evaluate coal reserves and deposits in sir. areas, well-situated for domestic use and expors.
All areas were within a 250-Km distance of the Atlantic coast; therefore they had export potential and
also were in a good position to serve the largest consumption centers in northern Colombia. Carbocol
had exclusive rights to coal development in the selected areas: San Jacinto, San Jorge, San Pedro, La
Loma, El Paso, and El Descanso. The second objective was to strengthen CaWocol institutionally, to
handle its increasing responsibilities in the areas of contracting for coal development, geological
evaluation, marketing and financial planning. The total cost of the project was estimated at US$17.8
million of which the Bank was to finance the foreign costs of US$9.5 million and Carbocol the remaining
US$8.3 million. In Part 3, Tables 5 and 6 provide a breakdown of these costs and their financing.
Project W=Mpeniofu  and Results
iii. According to the project implementation schedule shown in Part 3, Table 4, the project originally
was to take about five years However, it actually took about eight and a half years to complete the
project, from the date of Board approval (October 1983) to the project completion date (May 1992). The
Bank extended the closing date for the project twice. There was an initia delay of eight months in the
project's execution due to a four-month delay in loan signing and lengthy evaluation of proposals and
negotiations with the exploration consultants. After preliminary geological work, Carbocol decided to
focus on the exploration of two deposits - Alto San Jotge and El Descanso- istead of the six deposits
as envisioned during project appraisal (para 5.4). Furthermore, the exploration work on the El Descanso
deposit did not begin until 1987 because of unsuccessful, protracted discussions which Carbocol held with
private companies in the hope of obtaining private funds for the prefeasibility work instead of using Bank
funds (para 5.2). Also, major changes in Carbocol's management in 1984 and 1986 reportdly



-iii-
contributed to the delay in the implementation of the technical assistance component. At project
appraisal, total estimated project costs were US$17.8 million, supported by an original Bank loan amount
of US$9.5 million. However, because of the reduction in the number of deposits on which exploration
work was focused, actual project costs were US$13.2 million of which the Bank loan financed US$6.3
million and Carbocol financed the rest (Part 3, Tables 5 and 6). The project resulted in coal discoveries
at both Alto San Jorge and El Descanso. Project fih. ings indicate that the development of Alto San Jorge
would be feasible only to feed a minemouth powir plant, while the El Descanso deposit, which
preliminary findings indicate to be among the largest coal deposits in the world, would be economically
viable for exports. The technical assistance which the project provided was instrumental in: (a) helping
Carbocol rationalize its organizational structure, (b) providing Carbocol with a range of options for
improving Its coal marketing strategy, and (c) establishing a methodology for negotiating and contracting
with third parties for coal development (paras 6.56.12).
Sgstainability of Project AchievemoenI
iv. On the exploration side, the major sustainable benefit is the acquisition of the technology and the
training to do geological prefeasibility studies providing preliminary information on coal deposits.
Carbocol has the prefeasibility studies of Alto San Jorge and El Descanso for reference, which the
company can use in its decision making on coal development. Whether Carbocol decides to develop Alto
San Jorge will depend on the decision of the national electric power company to build a minemouth coal-
fired power plant. Carbocol will not develop the El Descanso coal deposit in the immediate future since
they estimate that other coal development projects with considerable export potential, about 35 to 37
million of tons per annum by the end of the decade, are in a more advanced state of preparation. Given
Carbocol's improved capability for geological work and current policy of contracting exploration work
to private parties, it is unlikely that Carbocol will be requesting Bank finds for exploration in the fiture.
Finally, it appears that technical assistance in strategic planning and marketing has had an impact on
Carbocol's organizational structure and marketing strategy. Carbocol currently has plans to separate into
two entities: (a) a commercial operation for the El Cerrejon production partnership and (b) an agency
representing the state in exploration work, contract negotiation with private investors, technical support
to small-scale miners, supervision of health and safety regulations, etc. Also, Carbocol is considering
options which the marketing study recommended for low-cost expansion of coal production in areas that
currently are producing.
Conclusions and Lessons Learned
v.  In hindsight, neither the Bank, the Government, nor Carbocol had an adequate long-term view of
their respective roles in the coal mining sector. The design of the project reflected an attempt of the Bank
to maintain some involvement in all aspects of the coal sector - exploration, marketing, financial
planning, etc., after it had become clear that the Bank would not be participating in the large El Cerrejon
project. However, during the project's execution, Carbocol's philosophy, regarding state participation
in the coal subsector evolved to limit the use of state funds and to use private sector funds as much as
possible. Thus, Carbocol decided not to do the feasibility work on its own but leave it for the private
sector, and limited the use of Bank funds to the prefeasibility level. The policy of encouraging the use
of private sector risk capital, for preliminary exploratory work, reflects current Bank philosophy which
was not necessarily the case at the time of the project's design. However, the exploration component



-iv-
was successful and resulted in the discovery of a major, world class coal deposit. TMe methodology of
phasing exploration work, with independent reviews at the end of each phase, worked well, preventing
Carbocol from spending additional resources on areas without significant coal potential. The technical
assistance component helped develop a capability within Carbocol to do preliminary geological work,
which, combined with the assistance received in contracting for coal development, should help Carbocol
promote private sector exploration work. Furthermore, assistance in stategic planning and marketing
were instrumental in helping Carbocol rationalize its oiganization structare and explore new marketing
options for the coal. In terms of technical assistance, the Bank learned the importance of developing
clear, realistic objectives for individual project components, ensuring that project design supports these
objectives. For example, the Bank included a financial planning study as part of the project because
Carbocol had taken on a very large debt under the Cerrejon project and needed to develop a capitalization
plan; also, the Bank seemed to have had some doubts about the projections which served as a basis for
investment recovery. Carbocol never did the study and the Bank did not have sufficient financial leverage
to insist on it, since the original loan amount was only for US$9.5 million and there was no loan
conditionality specifying specific financial perfbrmance targets.



PROJECT CoMPLEiOaN REiPORT
-CDLD_1IA- COAL BEWLORA31ON ,lRC)Wi
n2349-CO
1. P1101M DNllw
VProjec !'ante           Coal Exploration Project
anNmber;   ;.    2349-CO
eto.rs         v:a:xIndustry and Energy
Subsec_or     i' ..'t'  Mining
Itetlonat Vice PresldVocy Latin America and the Caribbean
2. BACKGOUND
2.1          NatIonal Economic Plan (1982-86). Colombia's 1982-86 Economic Plan provided the
macroeconomic context for the Coal Exploration Project. The major theme of this plan was 'growth
with equity" - expanding economic growth, decentralizing economic activity and linking regional growth
centers through improved infrastructure. The plan also stressed the development of the energy sector as
a priority. As part of the Plan, the Government had a two-fold objective for developing Colombia's
abundant coal resources: (a) meeting part of Colombia's energy requirements with coal instead of oil,
thus saving foreign exchange and (b) expanding the country's export earnings to generate foreign
exchange for development programs. To achieve these objectives, the focus of the Government straegy
was on attracting foreign risk capital for exploration and, eventually, joint ventures for coal production
with Carbones de Colombia, S.A. (CAPR30COL), the national coal company. The Government had
targeted areas near the Atlantic coast as a prikrity region for coal development; the rationale was that
because of their proximity to ocean transport, coal production in these areas could serve both domestic
and export markets.
2.2          Coal Quality and Reserves. Most of Colombia's coal is bituminous (6,000 KcaUKg)
with a low sulphur content, less than one percent. These properties make the coal particularly attractive
for use as "steam coal", the type of coal used for producing thermal power to generate electricity. Also,
some coal in the central part of Colombia has coking properties, which make it a useful feedstock for the
production of steel. At the time of project appraisal, estimated coal resources were 16 billion tonnes of
which only 20 percent were classified as measured reserves.
2.3          Coal Production and Consumption. Colombia, at the time of project appraisal, was
producing about five million tonnes per year (tpy) from some 400 small and medium-scale mines, mines
in central Colombia, operated by the private sector. More than half of all production and consumption
was in the bighlands near Bogota. Industry was consuming about 60 percent of production with power
generating facilities taking the rest.



2
2.4          Coal Pricing. Coal prices, set by the market, ranged between US$25 and US$35 per
tonme delivered to large consumers in the industrial centers of Bogota, Medellin or Cali. Although these
prices were well below international prices at the time, the coal was not competitive for export because
of the high cost of transporting it to the coast.
2.5 -        InstItutional Framework for Coal Development. 1*a Ministry of Mines and Energy
(MME) was responsible for overseeing policies for the mining and energy sectors. It also regulated
private sector involvement through granting exploration licenses and development concessions. MME
shared this responsibility with the national planning agency (DNP). The Colombian Government
establishrJ CARBOCOL, the national company for coal development, in 1976. While the Colombian
Government is the sole owner of the company, both MME and the Superintendency of Corporations
jointly supervise CARBOCOL.
2.6          Profile of CARBOCOL. CARBOCOL, the Borrower for the Project loan, is Colombia's
state mining agency for coal. It has a variety of functions, including (a) coal exploration, production
processing and marketing of coal, on its own or in conjunction with the private sector; (b) technical
assistance to small mines; (c) control of health and safety; and (d) representation of the state in
negotiating contracts with third parties for new projects. At the time of project appraisal (1982),
CARBOCOL already had entered into a 50:50 joint venture with INTERCOR, a subsidiary of Exxon,
for the development of the Cerrejon North project, the largest investment venture in the country,
amounting to US$3.3 billion. Oriented entirely toward exports, the Cerrejon project was to develop a
15 million tonne per year (tpy) open-pit mine, which required a considerable amount of new
infrastructure, including a railway, a port, two airports, two townships and several other related facilities.
2.7          CARBOCOL also was involved in several projects other than the Cerrejon project. The
company was in the process of preparing the Cerrejon Central project scheduled to produce 1.5 million
tonnes per year (tpy) upon completior  The total investnent for this project was estimated at US$40
million. In addition to the projects in the Cerrejon region, the private sector, with IFC flnancing, was
involved in the development of a project in the San Pedro Basin. About three years prior to the Coal
Exploration Project, CARBOCOL had expanded its staff nearly threefold, to 300. This expansion was
a response to CARBOCOL's partnership in the massive Cerrejon North Project, which outpaced the
existing administrative structure and management information system in the company. Complementing
the personnel expansion, CARBOCOL needed strengthening in its capabilities for project overall
management, information systems for management, coal marketing, exploration, financial planning, and
contracting for coal development. Since 1979, the Bank and the United Nations Development Programme
(UNDP) had been providing CARBOCOL with technical assistance covering an evaluation of the Cerrejon
North Project (1979-82) and strengthening project management and information systems. In addition,
CARBOCOL had been receiving technical assistance from Germany on coal exploration in the Bogota
highlands.
2.8          The Cerrejon project was a major financial involvement for CARBOCOL. According
to the President's Report (PR) on the Coal Exploration Project, CARBOCCO's authorized capital at
project appraisal was US$150 million of which US$109 million was paid-in. The company's net fixed
assets were US$280 million and its total debt was US$210 million. The PR of the project noted that
CARBOCOL's financial condition would be heavily influenced by its large financial contribution to the
El Cerrejon North project. As a result of this participation, by 1988, CARBOCOL's long-term debt was



3
to increase to US$1.1 billion and its paid-in capital to some US$1 billion resulting from a capitalization
program which the Government and CARBOCOL had apprtoved at appraisal.
2.9          Projected Coal Production and Consumption. The Government was planning a six-fold
increase In coal production from 5 million tons in 1980 to 30 million tons in 1990, of which all the
thermal coal produced (about 20 million tons) was designated for export. Domestic consumption of coal
was expected to inc'ease at 6.7 percent annually, rising from 5 million tonnes in 1981 to 9 million tons
in 1990. International trade in thermal coal was expected to increase substantially, from 90 million
tonnes in 1980 to 200 million tonnes in 1990.
3. PROJECT PREPARA1ION, DESIGN AND QRGA3NZATIUN
3.1          Project Origins and Appraisal. The Project evolved originally from a coal engineering
project which the CARBOCOL and the Bank had prepared in 1977, consisting of exploration and
feasibility studies on two coal deposits. INGEOhMNAS, the Colombian geological survey agency, had
done the basic geological work, which included field reconnaissance along with topographical and
geological mapping. The appraisal of the earlier proposed coal project took place in 1979, but
CARBOCOL's management requested the Bank not to process the project further until they could make
arrangements to obtain the local financing required. The Bank continued to follow developments with
CARBOCOL and expanded the scope of the project considerably in 1982. Originally, the Bank
envisioned participation in the large Cerrejon coal exploration project but CARBOCOL instead entered
into a joint venture agreement with !NTERCOR, an affiliate of Exxon Corporation. As a result, the Bank
Instead concentrated on exploration of other areas and institutional strengthening of CARBOCOL.
3.2          CARBOCOL prepared the project, which the Bank appraised in October/November 1982.
The Decision Memorandum of the project raised several issues concerning the project's implementation
and scope. First, there was a need to establish a clear role for the private sector in mineral development.
To do this, the project needed to focus on (i) increasing the knowledge of mineral reserves to assess the
country's mining potential and (ii) define a legal framework which would promote private sector interest
in the exploration and development of promising mining areas. Second, the Bank noted that CARBOCOL
had prepared the project carefully and well but was concerned that the company required more
experienced staff to implement the project. So the Bank agreed with CARBOCOL that it would establish
a Project Unit within its Technical and Planning Department and staff it with experienced engineers and
geologists. The project was to adopt a phased approach toward the exploration work, whereby the Bank
would approve the move from the preliminary geology phase in a given area, to the prefeasibility stage,
and, if warranted, to the feasibility stage. The purpose of this design was to ensure an independent review
of the exploration consultant's recommendations at each stage before proceeding to the next one. As a
result of a post-appraisal mission to Colombia in January 1983, there was agreement to substitute, among
the various coal regions selected for investigation, the El Descanso region for the Canaga and La Jagua
coal region. Second, there was agreement to drop the provision for CARBOCOL to do one feasibility
study on its own since the Government expressed concern about minimizing costs, opting instead for the
use of private sector funds to the maximum extent possible.
3.3          Negotiations and Board Approval. Project negotiations lasted longer than expected due
to the need to reach agreement on arrang!ements for financing loc  costs, the use of external auditors and
permission for CARBOCOL to create liens in obtaining local financing. Regarding the financing of local



4
costs, the Bank originally had stipulated, as a condition of effectiveness, that CARBOCOL obtain a loan
from FONADE and a grant from FNC for financing the local costs of the project. But subsequently the
Bank was satisfied with provisions added to the Loan and Guarantee Agreements. For the auditing
provisions under the project, the Bank agree to accept, temporarily, the National Controller's Officer
as auditor of CARBOCOL, since this organization was responsible for auditing the accounts of alI public
sector agencies. But beginning in 1984, CARBOCOL was to engage private auditors. Finally, the
CARBOCOL requested that the Bank waive Its restrictions on creating liens in borrowing from domestic
institutions, pointing out that most local financial institutions required liens when lending to an individual
enterprise reached a certain level of exposure. The Bank did not agree to this waiver out of concern that
CARBOCOL might acquire significant liens resulting from local funding requirements.
3.4          The Bank presented the project to the Board in October 1983. Discussions at Board
presentation raised some concern about the adequacy of incentives in Colombia for private investment
and CARBOCOL's heavy reliance on multilateral financing. However, Bank staff cited the El Cerrejon
Project as evidence of a major joint venture with private foreign investment and the fact that CARBOCOL
had begun to diversify its sources of financing, pointing to a recent loan from Chemical Bank.
3.5          The final design of the project included two components, an exploration component and
a technical assistance component. The design of the exploration component, reflected a cautious, phased
approach to minimize the exploration risk for CARBOCOL. The technical assistance component focussed
on improvements in the following areas, where CARBOCOL needed institutional strengthening:
(a)    Coal Marketing. A plan was necessary to provide for the expected high volume of coal
sales expected from CARBOCOL's projects, especially at El Cerrejon.
(b)    Coal Exploration. CARBOCOL needed assistance in economic geology and the
design of a geological data base.
(c) Financial Elanning. The company needed to develop a plan to raise substantial
amounts of capital from a variety of sources.
(t)    Contracing for Coal Development. CARBOCOL needed to define more clearly
the conditions governing foreign investment in Colombian coal in an
internationally competitive setting, in order to make private sector investment
more attractive.
The Bank's Board of Directors approved the loan on October 11, 1983.
3.6          Project Organization and Administration. CARBOCOL established a Project Unit
under its Technical and Planning Department to organize the technical work and cost control under the
Project. This Unit, staffed with three geologists and three engineers, reported to the Manager of th-
Technical and Planning Department. For the exploration component, the Unit was to be responsible for
procurement and administration of consultant services. In supervising the Technical Assistance (TA)
compon(cft, the Unit was to work with the line departments responsible for the specific areas receiving
the assistance. These individual departments were to prepare short lists of consultants and terms of
reference. The rationale for this arrangement was to provide CARBOCOL with a small, flexible set-up
for project execution and an adequate mixture of staff not found in any other single unit in the company.



5
The set-up also allowed the flexibility to change the size and composition of the unit depending on the
needs of the exploration work. The Bank made adequate staffing of the unit a condition of loan
effectiveness.
4. PROJEC OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
4.1          The President's Report (PR) for the project cites two fundamental objectives and their
related project components. The first objective was the establishmentof a solid basis for making decisions
on investment options for coal use. To this effect, the exploration component of the project was to
evaluate coal reserves and deposits in six areas, well-situated for domestic use and exports. All areas
were within a 250-km distance of the Atlantic coast. Therefore, they had export potential and were in
a good position to serve the largest consumption centers in northern Colombia. CARBOCOL had
exclusive rights to coal development in the six selected areas: San Jacinto, San Jorge, San Pedro, La
Loma, El Paso, and El Descanso. The exploration strategy for these priority areas called for staging the
various activities in three phases to insure the implementation of costlier steps ordy after review of the
previous phase and justification for the move to the next one. Phase I was to cover research and
interpretation of available data, photogeological studies and some initial field work. Subsequently, using
this data, Phase 2 was to consist of reconnaissance drilling and detailed geological mapping of selected
zones. Fnally, given successful drilling ai4 mapping, Phase 3 was to follow, comprising prefeasibility
studies to assess, in preliminary terms, whether mining operations would be viable from a technical,
financial and economic point of view. The second objective was to strengthen CARBOCOL
institutionally, to discharge its increasing responsibilities in the areas of contracting for coal development,
geological evaluation, marketing and financial planning. The total cost of the pro) -..c was estimated at
US$17.8 million, of which the Bank was to finance the foreign costs of US$ 9.5 million and
CARBOCOL the remaining US$8.3 million. In Part 3, Tables 5 and 6 provide a breakdown of these
costs and their financing.
5. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Project Timel_ine
5.1          According to the project implementation schedule (Part 3, Table 4), the project originally
was to take about five years. However, it actually took about eight and a half years to complete the
project, from the date of Board approval (October 1983) to the project completion date (May 1992).
Supervision reports indicate that there was an initial delay of eight months in the project's execution d':e
to a four-month delay in loan signing and lengthy evaluation of proposals and negotiations with the
exploration consultants. Furthermore, the exploration work on one of the two deposits which the project
had decided to investigate through the prefeasibility stage did not begin until 1987. The reason for this
is that CARBOCOL held protracted discussions with private companies in the hope of obtaining private
funds for the prefeasibility work instead of using Bank funds. Also, major changes in CARBOCOL's
management in 1984 and 1986 reportedly delayed the implementation of the technical assistance
component.
5.2          Reserve evaluation ard feasibility studies, originally scheduled for the period April 1984
to 1985, actually took place between November 1984 and December 1991. The exploration work of the



6
project ultimately focussed on two areas: Alto San Jorge and El Deebcanso, instead of six areas cited at
project appraisal. CARBOCOL contracted for exploration work on Alto San Jorge first and the
prefeasibility work was complete in 1987. But there was a major delay in the completion of the work
on El Descanso. After the loan became effective in July 1984, CARBOCOL entered into negotiations
with two private foreign groups interested in the exploration and exploitation of El Descanso:
Charbonage de France and Agip Carbone of Italy. Both groups had shown interest in the development
of coal in the El Descanso area and CARBOCOL's exploration strategy was to use external funds as
much as possible for risky exploration work. However, these negotiations did not result in any
exploration agreement. So, by the completion of the work in San Jorge (June 1987) the exploration work
for El Descanso was still in the bidding stage. The Bank estimated that the work would take between
36 and 42 months to complete from this date and decided to grant an extension for two years, until 1990
with the intention of evaluating a second two-year extension depending on the progress of the work. In
1989, the Bank decided to grant another two-year extension, until January 1992, to proceed with
prefeasibility work at El Descanso given the completion of successful exploratory work which indicated
that the area could have one of the largest coal deposits in the world.
5.3          About three and a half years after loan effectiveness, at the end of 1987, the Bank bad
disbursed only US$89,000 compared to planned technical assistance of US$1.0 million. Supervision
reports attribute delays in the eady part of the project to changes In management. However, during 1988-
92, there was significant progress in the implementation of the TA which at project closing amounted to
about US$0.9 million.
Change in Proiect Sco
5.4          The PR had identified six project areas for the concentration of the work of the
exploration component. But CARBOCOL decided to limit target areas to two - Alto San Jorge and El
Descanso -- based on the results of preliminary geological work and on legal considerations. Another
change took place in the scope of technical assistance for institutional strengthening. CARBOCOL
decided not to do the financial planning study. Instead, CARBOCOL requested a Strategic Planning
Study, which the Bank and CARBOCOL had not included in the original design of the project.
Project Cost and Financing
5.5          At project appraisal, the estimate of total project costs was US$17.8 million and Bank
financing of foreign costs was US$9.5 million. However, actual project costs were US$13.2 million of
which the Bank loan financed US$6.3 million and CARBOCOL financed the rest (Part 3, Tables 5 and
6). At the request of the Borrower, the Bank cancelled the remaining US$3.2 million. Project costs were
lower than originally planned mainly due to the decrease in the amount of the exploration component,
given CARBOCOL's decision to focus the exploration component on two areas instead of six as originally
planned.
Parallel UNDP TA Proiect
5.6          During the implementation of the Project, the Bank also acted as executing agency for
the UNDP Technical Assistance Project (COL-82-026) with CARBOCOL. This project complemented
the TA under the Bank project by covering areas identified in the PR as requiring strengthening but not
covered in the Bank project. Specifically, the UNDP TA project focussed on making CARBOCOL an



7
effective counterpart to INTERCOR, to ensure adequate attention to the interests of the State in the
partnership. To this end, the project was to improve CARBOCOL's technical and managerial capabilities
in: (a) project design, (b) cost estimation and scheduling, (c) programming and financial control, (d) the
overall supervision of the operation and administration of the Cerrejon Complex and (e) the inclusion of
provisions in design which would allow for the future expansion of the complex. The UNDP Terminal
Report on the Project concluded that the TA project had accomplished its major objectives, making
CARBOCOL a viable entity with sufficient competence to handle its part of the Cerrejon North project
and take on partnerships with private operators for the development of other coal projects in the country.
Environmental Concern
5.7          During project implementation, project supervision staff looked into the adequacy of
environmental regulations for mining in Colombia. In this regard, the Bank noted that Colombia (a) had
passed a mining law in December 1988 which set forth environmental obligations of mines and mining
companies and (b) had prepared a number of environmental impact studies indicating a reasonably high
level of public awareness for the environment.
6. PROJECT RESULTS
Expected Achievements
6.1          As indicated in the PR, the project was to have two major direct benefits: (a) broader
lnowledge of coal resources to assist decision making on Colombia's coal development potential and (b)
improvement in CARBOCOL's capability to exercise its responsibilities in the coal sector and acquire
the information and skills necessary to negotiate with potential investors. Furthermore, the PR identified
three indirect benefits that also could be associated with the project if it discovered a commercially viable
coal deposit: (a) estimated aggregate production of 15 nillion tonnes per year resulting from coal
discoveries under the project; (b) improvement, over the long term, of the country's trade balance
through expanded coal exports; and (c) foreign exchange savings through the substitution of ccal for
imported oil. While the two direct objectives have been broadly achieved and the possible future
exploitation of El Descanso could improve Colombia's trade balance, discoveries under the project have
not yet resulted in any coal production. Details are presented below.
Direct Benefits of the Exploration Compopent
6.2          Alto San Jorge. The study estimated coal reserves to be about 515 million tonnes. The
main characteristics of the coal in the area selected for sampling are (a) a thermal value of 4,921
kilocalories (Kcal) per kilogram (Kg); (b) volatile matter of about 36 percent; ash content of 8.8 percent
and sulphur content of 1.05 percent. Based on the project location, the quality of the coal, and the
availability of hydro resources, it is likely that the development of a coal project for a mine-mouth power
plant would be economically viable. The cost of coal delivered at the northern coast of Colombia,
US$37.95 per tonne, would not be viable for export at present or in the foreseeab;e future. For the use
of the coal in a minemouth power plant, the study recommended analyzing the economics of the project
in more detail. The Government was to evaluate this option in the context of the national energy plan,
for which the study recommended further work in the areas of geology, geotechnics, hyrology and
environmental impact.



8
6.3          El Descanso. The prefeasibility study for this deposit focussed on one block with
estimated reserves of 923 million tonnes, which the consultant selected for the mining study. A
preliminary analysis of the coal showed low amounts of ash and sulphur, characteristics important for
export quality steam coal for use in electric power plants. These characteristics are as follows: (a)
thermal value of 6,324 Kcal per Kg; (b) volatile matter of 35.54 percent; (c) fixed carbon of 48.54
percent; (d) ash content of 5.29 percent; and (e) sulphur content of 0.59 percent. The study estimated
that in order to produce an internal rate of return of 12 percent, based on the cash flow without taxes,
the price at the port would have to be US$29.3 per tonne for a production level of 12.5 million tpy and
US$32.84 per tonne for a production level of 10 million tpy. Based on cost estimates including port
handling and royalties, the study estimated the FOB price of El Descanso coal to range between US$
32.9-32.6 per tonne for 12.5 million tpy and US$35.3-40.3 per tonne for 10 million tonnes. Based on
1990 information, the study found that these prices would be commercially attractive for a 12.5 million
tpy but less so for 10 million tpy. lThe prefeasibility study for El Descanso coal recommended the
following work to complement the prefeasibility work: (a) additional coal sampling and analysis to
conflrm coal characteristics critical to competitiveness on the international market; (b) better
determination of the optimal design of the port and the coal price required to take account of an adequate
retmn on port investment and establish the FOB price of the coal; (c) additional drill holes in the mining
area to increase knowledge of coal reserves; (d) continued monitoring of rail transport options for the
project; and (e) incorporation of criteria for conservation and compensation of forests in the designs of
the mine as well as the tram route between the mine and the principal rail line.
Direct Benefits of the lnittional Components
6.5          Contracting for Coal Development. This study took place in three phases. In the first
phase, international and Colombian experts discussed potential modification of the Mining Code, past
experience with coal contract negotiations and the perception of investment risk in Colombia. In the
process, they updated a comparative study of the legal regime for coal mining investment in Colombia
relative to that of other countries competing with Colombia for foreign investment. The second phase
identified the most important risks for the Government in coal development, prepared a financial
evaluation model and reviewed the perceptions of investors concerning coal development in Colombia,
including political risk, and criteria for financial analysis. In 1988, Colombia enacted a new Mining
Code which clarified and consolidated laws related to all mining activities in Colombia. The TA for coal
contracting developed a model mining agreement for coal which, as a supplement to the new Mining
Code, Colombia could use in its contract negotiations. The third phase of the contracting study focussed
on the contract negotiation process and prepared a guide for negotiations with sufficient flexibility for
adaptation to a variety of contractual situations. The study recommended that Colombia institutionalize
the negotiating process by establishing and training interdisciplinary negotiating teams. These teams
would act as mediators between the country's decision makers and the investors, encouraging objectivity
in decision making and optimal use of the country's resources. The study produced several reference
documents which provide the details on the methodology and process developed covering contract
negotiation, coal mining legislation, potential foreign investors in Colombia, risk analysis and guidelines
for negotiations.
6.6          Geological lNdelling. CARBOCOL, with funds from the project, acquired a computer
and specialized software for constructing a geological data base and doing detailed geological analysis
of areas with the potential for coal resource development. The contract for the software included training



9
in models for geological and mining analysis, data entry, generation of a grid model for selected deposits,
data entry and verification. The technical assistance resulted in the creation of data bases for (a) the
eastern sector of the Northern Zone; (b) the area adjacent to the Northern Zone; (c) the Western Patilla
area; (d) the Central Area Zone; (e) the Oreganal/ Descanso Zone; (D the Cerrejon South Zone; and (f)
the Marathon Zone. CARBOCOL plans to do geological modelling of various areas where coal
exploration already has taken place, such as in the Northern Zone. The company also plans to assist in
evaluations and optimnizations of large scale mining and lend support to medium and small-scale miners
in the development of a data base.
6.7          Coal Marketing. A consultingfirm evaluated the corporate abjectives of CARBOCOL's
Commercial Departnent in its marketing program. The focus of this assistance was on four major
elements considered critical to the company's marketing program - expansion planning, the content of
the customer portfolio, pricing policy and the mix of coal products marketed.  Ite priority
recommendation was for the company's expansion planning. The consultant found that for CARBOCOL
to expand its revenues, it will need to concentrate on several incremental production expansion options
given that large coal prices increases are not expected in the foreseeable future. These options are: (a)
the set-up of an 800,000 tpy plant to wash 'interface' material not saleable as raw material but potentially
saleable as a washed product; (b) improvements in the maintenance of existing equipment since its
availability has been low by mining industry standards; (c) contract mining in the North Zone for an extra
one to four million tpy annually; and (d) continued mining operations in the central zone at a level of one
million tpy. According to rough estimates of incremental expansion costs, the most attractive option is
the development of washing plants which would result a coal cost in the order of US$21 per tonne
delivered to the port of export. This compares to the current selling price of US$27-32 per tonne and
the long-term expected price of US$43 per tonne.
6.12         StrategIc Planming. The study on strategic planning found that because CARBOCOL
lacked a clear definition of its corporate mission, the company's planning consisted of a collection of
activities without a strong strategic linkage. As a result, the planning process tended to be an end in itself
rather than a cohesive collection of strategic steps to achieve a corporate mission. Furthermore, the
strategic plan that results from these activities was often separate from the budget and lacked the
commitment of top management. Concurrently, there was insufficient information flow leading to the
production of many reports but no feedback through the system. Finally, the role of the Office of
Corporate Planning had been more that of 'plannerf rather than facilitator or coordinator of the planning
process for the rest of the organization. The main recommendation for improving the strategic planning
process was the introduction of the Strategic Management System stressing a unifying corporate objective,
an appropriate process for translating the objective into actions, and an internal feedback network to
maintain the necessary dialogue and flexibility to make the process responsive to the main users. The
consultant recommended the gradual installation of the process with the Office of Corporate Planning
taking the lead in documenting and presenting the methodology, emphasizing responsiveness to the users
of the system in high and mid-level management. Moreover, the consultant emphasized the need to link
the design of the plan with a specific time frame, i.e., over the short term, the medium term or the long
term. The process also should allow some flexibility for reaction to domestic and international changes
and receive support from a management information system geared specifically to the strategic planning
process. As a top priority, the study recommended that CARBOCOL take action to improve its financial
situation, including a possible financial restructuring, additional capitalization and cost reductions in all
areas of the organization. At the same time, the study noted the importance of an increase the sales
volume in order to reduce the relative importance of fixed costs. In terms of overall management, the



10
study recommended that the Joint Directorate of CARBOCOL establish the strategic lines of the company,
including definition of the corporate mission and related strategies. In the process, the study
recommended the need for CARBOCOL to modify corporate statutes to assure administrative and
strategic continuity, determine corporate training needs, and improve the image of the company with an
aggressive publicity campaign and improved internal communications.
Potential Indirect ImRacts
6.14         The PR identified three possible indirect benefits from bringing coal deposits discovered
into production: (a) production in the order of 15 million tonnes per annum, (b improvement in the
country's trade balance through expanded coal exports and (c) foreign exchange savings through the
substitution of coal for imported oil. Although the project led to the discovery of coal deposits with a
production potential in the order of 12 - 16 million tonnes, whether the potential indirect benefits actually
accrue to the country will depend on several factors including the economics of developing the coal
deposits discovered through the project relative to other coal deposits, CARBOCOL's coal marketing
strategy and Colombia's policies for private sector investment, coal exports and use of coal in domestic
power generation and other uses.
Risk Evaluatio-n
6.15         The PR also identified several risks that might prevent the project from achieving its
intended benefits. The first risk is that the exploration work would not result in the location of a
commercially and economically viable coal deposits. Tle project's design took steps to minimize this
risk by cautiously phasing the exploration work. The second risk was that the project would identify
viable coal deposits but Colombia might not be able to find a partner willing to share in their
development. Also, the PR noted that at least one project might be required to meet domestic demand
and its development would depend on Government initiative. Although there are no present plans to
develop El Descanso, the deposit with export potential, the reason is not because of lack of interest but
because there are other deposits in Colombia with more extensive preparation and greater export
prospects that would be next in line for development. The development of Alto San Jorge, on the other
hand, will require a Government decision to include it as part of the national energy plan since its
viability appears to be only for mine mouth generation of electric power.
7. SUSTAINABILITY OF PROJECT BENEF1TS
7.1          On the exploration side, the major sustainable benefit Is the acquisition of the technology
and the training to do geological prefeasibility studies providing preliminary information on coal deposits.
CARBOCOL has the prefeasibility studies of Alto San Jorge and El Descanso for reference, which the
company can use in its decision making on coal development. Whether CARBOCOL decides to develop
Alto San Jorge will depend on the decision of the national electric power company to build a minemouth
coal-fired power plant. CARBOCOL will not develop the El Descanso coal deposit in the immediate
future since they estimate that other coal development projects are in a more advanced state of preparation
which have an export potential of about 35 to 37 million of tons per annum by the end of the decade.
Given CARBOCOL's improved capability for geological work and current policy of contracting
exploration work to private parties, it is unlikely that CARBOCOL will be requesting Bank funds for



11
exploration in the future. Finally, it appears that technical assistance in strategic planning and marketing
has had an impact on CARBOCOL's organizational structure and marketing strategy. CARBOCOL
currently has plans to separate Into two entities: (a) a privatized commercial operation for the El
Cerrejon production partnership and (b) an agency representing the state in exploration work, contract
negotiation with private investors, provide technical support to small-scale mniners, supervise health and
safety regulations, etc. Also, CARBOCOL is considering options which the marketing study
recommended for low-cost expansion of coal production In areas that currently are producing.
B. CONSUQ lUl   SERVICES
8.1          According to project documentation and staff supevising the project, consultant services
provided under the project were adequate and there were no major problems worth noting.
9. PROJECT DOCUMENTATION
9.1          Project documentation presented a minor problem in the preparation of this PCR since
(a) central project files were not complete, (b) there was no summary information on actual project costs
other than those financed by the Bank loan and (c) there was very limited information on the results of
the technical assistance component of the project. These gaps are not surprising considering (a) the
extremely long duration of the project (over eight years instead of the two and a half years estimated at
appraisal) and changes in staff responsible for the project. However, the preparatory work for this PCR
took the time to track down important documents from various parts of the Bank, outside consulting firms
and CARBOCOL. These documents are now in the central project files for future reference.
10. PROJECT RELATIONSHIPS
10.1         Project documentation and staff supervising the project did not indicate any major
problems with project relationships among the Bank, the Borrower, consultants and UNDP.
11. PERFORMANCE OF THE BORROWER
11.1         The project files indicate that CARBOCOL did a very good job preparing the project.
CARBOCOL showed keen judgement and concern for its financial situation by opting not to take on
costly feasibility work and in attempting to contract the exploratory work on El Descanso to a private
company. The Project Unit seems to have worked well in coordinating exploration work and geological
modelling. However, it does not seem to have given as much attention to the technical assistance
components of the project outside the geological work. This is reflected in CARBOCOL's report on
project execution. This report reviews the exploration component and the hardware and software for
geological evaluation and modelling but does not provide information on total project costs and a review
of the technical assistance in marketing, coal development contracting, financial planning and strategic
planning. However during the preparation of the PCR, CARBOCOL staff were responsive in providing
this information. CARBOCOL's compliance with project covenants was adequate except for some delays
in providing audit reports.



12
12. PERFORMANCE Of THE BANK
12.1        The Bank's performance in the preparation of the PR was notable in the cautious, phased
approach adopted -toward the exploration work. In the design and preparation phase of the project, the
Bank could have focussed more on defining a long-term view of CARBOCOL and the Government In
the coal sector and preparing an integrated technical assistance component to assist in this process. In
addition, the Bank should have insisted that the Project Unit designate someone in charge of monitoring
technical assistance. Instead, the project focussed onty on the coal exploration aspects of the project and
responsibility for the components for institutional strengthening was dispersed in the various line
departnents of the company. The supervision of the project showed responsiveness to CARBOCOL's
needs and flexibility in permitting several extensions to the project's closing date in order complete
geological work and technical assistance which ultimately proved to be very useful to CARBOCOL.
13. PERFORMANCE OF UNIP
13.1         The performance of the UNDP as the executing agency for the study on coal contracting
was satisfactory. In November 1992, UNDP produced a summary report on the activities of the various
consultants for this study and use of the study funds.
14. CQNCWSIONS AND LESONS LEARNED
14.1        In hindsight, neither the Bank, the Government, nor CARBOCOL had an adequate long-
term view of their respective roles in the coal mining sector. The design of the project reflected an
attempt of the Bank to maintain some involvement in all aspects of the coal sector - exploration,
marketing, financial planning, etc., after had become clear that the Bank would not be participating in
the large El Cerrejon project. However, during the project's execution, CARBOCOL's philosophy
regarding state participation in the coal sector evolved to promote the use of private sector funds as much
as possible and to limit state investment. Thus, CARBOCOL decided not to do the feasibility work on
its own but leave it for the private sector, and to use Bank funds only for the prefeasibility studies. The
policy of encouraging the use of private sector risk capital, for preliminary exploratory work reflects
current Bank philosophy which was not necessarily the case at the time of the project's design. However,
the exploration component was successful and resulted in the discovery of a major, world class coal
deposit. The methodology of phasing exploration work, with independent reviews at the end of each
phase, worked well, preventing CARBOCOL from spending additional resources on areas without
signiflcant coal potential. ITe technical assistance component helped develop a capability within
CARBOCOL to do preliminary geological work, which, combined with the assistance received in
contracting for coal development, should help CARBOCOL promote private sector exploration work.
Furthermore, assistance in strategic planning and mar.cring were instrumental in helping CARBOCOL
rationalize its organizational structure and explore new marketing options for the coal. In terms of
technical assistance, the Bank learned the importance of developing clear, realistic objectives for
individual project components, ensuring that project design supports these objectives. For example, the
Bank included a financial planning study as part of the project because CARBOCOL had taken on a very
large debt under the Cerrejon project and needed to develop a capitalization plan; also, the Bank seemed
to have had some doubts about the projections which served as a basis for investment recovery.



13
CARBOCOL never did the study and the Bank did not have sufficient financial leverage to insist on it,
since the original loan amount was only lbr US$9.5 million and there was no loan conditionality
specifying specific financial performance targets.



14
PROJE= COMLON REQR
COLOMBIA CQAL EXPLORAQIN PROJgC
LOAN NO. 2349-0
PART 2
REPORT OF THE BORROWER



15
FINANCIAL REPORT
WORLD BANK LOAN NO. 2349 CO.T/
In accordance with the requirements of the World Bank for project completion report, following is the
corresponding ffnancial report.
The project in general consisted of several activities related to coal exploration, including: preliminary
geological evaluation, verification of the stratification and structure of coal-bearing deposits, evaluation
of the reserves, prefeasibility studies, financial planning, establishment of a sales network and contracting
for coal development.
I.    LOAN CHARACTERISTICS
CONTRACT DATE                            :      FEBRUARY 9, t984
OBJECTIVE                                :      THE FUNDS OF THE LOAN SHALL
BE USED TO FINANCE PROGRAMS
FOR COAL EXPLORATION AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.
LOAN AMOUNT                              :      US$9,500,000.00
ON OCTOBER 1, 1990, CARBOCOL
CANCELLED US$1.7 MILL.
REDUCING THE TOTAL CREDIT TO
US$7.8 MILL.
ON JANUARY 15, 1992, THE BANK
CANCELLED US$1.4 MILL.
TOTAL AMOUNT UTILIZED                    :      US$6,329,990.25 (SEE ANNEX)
LIMIT DATE FOR THE
AVAILABILITY OF CREDIT                   :      JANUARY 15, 1992
NUMBER OF EXTENSIONS                     :      TWO (2)
- UNTL JANUARY 15, 1990
- UNTIL JANUARY 15, 1992
I/Unofficial edited translation of the original document which CARBOCOL submitted to the Bank in July
1992.



16
GUARANTOR                              GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA
AMORTIZATION                           THE  AMORTIZATION  OF THE
CAPITAL AND INTEREST
OCCURS ON A SEMESTER BASI,
DUE ON THE FIRST OF FEBRUARY
AND THE FIRST OF AUGUST OF
EACH YEAR STARTING FEBRUARY
1988 UNTIL AUGUST 2000.
INTEREST RATE                          VARIABLE
COMMITMENT FEE                         0.75% PER ANNUM UNTILJULY 31,
1989 AND 0.25% THEREAFTER.
SPECIAL ACCOUNT                        MANAGED BY THE BANK OF THE
REPUBLIC FOR UP TO
US$700,000.00.
2.   PROJECTS FINANCED BY THE LOAN
- SAN JORGE                US$1,961,466.14
- EL DESCANSO               US$3,437,298.23
- TEL ..IrCAL ASSISTANCE    USS 93I.88
TOTAL                        6,329,990.25
It is important to highlight that during the course of the loan, CARBOCOL presented withdrawa
applications for receipt of the loan proceeds, which the World Bank disbursed on a timely basis.



17
REPORT ON THE PREFEASIBILrTY STUDY
FOR COAL MINING IN THE EL DESCANSO AREA
CONTRACT OBJECTIVE
The objective of the contract was to make a detailed evaluation of specific coal-bearing deposits,
evaluate mining geology and, based on this evaluation, do a technical and economic prefeasibility
study for a mining project
Signing of the Contract:         December 16, 1987
Beginning of Studies:            January 7, 1988
Completion of Studies:           February 15, 1991
II.    CONTRACT DEVELOPMENT
1.    PHASE II DETAILED GEOLOGICAL STUDIES
The studies of this Phase started on January 1988 and were completed on August 1989.
The tasks accomplished in Phase II focused on identifying the fundamental aspects of the
deposit and the characteristics of the surrounding area. These were programmed and
executed utlizing traditional methods appropriate for this type of investigation. (Modem
tools were used for connection to the electric services by using computeized
equipment Compulog II of the Century Geophysical, conditioned with techniques
that produced regisrs of good quafity), which is fundamental for making a good
correlation of layers of the deposit followed by geological modeling, calculations of
carbon reserves and volumes of overburden, utilizing the Miner-2 de Mincom program.
Complementary studies within Phase 1}, covering hydrology, hydrogeology and
geotechnical investigation, achieved their planned objectives, establishing the basic
parameters for aspect of mine design.
2.    PHASE m PREFEASIBILITY STUDY
This Phase began with the work on planning and mining design for the three levels of
production defined by CARBOCOL. The Consultant used a common procedure for this
task, which allows for a sequential definition of each of the aspect considered in the
mine planning and design.
For El Descanso, the Consultant's analysis focused on three alternatives for annual
production: 5, 10 and 12.5 million tonnes. The Consultant used a similar design in each
case, varying the size of the development area and longitudinal orientation but keeping
the same system of mining.



18
m.   RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS
1.    The results produced several alternatives of infrastructure and levels of Investment to
develop a coal mining project at El Descanso.
2.    The results show that the block selected for mining within the El Descanso area could
support annual production of 10 million tonnes or more per year. Projects with less
production would be less economically attractive. This could be equally true for the rest
of the areas explored.
3.    CARBOCOL wUi not develop in the project in the Immediate future since they estimate
that other projects under preparation could produce exports of 35 to 37 million of tons
per annum, towards the end of the decade. In any case, CARBOCOL would take into
account, in its decision making, any proposals that interested parties might submit.



19
REPORT ON THE UNDP TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
COL\026\82
OBJECTIVE OF THE PROJECT
To increase the managerial capacity of CARBOCOL's staff modify the traning structure of the
Operator of the Cerrejon Zone B project, with the goal of strengthening technical, financial and
mining supervision in the operation and commercialization of coal from the mine in the Cerrejon
North Zone.
In general, provide technical assistance during the period of construction and the initiation phase
of the Cerrejon North Zone in the following areas:
a.    Execution and revision of the project design
b.    Cost control.
c.    Project achievements and CARBOCOL's goals.
d.    General administration of the project
e.    Optimization of the use of human and technical resources during the execution
of the project.
f.    Other mining activities of CARBOCOL.
g.    Development of CARBOCOL's personnel.
h.    Planning and control of the environmental and ecological impacts resulting from
project execution.
II.    PROJECT DEVELOPMENT
a.    CARBOCOL received assistance in the establishment and development of technical,
administrative and financial information systems.
b.    CARBOCOL received assistance in the analysis and interpretation of all the data on the
Cerrejon North project, as well as its other mining activities.
c.    CARBOCOL received advice  based on independent criteria for the follow-up
and the supervision of all aspects of the project.
d.    CARBOCOL received assistance on the establishment of a supervision
program (in a similar type of environment).



20
m.   PROJECT INIMIATION
The UNDP Technical Assistance Project began in December 1983.
IV,   P JECT COMPLEQION
The project ended in March 1992.
V.    RE[SULTS
The project achieved its aforementioned objectives.
VI.   CONCLUSIONS
The UNDP Technical Assistance Project (COL/026182) strengthened the organizational, technical
and operational aspects of CARBOCOL in Cerrejon Zone B.



21
REPORT ON THE ACQUISITION OF EAGLE SOFTWARE FOR THE
GEOLOGICAL MODELS
I.   JEC-T IV
Establish the capability to evaluate, from a mining geology perspective, various coal-bearing areas
under the contract of the North Zone Association as well as other projects contracted by
CARBOCOL for large-scale mining.
Provide support in the evaluation of mining geology for small- and medium-scale  mining
projects contracted.
Provide technical support to CARBOCOL when requested.
11. DEVELOPMENT OF THE CONTRACT
A.    Training in geology modules.
B.    Training in mining modules.
C.    Data entry for sections of the Carboandes en la Jagua de Ibirico area.
D.    Generation of a grid model of Carboandes en la Jagua de Ibirico area (ceiling
and floor of the structures and thi^kness); volumes were not calculated due to poor
existing information.
E.    Data entry and information verification, in the Caribbean area (Integral I
and 11) of la Jagua de Ibirico. Work was not completed due to the inconsistencies
encountered in loading the information.
The following data has been entered in the data base:
*     Eastern Sector of the North Zone  - 100% of the structure
*     Annexed area of the North Zone    - 100% of the structure
*     West Patilla                      - 50% of the structure
*     Central Community Zone Area       - 50% of the structure
o     Oreganal - Descanso               - 50% of the structure
*     Cerrejon Sur                      - available information
*     Marathon                          - only S wells available
F.    Support for the Tasajero study (topography and characteristics such as installations, mine
mouth, etc.)
G.    Training (in sessions) for the Drafting group.



22
H.    Initiation of the correlation work in Area N-60 of the Eastern sector of the
North Zone.
1.    Initiation of correlation work of correlation in the Oreganal area.
It was necessary to suspend two of the nwdels started in the de la Jagua de Ibirico Area
due to a lack of information. {The need to suspend the modelling became evident
imnediately through the operation of the software and Inconsistencies detected in
available information).
The modelling of the Oreganal area was not completed due to the priority of other work
(Expansion of the North Zone). (Expansion Zona Norte),
1.    Model the various coal-bearing areas explored, through CARBOCOL or through a
contract with a third party for exploration and development.
2.    Include the information in the expansion plan or follow-up on the North Zone.
3.    Follow-up on of the evaluations, optimizations and operations of the contracts for large-
scale mining.
4.    Provide support for small and medium-scale mining.
5.    Provide support to the groups that manage quality.
6.    Provide training to other areas of the company in the management of software.



23
PROJ=E COMPLEON REPORT
CDOLOMBIA ,L XPORATION PROEci
LOAN NO. 2349-CO
PART 3
SITnTICALIEORMATION



24
PROJECTS99 = COPEISlEP-)RT
0LCMB1A M& L XPLOMOIN PROa
LOAN NO. 2349-CO
Related Bank Loans
There are no related Bank loans in the coal sector.
ITbe 2
Eoiect Timeital
_________|_                           Planned Date         ,' ,M.,.,.-a , Date  X*
Preappraisal and Appraisal             10-11/82                  10/14 to 11/03/82
Negotiations                           09106183                      09106/83
Board Approval                         10/11/83                      10/11/83
Effectiveness                          07/10/84                      07/10/84
Closing                                01/15/88                      01/15/92
Project Compledon                      06/30/88                      05/15/92
Source: World Bank MIS



25
Takhle
tLral inate  Actuallisbursement  Origtj CtI
_________   :;;$  MilAn            - (US$ milionl)  -   .   ,  emevt (%
1984               2.00                .                __
1985               6.80                0.69                10.1
1986               9.50                2.20                23.2
1987               9.50                2.61                27.5
1988               9.50                2.96                31.2
1989               9.50                5.71                60.1
1990               9.50                6.14                64.6
1991               9.50                6.55                68.9
1992              9.50                6.33                66.6
Source World Bank MIS



26
Page 2 of 3                 pEM       CQl4PQ,EPORT
CQLDMA QCAL EXPIQUE&N-IROI=
LOAN NO. 2349.CO
Table
Prolct Implementation Indicator
Vouupoi~es~     Expected;mplenmentatlon      Ata  mleetto
'~~                   P A'-.  io d               ''Periozd
Exploration             July 1983 to December 1985    1986 to 1991
(a) Coal Area Selection   July 1983 to June 1984    August 1983 *
(b) Reserve Evaluation    April 1984 to June 1985    November 1984 to August
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _198 9 *
(c) Prefeasibility Studies  April 1985 to December 1985    August 1989 to August 1991
Technical Assistance    October 1983 to December      1987 to 1992.
_____________________   1985
(a) Coal Marketing     January 1984 to December     'Me study was completed in
1985                         1989.
(b) Coal Development    January 1984 to December    The final report on the
Contracting          1985                         assistance was completed in
(c) Financial Planning    October 1983 to December  Not completed under the
1985                         project.
(d) Exploration        Not specified in the original    The insIlation hardware,
(Geological         implementation schedule      software, along with training
Modelling Hardware                               in their operation was
and Software)                             .       completed in 1991.
(e) Strategic Planning  Not specified at Appraisal  Tbe final report on the
component was completed in
1988.
Sour: Staff Appraisal Report and PCR estimes based on project supervision reports
*Exploration work on Alto San Jorge was completed in 1987 and that for El Descanso in 1991.



27
Table 5
Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
PROJECT          E$AT1D COST AT                  ACTUAL'PROJECT COSI
COMPONENTS   PROJET AP.PRAISAL                   (US$ :MIL.ION) '
'(US$ MILON)                     ..    .        .      _    ..
_Local    IForeign    Total     Local      Forelgn    Total
Exploration       6.0       6.1        12.1      6.9        5.4        13
(a) Geology and    1.0      0.7        1.7       1.0
Reserve
Evaluaticn
(b) Drilling     3.1        3.5       6.6       3.7
(c) Prefeasibility   1.9    1.0       3.8       2.2
Studies
TechnIcal    5 ..02 !    1.0           1.2                   .          .9
(a) Marketing    0.1        0.5       0.6                  0.1         0.1
(b) Exploration  -          0.1       0.1
(c) Contracting    -        0.2       0.2                  0.7        0.7
for Coal
Development
(d) Financial    0.1        0.2       0.3
Planning
(e) Strategic    NS         NS        NS                   0.1        0.1
Planning
Physical          0.9        1.1       2.0       NA         NA        - NA
Contingency                                  ..    ..    .. .  .____;-,
Price Escalation    1.2      1.3       2.5       NA         NA         NA
TOTAL             8.:3.  - 935         17.8      6.9        6.3        132
PROJECT.o C      abl  :--:                                          : :
= Not pplice
NS   Not specified at the time of project appraisal.
Source: Staff Appraisal Report and CARBOCOL



28
PROJECT COMPLEON REPORT
COLOMB}A COAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
LOAN NO. 2349-C
Project Finacin:
Source Of Financing       Amount Estimated at        Actual Amount
Appraisal                 (IS$ million)
:________._____ _ ._ _  (IJS$   m illion)  -_. _  :_ ._ :_ ._:___  l
CARBOCOL                  10.2                        6.9
World Bank                 9.5                        6.3
Total                     19.7                       13.2



29
PROJECr CO?MPLEWIQN REPORT
COLOMBIA COAL EXPLORATION PBT
LOAN NO. 2349-CO
Table 7
A. Dir-c Bengft
Estlmated at Appralsal                             Actual
Increased geological knowledge of Colombia's   The exploratory work in the El Descanso area
coal resource base as a basis to develop for  resulted in a major coal deposit with an
export markets and use in thermal electric  estimated 923 million tonnes of reserves. In
power plants.                              the Alto San Jorge area, exploratory work
discovered a coal deposit with reserves
estimated at 515 million tonnes.
Prefeasibility studies of promising coal deposits  The prefeasibility study of Alto San Jorge
to serve as an information base for promoting    indicated that coal production cost would be
mine development through joint ventures with   too high for the coal to be competitive in the
private foreign or local partners.         export market but that its cost could be
competitive for use in thermal power
generation close to the mine site. The national
power sector planning agency has the study for
review in the context of its overall power
planning strategy. For the El Descanso area,
the extremely promising results of the
prefeasibility study justify full feasibility work.
Enhanced financial and technical capacity of  CARBOCOL has improved its in-house
CARBOCOL, through technical assistance, to    capability for geological modelling and
exercising its role in the development of coal.   evaluation work. The TA on contracting for
coal development, coal marketing and strategic
planning have provided CARBOCOL with
important recommendations for its structure
and operations. marketing studies.



30
EROEC- C;OMPIdL MON BEE=R
COLQMBIA, COAL EXELOR&l1N PRECTJ
LOAN NO. 2349-CO
Table
B. Indi    ir Bog
-s1dmated At Appraisal                           Acual
Proving reserves to support an aggregate  Findings of prefeasibiity studies indicate
production ;evel of 15 million tpy.       production potential of about 12 million tpy.
Improvement, over the long term, of the   Cannot evaluate at this time. 'he realization of
country's trade balance, through expanded coal  this benefit will depend on CARBOCOL's coal
exports.                                  development program, Colombia's trade policy
and implementation of TA recommendations.
Foreign exchange savings through the      Cannot evaluate at this time. The realization
substitution of coal for imported oil in thermal   of this benefit will depend on an energy policy
electric power generation.                for substituting coal for oil in electric power.
(Not Applicable to this project.)
D. Financial Rate of Return
(Not Applicable to this project.)



31
PROJ-ECr- COMPETIQ> EPORST
Q BAOL EXPLORATION PRQOC
LOAN NO, 2349-C
Table 7 (Continuel
Proect Results
E. Studies and Technical Assistancell
Study Name         Expected Results               Actual Results
Coal Marketing     Advice on (a) establishing     Achieved most of expected results
CARBOCOL's overseas network,  plus advice on low-ost increases to
burning characteristics of coal in  coal production, improvements to the
steam boilers and providing ad-   information system and various
hoc advice on sales negotiations.  strategic issues related to the
orjanization structure and the
l ______________   __________________________      com pany's  operations.
Contracting for    Enhancing the Borrower's       Achieved the expected results plus
Coal Development   capability for development of  information on the perceptions of
coal deposits, including a     foreign Investors about the risk of
comparative study of economic   invesment in Colombia.
conditions and legal provisions
relevant to coal exploration and
mining in Colombia and other
countries and advice on coal
investment operations with
prospective coal operators.
Geological         Enhancing the evaluation of the    Achieved the expected results.
Evaluation         development potential of coal
areas and the design of
geological data bases.
Financial Planning   Optimizing the use of funds from   Not completed under the project.
all sources available to the
Borrower, inclu-
shareholders' contributions.
U In addition to the results expected at appraisal the project also produced a strategic planning study
Source: Bank project files and consultant reports.



32
PROJECI COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA COAL EXPLORATION PROJECI
LOAN NO, 2349-CO
Table a
Status of Proiect Covenants 1/
A. Loan Agreenent
Seeign 3.01       |
Description. Execution of the project through the Project Unit with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate management and engineering practices and provision, as
needed of funds services and other resources for that purpose.
Stts  COPTNB-....
Description. Borrower to maintain the Project Unit until all activities under Approved Sub.
projects have beer. completed and, except as otherwise agreed by the Bank and Borrower,not
change or abrogate the Borrower's internal document GP-037/Oct. 1983 or the Borrower's
president's memorandum No. 04853
Statu. COPLANCE.                                        
c Section 3.03
Description. Employment of consultants according to Bank guidelines.
Status. COMPLIANCE.
esiion. 3,04       |g
finance from loan proceeds exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Statu. 'COMPUACE                                             -:-:-.';



33
PROJE(I CQMELETIN R13POR
COLOMBIA COAL EXPLORATI&       N PROJECT
LOAN NO. 2349 0
Table 8
Status of Prolect Covenants (Continued) I/
Description. The Coal Areas shall be (a) (1) San Jacinto in the DORnt==  of Bolivar and
Sucre, (ii) El Descanso in the Departarnt of Cesar, (iii) Alto San Jorge in the Dpartamento of
Cordoba, 7W) San Pedro-Ure in the Dg natam     of Cordoba, (v) La Loma in the Departento
of Cesar and (vi) El Paso in the Departamento of Cesar; and (b) such areas as the Bank and the
Borrower may, from time to time agree to designate as a Coal Area.
Stats COMPLIANCE
Desciption. Borrower to seek agreement from the Bank on the plan of activities for each coal
area, as outlined in Part A of the Loan Agreement. Borrower not to proceed to the second and
third phases of Part A without agreement with the Bank on the plan of activities for the additional
work. The Borrower, in executing a subproject will not substantially modify the limits of the
corresponding Coal Zone(s) or Deposit(s) without concurrence of the Bank. Borrower to exchange
views with the Bank, from time to time, on the findings and recommendations of consultants for
each Approved Subproject. On completion of each Approved Subproject, the Borrower will
furnish the Bank with a report on the findings of the consultants including whether or not
additional exploration activities are required. On completion of an Approved Subproject with
Phase 3 activities, the report of the consultants will be attached to the pre-feasibility study of the
Coal Deposit(s) in question.
Description. The Borrower to furnish the Bank with all documentation related to the Project
promptly upon its preparation, maintain records adequate to monitor the progress of the Project,
enable Bank representatives to visit Project facilities for examination, and furnish the Bank with
reasonable information on the Project, its costs and, where appropriate the benefits derived from
it. The Bank may publish the description, as well as the name and nationality of the party
contracted, concerning the award of any contract for goods and services related to the Project.
tts. COM IANCE



34
gm=,1S COMPE=lON REPOR
COAL EXPLORATION-1lOJCT
LOAN NO. 2349-CO
Status, of Prlect Covenants (oinued} 11
Description. Borrower to furnish the Bank, within six months after project closing, a completion
report on the execution of the project, its costs and the benefits derived from it.
S1aus C.MPIAN
Description. The Borrower's management, operations and maintenance practices to comply with
sound administrative, financial, mining and engineering practices, making adequate provision for
insurne
Desciption. The Borrower is to maintain records for thie project, providing for a separate
project account, consistent with sound financial and accounting practices, including (a) an annual
audit of its accounts and finandal statements by independent auditors furnished to the Bank no
later than four months after the end of the fiscal year (b) follow Bank specifications in Section
5.03 if any lien is created and (c) provide the Bank, by October 31 of each year, with a forecast
ofteBorrowers and uses of funds for the five subsequent fiscal years.
Status. P IAL COMPLANCE. CARBOCOL submitted audits but with delay on several
Sourc: Loan Agreement



35
EPROJE  COMIEMt RfEPOR
COLOMIA COAL EXPLORATON PROJEC
LOAN NO. 2349-C
Table 9: Uss of Bank Resqrcs
A. Allocationof St< time
(Staffweeks)
Fsal    pre-        Appraisal  Negotiatons  Superviion  PCR               Total
Year     Apprisal             .                           P*eparal       : 
1978      12.3                              _ -  -        -               12.3
1979      4.9       . _    .                            -                  4.9
1980      12.9                              e  .    v                     12.9
1981                .           _               .         -      .
1982  _     _    _. .                                     -
1983     _           20.1 A     5.8         :25: ::_   : . :              25.9
1984     _          _           2.0          .                             2.0
1985      -             _       -             10.2                        10.2
1986                      _ -   -             8.2                          8.2
1987     _          _                         5.9         _____: ______s   5.9
1988                                          6 .:-  68                    6.8
1989                     _ .                  3.5    .     _-       _      3*5
1990                     _ _                  6.2                     _   6.2
1991                     v                _    1.3                         1 1.3
1992     _-                     -            -             8.0             8.0
Total     30.3       20.1        7.8           44.4         8.0           110.4



36
PROECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA CQAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
LOAN NO. 23492Q
Table 9: Use Qf Bank Resource-  (ntnued)
B. MaiQor PEMiatk-M___ons
Mission Type   Mission      No. of Days   No. or                 t    Poe
Dates                      r'os          us             Rting
Preappraisai    10114-      23             3             CON, EC,      NA
11/05182                                 ME
Postappraisal   01/29-      7              2             EC, ME        NA
02104/83
TA             04/11-16(83   6             1             EC            NA
Preparation
Supervision 1   10/16-21/83   6            1             EC            NR
Supervision 2    12/04-08183   5           1             ME            NR
Supervision 3   03/14-24/84   7           3              2EC, ME       I
Supervision 4   07130-      5             2             EC, ME         I
.__________ _  08/03/84
Supervision 5    12/84      5             2             2EC            2
Supervision 6   05105-12185   2           2             EC, ME
Supervision 7    12/3-16/85    14         1             CON(ME?)    NR
Supervision 8   4/20 to     21            2             ME, CON        2
5110186                        -         .
Supervision 9    10/14-28/87   12         2             EC, INID       2
Supervision 10  8/13-23/89    11          3             IND, EC,       NR
CON
Supervision 11  09123-27/89 _j5           I             ME            2
;biice:PCR estimates based on Bank project files. 
CARAWeR EM
M.*



