Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                    _
Report No. P-3502-CO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$9.5 MILLION
TO
CARBONES DE COLOMBIA S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR A
COAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
September 19, 1983
This document- has a restricted distrbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Peso - Col$
Average Calendar 1981            Average Calendar 1982
US$1  = Col$54.491               US$1  = Col$64.102
Col$1 = US$0.01836               Col$1 = US$0.0156
Exchange Rate Effective July 6, 1983
US$1 = Col$78.61
Col$1 = US$0.01272
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
COAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
ABBREVIATIONS
CARBOCOL           Carbones de Colombia S.A.
DNP                Departamento Nacional de Planeacion
ECOMINAS           Empresa Colombiana de Minas
ECOPETROL          Empresa Colombiana de Petroleos
ENE                Estudio Nacional de Energia
FEN                Financiera Electrica Nacional
FNC                Fondo Nacional de Carbon (National Coal Fund)
FONADE             Fondo Nacional de Proyectos de Desarollo
(National Fund for Development Projects)
FRG                The Federal Republic of Germany
IFI                Instituto de Fomento Industrial (Industrial Promotion
Institute)
INGEOMINAS         Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Geologico-Mineras
ISA                Interconexion Electrica S.A.
MME                Ministerio de Minas y Energia
OAS                Organization of American States
PROEXPO            Fondo de Promocion de Exportaciones (Export Promotion
Fund)
UNDP               United Nations Development Programme
o0000
mtpy               million tons per year
A
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I
I



COLOMBIA - COAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
LOAN AND CREDIT SUMMARY
BORROWER.                CARBOCOL
GUARANTOR.               Republic of Colombia
AMOUNT.                  US$9.5 million equivalent
TERMS.                   17 years, including 4 years grace, at standard
variable interest rate and other charges
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:    The proposed project consists of:
(a) an evaluation and assessment of potential
economic exploitation of coal reserves in some
of Colombia's most promising coal-bearing
areas; and
(b) institutional strengthening of CARBOCOL to help
it discharge its growing responsibilities.
ESTIMATED COSTS:
Local        Foreign         Total
- - -US$ Million Equivalent- - -
(a)  Coal Exploration Component               6.0           6.1            12.1
(b)  Technical Assistance Component           0.2           1.0             1.2
Total Base Cost                         6.2            7.1           13.3
Physical Contingencies                  0.9            1.1            2.0
Price Contingencies                     1.2            1.3            2.5
Total Project Cost                      8.3            9.5           17.8
Interest and other charges
during Project Execution                0.8            1.1            1.9
Total Financing Required                9.1           10.6           19.7
Financing Plan:
Local        Foreign         Total
- - - - - US$ Million    -        -
World Bank loan                                -            9.5             9.5
CARBOCOL's own resources                      9.1           1.1            10.2
Total                                   9.1           10.6           19.7
Estimated Disbursements:                     FY84          FY85            FY86
Annual                                   2.0           4.8            2.7
Cummulative                             2.0            6.8            9.5



- ii -
Rate of Return:                              Not Applicable
api:                                         IBRD Map No. 17062
Risks:  Commercially and economically viable coal deposits not found; hence,
staged project implementation to minimize this risk. Lack of
development of viable deposits because of delays in investment
negotiations.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
CARBONES DE COLOMBIA S.A.
FOR A
COAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Carbones de Colombia S.A. (CARBOCOL), with the guarantee of the Republic
of Colombia, for the equivalent of US$9.5 million to help finance a coal
exploration project. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including four
years of grace, will bear a front-end fee of US$23,750 and carry interest at
the rate of 1/2% per annum over the cost of the Bank's Qualified Borrowings.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic mission visited Colombia in July 1982 and its report
(4444-CO) was distributed to the Executive Directors in August 1983. This
section reflects the mission's major findings. Country data sheets are
presented in Annex I.
Background
3,        The Colombian economy has become more resilient to external shocks
as a result of the structural changes that have occurred over the past thirty
years. Rapid economic growth has resulted in a substantial structural trans-
formation of the country from a predominantly rural and self-contained eco-
nomy to a more diversified urban, industrial, services and open economy.
Colombia has reached a point where population pressure on land no longer
increases much, if at all. Public sector investment and output now play a
greater role, primarily as a result of increased activity on the part of
decentralized agencies and public enterprises. Also, non-coffee exports,
particularly exports of manufactured goods, expanded rapidly and the range of
products sold abroad widened considerably. The growing urban-industrial-
services oriented economic activity and a rapid expansion of surplus labor in
rural areas attracted by higher wages and better -ervices in the cities has
given rise to rapid rural-urban migration. This phenomenon, together with
the increased participation of women in the labor force, has been instru-
mental in reducing poverty and improving income distribution over time.
Financial and capital markets have evolved pari-passu with the growing needs
of the economy, and Colombia has become an active participant in interna-
tional capital markets.
1/ This section is substantially unchanged from Part I of the report for the
Agricultural Research and Extension Project (No. P3579-CO of May 12,
1983).



- 2 -
4.        Real GDP per capita rose by about 2.3% on average during the
1950-82 period, with each succeeding decade registering greater gains in per
capita income. This was the result of lower population growth, which after
having remained in the 3.0% to 3.5% range during the 1950s and early 1960s,
declined dramatically after 1965 as a consequence of a sharp fall in the
fertility rate. Greater economic and educational opportunities for women,
rapid rural-urban migration, rising per capita income and increased effec-
tiveness of family planning programs contributed to the decline in fertil-
ity. Colombia's population is presently growing at an annual rate of 2.0%.
As a result of the high proportion of women now entering childbearing years,
this rate of population growth is likely to continue until the early 1990s.
5.        The combination of rising per capita income and expanded public
services has brought about a significant improvement in the welfare of the
poorest, in absolute and relative terms. As a result of increased sanitation
control, improved diets and better health care, the crude death rate fell by
about 50% and life expectancy rose from 48 years in the early 1950s to 63
years currently. The child mortality rate declined from 11 per thousand in
the early 1960s to 3.5 per thousand in the late 1970s.  Infant mortality fell
to 55 per thousand in the late 1970s, from about 124 per thousand in the
early 1950s. School enrollment ratios have increased substantially at all
grade levels since the 1960s and, by the late 1970s, 79% of urban children
aged 7 to 14 were enrolled in school. The poorest income groups have experi-
enced the greatest increases in electricity and water services in recent
years and have benefitted more than the average of the population from
services of the national health system. In spite of this progress, Colombia
remains largely underdeveloped, with a relatively small modern sector super-
imposed on a broad, traditional and economically poor base. Development has
been concentrated in relatively few areas of the country, public services are
still not available to many of the rural and urban populations and unemploy-
ment and underemployment are relatively high. The coverage of health care
and water supply requires further improvement, and adequate housing is not
available Lu a substantial portion of the population. Rapid migration to the
large and medium-sized cities has created urban development problems, with
attendant social difficulties. Moreover, in spite of the steady increase in
per capita income over the past 30 years, substantial efforts are still
required to improve and extend the benefits of development to the poorest
income groups.
6.        In large part, the achievements of the past 30 years were the
results of government efforts to stimulate the productive sectors, provide
the required economic and social instrastructure and establish an effective
institutional base in the economy. In the 1950s and early 1960s, development
policy favored import substitution supported by high tariff protection and
the provision of economic infrastructure by the public sector. It was during
this period that the country's major communication and transportation net-
works were developed and the transformation to a semi-industrial economic
structure began in earnest. By the mid-1960s, the prospects for further
import substitution were substantially diminished, and the country was con-
fronted with great economic uncertainty, arising from the fact that economic
activity and the balance of payments were heavily influenced by developments
in the world coffee market. In order to ease this constraint, during 1967
the authorities adopted an outward-looking development strategy, expanding
and diversifying exports and, among the export markets, increasingly tapping



- 3 -
the Andean Group countries. Export promotion policies, including frequent
small exchange rate devaluations, export tax rebates and other export incen-
tives were introduced and the authorities began lowering tariffs somewhat and
freeing capital markets from controls as means of raising efficiency and
increasing the competitiveness of Colombian goods in external markets. These
measures were highly successful in relieving the foreign exchange constraint
and stimulating growth and employment. However, by the mid-1970s the economy
was once again experiencing difficulties caused primarily by the world
recession and by excessive Central Bank financing of the Central Government's
overall fiscal deficit.
Recent Economic Developments
7.        In late 1974, the Government introduced a wide range of measures
designed to correct the structural and policy weaknesses prevailing in the
economy at that time. Before these reforms were fully effective, the economy
was subjected to strong inflationary pressures arising from a sharp increase
in world coffee prices. The increased receipts from coffee exports, together
with some official surrender of foreign exchange from illegal exports, caused
a turnabout in the balance of payments. Incomes rose rapidly and stimulated
aggregate demand; inflation accelerated. Economic growth also accelerated,
and unemployment fell substantially, both in rural and urban areas. Largely
as a consequence of increased coffee tax revenues, the public finances
generated overall surpluses averaging about 1% of GDP during the 1976-78
period and, by the end of 1979, net official international reserves had risen
to about US$4.1 billion, equivalent to about 12 months imports of goods and
non-factor services.
8.        While beneficial in many respects, the foreign exchange boom had a
somewhat negative impact on the evolution of the Colombian economy, largely
as a consequence of the need for measures to stabilize the economy. Public
investment was curbed, thereby delaying some badly needed additions to econo-
mic and social infrastructure. The rate of currency devaluation was slowed,
and the conversion of export receipts into pesos was delayed to moderate the
growth of domestic demand, with adverse effects on export expansion and
diversification. Also, the Government was compelled to maintain high reserve
requirements and expand controls over credit thereby reducing, in real terms,
the financing available to the private sector via the official capital
market.
9.        The stabilization measures were virtually unchanged from early 1977
through 1979 and were partially successful in restraining aggregate demand
growth, but relatively high inflation persisted. In response to the
increasing stabilizing effects on aggregate demand and the troublesome finan-
cial market distortions caused by inflation and the extended period of
monetary restraint, the authorities began in late 1979 to adjust the stabili-
zation program. The rate of peso devaluation was advanced to increase export
incentives and reduce borrowing abroad, and in early 1980, credit restraints
were relaxed by lowering reserve requirements. At the same time, interest
rates on time deposits captured by commercial banks and development finance
companies--and on lending therefrom--were freed from controls. To offset the
inflationary effects of these measures, the authorities further liberalized
import payments and adopted the policy, supported by the emission of new
short-term certificates, of not expanding the subsidized selective credit



operations of the Central Bank in excess of the resources captured from
private savings for this purpose. The authorities also increased the sur-
veillance and control of the illegal export trade. The effects of the above
measures were not immediately noticeable. Real GDP growth declined to 4% in
1980, unemployment started to creep up, and inflationary pressures continued.
10.       In 1981 the external economic situation took a turn for the worse
and the problems continued into 1982. Real GDP growth which had decelerated
to 2.5% in 1981 fell to 1.4% in 1982. Agricultural output was hard-hit in
1982 as the production of coffee, cotton and oil seeds dropped sharply as a
result of low international prices, reduced fertilizer use and adverse
weather. ii±dustrial activity remained stagnant on account of depressed
aggregate demand, and unutilized capacity continued to increase, particularly
in manufacturing. After experiencing a surplus for six years, a deficit
emerged in the resource balance in 1981 of about US$1.5 billion, and a
slightly higher deficit, about US$1.8 billion, resulted in 1982. The latter
year's deficit resulted mainly from a drop in real exports by about 4%:
major reasons were the slowdown in world demand and the reduction in
Colombia's coffee export quota in the International Coffee Agreement.
Although net foreign exchange reserves declined by about US$800 million,
Colombia's net international reserves were still equivalent to about 8.5
months of imports of goods and non-factor service at year end. Inflation
began to slow at the end of 1982, leading to a 25% average for the year.
Towards the end of 1982 the Government introduced a series of measures
designed to stimulate aggregate demand. The rate of peso devaluation was
accelerated to improve competitiveness abroad, the housing construction
industry was provided with incentives to mobilize an increasing amount of
resources, open market operations were discontinued to increase liquidity in
the economy, and in early 1983 the stabilization measures introduced in 1977
began to be dismantled, followed by government legislation designed to reduce
the fiscal deficit.
Development Strategy
11.       The Government's strategy for accomplishing its development objec-
tives is set forth in the 1983-86 National Development Plan. This strategy
emphasizes growth with equity with the purpose of expanding the benefits of
development to Colombia's population. This is to be achieved through
increasing participation of all social and regional groups in the process of
economic growth. The strategy also places high priority on the resumption of
growth while maintaining price stability. The strategy strengthens the pre-
vious emphasis on export promotion as a means of supplementing domestic
demand and assuring balance of payments stability, and on policy measures
designed to increase economic efficiency and raise institutional capacity.
It proposes a continuation of the large effort in public investment, giving
high priority to energy and agriculture projects and to the provision of
transport infrastructure. Economic decentralization, regional autonomy and
the uniting of regional growth centers through improved transport, communica-
tion and financial links are directed towards creating an integrated national
market. The development plan's strategy also places emphasis on the promo-
tion of both small-scale and commercial agriculture as a means of diversify-
ing and increasing exports, assuring adequate domestic food supplies, holding
down inflation and contributing to the Government's nutrition and welfare
goals. Industrial policy objectives are to provide an environment of
certainty, along with adequate credit and infrastructure, so that entrepre-



- 5-
neurs are encouraged to invest and expand output. Because of its benefits in
opening foreign markets, creating employment and bringing in new technology,
private foreign investment is to be encouraged. The financial sector is also
to be strengthened. The Government's approach to helping the poor takes on a
new orientation in the development plan's strategy. Its efforts are focused
upon improving efficiency in the use of resources, broadening coverage of
services and strengthening the social service institutions. Programs in the
housing, health, and education sectors are to be better focused and integra-
ted, and selected low income and disadvantaged groups, such as workers in the
informal sector, children and unemployed youth, are singled out for special
attention. Combined with a significant expansion in construction of low-
income housing and the extension of the Integrated Rural Development (DRI)
program, the new directions given to social programs are expected to raise
significantly the welfare of low income groups in Colombia.
12.       Colombia became a net oil importer in 1976, and by 1984 petroleum
imports are projected to absorb about 13% of merchandise exports. In the
absence of rapid energy development, energy shortages could become a major
constraint on growth later in this decade. Resolution of the energy problem
depends on the country's success in developing its abundant domestic energy
resources--hydroelectricity, coal and natural gas--and also upon increasing
petroleum exploration and development. The strategy for doing this will
require energy pricing policies that rationalize consumption with energy
resource availabilities, a least cost program of investments, sufficient
domestic and external financing for these investments, strengthened sector
institutions, improved program execution capability and rapid carrying out of
investments. Although planning and policy making have improved substantially
in many energy sector institutions in recent years, further improvements in
overall sector planning and coordination are needed. A recently completed
National Energy study carried out by the Government is providing the basis
for seeking such improvements. Additionally, recent oil pricing decisions
have gone a considerable way towards providing the correct signals for regu-
lating consumption and encouraging production. The prices paid to producers
(primarily foreign companies) for "incremental" and "new" crude provide ade-
quate production incentives, and the retail prices of petroleum products have
been increased substantially in recent years, which on the whole reflect
international levels.
13.       Colombia's agricultural growth performance has slowed down markedly
in recent years. Both demand and supply constraints have been responsible
for this. To increase output, utilization of additional acreage for cultiva-
tion is projected to involve greater investment than in the past, implying
the increasing need to pursue options of yield improvements. In addition to
productivity gains, additional land could and should be brought under irriga-
tion and/or drainage for more intensive cultivation. Watershed management
and forestry development should also become integral parts of a long-term
strategy for growth and for conserving the natural resources. The generation
and delivery of technological innovations should receive priority in the
array of long-term measures. Research and extension institutions are in need
of rehabilitation and strengthening. Marketing constraints also need to be
relaxed if higher production is to be sustained. Sufficient credit availabi-
lity for production and marketing is also essential. Recently the Government
initiated a major policy redirection to address these issues and the develop-
ment plan assigns a key role to future investments in the sector.



- 6 -
14.       Colombia's high transportation costs and inadequate services could
become a constraint on economic growth, affecting particularly the develop-
ment of the country's vast coal reserves and its agriculture. The State
Railway is in poor condition and the road network needs maintenance and reha-
bilitation.  The authorities have begun to take steps to improve the coun-
try's infrastructure and the development plan assigns an important share of
future investments to the sector. An important part of this effort is the
ongoing Rural Roads, Railway Rehabilitation, and Highway Sector Projects.
Investment and its Financing
15.       A large increase of public sector investment will be required in
the next several years to carry out the development strategy outlined in the
development plan. Over the 1983-86 period, such investment is expected to
increase by about 5% p.a. in real terms. The energy and transportation
sectors are expected to account for the bulk (about half) of this investment;
however, real increases in investment are also expected in the small- and
medium-scale agriculture, housing, nutrition and health, industry (including
mining), water and sewerage, and education sectors. Overall, public fixed
investment is projected to average 9% of GDP during the 1983-86 period, and
is expected to total Col$1,674 billion. Private investment will have to
increase also during this period to provide the goods and services required
by the expanding economy.
16.       This increase in investment will demand a major resource mobiliza-
tion effort on the part of Colombia's public sector. The buoyancy of the tax
system (excluding coffee tax revenues and receipts from earnings on foreign
exchange holdings), which has declined in recent years, will have to be
increased through new taxes and better tax administration, resources will
have to be used more efficiently, and the charges levied for public services
will have to be raised substantially in real terms. A package of measures to
tackle some of these issues has been recently approved by Congress. Addi-
tional measures related to broadening the base of the sales tax and strength-
ening tax administration are expected to follow. Since this effort is likely
to coincide with increased private sector demand for investment resources,
the importance of measures to expand domestic savings cannot be over-
stressed. The recent capital market liberalization should encourage
savings. A significant increase in voluntary private savings is not likely,
however, as long as inflation remains high. Consequently, stabilization
remains a sine qua non for the country's future growth and development.
Growth and Balance of Payments Prospects
17.       Given the country's strong resource base and sound economic manage-
ment, Colombia's growth prospects for this decade are reasonably good and
significant advances in economic welfare are anticipated. However, because
of the decline in coffee prices and the weakening in exports caused by the
international recession, in addition to the need to increase imports to
develop the country's resource potential and restore higher economic growth,
the current account deficit of the balance of payments is projected to aver-
age US$2.6 billion per year during 1983-86, equivalent to 6% of GDP. Over a
fifth of the deficit is projected to be financed by reducing foreign exchange
reserves and by direct foreign investment. By the end of this period, net
official international reserves would have fallen to a level slightly below
four months of imports of goods and non-factor services (a level which is



-7-
adequate for Colombia) without prejudice to the country's creditworthiness.
This should be sufficient to support an average growth of real GDP of 3.7%
during this period, Beyond 1986, the current account deficit should improve
as a result of increasing export proceeds (particularly coal) and a level-
ing-off of imports. The current account deficit would gradually fall to less
than 3% of GDP by 1990. To achieve real GDP growth of 3.7% per annum during
1983-86, gross fixed investment will have to be maintained at 20% of GDP, and
to avoid too large an increase in foreign indebtedness, gross national
savings would need to average about 17% of GDP.
18.       Gross external capital requirements are projected to total US$11.7
billion in current prices for the 1983-86 period, for an annual average
requirement of about US$2.7 billion. Net foreign investment is expected to
account for US$1.4 billion during 1983-86. Direct capital inflows should
provide about US$0.1 billion. The total of these inflows should provide
about 14% of the gross external financing required. Of the remaining 86%
(US$9.5 billion) about US$4.1 billion (over two-fifths), has been either com-
mitted or is expected to be secured from multilateral and bilateral sources,
while the difference, US$5.4 billion, will need to be borrowed abroad from
financial markets and suppliers' credit sources. At the end of 1981,
Colombia's public and publicly guaranteed external debt disbursed and out-
standing amounted to US$5.1 billion, equivalent to 11% of GDP. The Bank/IDA
share of this external debt was 23%. Reflecting the recently increased
Colombian borrowing from commercial sources, this share is expected to remain
below 25% during 1983-86. The public debt service ratio at the end of 1981
was 15% and is expected to climb to 24% by 1986, peak at about 28% in 1989
and then decline gradually.  The World Bank's share in public debt service is
expected to remain below 25% during 1983-86. With continued sound economic
and financial management, Colombia is expected to maintain its creditworthi-
ness through and beyond the 1983-90 period.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
19.       The proposed loan, the 100th to be made to Colombia, would bring
the total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$3,610.6 million (net of can-
cellations). Of this amount the Bank held, as of March 31, 1983 US$2,834.4
million; IDA made one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in 1961. Dis-
bursements have been completed on 63 loans and the IDA credit. During 1972-
77 disbursements averaged US$86 million equivalent per year, then declined
slightly to US$82 million in 1978 but increased to US$215 million in 1980 and
US$250 million per year in 1981 and 1982, reflecting the higher level of com-
mitments in the late 1970s. While disbursements in Colombia have been slower
than those recorded in the Latin American Region for similar projects, con-
centrated efforts to overcome problems to initiate project execution has
resulted in significant increases in the disbursement record over the last
eight months. The gradually improving performance of social sector institu-
tions in the execution of Bank-financed projects, the gradual containment of
inflationary pressures, which should allow relaxation of fiscal restraint,
and the increased Bank lending for infrastructure projects, all point to a
higher level of disbursements in the future. IFC has made investments and
underwriting commitments of US$80.7 million in 27 enterprises and, as of



March 31, 1983, it held US$21.9 million. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, the IDA credit and IFC investments as of March 31,
1983 and a brief report on the status of the 35 ongoing projects.
20.       During the past 17 years, Bank lending to Colombia has become quite
diversified. While before 1966, 22 loans out of a total of 25 loans made to
Colombia were for power and transport projects, since then, from a total of
73 loans only 21 have been made to these sectors. In addition, all four
loans for education, 12 of the 14 loans for industry, 14 of the 16 agricul-
tural loans, one loan for nutrition, two loans for urban development and all
nine loans for water supply and sewerage, were made after 1966. The diversi-
fication was indeed a desirable aim as it helped provide close contact with a
broader range of Colombia's development problems. The experience gained has
served to identify areas in which the Bank's role can only be a marginal one
and, thus, to enable lending to be focussed upon sectors in which the Bank's
presence can have a meaningful impact.
21.       Bank lending to Colombia in FY82 consisted of loans for watershed
management, railways, highways and rural development totalling US$291.3
million equivalent. In addition to the loan presented in this report, the
current program includes already approved loans for rural education and a
loan for agricultural research. Work is also underway on projects for
electric power, agricultural diversification, agricultural marketing, ferti-
lizers, water supply and sewerage, irrigation and ports for possible conside-
ration by the Executive Directors during the next two years.
22.       The proposed Bank lending is consistent with the Government's
development strategy. To help Colombia develop renewable sources of energy,
a sizeable part of the proposed lending would be for hydropower. The Bank
intends to assist in the development of coal mines which hold potential to
help Colombia meet part of its energy requirements and in diversifying
exports. Bank financing in the energy sector would also assist in strength-
ening major institutions and in mobilizing external finance, particularly
through the launching of a new power sector development facility, as most of
the projects would require substantial cofinancing. Other future loans would
finance agriculture and industry to support the Government in its efforts to
raise overall productivity, income and employment, and to increase and diver-
sify exports. Closely related to these objectives would be Bank lending for
infrastructure that would facilitate the increasing inter-regional flow of
goods and services. Finally, several loans are being prepared in support of
the Government's efforts to help the lowest 50% of the Colombian population.
Proposed lending for rural electrification, further rural development,
agricultural credit, water supply and sewerage, and irrigation projects are
principally designed to improve the standard of living of the poor.
23.       The operations of external lenders in Colombia are shown in Annex
I. While IBRD, IDB and bilateral sources provided about 75% of total exter-
nal financing to Colombia in the 1961-72 period, their share had decreased
since then to some 60% for the 1975-82 period and is expected to decline
further to about 30% of external capital requirements during the eighties.
Like the Bank, IDB has given increased emphasis to projects with a poverty
orientation and has financed projects in low-cost housing, urban and rural
development, agrarian reform, university education, water supply, rural elec-
trification and land erosion control. In the future, it proposed to assist



-9-
Colombia in developing sources of domestic energy and in expanding productive
sector activities to help generate increased employment. USAID has supported
programs in education, rural development and small farm development, but is
phasing out its program in Colombia. The Government of Canada, the Federal
Republic of Germany and the Netherlands have also provided concessional
financing for basic needs and regional integration projects.
PART III - ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Resources and Policies
24.       Colombia is rich in energy resources, particularly in hydroelectri-
city and coal. Its reserves of oil and natural gas are modest by inter-
national standards, yet significant at the national level. In terms of known
reserves, about 55% of Colombia's primary energy potential lies with hydro-
electricity, 40% with coal and only 5% with oil and natural gas. In contrast
to this resource position, consumption of commercial energy relies primarily
on oil products (50%) and less on natural gas (20%), coal (20%) and hydro-
electricity (10%).
25.       Colombia traditionally enjoyed a positive trade balance in energy
because of its relatively rich energy endowment and modest consumption (at
about one ton of coal equivalent per annum, Colombia's per capita energy con-
sumption is below average for middle-income developing countries).  In 1976
the country became a net importer of energy, and by 1981 oil imports reached
almost US$400 million. This situation was the result of a decline in total
domestic energy production brought about by a 7% annual fall in oil output
between 1970 and 1979. As this situation was seriously compromising balance
of payments prospects, the Government moved in the late-1970s to redress the
negative energy trade balance. The Government has: (i) taken pricing
measures directed at increasing the overall cost of energy to consumers, at
changing relative prices to encourage consumers to move away from oil, and at
providing incentives to producers; and (ii) made direct public sector invest-
ments in the energy field, particularly in hydroelectricity and coal. This
resulted in a reversal of trends since 1980, with energy production increases
including a rise in petroleum output, energy consumption growth lower than
GDP, and the share of oil in total primary energy consumption falling, while
that of hydroelectricity, coal and natural gas increased.
26,       Known oil reserves at the end of 1981 totalled about 700 million
barrels, or only about 10 years consumption at present rates of utilization.
Policies pursued during the 1960s and the early 1970s contributed to a deter-
iorating oil situation.  Prices to consumers and producers were kept artifi-
cially low, thus promoting its consumption and dampening incentives for dev-
elopment of new reserves through exploration. In recent years the Government
moved forcefully to remedy the situation by bringing internal consumer prices
closer to international levels (internal prices were increased by more than
threefold in real terms between 1974 and 1980, and, lately, have fluctuated
around 80-90% of international prices) and by enabling producers to benefit
from a large part of the price increases. As a result, exploration has
increased from 11 wells per year in 1975 to 61 in 1981, with known reserves
expanding by about 10% in 1981, after several years of steady decline. Also,



- 10 -
crude oil production has been increasing at over 5% per annum since 1980.
Crude oil production stood at almost 150,000 bpd at the end of 1982, covering
about 80% of domestic consumption.  Since average growth in consumption has
not surpassed 0.5% per annum during the last five years, self-sufficiency in
oil may be within reach by the mid-1980s. Over the longer term, however, a
reemergence of oil imports appears likely, as geological prospects for
discoveries have so far been not too encouraging.
27.       Measured natural gas reserves stood at about 4.2 trillion cubic
feet at the end of 1981, or almost 40 years consumption at present rates of
utilization. Most reserves, production and consumption are concentrated on
the northern coast, with natural gas being piped to the main population and
industrial centers along the coast. Growth in gas consumption (which aver-
aged about 7% per annum over the last five years) has been provided a major
push by conversion of some power plants from fuel oil to gas. Thermal power
plants now account for about half of total gas consumption. Industry
represents the bulk of the remainder with oil refineries being also important
consumers. At present there is a significant excess supply on the northern
region. Further significant increases in gas consumption are tied largely to
-everal new gas-processing options currently being studied. The best alter-
native appears to be an ammonia-urea plant (where the Bank is the Executing
Agency for a UNDP-financed feasibility study).
28.       As a consequence of the natural gas surplus on the northern coast,
the Government has not yet defined a clear pricing policy for natural gas.
Prices for new deliveries are negotiated ex-post with producers on a case by
case basis. This acts as a disincentive for exploration. Although consumer
prices are currently relatively low (less than US$2 per thousand cubic feet),
the extent to which they result in misallocation of resources is not clear
because the viability of future gas-consuming projects remains to be estab-
lished.
29.        Colombia's hydroelectric potential, at about 100 GW, is amongst the
largest in the world. Although the country has made strides in developing
this potential (hydroelectric power generation grew at about 10% per annum
during the 1970s), total installed hydro-capacity by end-1981 was only 4 GW.
The rapid expansion of the hydro-system continues, however, and plants now
under construction will virtually double capacity by 1988. Hydroelectric
plants currently represent about 70% of total electric power generation and
thermal plants the rest. The largest part of the thermal capacity is located
on the northern coast, where hydro potential is limited, but where there is
abundant coal and natural gas. Since the abundant hydro-reserves can be dev-
eloped at low cost, they represent an option of high priority. However, the
optimal mix of hydro and coal and gas-fired plants needs to be determined in
order to take advantage of the projected increased supply of coal and the
existing availability of a natural gas surplus. This matter is currently
being studied.
30.       Colombia's coal resources are also significant, with reserves esti-
mated at some 16 billion tons, of which only about 20% can be classified as
measured. At present rates of utilization, reserves would last hundreds of
years. In view of the magnitude of reserves, it is the Government's policy
to encourage domestic consumption of coal to substitute for natural gas and
for fuel oil, and to promote coal exports, particularly from those deposits



- 11 -
located near the Atlantic Coast (see paragraphs 47 and 53 (a) below). Coal
production grew at about 7% per annum on average over the 1970s to reach a
level of about 5 million tons in 1981. Production came from about 400 small-
and medium-scale mines, virtually all of which are non-mechanized, run by the
private sector and located in Central Colombia. More than half the produc-
tion and consumption of coal is concentrated in the highlands near Bogota.
Sixty percent of all coal is consumed by industry, and most of the rest by
the power sector. Residential consumption and exports represent only a small
share of total output. Colombian coal is bituminous, of high calorific value
(mostly over 6,000 kcal/kg) and with low sulphur content (mostly less than
1%).  Some coal in central Colombia possesses coking properties.  In 1982,
domestic coal prices, which are freely set by market forces, typically ranged
between US$25 and US$35 per ton delivered to the large consumers in the
industrial centers of Bogota, Medellin or Cali. This is well below interna-
tional prices, but high internal transport costs imposed by distance to ports
and difficult terrain all but rule out the export potential of coal from the
interior of the country.
Investment and Financial Issues
31.       In Colombia, electricity, petroleum and natural gas prices are set
by the Government, while coal prices are market-set. In spite of positive
Government actions in recent years, there is still a need to develop long-
term pricing policies that reflect the opportunity cost of the various energy
resources and provide, within the Government's broader objectives, incentives
for the development of energy resources in a balanced manner (see paras. 12
and 24 above). It is not clear whether current prices actually provide such
incentives. The absence of adequate knowledge about some of the investment
requirements of different energy sources, particularly of coal, has made it
difficult to set out an integrated investment program and adequate incentives
for each subsector. Towards this end, the Government has undertaken a major
effort to improve sector knowledge through a National Energy Study (ENE),
whose first stage was carried out between 1979 and 1982 by the National
Planning Department (DNP) with the help of local consultants and technical
assistance from UNDP and the Federal Republic of Germany (FRG). The report
on ENE's first stage is under Government review at present. This study
provides significant information needed for energy planning; it includes a
preliminary evaluation of energy demand growth and of investments that could
best serve such growth. However, much work remains to be done, particularly
in the selection of alternative energy sources.  A second stage of the ENE is
now about to commence building on several more specialized studies.l/ The
current effort has already elicited foreign technical assistance from
official sources. The FRG will be providing assistance on modeling and data
gathering, France on industrial energy savings, Italy on rural electrifica-
tion, and the OAS on energy use in transportation. Several energy sector
agencies and the Ministry of Public Works will provide counterpart staff and
DNP will coordinate the external assistance.
1/ Among others, studies on natural gas available for ammonia-urea
fertilizer production and the coal exploration studies constituting the
bulk of this project.



- 12 -
32.       Over the past five years, Colombia has been successful in mobili-
zing external resources to finance energy development. This has been
achieved through direct foreign investment (in oil first and lately in coal)
and external loans to the energy agencies, including power companies. How-
ever, the current conditions in the international lending markets are making
external financing more difficult to handle.  Local financing requirements
are covered by internally generated resources and Government contributions,
with the incipient local capital markets providing to date only a marginal
share of the financing. In order to increase internal resource mobilization
by the main agencies dealing in the energy sector, oil and electricity
tariffs have been significantly increased in real terms. Furthermore, the
Government created in 1982 a financing facility to mobilize domestic as well
as foreign credit to the power sector, and, in 1980, the National Coal Fund
(FNC).  The latter will receive 60% of the revenue from a 5% tax on coal
production valued at the mine-head. The FNC resources have been initially
allocated to finance coal exploration (80%) and to assist small- and medium-
scale coal mining operations (20%).
Institutional Aspects
33.       The Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME) is the principal Government
agency in the sector. It is responsible for setting and overseeing policies
for the mining and energy sectors and for regulating private sector involve-
ment through the granting of mineral exploration licenses and exploitation
concessions. The policy responsibility is shared with the DNP.
34.       Foreign investors have been traditionally predominant in oil and
gas; in coal, medium- and small-sized Colombian operators were the rule until
the late 1970s, but the technical and financial requirements of large-scale
coal mining emerging recently have opened opportunities for foreign capital.
Except for taxes on repatriation of profits, foreign companies face in
general the same tax treatment as local private companies. Power generation,
transmission and distribution is in the hands of public sector institutions,
some attached to the central Government and some to Departmental or Municipal
governments; the key institution in power is Interconexion Electrica SA
(ISA), the national power generation and transmission agency, owned by the
regional power companies but supervised by the Government. Other important
public agencies in the energy sector are: Empresa Colombiana de Petroleos
(ECOPETROL), operating in oil and gas; Carbones de Colombia SA (CARBOCOL), in
coal; and Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Geologico-Mineras
(INGEOMINAS) in geological surveys.
The Borrower
35.       CARBOCOL is an industrial and commercial corporation wholly owned
by the Colombian Government, established in 1976 and entrusted with the res-
ponsibility to promote the development of Colombian coal. Administratively,
it falls under the control of MME and the supervision of the Superintendency
of Corporations; its accounts are audited by the General Comptroller of the
Republic. The Government entities' holdings of CARBOCOL shares are as
follows: ECOPETROL, 57.5%; Fondo de Promocion de Exportaciones (PROEXPO),
the export promotion fund, 34.6%; Instituto de Fomento Industrial (IFI), the
industrial promotion institute, 6.4%; Empresa Colombiana de Minas (ECOMINAS),
the state non-fuel mining company, 0.8%; and INGEOMINAS, 0.7%. ECOPETROL,



- 13 -
_eOMINAS and INGEOMINAS are attached administratively to MME; PROEXPO to the
!'Knistry of Finance and IFI to the Ministry of Development.  CARBOCOL's board
is chaired by the Minister of Mines and Energy and also includes representa-
tives from the President of the Republic and the Ministry of Finance.
36.       As a young institution, CARBOCOL confronts major responsibilities.
First, as part of its overall sectoral role, its objective is to support
others or to undertake itself to explore, exploit, process, utilize,
transport and sell Colombian coal to both domestic and export markets. In
1979 and 1980 the Government enacted legislation which reserved for CARBOCOL
and other public agencies the right to explore and exploit coal in areas
entrusted to CARBOCOL by the MME where exploration licenses or exploitation
concessions to other parties had either not been granted before March, 1980
or had lapsed. This was intended to promote coal development while avoiding
large coal-bearing areas not being adequately explored by license holders.
In this connection, it is Government policy that CARBOCOL, rather than
carrying out all coal development by itself, would generally contract such
development with the private sector in the form of association, administra-
tion, operation, service or other types of contracts. This may result in
either mixed public sector and private sector or purely private sector
ventures.
37.       Second, CARBOCOL is a partner in a 50-50% joint venture with
INTERCOR (wholly-owned by a subsidiary of EXXON Corporation) in the Cerrejon
North project, the largest investment venture (costs currently estimated at
over US$3.3 billion) to be put together in Colombia. The project consists of
the development of a 15-mtpy open pit to mine about 40 coal seams up to a
depth of about 200 meters (one of the largest and most complex of its kind),
together with the construction of a 150-km railway, a port accommodating
150,000-dwt vessels, two airports, two townships and several other related
facilities. The project is now under construction, and while mining is
expected to start in 1984, shipment of coal would only start after the com-
pletion of the transport infrastructure components in 1985 or 1986. The
project is fully export-oriented. Although under the CARBOCOL-INTERCOR asso-
ciation contract the latter company retains the Operator's role in project
construction and operation, CARBOCOL and INTERCOR make all important project
decisions as the only members of an Executive Committee. This committee has
full authority and responsibility to formulate and adopt investment, instal-
lation, exploitation and operation programs and budgets. Each company,
though, is separately responsible for the marketing of its respective share
of the project's output (50% of total production). This, together with the
royalty paid by INTERCOR in kind (7.5% of total production), represents for
=        CARBOCOL a volume of sales of over 8.5 mtpy at full production (from 1989
onwards), with sales receipts accruing fully to CARBOCOL.
38.       Third, CARBOCOL is also carrying out the Cerrejon Central project.
scheduled to reach full production of 1.5 mtpy by 1985. CARBOCOL contracted
the detailed design, construction and operation of the project with a
Spanish-Colombian consortium (DOMI-PRODECO-AUXINI). The project is now under
construction, but preliminary mining started in late 1982. The project
output, to be sold entirely by CARBOCOL, is primarily (about 0.8 mtpy)
intended for two thermal power plants, 70 km away from the mine. CARBOCOL
has also begun to export part of the output. Despite its size, this project
entails an investment of only US$40 million to CARBOCOL, as (i) the infra-



- 14 -
structure requirements are small given its proximity to Cerrejon North and
(ii) under the terms of the construction-operation contract, mining and other
equipment are provided by the contractors.
39.       To carry out these responsibilities, CARBOCOL has expanded its
staff more than three-fold during the last three years to a current level of
300, of which about 100 are professionals.  As a result, CARBOCOL's staff is
young and relatively inexperienced. Furthermore, the expansion of the agency
has outpaced the corresponding development of its administrative structure
and management information systems. Areas in particular need of strength-
ening are: (a) project management, derived from the complex demands of its
current participation in the Cerrejon North and Central projects; and
including disciplines such as mining, port, railway and airport engineering,
and operations in a wide range of specialties; (b) management information
systems, to cope with the large flow of technical and financial information
emanating from the above projects; (c) coal marketing, derived from
CARBOCOL's need to start selling (mostly abroad) the high volume of coal
expected to become available during the coming years; (d) coal exploration,
to support exploration programs with assistance in economic geology and in
design of geological data bases; (e) financial planning, to improve
CARBOCOL's ability to raise substantial financing from many different sources
in the future; and (f) contracting for coal development, derived from
CARBOCOL's need to set conditions to govern foreign investment in Colombian
coal in an internationally-competitive setting.
40.       Since 1979, the UNDP and the Bank have been working jointly to pro-
vide CARBOCOL with technical assistance. This work includes: (i) a First
Phase UNDP technical assistance program to CARBOCOL (with the Bank acting as
Executing Agency) carried out between mid-1979 and end-1982, and consisting
of an evaluation of the Cerrejon North project and its design alternatives,
and of advice on project costing, scheduling and procurement; (ii) Second
Phase of the same program to be carried out over the 1983-1986 period (with
the Bank also acting as Executing Agency) and consisting of assistance in the
areas listed in (a) and (b) of para. 39 above; and (iii) the technical
assistance component of the proposed project (para. 53) which concentrates on
areas (c) through (f) of para. 39. In addition, CARBOCOL has been receiving
technical assistance from the FRG on coal exploration in the Bogota highlands
region.
41.       As of December 1982, CARBOCOL's authorized capital was about US$150
million, of which US$109 million were paid in. Its net fixed assets were
US$280 million and its total debt US$210 million. Given the magnitude of the
Cerrejon North project, CARBOCOL's financial position will be heavily
influenced by its large financial contribution to the Cerrejon North project:
by 1988 its total long-term debt would reach some US$1.1 billion and its
paid-in capital some US$1 billion pursuant to a capitalization program
approved by the Government and CARBOCOL shareholders. This program estab-
lishes that until CARBOCOL attains financial self-sufficiency, its capital-
ization program will cover: (i) CARBOCOL's working capital requirements; (ii)
interest and other financial charges on CARBOCOL's debt; and (iii) CARBOCOL's
own expenditures related to Cerrejon North (outside of CARBOCOL's contribu-
tions to the project's joint account with INTERCOR). Operational losses
projected by CARBOCOL during the early operation of the project are expected
to lead its long-term debt to net equity ratio to reach a peak of about 77:23



- 15 -
in 1986 and 1987; but this ratio would fall rapidly thereafter to a level of
67:33 in 1988 and below 50:50 in 1990.  These figures are based on coal price
proiections prepared by CARBOCOL and EXXON Corporation, which are signifi-
cantly higher than those projected by the Bank (Report No. 814-82),
particularly for the 1990s. When Bank coal price forecasts are used,
CARBOCOL's financial picture deteriorates somewhat as compared to the above
figures; however, since the impact is felt most acutely in the 1990s, by
which time CARBOCOL's internal cash generation is projected to amply cover
production costs and debt service, CARBOCOL's financial position is expected
to remain acceptable.
42.        Besides the possibility of a still less favorable export coal
market outlook, there are other risks related to the Cerrejon North project
(such as delays and cost overruns in project construction) that could
adversely affect CARBOCOL's financial position. Given the Government's
strong commitment to the Cerrejon North project, however, it is expected that
it will continuously support CARBOCOL financially during execution and early
operations of that project to the extent necessary for the institution to
raise the large resources required and to function effectively in respect of
that and other projects. However, close monitoring of CARBOCOL's financial
condition will be required.
Coal Development Prospects
43.        Government plans call for total coal production to increase from
about 5 million tons in 1980 to about 30 million tons in 1990, of which
almost 20 million tons (virtually all thermal coal) would be exported. How-
ever, based on investment projects in execution or planned, production is not
likely to surpass 25 million tons by 1990; exploration programs such as those
under the proposed project are not expected to contribute much to production
during this decade even if there is prompt investment follow-up.
44.        On the basis of recent market projections contained in the ENE,
domestic coal consumption would expand during the 1980s to reach a level of
about 9 million tons in 1990 from 5 million tons in 1981. This represents an
average growth rate of 6.7% p.a., which is in line with the 7% annual growth
rate of the 1970s. Significant increases in domestic coal consumption are
desirable if oil consumption growth is to remain low, and, permit a reduction
of oil imports.
45.        It is projected that international trade in thermal coal will grow
from about 90 million tons in 1980 to over 200 million tons  in 1990, with
continued growth for at least the rest of the century.  Colombia appears to
be in a good position to firmly establish itself in the coal export market
over the long run, on the basis of the quality and accessibility (see para.
30 above) of its coal reserves. By 1990, Colombian exports of thermal coal
could well exceed 15 mtpy and generate almost US$800 million (in 1982
dollars) per annum.
46.        however, -uirent knowledge or reserves is insufficient to substan-
tiate production plans, and one of the main recommendations of the ENE is to
urgently step up coal exploration efforts in various parts of the country.
Indeed, out of the abuut 3.5 billion tons of coal classified as measured
reserves, the bulk correspond to the Cerrejon deposit, the only coal basin in
Colombia to have been explored in detail up to now.  In the case of other



- 16 -
areas, the knowledge of availability of coal and associated mining and trans-
portation costs is only notional.  This has been an inhibiting factor for
coal development, delaying the resolve of both prospective private investors
and the Government to agree on specific terms for investment ventures likely
to require substantial resources for mining and transport.
47.       Aside from the above-mentioned Cerrejon projects, another coal
mining development is in execution by the private sector (with IFC financ-
ing) in the San Pedro basin in the department of Cordoba (see Map).  Although
it will have an initial capacity of only 0.3 mtpy by the mid-1980s, the
deposit appears to have potential for substantial expansion. Most other
major developments in coal mining are also expected to be located along the
northern coast because of geological and marketing considerations. A few
other coastal deposits are being considered for development by the private
sector, which in aggregate could add some 5 mtpy to capacity by the early
1990s. However, some of those have failed to come to fruition because of
(a) the uncertain way in which some foreign investors handled their proposals
in Colombia under the new coal laws (see para. 37 above) and (b) Government
indecisiveness in granting exploitation rights to foreign investors. At the
root of this problem are CARBOCOL's lack of familiarity with the legal regime
applicable to private investment in coal mining in competing countries and
the insufficient information available on the economic potential for the
country's coal reserves.
48.       There is scope for continued expansion of production in central
Colombia to satisfy growth in local demand through mechanization of existing
operations and through the commissioning of new mines. Significant explora-
tion is now taking place there, inter alia under bilateral agreements with
the FRG, Brazil, Spain and Romania in the central highlands. Furthermore,
CARBOCOL and other public sector agencies are exploring in Santander, Valle
del Cauca and Antioquia (see Map). In contrast to typical coal developments
emerging on the northern coast, coal mining projects in central Colombia are
likely to involve underground mines of less than a 1 mtpy capacity each.
Bank Strategy in the Energy Sector
49.       The Bank's lending strategy aims at supporting Colombia's efforts
to regain self-sufficiency and to redress its negative trade energy balance,
through: (a) promoting development of indigenous energy sources, both for
domestic consumption (thus substituting imported oil) and for export; (b)
institutional strengthening of the sector's agencies; (c) helping to mobilize
external resources to meet the substantial financial requirements of invest-
ments; and (d) strengthening of sector policies (mainly pricing, investment
planning) which facilitate the above developments.  Up to now, Bank lending
in the sector has been limited to power projects, where the focus has been on
development of hydro resources, the strengthening of sub-sector agencies and
the improvement of integrated planning and financial management.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
50.       Under the 1979 and 1980 coal legislation (para. 36), CARBOCOL was
awarded se-ieral coal-bearing areas for exploration and exploitation. Out of



- 17 -
these, CARBOCOL selected eleven areas for exploration, based on their produc-
tion potential according to the geological information available and their
regional and exports market potential. Following more detailed analyses on
the relative merits and potential of each area, the project scope was later
reduced to six areas, each covering several thousand hectares.
51.       CARBOCOL prepared the proposed project and its financing plan.
These were appraised by the Bank in October/November, 1982 and in January
1983 and found to represent a well thought-out exploration program.
Project Objectives and Description
52.       The project's basic objective is to provide Colombia with:
(a) an evaluation and assessment of the economic exploita-
tion potential of coal reserves in some of the most
promising coal-bearing areas, thereby helping establish
an improved basis for determination of investment
options on coal, diversification of energy sources,
particularly for power generation, industrial use and
exports; and
(b) institutional strengthening of CARBOCOL to help it
discharge the rapidly expanding responsibilities
referred to above (paras. 39 and 40).
53.       To these ends, the proposed project would consist of:
(a) a coal exploration component, aimed at identifying
thermal coal deposits, evaluating coal reserves and
assessing the technical and economic viability of
deposits in six areas. These areas are among the
better placed vis-a-vis domestic and export markets;
they are all within a 250-km distance of the Atlantic
coast besides being in good position to serve the
largest consumption centers of northern Colombia. This
component includes preliminary exploration, followed,
if warranted, by detailed exploration and preparation
of prefeasibility studies for the areas showing the
most promising potential for mining development; and
(b)  a technical assistance component for (i) marketing;
expert advice on the establishment of CARBOCOL's
overseas sales network (about 12 man-months), on
burning characteristics of Cerrejon coal in steam
boilers (about 4 man-months and use of testing
facilities), and about 10 man-months for ad-hoc advice
on coal market modeling and sales negotiations; (ii)
coal exploration; about 12 man-months of expert
assistance for economic geology (evaluation of
development potential of coal areas), and about 6
man-months in design of geological data bases; (iii)
financial planning; about 18 man-months of expert
advice on corporate financing operations and on



- 18 -
long-term financial planning, to optimize the use of
funds available to CARBOCOL from alternative sources of
financing; and (iv) contracting for coal development;
to carry out a comparative study on legal provisions
and economic conditions governing coal development in
Colombia and other countries (about 12 man-months), and
ad-hoc advice on negotiations with the private sector
involving investments in coal (about 6 man-months).
Project Implementation
54.        The proposed project would be implemented by CARBOCOL and is
expected to require from two and a half to three years (see Annex IV).
CARBOCOL would hire consultants to carry out the exploration and technical
assistance components. To organize the project work from the technical and
cost control point of view, CARBOCOL established a Project Unit under its
Technical and Planning Department, with a staff of a few geologists and
engineers. The Project Unit's head reports to and, for technical assistance,
through the Technical and Planning Department's Manager. In the case of the
exploration component, the Project Unit would be responsible for procurement
and administration of consultant services. In the case of the technical
assistance component, the Project Unit would work in conjunction with the
line departments responsible for the specific areas where assistance would be
provided (see para. 53 above). These departments would be responsible for
the preparation of the short lists of consultants and their terms of refer-
ence.
55.       This organizational arrangement is expected to provide CARBOCOL
with: (a) a small and flexible setup with authority for project execution;
(b) an adequate staffing mix (geologists and mining and other engineers) not
currently found in any single unit in GARBOCOL's organization; and (c) the
ability to change the team's size and composition or to decide on its conti-
nuation depending on future levels of exploration work. Agreements would be
sought with CARBOCOL on the maintenance of the Project Unit until all activi-
ties under Bank-approved sub-projects have been completed and on the proper
staffing of the Project Unit as a condition of loan effectiveness (draft Loan
Agreement, Sections 3.01(a), 3.02 and 7.01).
56.      The exploration activities in each area would be staged in three
sequential phases to ensure that costlier activities are carried out only
after previous work has established, to CARBOCOL's and the Bank's satisfac-
tion, justification for proceeding further. Assurances to this effect have
been obtained from CARBOCOL (draft Loan Agreement, Sec. 3.06 and 3.01(b)).
The first phase would include (i) research and interpretation of the avail-
able geological data; (ii) photogeological studies, utilizing satellite
imagery when appropriate; and (iii) initial geological field work. For this
purpose, existing geological data would be compiled from all available
sources on to suitable topographic base maps, using, where required, photo-
grametric and photogeological mapping techniques. The geological fieldwork
would be aimed at investigating the structures of rock and the known coal
occurences and the possible extension of this data into adjacent areas so as
to identify exploration targets. The fieldwork would consist of geological
traversing, the measurement of the stratigraphic section in exposed coal-
bearing sediments, the determination of the geological structure of coal



- 19 -
zones by hand trenching, and the completion of a preliminary geological
evaluation of all zones containing coal-bearing sediments. An evaluation of
this preliminary data would permit the selection of zones which justify
further work based on their assessed potential for mine development.
57.       The second phase would consist of reconnaissance drilling and
detailed geological mapping in the zones selected in the first phase.  Its
objective would be to verify the stratigraphy and structure of the coal-
bearing sediments as suggested by the initial mapping program carried out
during the first phase. Preliminary coal reserve figures would be calcu-
lated. Information on coal quality would be obtained from the analysis and
petrographic study of unweathered coal cores recovered from the drill-holes.
Data would also be obtained on the physical characteristics of the rock
strata associated to coal beds, which would be important for mine development
planning. On the basis of the above data, reserves would be evaluated to
establish whether it is justified to proceed with prefeasibility studies.
58.       The third phase would consist of prefeasibility studies on selected
coal deposits to assess, in preliminary terms, whether mining operations
would be viable from a technical, financial and economic point of view.
These studies, which are expected to cover about five different deposits,
would include a conceptual mine design, an identification of potential
markets and an assessment of transportation requirements.  Once the prefeasi-
bility studies are available, they will become important investment promotion
instruments for CARBOCOL to offer the final development of most project areas
to private investors (see para. 36 above). The full feasibility studies
(which, including the necessary drilling, are expected to cost more than two
thirds of the total preinvestment work and are not part of the project),
would be undertaken by interested investors acting alone or in association
with CARBOCOL.
59.       The exploration activities would be carried out only in relation to
coal zones or deposits in respect of which CARBOCOL holds exclusive explora-
tion rights. The six project areas would be packaged along regional lines in
three groups (see Map): (i) San Jacinto; (ii) San Jorge and San Pedro; and
(iii) La Loma, El Paso and El Descanso. The Bank and CARBOCOL may, however,
agree to add or substitute other high priority coal areas (draft Loan Agree-
ment, Sec. 3.05(b)). These arrangements would: (a) allow flexibility in
project execution; (b) provide the prefeasibility studies on transport
infrastructure requirements with a regional perspective; and (c) permit
economies of scale in project execution, particularly in the mobilization of
personnel and of drilling and other equipment.
60.       Transition from one exploration phase to another would be monitored
on the basis of reports containing (i) the main results of the previous
phase, and (ii) a program of work, if any, to be carried out under the suc-
ceeding phase. Programs of exploration activities covering each phase in a
specific group of areas would be regarded as separate subprojects. Bank
approval of each subproject would be required before it starts and any por-
tion of the loan is disbursed for it. Assurances in this respect have been
obtained from CARBOCOL (draft Loan Agreement, Secs. 1.02(d), 2.02, 3.06 and
para. 1 of Schedule 1). If during the execution of a subproject CARBOCOL
succeeded in contracting exploration and development with an investor in part
of a sub-project area, exploration work under the project, if any, in the



- 20 -
remainder of that area would also be subject to Bank approval (draft Loan
Agreement, Sec. 3.06(b)).
61.       The implementation of the exploration component would involve the
provision of services in: (a) aerophotogrametry and topography; (b) explora-
tion consulting in (i) geology, geotechnics, geophysics, etc; (ii) engineer-
ing and basic designs; (iii) infrastructure, environment; and (iv) market,
economic and financial analyses; (c) drilling; (d) drifting, trenching and
slope work; and (e) coal quality analysis and testing.
62.       The exploration consultants would design the exploration and geolo-
gical activities suited to the various coal areas; make recommendations to
CARBOCOL on the required amount of drilling, trenching, etc., and on the
selection of particular areas for further necessary work; and, where justi-
fied, carry out prefeasibility studies.  These consultants would be selected
by CARBOCOL in accordance with Bank guidelines from a shortlist of qualified
geology and engineering firms including, where appropriate, consortia of
foreign and Colombian firms, subject to Bank approval (draft Loan Agreement
Sec. 3.03). The services under (c), (d) and (e) above will be carried out
under legal arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, such as subcontracting or
joint ventures, by the exploration consultants. The aerophogrametric and
topographic services would be contracted separately by CARBOCOL among
qualified firms at the beginning of the program. Exploration contracts as
conceived above would consist of a basic, core workload, known at the outset
to be necessary before any given area can be discarded for further
exploration, with additional work being incorporated on a contingent basis,
depending on the results of previous phases. The exploration consultants
selected, including subcontractors providing drilling or other services,
would have qualifications and work on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank. In the case of drilling services, the selection process for
contractors would have to be acceptable to the Bank (draft Loan Agreement,
Sec. 3.03(b)).
63.       Most of the consultants for the technical assistance component
would be hired on an individual basis, and would have to be acceptable to the
Bank as well as their qualifications and terms and conditions of employment
(draft Loan Agreement, Sec. 3.03 (a)).
Project Cost and Financing
64.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US17.8 million equiv-
alent, broken down as follows:
As Percentage
Project Components                  Local  Foreign  Total  of Base Cost
Exploration
Geology and Reserve Evaluation   1.0        0.7      1.7       12.8
Drilling                           3.1      3.5      6.6       49.5
Prefeasibility Studies             1.9      1.9      3.8       28.6
Subtotal                         6.0      6.1    12.1        90.9



- 21 -
Technical Assistance
Marketing                          0.1      0.5      0.6         4.5
Exploration                         -       0.1      0.1         0.8
Contracting for Coal Development  -         0.2      0.2         1.5
Financial Planning                 0.1      0.2      0.3         2.3
Subtotal                         0.2      1.0     1.2         9.1
Total Base Cost                  6.2      7.1    13.3       100.0
Physical Contingency                  0.9     1.1      2.0        15.0
Price Escalation                     1.2      1.3      2.5        18.8
Total Project Cost               8.3      9.5    17.8
Interest and Other Charges
during Execution                     0.8      1.1      1.9
Total Financing Required         9.1    10.6    19.7
65.           The cost of the exploration component is based on a tentative
program for each of the three area groups. The cost of the technical
assistance component is based on an estimate of 110 man-months of highly
specialized consultant services, at a cost of US$15,270 per man-month,
including fees, international travel, subsistence and local costs (the aver-
age cost per man-month is estimated at US$18,500 for lawyers and marketing
specialists and at US$13,000 for other consultants). The complexity of the
services required for the project accounts for the higher than usual average
costs estimated in this case. These costs are based on December, 1982 prices
and include a 15% physical contingency and price contingencies derived from:
(a) local inflation rates of 24% in 1983 and 1984, 22% in 1985; and (b)
annual escalation rates for foreign costs of 8% in 1983, 7.5% in 1984, 7% in
1985. The foreign exchange component of the project is estimated at US$9.5
million equivalent representing 53% of total project cost.
66.       The proposed Bank loan of US$9.5 million would cover the foreign
exchange component of the project or 48% of the financing required. The loan
would be made for 17 years, including four years of grace, and would carry
the standard variable Bank interest rate and other financing charges. The
front end fee would be paid before effectiveness (draft Loan Agreement Sec.
2.04).  Interest and other charges on the Bank loan accruing during project
execution and all local costs, for a total of US$10.2 million equivalent or
52% of the financing required, would be financed out of CARBOCOL's own
resources. As part of these resources, it is intended that the FNC, which is
managed by CARBOCOL, would provide a grant, expected to amount to US$2.2
million equivalent, or 11% of the financing required. CARBOCOL and the
Republic of Colombia have provided assurances that they would provide all
necessary financing to carry out the project, including possible cost over-
runs (draft Loan Agreement Sec. 3.01(a) and draft Guarantee Agreement, Sec.
2.02). Funds available to the FNC over the 1983-85 period are projected to
total some US$4 million, of which US$3.2 million would be applied to the pro-
posed project and other exploration activities. CARBOCOL would also be



- 22 -
required to maintain separate project accounts to record expenditures under
the proposed project, and to submit to the Bank quarterly progress reports
and financial statements audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank, and, not later than six months of the closing date, a report on the
project's executioLi arid results (draft Loar. Agreement, Secs. 5.01, 5.02 and
3.07).
Procurement and Disbursement
67.       Consultant contracts would be awarded by CARBOCOL, subject to Bank
approval, in accordance with Bank guidelines. The subcontractors and subcon-
tracting conditions would also be subject to Bank approval.
68.       Disbursements prior to the date of the loan agreement are recom-
mended in an amount not exceeding $500,000 to finance expenses incurred by
CARBOCOL in the initial stages of the Project but after February 1, 1983.
Disbursements from the Bank loan would be for: (a) 100% of the foreign
exchange expenditures of (i) the exploration consultants and their foreign
subcontractors, (ii) all consultant services under the technical assistance
component, and (iii) testing and laboratory services; and (b) 50% of the
local expenditures of drilling, drifting, trenching, slope work subcontracts
and of topography and aerophotogrametry services, when performed by sub-
contractors or consultants domiciled in Colombia.
Environmental Issues
69.       The project does not raise significant environmental issues, since
surface disturbances, such as drill-sites, trenches, etc., will be minor.
The prefeasibility studies that form part of the project would, however,
include a preliminary assessment of the environmental impact of any proposed
coal mining project, particularly of open pits.
Benefits and Risks
70.       The project is an indispensable step to broaden the knowledge of
Colombian coal resources and to establish the potential for coal development
in a region of the country believed to offer the best prospects for open pit
coal mining and for supplying coal competitively to the export markets as
well as to the large thermal power plants expected to be needed over the next
few decades in Colombia. The preliminary geological information available
suggests the possiblity of proving reserves in the project areas large enough
to sustain an aggregate production level of over 15 mtpy. The project would
thus open the possibility for coal to make an important contribution to
long-term energy development and improving Colombia's trade balance. The
prefeasibility studies to be carried out in the most promising project areas
would provide the Government an instrument to promote mine development among
prospective foreign and local investors. The technical assistance to be
provided to CARBOCOL would help it in carrying out its important sectoral
activities and enable it to acquire the information and skills necessary to
negotiate with potential investors.
71.       There is a risk, normally associated with this kind of operation,
that the exploration activities would not result in the location of commer-
cially and economically viable coal deposits. For this reason, the project



- 23 -
has been designed for staged implementation to minimize the risk of ill-
advised expenditures. Another risk would lie in the identification of viable
coal deposits not being followed by actual development after the project is
completed. Colombia's record of stability and of mature and even-handed
treatment of private and foreign investment is expected to provide a suitable
investment climate for the type of ventures that may emerge from this
project. At least one deposit in the project areas might be required to meet
domestic demand and, therefore, its development would depend primarily on
Government initiative. These considerations offer reasonable prospects that
this second risk may not materialize.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and CARBOCOL, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Colombia and the Bank, and the
report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
73.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex
III. The definitive staffing of the Project Unit would be a special condi-
tion of effectiveness.
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
75.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
September 19, 1983



-24-                                         ANNEX I
T A B L E  3A                                     PACE 1
COLOMBIA               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
COLUMBIA                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                     (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCLME
lb    b                lb    LT  MRC 
1960-      1970- ESTIMATE-    LAT. AMERICA 6 CARIB              EUROPE
ARMA (THOSAND SQ. BK)
TOTAL                             t138.9      1138.9     1138.9
AGRICULTURAL                       350.5       350.5      356.5
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  270.0      440.0      1380.0             2088.2                  2453.6
ENERGY CONSUMFrION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     519.0      730.0       970.n             1407.6                  1580.8
POPtLATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,HID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  15754.0    21266.0    26425.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)       48.2       59.8        64.4               65.9                    47.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                           38.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                             62.0
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                            2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. K14.                      13.8       18.7        22.7               35.6                    82.0
PER SQ. KE. AGRI. LAND            44.9       60.7        72.6               93.2                   157.2
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (%)
0-14 YRS                         46.8       46.2        36.4               40.1                    31.9
15-64 YRS                         50.3       51.1        60.2               55.8                    60.9
65 AND ABOVE                       2.9        2.8         3.4               4.1                      7.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                              3.1        3.0         2.0                2.3                     1.6
URBAN                              5.7        5.2         2.6                3.7                     3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)       46.7        38.4        29.4              31.5                     25.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)       15.8        10.7         7.7               8.1                      9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.3        2.6         1.8               2.0                      1.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)           ..      115.4       192.8
USERS (I OF MARRIED WOMEN)          ..       34.0        46.0/c
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      100.0       99.0       124.0             113.0                    108.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (E OF REQUIREMENTS)      98.0       89.0       108.0              111.3                   129.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          54.0       48.0        55.0              67.9                     92.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        28.0       24.0        25.0/d             34.1                    34.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE         14.0        7.1         3.5                5.3                    10.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)       53.1        58.9       63.3               64.6                    67.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)     103.0        77.0        55.1              62.6                     71.4
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                             30.0/e     63.0        64.0/f             64.8
URBAN                             54.97T     88.0        73.07?             77.8
RURAL                              6.87T     28.0        46.07o             44.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(% OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..       47.0        44.4/f             54.6
URBAN                               ..       75.0        60.0o7            69.8
RURAL                               ..        8.0        14.0/f            29.8
POPU'LATION PER PHYSICIAN        2640.0      2180.0      1920.0/d          1776.0                   1094.8
POP. PER NURSING PERSON           4220.0/&    730.0      1220.071           1012.2                   762.5
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            360.0      450.0       600.0/d            477.0                   334.0
URBAN                               ..      380.0       490.0/d           667.5                    216.0
RURAL                               ..         ..          ..             1921.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..        22.9        29.8/d            27.2                     20.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..        5.7/h
URBAN                               ..        5.57Wh
RURAL                               ..        5.97         ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                               *         1.8/h
URBAN                               ..        1. 67h
RURAL                               ..        2.47         .
ACCESS TO ELECT. (% OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             47.0/e      58.1/h
URBAN                             8 3. 0OT   8 7.57        ..
RURAL                              8.0/e      13.2/h       ..
_- - _ _- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --_- - - - - --__ _ _- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --_- - - - - _ _   _ _   _     _   _ _ _ _  _   _ _   _ _ - _ _ _- _   - _- - _- _ _- _ - -_ - -_ -_ _ -_ - -_ -_ _ _ _ _- _- - _- - _- _ _- _ - -_ - -_ _ - -_ -



ANNEX I
- 25-
T A B L E  3A                                         PACE 2
COLOMBIA                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
COLOMBIA                               REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                       (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) lb
RECENT  /b       MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960/"      1970-  ESTIMATE-    LAT. AMERICA & CARIB                 EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                    77.0        108.0       128.0               105.0                     102.2
MALE                     77.0       107.0        127.0               106.3                     107.2
FEMALE                   77.0       110.0        130.0               103.6                      97.9
SECONDARY: TOTAL                    12.0        25.0         46.0                40.0                      56.5
MALE                     13.0        25.0         43.0                38.6                      63.4
FEMALE                   11.0        24.0         49.0                41.2                      48.9
VOCATIONAL (X OF SECONDARY)           30.8/i       20.2        21.6/d              34.0                       22.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             38.0         38.0        31.0                30.7                      24.7
SECONDARY                           11.0         17.0        20.0                16.7                      22.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)               63.0         80.8/h      81.0                79.5                      69.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP            5.7         11.2        18.6/d              45.6                      52.9
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP         125.1        104.3       116.3               228.2                     165.5
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP              9.5         38.1        86.9               108.3                     124.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCUIATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION              50.0           ..        50.2                64.1                      96.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA         ..           ..         2.9                 2.9                       2.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)           4727.0       6353.0      8982.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    19.2        24.8         24.7                24.8                      34.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               51.4         37.9        25.8                31.3                      40.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  19.2        21.0         21.2                23.9                      23.4
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               30.0        29.9         34.0                31.3                      42.0
MALE                                48.8        45.1         51.1                49.8                      55.2
FEMALE                              11.5         14.8        16.8                14.8                      29.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.7          1.6         1.2                 1.4                       0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS            41.2/e,]    31.9/
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS           67.7e, j    60.1/j
LOWEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS             2.1e,        3 .57* 
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSENOLDS             6.8/e,      ID.17..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       214.0/d             289.8
RURAL                                 ''           ''       197.07;             184.5                         .
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       267.0/d             519.8
RURAL                                 ..           ..       122.0|d             372.1                     409.0
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (1)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        34.0/d
RURAL                                 ..           ..
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1978; Id 1977; /e 1964; If 1976; /g 1962; /h 1973; /i Including teacher training at the third level; LI Economically
active population.
May 1983



-26-                                                        ~~~~~~ANNEX I
26-                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Page 3
tones ,isosgh the d-r  ar1 Ivnd      os.ools.eer.fr...d  o                           Insi coton .ta ..i and .relia Le,  It stol  alsse?  noted slat tot, a"y not beItnasna
.o.ral  .eo.... of toe look eit stndtinn, detinflan1_e ad            epsse   tar_i.teeb          esnr ,efnn lrclng  tee dana.  The daisare  noebitg vrt
desrie   rdes  f  agntoe,Isooea  reds,no  carasele  ceea 0naor-dtteracs  eteenosnele
MVorfrrongovn  r  (iro  sn  neno  gou   f  h  sb es  osty  ndIl    eetr   rop  h   ssetcebglrraergelroone.-o  eoer  gni2f  O
asog leinooced  00. iss.d                                                         erro~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9Ih,.lehasta  th1eriltan  -, daelcefar4 diba foase   fpate n
forarae,  esstes, nrke  rodkithe  5adea-aeafitCasesidabbnatl-b-llote
lIe  10 CflId(110  - CP pe  ospet1a- etisace  atd caerI     a'r  pie,aai                                   e lo -i,,lc aed   Pcae geera  adieorleiiobyd oa.pir_ ca
19h1,  nd, annhal ate.                                                            17  s leas  oat pysieli.  taralitharee  etotdeog   einrlpf if rrnefic
GNI PE. C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rreaeno nlae. ea trea,,nsce, nisd eit e
tObRI  ICbCCCfTC5 flO Celf      oo       aparntrnofto   tcoorc ..I...                             er  cioter   orpraer  ysaleaO  pIfricics (tth a--   bela
jdiirat  eseogylrnai ad lIgole , paneitan,  atoralgas ctdnedri-,nerleataeaiarar , sate , aldi it,  nn. I rlob altr it-d aie-       o aceroeh etion ad
efgll  PT20  ITeS iTefCAldT,                                  piditdhrtel   r   niee   e   aodee torci.
drre.                                                                     Inst iospieals dirided If eta eskirt of beds.re                           d
a19 ngeo19 srst-d   1990d.  1f,es   911dr.                                                         nts   Siteol eseoditiserhesead i                        teteWO.   en, and-    ea
POPULATION    Orsefod-oretfeato    rjeleaehte  onD IITALaed stIeir tale   e_as    a herdt  r                                                       _nder  a   rrcnnh   alddi
rriesatoifaed  anhd sernoe  fnsnee .lit  and fern, tI70                               ohe 19ootbeld le_   snatlsole, ee 5- pfrr9na-es-d-heg
rater   Prorcelnrsaeeaeee  lotrreelserar.esaroteoreote               aansohoebprf.   fiiers byoor   -rnre e-tta el,orc,edca   araoee
UbIeolaeoehdercaoa    iricaetcocarfet                                                               tPnoeeesanluinadneeeperntesa
capio .   nroot d (era?1,,,I" .od   ..otl   lif  esrrce -ec-billain  at IP9dtloe   tcttol. l.elneersdassr  ednoaerea   n
_elts.  Th   paa 9ana  ord fetiie  tad   at   errre It.aoceldptr
assaiearolielelrcniieasaedintofrsereeranatattsiiearr                      .oesi,cri.eflpacastddlsafera,ele ,-ar
e  -sochpnfooace    Oaoeociaeatot    e   rtrrrs                                                Atnta    deallhiog-  s rih_stiis   nsrn    aerte-taet                       ,e
coh   -ale-oevaifaferliecd                      .sprfca.eae.....tet,tbn                                         .netlelintt c.le rl
bnyrrnranrnen.    r    sahiodsi   fatfrt ietrt2 joce  toiene                                                  _ te _s
deilenthrelaeansensosnrohrfrdaIdttie,aenftearsts i-ori,eenisfIae--os   orl,alarleal
eachgererolr o  soen rplets  rseieserlf   Theteaidoty           eneirenrof  ll  ges  s te flr                -b-leds -tdpecenage
esacle   ltsa   n iae   n  1tiai5:  tepole_     ntcer dsnpcal-g                                                     ea.ltcelntelyIridtcilrnagd6l
i..ieea  oho   oaaeo   n-h   ea   Cf,adte  rase1-1-bl  of 7te  lIt...a..c..a  e   e  ctrr   ennea   elafaaarlt   o
Per so.   .- Csld-yto roralal-nte  dace     leer  (C  hestelo                                 taidetf genrel-,   enrarira,  r         _eahe  stain-ng  leeata    o
drl-e ARCI19L nd  910 dre                                                                     roceoltlarlsn   5reeo   easar       oalnllslilr
rorlaeroda  Seeean  I treroI   Ocldts 10-la feats)  soro-a 1- ,cstrestri,idetiio    brpors aetteb apee ted i,depd-i
re elation I    ,590  an 4111  dat.                                                             Psi-aere       aie-neeae.adrreaefnisaer   soldI
roar erealauor Moo lOl-Of. ilIl-C, end In h-Ia                                        oerp-sodiog bratis.d,:  b.1  -I
paeclesrroe  far  SIC-hI, 192 -f,cd197-l.                                                   a. ore btnea i et  ona  adis riat   'oaedI'         atad  er
erode  niarh  case (sac  soaaraod) - lanail lisa hirnie  fee tbo--orsnd of ,osprO-,, ~                                                  d-l-, "
paalton  1, 10ll.5e r-eta111de.                                                             eaeeatn    let  sar ti           - rtne I soade  aehoinor.es, beaat end
boat treerd uclido. tace-onerege asober ar draebsroseaoean  sell bear in~~~~~~~~~~~P"                              th  dff.je  ecb.,Ige
Perci lf  ass  oroalif Mli- ecfo ereg...es roil--i (1561  tI--, adf                                  _ . Itdrretgaao   enb depa   tholods    daalt-n tb-aea   n
lads.1970i-ernoadnrd.rLelreca'                                                                                                               ,P- ptentradnyas.sseioraeiyoee--die
fal _farig-rk        oes .oalihaeot-doelahro   aa..t.ssea    reeredtsaete e ecare n                                                                        LnebaearIielse   oa
ofbrh-nte   der -e -ee   Caspsred -t net. fsos  fga,iIe piennsnga                                            -aoi llr   eht fhe   2iceroso,r ag.        ee.e.    -        e
-IlY; 196C, 1970 -d ~ ~ ~ ~      ~      ~      ~ ~ ~~nrs9oeers(e-roueddrdseia-tecirr  e  cocs
oaorer -d-heoJelogateh-aiaaoenorlds-drti e....                                                      ooorre'.ndlrrn
all nasrlro  aooersOtaetsorgeeaf.         O.....t...i-Irde 'fIr,,csLaI.a§eeeso~p5eohbo ecog
Inde  of haod  fraduasino ... ..p.n 19-(--f. ,   -ldee Co0ves                                 .O-~   sCotdotnnsd    s00  oao   oe'stri sa."                  5  s  osutc
anua   960doso  ulalfo   iedrto            enc  a   n  a e   edada  e'aIfi   ra  tr   slas    orrtsaaea
coffe  and  ra er  teoloded.  aggegie  1redoesle  of-reoeyItdi.rafs
hae   n  ai -l  deg th--due  pe_lcie an lgshr -1961-.6f9..elIPSl. end 199ed -
dY5a.                                                                                          EdiftI  As-ICid.,-le  1   ee. 
pevtiacei.f  eorae    tten_fcaIteeOs Ilaaadfa                                                      Ttl  ao  rtr  tota_)    coaialyaeitpeset  nloeg  et
ere0e  yasolet  t  ev  oo         d-anlisaallbl   ine- r   e   eiapt                       oete    nsifdbt  slde    olcrs,stdn,er,cnto
da. 1es 960o'p stosa,o  do7srarlod        Irdols  ste dre           - lee                       ..   ...nio  otalaes    aireas
toos.adoane   nook    ee5pI5,oloecla   ed .......asp Icbla   L_6,11   ns19   aa
oosii taatd    ifr       frocnOn.ca   atr   is  ditsrs botirn. rsl   oterI-Psl    -hrfnea   eoeoea  renal l borfote
aenorteoneoar  eaneord h  fa  hased, an    i. ebess 19ica  1a71t ledonl,esiaefr tes,                                   ae   oc   stnsn.frtr.hn  o 
F-oslcteeoftoiPoatin  a.hlerdhloriroieto   itnnaoliy   aa  at   orne   tIo-                                                                  ,cl,  o   esl   eo  frea 
ciloeaouoeoaiOaoacteeeasafrooseenrreaofasdld    ~~~ dasedoeaao,e'erotoarotoalnatsdealea.leiaoalaeoeretoey
7atepotCsoahaa0hceoCaliacea                       taoo.Phe                                   loC11ManiO)ea. Mhsaviatonlt   ariisasanae
deoloei Iron eatecla coa ealtet in iteet pet aces IRis-uT, 59Td and 1007
lana  enioe   reatlife   atles5 1...  9..0 ard-_-id da-c.                      nootaho-de-
anilesh.  1561, 1070 aed  991 dsba.                                       a~Ioa.l   I.lldeiretndolhesd eoeisc eteot__.
lnfaceMrselieRete(ortoasri-d.ddeias  acenlt of inpta            e.ertli- f  1 endres       liicetdioiatraiot                 IooteeI loeattpe-               -ncendar
ad ae er roitad  Iat  trsi_    ji I 11d    Il   Id                                        PrK;16, 1979ad191dt.stetteaesygce  -rr  is8 05cics-Ielhee   hcsaiit
Ossoher  f peopl  (tonal  orser,  nd rura? sash  ratoncle  errdt  t-sate              lffdhbl.g
aanroepylllldeoretesafacecerariseesdee 9oiardMei  o    aeoeoo eleeell-I  et9aelif-alco    idrcad
u      'YreuaaooenIft hefrtpotra   hrnoe   etse,edtoa  nltir   aeeyIndeles   eoetntdofctag    e  vpr
05510tfcels) a  farerage  ofrhl  topeio-,,iaioa    In an97aterna   9noroteror.    mnleli   tioate   I   sa
no  n,eres  nieratd  (estee    ot roreesien)     ne:-l ae"I n
ho    raese  ololno ddlepot-ol. alO                 r0  lhp s   rc ees  of~  ,  h                 Iennvdd  alln rilialn-
noea.r...a.o.....         aar         . b .e..t.ertea   rrs   s  o   i                                                               cnnedalasadPser  ereettn
de5o7C sod  les) r inrellansos.                                                                                      --                            198



- 27 -
Pbpilation:  26,965,000 (mind-1982)                                                                                          ANEX 1
GNP Per Capita:  US$1,380 a/                                 ISXRMIC 1NICIlltFS                                              Page 4 of S
Amont (million US$           Average Anrial Increase (X)               Store of GP at Market Prices (%)
at current prices)           (at constant 1970 prices)                       (at curet prices)
198)      1981 b/    1982 b/   1960-70    1970-75    1975-82    1960       1970       1975      198)       1981       1982
NATI(CL AaLIS
Gross &uastic product cf        33,738      37,325      39,669      5.3        6.2        5.2     100.0      100.0      100.0     100.0      100.0      100.0
Agriculture                     8 3T       8,870       9,232      3.5        5.2        3.8      34.1       28.6   2 9.3         2.6  26.9             26.4
Industry                        9,253     10,208      10,980      6.2        6.5        3.6      25.7       26.6       28.3      30.7       31.0      31.4
Services                       12,577     13,892      14,757      5.9        7.2        5.6      40.2       44.8       42.4      41.7       42.1       42.2
Consumption                      25,189     28,691      31,034      5.4        6.6        4.6      79.4       80.1       81.2      74.7       76.9       78.2
Gross investment                  8,489     10,147      10,224      5.1        1,3        9.3      20.5       22.0       17.8      25.2       27.2       25.8
Exports of goods and NFS         5,677       4,606       4,679      3.1        4.3        3.1      15.6       14.2       15.5      16.8       12.3       11.8
Imports of goods and NFS         5,494       6,078       6,444      4.3        0.8        9.4      15.5       16.2       14.6      16.3       16.3       16.2
Gross national savings            8,625      8,489       7,981      5.2        5.6        5.6      19.4       18.0       16.8      25.6       22.7      20.1
Cmposition of  Merchandise Trade (X)
(at nArrent prices)
1975-81    1960      1970      1975       1980       1981
MEA1D5I  AAiE
Merchandise Expor-s (FOB)        4,372       3,458                  3.3        6.1        3.3     100.0      100.0      100.0     100.0      100.0
Major primary                   2,928      1,959                  2.8        TX         5.1      72.5       72.1       57.2      70.0       56.7
Major manufactures                837        899                   -        23.5        5.8        -        10.5       22.5      19.1       26.0
Otter                            607         600                   -         4.1      -6.3         -        17.4       20.3      13.9       17.3
Merchandise Imports (CIE)        4,663       5,199                  3.5        2.1        9.0     100.0      100.0      100.0     100.0      100.0
Food                             307         331                 10.0        6.1       14.7       2.4        5.1        6.0       6.6        6.4
Petroleum                        563         724                -21.4       13.0       54.9       2.0         -         1.0      12.1       13.9
Madcinery and equiprant         1,584      1,831                  5.2       -4.1       11.5      42.7       43.6       36.1      34.0       35.2
Other                           2,209      2,313                  1.8        5.6        8.3      52.9       51.3       56.9      47.4       44.5
1974       1975        1976       1977        1978        1979       1982       1981 b/   1962 b/
PRICES ANM) MM CF MADE d/
a£P deflator                              27.6        20.8       23.6        28.3        17.1       24.1        28.1       24.4       23.3
Exhang rate                              26.1        30.9       34.7        36.8        39.1       42.6        47.3       54.5       64.1
Export price index                       246.6       252.5      389.8       577.9       552.2      608.3       773.6       832.0   1,045.6
Import price index                       216.9      275.1       330.2       375.9      430.0       518.2      621.1       750.5      986.0
Ternm of trade index                     113.7        91.8      118.1       153.7       128.4      117.4       124.6       1103.9    106.0
1970       1975       1981 8/
PUBLIC FlNANCE ej
Current revens                                                        10.6        11.2        12.9
Current expenditure                                                    5.7         7.1        9.1
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                             4.9         4.1        3.8
Capital expenditure                                                    1.8         4.6        4.5
Foreign financing f/                                                   3.3         3.1        2.3
1960-70    1970-75     1975-82
OTlER IND BAT4S
GNP grwth rate (%)                                                     5.10        6.40       4.73
GW per capita growth rate (Y)                                          2.00        4.00       2.61
Fnergy orsumiptiml growth rate (%)                                     5.00        4.00       4.00
IOCI h(                                                                3.54        3.70       5.67
Marginal savings rate i/                                               0.13        0.14       0.21
Import elasticity                                                      1.17       0.12        2.00
a/ World Bank Atlas MethDd.
bt Estimated.
c| At market prices: Compnents are expressed at factor oost and will not add becasue of exclusion of net indirect taxes ard subsidies.
d/ Indices tesed on 1970=100.
et Cantral GCvernment.
ft Gross disbursemnts of external leans to tbe entire public sector.
g/ Incluies Social Security aid Fondo Vial.
lh agged oe year.
Increment to gross doiestic savings/tincreant to gross domestic product.
September 14, 1983
Colomibia Divisicn



- 28 -
PEpulation: 26 jS6Y0 (mid-1982)                                  BIAIAE OF PAYENTh, EXUIlL  CAPTTAL AM) LEBT)                                            ANEX I
GN Per Capita: US$1,3O a/                                                (million IS$ at current prices)                                                 Page 5 of 5
Actual                                                          Projected
1974     1975      1976      1977      1978      1979      1983     1981 b/   1982 c/    1983     1984      1985        86
B1AAW2 OF PAY81N1S
Exports of goods and non-factor services        1,858    2,165     2,805     3,443    4,039      4,658     5,677     4,606     4,679     4,348    4,813     5,301     6,31L
Imports of geods and non-factor services       2,072     2,030     2,321     2,762     3,425     3,939     5,494     6,078    6,444     5,765     6,261     6,870     7,629
Resource Balance                                   -214       135      484       681       614       719       183   -1,472    -1,765    -1,417    -1,448    -1,569    -1,318
Net factor payments                               19-2    -263      -313      -272      -301      -253      -210     -428       -701    -1,183    -1 ,336   -1, 514   -1 ,633
Nbt unrequired transfers                           22       30        39        40        44        98       164       242       223       230      237       244       251
Current Account Balance                            -384       -98       210      449       357       562       137   -1,658    -2,243    -2,370   -2,547    -2,839   -2,700
Net dLrect foreign investent                         36        32        14       43        67        52        52       22d       268       300       350      400       400
Medium- and long-term loans (net)                   207       261       102       196       47       609       779     1,450     1,168       692     1,368     1,810    2,460
to public sector                                 (216)    (269)    (141)    (202)        (79)    (505)    (722)  (1,048)    (839)    (692)  (1,318)   (1,710)  (2,260)
to private sector                                 (-9)     (-8)    ('39)       (-6)     (-32)     (104)      (57)    (402)    (329)         (0)     (50)    (100)    (200)
OtLer capital                                      -223       -56       236      164       139       -38       200        92         1        26       29        30        30
Capital Account Balance                              20      237       352       403       253       623     1,031     1,770     1,437     1,020     1,747    2,240     2,890
Change in Reserves (- = increase)                   364     -139      -562      -852       610   -1,237    -1,168       -112       806     1,350      800       599      -190
International reserves (official)                   152      547     1,166     1,830    2,482      4,106     5,416     5,630     4,892     3,542    2,742     2,143     2,333
Reserves as montls of imports                       0.9       3.2       6.0      8.0       8.7      12.5      11.8      11.1       9.1       7.4       5.3      3.7       3.7
GROSS DISBLJFS   NTS d/
Official grants                                    -         -        -         -         -         -         -         -
Gross disbursements of MLT loans                  379       390      258       361       301       983     1,005     1,412
Concessional                                       62        37        71       51        53        17        14         0
BiLateral                                       (62)     (37)      (44)      (21)      (53)      (17)      (14)       (0)
ILtA                                            H_        H_        H_        H_        H_        H_       H_        H_
Otcer nltilateral                                 0         0       27        30        (0)       (0)       (0)       (0)
lbn-cncessional                                   317      353       187       310       248       966       991     1,412
Offical export credits                           (4)      (14)      (0)      (14)      (19)      (54)    (113)       (82)
IBRD                                            (86)     (106)     (76)      (85)      (82)    (139)    (218)    (251)
Otcer Lultilateral                              (26)      (21)      (2)       (6)      (39)      (45)      (92)    (114)
Private                                        (201)    (212)    (109)    (205)    (108)    (728)    (578)    (965)
EXEhAL nET (end of period) d/
Dbbt outstardirg and disbursed                  2,093     2,348    2,450     2,658     2,774     3,342     4,048     5,077
Official                                      1,600     1,703     1,773     1,850    1,987     2,136     2,328     2,641
I8RD                                         (562)    (634)    (672)    (716)    (751)    (838)    (991)  (1,165)
IDA                                           (23)      (22)     (22)      (22)      (22)      (22)      (21)      (21)
Otler                                      (1,015)   (1,047)  (1,079)  (1,112)  (1,214)  (1,276)  (1,376)   (1,455)
Private                                         493      645       677       8C8       787     1,206     1,660     2,436
Ihdisbursed lDbt                                  674      663       908     1,022     1,516     1,902     2,455     2,553
LEBT SERVICE d/
Total debt service payments of wnich              310       249      278       313       393       657       546       726
Interest                                        102       114      125       137       168       227       282       417
Payaents as % exports of geods ard
all services                                   16.7      11.5       9.9      9.1       9.7      14.1       9.6      15.8
Paynts as Z GP                                    2.5       1.9       1.9       1.6      1.7       2.4       1.6       2.0
Averagee interest rate on new loans (5)           7.4       7.3       6.5       7.4      7.9      10.1      12.3      12.7
Official                                       (6.0)    (6.1)    (5.8)      (7.3)    (7.6)    (7.8)       (7.4)    (8.4)
Private                                        (8.6)    (8.2)    (7.5)      (7.7)    (8.6)    (11.8)    (15.1)    (14.6)
Average matority of new loans (years)            15.7      15.1      14.9     16.2      14.1      12.8      13.3      12.0
Official                                      (22.6)    (26.1)   (20.0)    (17.7)    (16.2)    (16.7)    (18.4)    (15.2)
Private                                        (9,5)    (8.2)    (7.4)      (7.8)    (9.1)    (9.9)    (10.2)    (10.5)
&A1bK (3P Eak)S(ME (%) d/
IBRD DCD/total D1D)                              26.8      27.0     27.4      26.9      27.1      25.1      24.5      22.9
IBRD disburserents/total gross disbursements     22.7     27.1      29.3      23.6      27.3      14.1      21.7      17.7
IBRD dibt service/total. debt service            24.0     28.9      30.8      29.8      28.3      18.9      26.4      22.2
IDA D0D/total 12D                                 1.1      1.0       0.9       0.8       0.8       0.6       0.5       0.4
IDA disbursemnts/total gross disbunrsmnts         -         -         -         -         -         -        -         -
IDA debt service/total debt service              0.3       0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1
a/ korld Bark Atlas Yethod.
b/ PreliarY.
E Fstimate.
dl Public med publicly guaranteed dbt
September 14, 1983
Colousa Division



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
TIIE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1983)
(US$million)
Loan                                                             Amount (less Cancellation)
Number  Year  Borrower                          Purpose            Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
63 fully disbursed loans and one IDA credit                     1,210.5  23.5 1|    --
1072    1975  Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal                      Water Supply       25.4                .8
1163    1975  Colombia                          Agriculture        21.0               6.8
1352    1977  Colombia                          Rural Dev.          52.0              8.2
1357    1977  Banco de la Republica             Agricultural Cr.  64.0                2.5
1450    1977  Empresa Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones             Communications    58.3               35.8
1471    1977  Colombia                          Highways           90.0              16.6
1487    1978  Colombia                          Nutrition          25.0              10.5
1558    1978  Colombia                          Urban Develop-
ment             24.8             15.3
1582    1978  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power                126.0              36.8
1583    1978  Colombia                          Power              50.0              11.3
1593    1978  Zona Franca Industrial y          Industrial
Comercial de Cartagena           Export           15.0               6.5
1598    1978  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.    92.0                1.7
1624    1979  Colombia                          Airports           61.0               8.0
1628    1979  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                      Power              84.0              15.4
1694    1979  Colombia                          Urban Develop-
ment             13.5             10.8
1697    1979  Empresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado de Bogota       Water Supply       27.9               9.8
1725    1979  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power                 72.0              47.7
1726    1979  Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal                      Water Supply       31.0              29.5
1737    1979  Instituto Colombiano de la
Reforma Agraria                Agriculture Cr.   20.0               15.0
1762    1979  Cerro Matoso, S.A.                Mining-Nickel      80.0               0.2
1/  Includes exchange adjustment of US$4.0 million.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
A. STATEMENT OF BAN4K LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1983) (Continued)
Number  Yea?  Borrower                          Purpose           Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
1807    1980  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de B gota                      Power              87.0              60.0
1825    1980  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Communications    44.0                  33.5
1834    1980  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.    32.0                7.7
1857    1980  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.   150.0              116.4
1868    1980  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power                125.0             112.4
1953    1981  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power                 85.0              80.5
1966    1981  Colombia                          Rural Roads         33.0             29.6
1996    1981  Instituto Colombiano de
Hidrologia                     Irrigation         37.0              34.6
1999    1981  Corporacion Electrica de la
Costa Atlantica                Power              36.0              36.0
2008    1981  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                      Power             359.0            325.3
2069    1981  Instituto Nacional de los
Recursos Naturales
Renovables y del Medio         Watershed
Ambiente                       Management           9.0              8.3
2090 I/ 1982  Ferrocarriles Nacionales de
Colombia                       Railways           77.0              77.0
2121    1982  Fondo Vial Nacional               Highways          152.3             150.1
2174 1, 1982  Colombia                          Rural Develop-
ment             53.0             53.0
2192    1982  Fondo del Ministerio de
Educacion                      Rural Education   15.0               14.8
TOTAL                                            3,537.7  23.5
Of which has been repaid                           702.8   3.4
Total now outstanding                            2,834.9  20.1
Amount sold                            51.0
Of wqhich has been repaid             50.5            0.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                   2,834.4  20.1
Total undisbursed                                                  1,428.4
1/ Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
- 31 -                    Page 3 of 3
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1983)
Fiscal                                              Type of              Amount in US$ Million
Year                     Obligor                    Business              Loan   Equity   Total
1959            Laminas del Caribe, S.A.           Fiber-board             .50               .50
1960-1965       Industrias Alimenticias
Noel, S.A.                      Food products         1.98    .08       2.06
1961            Envases Colombianos, S.A.           Metal cans             .70      -        .70
1961-1968       Morfeo-Productos para el
Hogar, S.A.                     Home furniture         .08    .09         .17
1961            Electromanufacturas, S.A.           Electrical equipment .50        -        .50
1962            Corporacion Financiera             Development
Colombiana                         financing             -   2.02       2.02
1962-1963       Corporacion Financiera              Development
Nacional                           financing             -   2.04       2.04
1963-1967       Compania Colombiana de             Textiles              1.98    .15        2.13
1968-1969         Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970       Corporacion Financiera de          Development
Caldas                             financing             -    .81        .81
1964-1968       Forjas de Colombia, S.A.            Steel forging            -   1.27       1.27
1966            Almacenes Generales de             Warehousing           1.00       -       1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966            Industria Ganadera                 Livestock             1.00    .58        1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74      ENKA de Colombia, S.A.             Textiles              5.00   2.61        7.61
1969            Compania de Desarrollo de          Tourism                  -    .01         .01
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
(HOTURISMO)
1969-1973       Corporacion Financiera del         Development
Norte                              financing             -    .45        .45
1969            Corporacion Financiera del         Development
Valle                              financing             -    .43         .43
1970            Promotora de Hoteles de            Tourism                 .23    .11        .34
Turismo Medellin, S.A.
1970-1977       Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                  Tourism                 .80    .24       1.04
1973-1975       Corporacion Colombiana de          Housing                  -    .46         .46
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974            Cementos Boyaca, S.A.              Cement                1.50       -       1.50
1975            Cementos del Caribe, S.A.          Cement                3.60       -       3.60
1976            Las Brisas                         Mining                6.00       -       6.00
1977            Promotora de la Interconexion
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.            Utilities            13.00   2.00      15.00
1977            Compania Colombiana de Clinker,  Cement and
S.A.                               Construction
Material          1.46   1.27        2.73
1981            Leasing Bolivar                    Leasing               9.00    .17        9.17
1981-1982       Petroleos Colombianos Ltd.         Chemicals and
Petrochemicals  12.15   3.86       16.01
1983            Frigorificos Colombianos, S.A.   Food Processing         1.00   0.54        1.54
Total Gross Commitments                                 61.48  [9.19      80.67
Less cancellations, termina-
tions, repayments and sales                         49.13   9.59       58.72
Total commitments now held by IFC                       12.35   9.60      21.95
Total undisbursed                                        5.20   0.42       5.62



- 32 -
ANNEX III
COLOMBIA - COAL EXPLORATION. PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:    Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:  12 months
(b)  Agency which prepared project:  CARBOCOL
(c)  Date of first presentation to Bank (in revised version of
the project): June 1982
(d)  Date of first mission to  consider the project:  October 1982
(e)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:  October 1982
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations:  September 7, 1983
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:  January 31, 1984
Section II:   Special Bank Implementation Actions:
None
Section III:  Special Conditions
(a)  Exploration activities and undertaking of subsequent phases
shall be subject to Bank approval (paragraphs 56 through 60);
(b)  The project's execution will be entrusted to a Project Unit
within CARBOCOL which shall be maintained until the project is completed
(paragraph 54);
(c) The final staffing of the Project Unit shall be a condition of
loan effectiveness (paragraph 73).



ANNEX IV
COLOMBIA - COAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Year          1983               1984                  1985            1986
Quarter  II    III  IV   I    II   III  IV   I    II   III  IV   I    II
Major Activities .
Coal Exploration Component
- Geology and Area Selection                 _  _
- Drilling and Reserve Eval-
uation
- Prefeasibility Studies
Technical Assistance Component
- Marketing
- Exploration                                       _. ._
- Contracting Coal Development
- Financial Planning
Industry Department
September 1983






7~~~~~~~
Q 3 f,2A .;i= ._  f * ie A - f -4 -~l e2u- uu2 A  7--  /  u  -  =    -    0    .-   ,   -  ,. AA,         E       A
(y ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                     'or'--V? /Z 
,= _Et_,=ji1,.      aTI A   L  PAS      /  I
iNa==.-  t-=  42i  |,      POAAESA( 7>    EAAI CAFRREJ1f/                                    ECAC
p                        ,  t                        sC          H               O C O  E < j E A t D A C A a A  VENEZUEA  ,  OI,
SAN   DAEAR
_ A      REDON,A             /   f-V.. /
Na                           r4NAcA                      ' AjC  
ANTICC A\           9                   tA           A,A- CA   \V I C H A D A
11 ASA   ADE
0 < . --S4A L L E aW { o ~~~ - I ; Ir M E T A 3 
'-r =x<S= E .=Lgt ------LM~~FI                                               ~Po- cecioo-1-14//
-"  lE 5[tv CACA    t  sHUILA;         -                      -      -6t                G U A I N I As
_TA    NA1               ' HOC 0                                    V A U P E S
C A    U E T                             
<- ,\    P                    a'UMA   ,
'   >  =                        4z   '>             ~~~~~~~~BRAZIL
COLOMBIA                      \.o 
PROPOSED COAL EXPLORATION PROJECT                               A M A Z O N A S                    i
._.A                 I
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
2   rpsLA D2IE?poo ona/ Ar -                       .   
_    IPZ O.Mlrw  rOMk1  
CAIJCA    Cool     A BaFn                                               \.   GUINI
9 ~ ~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 11                                       j Kshe nsis     
'-'~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ #07@'eSS /                                                                        _'5



