Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15173
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
LATVIA
REHABILITATION LOAN
(LN.3525-J.V )
DECEMBER 15, 1995
Country Operations Division I
Country Department IV
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of October 1995)
Currency Unit = Lat
US$ 1.00 = 0.534 Lats
Lat 1 = US$ 1.873
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ESW          Economic and Sector Work
FSUB         Former Soviet Union and Baltic Republics
GATT         General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs
G-24         Group of 24
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IMF          International Monetary Fund
JEXIM        Export Import Bank of Japan
MERP         Memorandum of Economic Reform Policies
MOF          Ministry of Finance
PIU          Project Implementation Unit
TA           Technical Assistance
SBA          Stand-by Arrangement



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
PREFACE   ........................................................
EVALUATION  SUMMARY    ............................................   i
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ...............................  1
A.  Project Origin and Objectives  ....................................    1
B.  Achievement of Project Objectives  .................................   2
C.  Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project  ..............   3
D.  Project Sustainability   .........................................    8
E.  Bank Performance  ...........................................    9
F.  Borrower Performance   .......................................                                                            10
G.  Assessment of Performance and Outcome   ...........................    10
H.  Future Operations  ..........................................                                                             11
r.   Key Lessons Learned   ........................................                                                          11
STATISTICAL  TABLES   .............................................                                                                     12
Table 1:    Summary of Assessments  .................................    13
Table 2:    Bank Loans/Credits   ....................................    14
Table 3:    Project Timetable  ......................................                                                         14
Table 4:    Loan/Credit Disbursements:  Cumulative Estimated and Actual    ....                                     ....    15
Table 5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation   ......................    16
Table 6:    Key Indicators for Project Operation  ..........................    17
Table 7:    Studies Included in Project ................................    17
Table 8A:  Project Costs   ........................................                                                           18
Table 8B:  Project Financing    .....................................    18
Table 9:    Economic Costs and Benefits   ..............................    19
Table 10:   Status of Legal Covenants  ................................    19
Table 11:   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements  ..................    19
Table 12:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs   ..............................    20
Table 13:   Bank Resources: Missions  ................................    20
ANNEXES  ......................................................   21
Annex  1:    Memorandum  of Economic Reform  Policies   ....................    21
Annex 2:    Project Review  from  the Borrower's Perspective ..................   30
MAP IBRD No. 24630R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
duties.  Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
LATVIA
REHABILITATION LOAN
[Ln. 3525-LV]
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Rehabilitation Loan in Latvia, for
which a Loan in the amount of US$45 million equivalent was approved on October 22, 1992 and made
effective on November 4, 1992.
The Loan closed on April 20, 1995, four months after the revised closing date of December 31,
1994. Total disbursements amounted to US$ 42,363,499.54 million equivalent and the remaining
US$ 2,636,500.46 million was cancelled. The last disbursement took place on April 20, 1995. In
conjunction with this Loan, the Export Import Bank of Japan (JEXIM) provided its own Rehabilitation
Loan in the amount of US$ 35 million equivalent which is being administered by the World Bank (the
Bank).
The ICR was prepared by Ms. Carolyn Gochenour, Infrastructure Operations Division, Country
Department IV, Europe and Central Asia Region. Mr. Mansour Farsad, Country Economist, contributed
sections on policy performance under the Memorandum of Economic Reform Policies (MERP). The ICR
was reviewed by Mr. James Q. Harrison, Country Operations Division Chief, and Ms. Judy O'Connor,
Principal Operations Officer, Country Department IV.
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission in May
1995. The report is based on material in the project file and discussions held with Borrower staff
involved in project implementation and with purchasing agencies. The Borrower contributed to the
preparation of the ICR by reviewing the draft report and by preparing comments on the project's
implementation performance. Some of the purchasing agencies also prepared comments in writing.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
LATVIA
REHABILITATION LOAN
[Ln. 3525-LV]
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Rehabilitation Loan of US$ 45 million equivalent is the first World Bank Loan to Latvia.
The Loan was discussed in February 1992, during the first World Bank economic mission, about five
months following the re-establishment of Latvia's independence. During the preparation of the Loan, the
Latvian economy was in the midst of a fundamental transformation and a sharp decline in output. By
early 1992, Latvia was experiencing critical shortages of basic consumption commodities, key raw
materials and production inputs which were caused by the severe disruption of trade relations with the
traditional partners in the Former Soviet Union and Baltic republics (FSUB). Against this background,
the Rehabilitation Loan was prepared to finance critically-needed imports to mitigate further declines in
output while a comprehensive economic adjustment and reform program was being introduced.
2.    The Loan was prepared in close association with an International Monetary Fund (IMF) Stand-by
Arrangement (SBA) and as part of the response of the international community (the G-24 in particular)
to Latvia's pressing short-term import needs and its demonstrated commitment to economic reform. The
Bank concentrated on supporting the development and implementation of a program of structural reforms
agreed to in a Memorandum of Economic Reform Policies (MERP), which is attached in Annex 1. This
program laid out a framework for reforms necessary for restructuring the economy and established targets
and indicators to monitor progress. A grant from the Government of Sweden provided financing for
implementation advisors. A $ 35 million equivalent Rehabilitation Loan from the Export Import Bank
of Japan (JEXIM) was signed in April 1993 as Japan's contribution within the G-24 financial package.
The Bank has been administering the JEXIM Loan whose objectives and implementation conditions have
been similar to those of the Bank Loan.
Project Objectives
3.     The objectives of the Loan were to: (i) assist the Government in the design and implementation
of the stabilization and structural reform program outlined in the MERP; and (ii) help reduce further
sharp declines in economic activity in key sectors during the initial phase of transition. To achieve the
first objective, a technical assistance (TA) component, including consultancy services, equipment and
training, (US$ 1 million) was included to support the economic reform program in the event that
alternative grant financing was not available.  Since grants were obtained to finance the required
consultancy services, the $1 million TA component was utilized mainly for training and other essential
equipment. For the second objective, an imports component (US$ 44 million) was to provide financing
for imported inputs in high priority sectors, as these were needed to prevent further deterioration of the
existing capital stock, to maintain essential services such as power, heat and health services, and to
generate a supply response to the new set of incentives in the key productive sector of agriculture.



ii
4.     An initial list of eligible imports was agreed which included categories of imports that were
deemed of immediate importance for the highest priority sectors of the economy, namely the energy,
agriculture and health sectors. Flexibility to change the initial list was provided to the Government in
the event that humanitarian or other aid for the items was obtained on better terms and to allow for
changes in priorities given the rapidly changing country circumstances. In the end, the import list
changed as Latvia's need for various imports evolved and eventually shifted to include some equipment
in addition to raw materials and production inputs.
5.     The Loan Agreement stipulated periodic discussions between the Government and the Bank and
reporting by the Government on the progress of policy implementation and any underlying technical
assistance. In addition to regular supervision, the Bank maintained an ongoing dialogue with the
Government in this regard in association with economic and sector work and through the preparation of
new Bank operations.
6.     Loan objectives were ambitious and broad, and required strong government commitment and well-
targeted support by the Bank. The indicators set in the MERP to guide specific stabilization and
structural measures were rather optimistic. Nevertheless, Latvia's record in this regard has been one of
the more successful of the transition economies.
Implementation Experience and Results
7-.    The Loan substantially achieved its objectives, although the reforms and importation of goods
took somewhat longer to complete than anticipated at appraisal. The Government's commitment and open
dialogue with the Bank was the principal factor for this success. Overall policy performance under the
MERP was very good. with the exception of the recent banking sector failure. Stabilization proceeded
at a faster pace than structural adjustment, as expected, and inflation was reduced dramatically in a
relatively short period. By late 1994, the Latvian economy showed signs of growth following three years
of decline.
8.     The Loan objectives are expected to be sustainable in two ways: (i) on the policy side, the
reform process in Latvia has taken deep roots and is considered practically irreversible notwithstanding
changes in Government; the mitigation of transition difficulties facilitated the population's acceptance of
the new economic realities, thus increasing the sustainability of the reform process; and (ii) on the
imports side, goods contracts often included training and maintenance to ensure proper and efficient use.
9.     Both the Government and the Bank devoted considerable efforts and resources to the
implementation of this Loan. The dialogue on economic reform was open, extensive and fruitful. These
resources were complemented with grant support from the Government of Sweden which greatly
facilitated implementation of the imports component. In addition, the financing by the JEXIM Bank
contributed to address pending import needs and improved the prospects of sustaining the economy's
supply response. All these factors contributed to the satisfactory outcome of the Loan.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
10.   The Rehabilitation Loan was provided on a one-time basis, serving a rather specific purpose in
the early phases of the transition. Now that the broad aspects of stabilization and structural adjustment
have taken hold and in view of the various sources for financing imports and the Government's borrowing
priorites, the Bank's assistance strategy and corresponding instruments have shifted in support of



iii
deepening and sustaining the reform  drive through sector and investmenit lendinig while remainiing ready
to respond if needed with other types of' policy-based operations. Three investimienit loans (environimiienit,
district heating, municipal services) and two credit lines sto support the agriculture and finance/eniterprise
sectors) have been approved. The Rehabilitatioin Loani supported the polic\ framework and initiated
sector-specific policy dialogue leadinig to the identificationi of these operationis and others in the pipeline.
11     Some lessons learned in impleieniiig this Rehabilitation ILoan wvhicih could be relevant to other
countries of the FSUB include:
(i)    strong and sustained eoverinmienlt coinnitmelit to the policy reform package, flexibility
andi an active dialogue are essenltial tobr success: policy targets for achievinig specific
stabilizationi and structural rehririms need to he realistic to riequire less need for adjustment
durinig Loan imlplemientation:
(ii)    World Bank pirocuireiment procedures usin, IC13 are generally not compatible with loans
desigined to provide quick support under rapidlN changing, circumiistanices. In designing
future loans for similar pur-poses for countri-es iu transition, Bank managemenlt may wish
to consider whethier more flexible procureilement procedures could be employed:
(iii)    given the inexperience of' new borrowers withi World Bank procedures, the appointment
of well qualified. procuremiienit an(d disbursemilenit advisors to provide overall project
maniagement support and traininig of local counterparts in a project implementation unit
is very important for the success of' all operalion: and
(iv)    higher thani average resources are needed wheni working with new borrowers. particularly
in loans that include policy reforimi components.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
LATVIA
REHABILITATION LOAN
[Ln. 3525-LV1
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Origin and Objectives
1.     Latvia re-established its independenice in September 1991 and joined the World Bank in August
1992. A dialogue between the Bank and the Governiiient was initiated during the first economic mission
in February 1992. At that timie, Latvia was in the midst of a fundamental political and economic
transformation and was suffering from a sharp decline in output caused mainly by severe trade disruptions
with its traditional trade partners. Latvia already had taken some initial steps to start transforming its
economy to a market-based system. Nevertheless, the Government recognized the need for stronger
stabilization measures as well as for broadening and deepening structural reforms. These reforms were
to be implemented in an environment characterized by a sharp contraction of imports and widespread
shortages of key production inputs, spare parts and essential health-related goods.  By early 1992,
enterprises were drawing down their stocks of materials and the supply situation reached a critical state.
Efforts to normalize trade relations met with limited success, and the prices of energy and other imports,
which were traditionally supplied at prices far below world market levels, increased substantially. This
situation was similar to that in other former Soviet Union and Baltic countries (FSUB).
2.     Following extensive discussions within the Bank, the Rehabilitation Loan concept was developed
as the quickest and most appropriate form of initial support by the Bank. The main objectives of this
Loan to Latvia were to: (i) assist the Government in the design and implementation of its stabilization and
structural adjustment program outlined in a Memorandum of Economic Reform Policies (MERP): and
(ii) help reduce further sharp declines in economic activity in key sectors during a transition period of
about 12 months. To achieve these objectives, the Loan was designed to finance: (i) imports (US$ 44
million) in three sectors (energy, agriculture and health); and (ii) technical assistance (TA), including
equipment and training. (US$ I million) to support the Government's structural reform program in the
event that alternative grant financing could not be obtained for this purpose.
3.     The Rehabilitation Loan was part of the response of the international community to Latvia's
pressing short-tern import needs and demonstrated commitment to economic reform. The Loan was
prepared in close association witlh the IMF's first Stand-by Arrangement (SBA) to Latvia. The Bank
concentrated on supporting the design and implementation of the program of structural reforms included
in the MERP whichi laid out a framework for reforms necessarv for the medium-ternm resiructuring of the



2
Latvian economy and established targets and indicators to monitor progress. The Loan did not contain
specific conditionality to govern the release of funds beyond a general commitment by the Government
to implement the policy measures included in the MERP, to the establishmenit and maintenance of an
adequately-staffed project implementation unit (PIU) and to having undertaken the procurement of specific
imports judged to be of a critical nature utilizing the Bank's standard procurement procedures.
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
4.     The Loan was generally successful in achieving its objectives, although the reforms and
importation of goods took about one year longer to complete than anticipated at appraisal. Project
objectives were broad and ambitious given that during project preparation and implementation, dynamic
changes and uncertainties beyond the control of the Government or the Bank were taking place, the most
important being economic developments in the FSUB and social changes inside Latvia. In retrospect,
the dated targets specified in the MERP for achieving specific stabilization and structural reforms were
too optimistic and had to be adjusted during implementation.  Similarly, the Government's import
priorities were rapidly changing and adjustments had to be made to the list of imported goods which
required an extended period to implement. Despite the time delays, achievement of project objectives
can be attributed to the commitment by the Latvian Government to the reform program, the open and
constructive dialogue with the Bank and to the highly committed staff of the PIU.
5.     Suipport for Economic Reforms. The MERP outlined the fundamental market-oriented policy
reforms, and the Bank monitored progress and reported its findings to the Government through Aide
Memoires and policy notes. The reporting and associated dialogue was judged helpful to the reformers
in sustaining and focusing their efforts. Overall policy performance under the Loan was very good and
helped with improved price signals, although, in one area, inadequate supervision and monitoring of the
banking sector resulted in a massive failure of the commercial banks in early 1995. Success is evidenced
by the broad consensus in the international community, including the World Bank and the IMF, that
Latvia is among the more successful reformers in the FSUB and the Eastern European transition
economies.
6.     Reduction of Further Sharp Declines in Econotmc Activity. The l oan helped to reduce further
sharp declines in economic activity and output and to maintain essential services by providing financing
for critically-needed imports that Latvia had ceased to receive from traditional suppliers in the FSUB.
This objective was reinforced with additional financing (USS 35 million equivalent) from the JEXIM
Bank. Latvia had been heavily dependent on trade with the FSUB which accounted for more than 90%
of its total trade before 1992. The upheaval in trade relations within the FSUB was a major cause for
real GDP to decline by over 50% during 1992-93. This decline was halted during the first half of 1994
and began to increase during the latter part of that year. This recovery, however, came to an end in the
first half of 1995 as budget difficulties and a banking crisis led to a serious shortage of liquidity in the
economy. With the planned measures to reduce the budget deficit and restore confidence in the banking
system, growth is expected to resume and to reach 3-4% during the next two years.
7.     While the impact of the imports financed by the Loan is difficult to assess in quantitative terms.
the Loan has provided inputs to maintain essential activities and services during a difficult transition
period when normal living standards were disrupted. To some extent, maintaining these activities and
essential services probably helped moderate dissatisfaction among the population, making it less difficult
for the government to maintain its commitment to the reforms. For example, in the energy sector, the



3
imports of gas and heavy fuel oil allowed for the continued production of electricity and provision of heat
to households and factories. In the agriculture sector, the Loan financed a significant portion of Latvia's
annual imports of agrochemicals and veterinary medicines which were essential to maintain production.
In the health sector, Latvia purchased essential medical supplies and pharmaceuticals as well as materials
for the domestic manufacturing of pharmaceuticals. The increased knowledge of procurement and other
international commercial practices and the establishment of long-term relations with new suppliers have
also been important benefits. The endusers of the Loan were able to obtain the necessary inputs and
improve their efficiency, which, in some cases, helped them survive the transition process and remain
viable in a market environment.
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
Implementation of the Economic Reform Program
8.     Overall. The Rehabilitation Loan supported an economic reform program as outlined in the
MERP. The program covered price reform. incomes policy, fiscal policy, monetary policy, international
economic relations, enterprise reform, competition policy, legal and institutional framework for
conimercial activity, commercial banking reforms, social protection and the social safety net, and
economic management. The program in the areas of prices, monetary, fiscal and incomes policy as well
as international economic relations focused on macroeconomic stabilization and was designed and
implemented in collaboration with the IMF. The program in the other areas focused on structural reforms
and was designed and implemented in close collaboration with the World Bank.  Overall policy
performance under the Rehabilitation Loan has been impressive, and the vast majority of specific
measures foreseen in the MERP have been implemented.
9.     Stabilization Measuires. By the beginning of 1993, Latvia had already deregulated prices in most
areas. As had been foreseen in the MERP, by the end of that year most of the remaining price controls
were eliminated, and prices subject to controls were less than 10% of all prices. Inflation was brought
under control through stringent fiscal, monetary and incomes policies. These policies reduced annual
inflation from 950% in 1992 to 36% in 1994. Since mid-1994, average inflation has been hovering
around 1-2% a month, and the objective of the Government is to reduce this rate to 1/2% a month.
Energy prices have approached world market prices, although non-payment problems still exist. In the
area of fiscal policy, broad tax reform measures were undertaken after independence, and a market-based
tax system was introduced in 1993. Strict expenditure policy kept the Government's budget balanced
through 1993 and a financial deficit of only 1.7% of GDP appeared in 1994. The overall fiscal deficit,
however, continued to grow during the first half of 1995, on account of significant weakening of
revenues. The Govermnent, in consultation with the IMF, is working on a package of revenue-raising
and expenditure-cutting measures to reduce this deficit.
10.    Exchange rate stability continued to be the primary goal of monetary policy. Latvia introduced
its new currency. the lat, in June 1993, and the country's gross official reserves amounted to about 5
months of imports by end-1994  Trade liberalization progressed well and exceeded the targets included
in the MERP. Essentially all export and all quantitative import restrictions were eliminated, and import
tariffs were made more uniform. The major remaining concerns are some levels of tariff protection
afforded to agriculture. Latvia submitted its application to join GATT in December 1993, the Baltic Free
Trade Agreement became effective in April 1994, and Latvia started negotiations for a Free Trade



4
Agreement and Association Agreement with the EU in 1994. The Association Agreement with the EU
was signed in mid-1995.
I1.   Privatization anid Enterprise Reform. The privatization process is well advanced in the agriculture
sector.  The larger part of agricultural land has been privatized, and progress has been made in
privatization of agro-processing industries such as milk, meat and grain. The process of land restitution
and privatization has been divided into two phases: the restoration of land user rights to former owners
and the restoration of ownership rights (including sale or mortgage of property). The first phase has
progressed quite rapidly and more than half of all arable land has been awarded to private farmers
(average holding 16.7 hectares). However, until recently, progress in the second phase. which involves
transfer of ownership rights, has been slow. Amendments to the laws governing land reform in urban
and rural areas were made in late-1994. These laws now allow for privatization of land through the
process of restitution and granting titles for payment in cash as well as privatization vouchers. They also
allow, under certain circumstances, sale of properties included in the land register to foreign-owned
companies.
12.    The small privatization program, which has been implemented by the municipalities, has also
progressed well, and close to 90% of small municipal properties have been privatized, of which nearly
two-thirds were leased with the option to buy. However, completion of the small privatization program
still faces some obstacles. Over 80% of small businesses are located in buildings eligible for restitution.
The current legislation only allows for the restitution of houses built before 1940 and does not allow
privatization of apartment buildings owned by the state and municipalities built in the post war period.
Parliament is now considering legislation pertaining to the privatization of publicly-owned apartments.
Also, the process of dealing with housing restitution claims has been very slow, and by end-1994 less
than half of the claims on buildings had been processed. Partly for these reasons, urban properties still
cannot be purchased, but only leased (usually between 1-5 years).
13.    Privatization of large enterprises was slow until 1994. The delay in privatizing large enterprises
was initially caused by the lack of an appropriate legislative framework and the institutional procedure
that required the intervention and involvement of several ministries in privatization decisions, without a
uniform approach. A major step in privatization of large enterprises was taken in April 1994 with
establishment of the State Property Fund (SPF), which controls and manages all state property including
enterprises under state ownership, and the Latvian Privatization Agency, which has central authority over
the privatization of large enterprises. About 270 medium and large enterprises have been transferred to
the Latvian Privatization Agency in 1994 for sale via international tender or auction.  The first
international tender of 45 enterprises was announced in November 1994, and the sale of another 40
enterprises will be announced soon. The Government's objective is to privatize 75% of the large state
enterprises by 1996 applying the privatization methods of tender, auction, liquidation and corporatization.
Privatization vouchers with a value of 1.6 million lats have been distributed to 1.2 million residents in
1994 and are expected to play a major role in the privatization of land, property and large enterprises.
14.    Competition Policy and Private Sector Development. In the area of competition policy, the law
on supervision of monopoly activities was amended in April 1993, and price and tariff boards were
created to control natural monopolies, particularly in the energy and telecommunications areas. Large
monopolistic enterprises have been broken up on a case-by-case basis, including splitting enterprises into
components and selling off components or movable assets. The grain monopoly has been liquidated, the
sugar company has been broken up, and the energy company, Latvia Nafta, is being privatized.



5
15.    Until 1993, efforts at promoting the private sector had progressed at a slow pace because of
slow progress with reform of the legal and institutional framework for commercial activity. Since mid-
1993, efforts at promoting private sector activities have intensified. A business support center to train
businessmen and provide information on financing and marketing was opened in Riga, and a number of
other centers opened in different parts of Latvia. The Latvian Development Agency was established as
a "one-stop-shop" for easy access and advisory services to foreign private investors on laws, regulations,
local business conditions and investment opportunities in Latvia. In the crucial areas of bankruptcy,
collateral, and foreign investment legislation and procedures, initial improvements to develop an
institutional framework were implemented along the lines of the MERP, and further actions, particularly
regarding preparation of an enterprise law, are now underway.
16.    Enterprise restructuring is a long and complex process and will remain a challenge for some time.
Nevertheless, the introduction of new international accounting standards, the phasing out of government
financial transfers to ailing enterprises, and the monitoring and reduction of inter-enterprise arrears have
provided enterprises with important incentives for restructuring operations and strengthening management.
17.    Commercial Banking System Reforms. The restructuring of the banking sector which initially took
place slowly subsequently proceeded quite rapidly. Twenty-eight former branches of the Bank of Latvia
have been privatized, and 22 have been integrated into the Universal Bank of Latvia (Unibank) which,
with the support of the World Bank (utilizing a Japanese grant) and other donors, has been developed into
one of the largest and strongest banks in Latvia. A three-stage privatization process has begun for
Unibank, and this is expected to be completed by end-1995. The World Bank, along with EU PHARE,
has also supported the restructuring of the Savings Bank, but this has been proceeding at a slower pace.
These developments constitute a first transitional phase in the banking system, involving the shift from
the Soviet specialist banking structures.
18.   Significant progress had been made, with IMF and EU PHARE assistance, in establishing a
prudential regulation and supervision framework for banks. However, the inadequacies of this became
apparent by the onset, in the Spring of 1995, of a severe banking crisis which engulfed one of Latvia's
largest banks and a number of smaller ones. The main causes of the problem were poor management,
imprudent loans and inadequate supervision of the banking system. Many of the failed banks have now
been closed by the Government. The banking system is now entering a second phase of transition,
whereby the Bank of Latvia is gradually intensifying its supervisory grip on the banking sector. With
the assistance of the World Bank (in association with the Enterprise and Financial Sector Restructuring
Project) and the IMF, a more robust legal, regulatory and supervisory framework is being enacted
encompassing tighter regulations in areas such as auditing, capital adequacy and lending policies. An
agency for rehabilitating and/or liquidating banks in difficulty is being established, and a limited deposit
insurance scheme is being put in place. Only 16 out of more than 40 banks are now permitted to take
household deposits.
19.    Social Protection and the Social Safety Net. Good overall progress has been made in the three
major policy areas for social protection (unemployment, social assistance benefits and pensions). The
Government has also adopted active labor market policies such as retraining, job search assistance and
public works. Retraining was provided for a maximum of 6 months and was complemented by a stipend
allowance at the same level as an unemployment allowance. The Government provided assistance in job
search as well as public work programs which were organized by local governments or enterprises. The
maximum period of employment under these programs was 6 months at a wage level which was partly
financed (up to 30%) by the state.



6
20.    Unemployment benefits covered former workers, new labor market entrants and mothers
reentering the labor market. Unemployment benefits amounted to 90% of the minimum wage for
dismissed workers and 70% for new entrants, for a maximum period of 6 months. Unemployment
payments are expected to increase substantially in the coming years as large enterprise privatization
accelerates and enterprises are restructured.
21.   Numerous work-related benefits are currently provided comprising sick pay, maternity leave and
sick care leave for children and other family members. Similarly, there are overly generous non-work
related benefits, comprising birth grants, child care allowances (subsidizing child care by working
women) and family allowances. These programs constitute a significant share of total social expenditure
and various ways of reducing expenditures on them have been discussed with the Bank. Legislation is
pending in Parliament to transfer the first two weeks of sick leave to the employer.
22.    Means testing of the social assistance programs has been poor, and there seem to be wide-spread
differences in coverage and benefits provided by local governments. Social assistance programs are
mostly run by local governments, financed by local revenue with matching transfers from the central
government. The main programs comprise running homes for old-age poor, the handicapped and
orphans, and providing meals, food coupons and lump-sum cash grants.
23.   In 1992, the generous benefit formula for the pension regime included an early retirement (55
for women, 60 for men) and an earning-related pension payment. Increasing budgetary pressures forced
the suspension of the earnings-related component of the pension system in 1992 and 1993 and replacing
it with a flat minimum pension. Legislation recently passed in November 1995 by Parliament will allow
Latvia to undertake comprehensive pension reform by modifying the pension system to rationalize pension
contributions and directly relate benefits to contributions.
24.   Economic Management. The Government has made efforts to strengthen its capacity to collect,
compile, analyze and report economic statistics. Significant progress has been made especially with price,
trade, fiscal and monetary statistics. Efforts are also underway to improve national accounts and
household survey statistics. A comprehensive household survey, based on a new and improved
methodology will start soon. The Central Statistical Bureau has expanded the coverage of the enterprise
register and has integrated and streamlined the enterprise questionnaires. It also intends to expand the
coverage of other areas of economic activity. A revised producer price index and new export and import
volume and unit value indices are planned to be published soon. With the assistance of the World Bank
and Swedish BITS, external debt recording, reporting and management have improved considerably.
Latvia has also been successful in improving public investment management. A public investment
program department has been established in the Ministry of Economy, and the first 3-year rolling public
investment program has been prepared for the period 1995-97.
Implementation of the Imports Component
25.   Implementation performance of the imports component was generally satisfactory. Coordination
with the Bank continued relatively smoothly and all efforts were devoted to minimize delays. T::. Bank-
Government dialogue was constructive and proved instrumental in the decisions concerning the imports
list as well as to the general dialogue about the key sectors.
26.    Project Management. The Ministry of Economic Reform (later renamed Ministry of Economy)
had primary responsibility for the day-to-day administration, coordination and management of the Loan



7
and established a project implementation unit (PIU) for this purpose. The PIU included a head and 3-4
other local staff of the Ministry of Economic Reform as well as several staff from the Ministry of Finance
to handle the project accounting and disbursement requirements. The staff of the PIU were assisted by
two internationally-recruited advisors in the procurement and disbursement fields. A high-level Steering
Committee, originally comprised of ministers or their deputies from the key sectors and later headed by
the State Secretary of the Ministry of Economy, was established to ensure prompt resolution of issues
involving the various ministries. The relevant ministries, their specialized procurement agencies and the
enterprises receiving imported goods were responsible for the procurement of goods and for their
distribution to final users, under the supervision of the PIU and its advisors.
27.    Frequent project management changes and inadequate levels of advisory support contributed to
delays in Loan implementation. Given that Latvia was a new country undergoing a difficult transition
period, it is understandable that it went through several changes in Government during the implementation
period of the Loan. However, the various changes in Government had a significant impact on the
performance of the Loan.  At several times, consideration was being given to transferring full
responsibility for the Loan to the Ministry of Finance, and this caused morale problems among the PIU
staff and contributed to a fairly high staff turnover rate and a general slowing down in Loan performance.
In addition, the procurement advisor was available only on a part-time basis during the first year but this
was corrected later on to include one full-time advisor and a part-time advisor. Despite these problems,
procurement, records keeping, disbursements, accounting and auditing were handled well and properly
coordinated with the Bank and the purchasing agencies.
28.    Procurement of Imported Goods: In addition to delays caused by frequent Government changes,
the rapidly changing circumstances in Latvia (e.g., enterprises were privatized or went bankrupt) resulted
in numerous revisions in the list of imported goods and slower implementation than originally expected.
As a result, the Loan Closing Date had to be extended by one year in order to allow for the Loan
proceeds to be more fully utilized. Initially, the Loan primarily supported the importation of consumption
goods (such as heavy fuel oil and agrochemicals), but demand changed quickly to requests for spare parts
and, in some cases, replacement equipment, which were more difficult to specify and took longer to
procure. Later on, the Government put forth several proposals for investment plant, which could not be
accommodated, given the emergency nature of the Loan objectives and the time limitation for
procurement. Towards the end, it became difficult for Government to decide on suitable uses for the
balance of the agriculture sector allocation, and it therefore utilized a local advertisement process to
stimulate interest and proposals. The Steering Committee played an important role in screening the
proposals and selecting suitable ones for review by the Bank, but again this process added more time to
implementation.
29.    The Bank's procurement requirements, particularly the requirements for international competitive
bidding (ICB), were viewed as cumbersome and time-consuming and were frequently questioned as to
their compatibility with the short-term nature of the Loan. In order to allow for procurement of goods
within the planned one-year time horizon of the Loan, the list of imported goods and their specifications
were agreed and procurement advisory assistance was initiated prior to the Bank's Board approval.
However, the rapidly changing priorities for imports could not be accommodated within the original
timeframe given the procurement requirements.
30.    Competitive bidding procedures were a new method for procuring goods for project enterprises,
and there was a fair amount of skepticism about the quality of goods provided by unknown suppliers and
whether the prices would be cheaper than those from traditional suppliers. Generally, project enterprises



8
were satisfied with the outcome of the bidding process, but some problems with the quality of goods were
noted, particularly regarding pharmaceuticals which were not usable in a few cases. Without knowing
in advance what to expect, it was difficult for enterprises to specify goods in a way to completely
eliminate problems with poor quality. Subsequent claims made to insurance companies have proven
difficult to collect.
31.    One significant problem arose concerning the purchase of winter wheat seeds by two Latvian
firms in the amount of $ 0.5 million during the latter part of the project period. Bids were received
during August 1994 for supply of seeds during September; however, the selected supplier could not fulfill
the delivery requirements in time for the fall planting season. The Bank was informed that allegedly
some irregularities took place in the shipping documentation that was submitted by the supplier for the
disbursement of funds. The Bank subsequently requested the Government to undertake a special audit
into the matter and discuss the results with the Bank. The special audit concluded that World Bank funds
were not used in accordance with the terms agreed with the World Bank and that funds under the letters
of credit were wrongfully obtained by presentation of transportation documentation which was either false
or incomplete. Following the audit, the Government initiated a criminal investigation in accordance with
Latvian law. As a result, the Bank, in early October 1995, officially requested repayment of the $ 0.5
million. The Government repaid this amount on November 24, 1995, will seek repayment from the two
Latvian firms and is considering further legal actions. Additionally, the Government will verify, on a
selective basis, whether the sub-loans were properly utilized by the endusers.
32.    While the Loan was originally envisaged to involve a relatively small number of international
tenders for large quantities of commodities, the imports changed to include numerous spare parts and
equipment, resulting in a very large number (about 250) of contracts. Due to the sheer size of the
workload and the limited time, it became very difficult for the PIU to properly review all specifications
(e.g., for ensuring quality), bids (e.g., for ensuring adequate insurance) and letters of credit (for
expiration). Luckily, the number of problems were relatively small.
33.   Disbursement: With the assistance of and training by Bank staff and the internationally-financed
disbursement advisor, overall disbursement performance proceeded relatively smoothly. While not
originally provided for, a Special Account was later opened in a foreign bank, and an initial deposit of
US$ 500,000 was made in order to allow the Government to finance small expenditures quickly. In the
end, it was decided that the Special Account would not be replenished. Letters of credit with special
commitments were utilized for payments for the majority of the transactions.
34.    A few problems, primarily concerning pharmaceuticals and winter wheat seeds, were experienced
when some foreign commercial banks reviewing the shipping documentation, as required under the letters
of credit, authorized payment transactions when the documentation was not fully in order. It was also
felt by some endusers that the Bank's standard contract payment requirements, which allow for 80-90%
of the contract value to be paid to suppliers upon shipment of goods, favor the interests of suppliers over
purchasers.
D. Project Sustainability
35.    The reform process in Latvia has taken deep roots across the political and socio-economic
spectrum and is considered irreversible. Despite changes in Government and key ministers during Loan
implementation, the economic reform program was preserved. The population has begun to benefit from



9
the decline in inflation and, so far, the low unemployment rates, thus increasing the acceptance and
sustainability of the reform process by the population.
36.   As to the imports component, the issue of sustainability is marginally relevant. The Loan
financed inputs that were generally to be utilized within a year. The Loan did finance, however, some
essential equipment (medical, veterinary and agricultural equipment) for which supply contracts typically
included spare parts, training and maintenance to ensure proper and efficient use.
37.    The sustainability of the PIU is, however, relevant and an issue for these types of Loans.
Considerable effort and training was undertaken to build up a centralized, local capacity for carrying out
international procurement and disbursement. The disbursement function has become institutionalized, as
the PIU staff assigned to this function will remain in their positions in the Ministry of Finance and carry
on the same work for other international financial institutions and Bank-supported projects. On the other
hand, the procurement expertise will not remain within the Government, as the key staff have left for
other positions in the private sector as the project came to an end.  This adversely affected the
implementation of co-financing by the JEXIM loan which was only being initiated at that time.
E. Bank Performance
38.    Preparation. The Bank quickly mobilized resources to assist Latvia following independence.
The project was broadly identified during the first Bank mission to Latvia in February 1992, while the
country was still coping with the difficulties of re-establishing its independence and was undergoing major
economic and political transformations. Bank staff recognized the risks involved in the operation and
assisted the Government in identifying technical assistance required for the reform program and the
imports component. The Bank engaged in extensive discussions with many donors involved in Latvia,
particularly with the IMF during the preparation of the first SBA. The project was substantially appraised
during a March 1992 mission, and implementation arrangements were in place by August 1992. The
project was negotiated in August and presented to the Board of Executive Directors in October 1992.
Throughout the process extensive discussions continued on the design of the MERP and the content of
the imports list. In retrospect, the Bank's response can be judged as timely and effective given the need
for quick action in a new and changing environment.
39.   Initially, a Structural Adjustment Loan was considered, but this option was abandoned in favor
of a Rehabilitation Loan as a preferable instrument at that early stage. Because of the urgency of
delivering the imported inputs, Bank staff reasoned that the implementation record was not sufficiently
robust to risk a tranche operation with very specific and tight conditionality, despite the country's
apparent commitment to reform. It was reasoned that a Rehabilitation Loan would, instead, provide the
import financing that was critically needed and would support the reform effort in a more flexible
manner.
40.   Implementation.  Overall Bank performance during implementation is considered to be
satisfactory. The Bank devoted higher than average supervision resources to Loan implementation. The
discussion on the MERP was extensive and was continuously reviewed given the complexity of the issues.
The Bank developed a matrix of dated policy actions, monitored developments and provided concrete
advice to ensure that the reform program remained on track. At the request of the Government, the Bank
provided issue-oriented and informal advice on specific and immediate issues confronting the
transformation process. Bank advice on policy reforms was highly regarded in Latvia. The Bank



10
engaged in a dialogue with other donors specifically on the design and implementation of technical
assistance to support the reform program. The interest of the international community quickly extended
to co-financing the Bank's lending operations. The Bank broadened and deepened the advice and dialogue
with the Government through economic and sector work and preparation of new lending operations that
specifically targeted issues and sectors important to the strengthening the reform program.
41.    For the imports component, Latvia was not familiar with Bank requirements, and therefore the
Bank devoted additional efforts to overcome customary difficulties associated with project implementation.
In the Loan Agreement, disbursements were stipulated to be made against imported goods of an
emergency nature required during the execution of the MERP. No specific list of imports was specified;
only a list of imports ("negative list") which could not be considered were elaborated. Screening of the
imports list, reviewing the technical specifications and finalizing the on-lending arrangements between
the Government and the final endusers, who were expected to repay their respective portions of the Loan,
consumed a considerable amount of resources. Following improvements in the balance of payment
situation and the availability of other resources to finance critical imports, the Bank was flexible in
adjusting the list while adhering to project objectives and employing sound financing decisions.
F. Borrower Performance
42.     Preparation. Latvia had already initiated its economic reform program before it regained its
independence. The Government actively participated in the design of the reform program and undertook,
with donor funding, substantial TA to assist with implementation of the reform program. Because of
Latvia's unfamiliarity with Bank procedures and the limited experience with international transactions,
the Government relied to a great extent on Bank advice and its advisors and worked closely with Bank
staff to clarify sector issues, to identify imports and to work out necessary arrangements for Loan
implementation.
43.   Implementation. The Borrower's performance was fully satisfactory in implementing this Loan.
It undertook its responsibilities for implementing the reform program and engaged in an active dialogue
with the Bank. The Government continued with the reform program despite internal pressures to ease
the impact of transition and external factors of having to adapt quickly to international market forces.
The reason for such performance is largely attributed to the feeling of ownership and importance the
Government attached to the success of its economic reform  program.  With the availability of
implementation advice financed by the Government of Sweden, good performance of the imports
component by the PIU and endusers was also achieved.
G. Assessment of Performance and Outcome
44.    The project outcome is rated as fully satisfactory. Overall performance of the reform program
was very good, with the exception of the recent banking sector failure. Adherence to the reform
program, which the Rehabilitation Loan aimed to support, enabled Latvia to halt the rapid decline in
output relatively quickly as compared to experiences in other transition economies. The Rehabilitation
Loan has contributed to Latvia's efforts to facilitate the diversification of trade and has made a very
significant contribution to economic reform and the transition to a market economy. The increase in
private sector activities and the phenomenal inflow of foreign direct investment reflect the confidence of
investors and the international community in Latvia's current performance and future prospects.



11
H. Future Operations
45.    The Rehabilitation Loan, which was provided on a one-time basis, will not be followed by a
similar operation. Balance of payment financing has been provided by the IMF and the G-24. The
Bank's strategy in Latvia now is to support the Government in its efforts to deepen structural reform and
to return to sustainable growth, shifting the mix of lending instruments towards investment lending and
credit lines while remaining ready to respond if needed with other types of policy-based operations. The
sectoral input under the Rehabilitation Loan's import component has contributed to a broader sectoral
dialogue and to the preparation of initial investment operations. Five loans have now been approved -
Agricultural Development Project (US$ 25 million), Jelgava District Heating Rehabilitation Project (US$
14 million), Enterprise and Financial Institution Development Project (US$ 35 million), Liepaja
Environmental Project (US$ 4 million) and Municipal Services Development Project (US$ 27 million).
I. Key Lessons Learned
46.   Similar Rehabilitation Loans are being prepared or implemented in other countries of the FSUB,
and some lessons could be utilized from the experience of this Loan. It should be noted, however, that
Latvia's commitment to the economic reform program, the excellent dialogue with the Bank and the
strong support of the international community, may make part of the experience unique. Key lessons
learned include the following:
(i)    Government commitment during preparation and implementation is essential to the
success of the Loan and is very important for policy reform. Built-in flexibility and limited
conditionalities, coupled with an active dialogue both on the imports and policy fronts, have
contributed to successful implementation. This approach may only be replicable in countries
where governments show a very high level of commitment to Loan objectives and to a well
defined reform agenda; it is not recommended in a policy reform-hesitant environment. Policy
targets for achieving specific stabilization and structural reforms need to be realistic to require
less need for adjustment during Loan implementation;
(ii)    World Bank procurement procedures using ICB are generally not compatible with Loans
designed to provide quick support under rapidly changing circumstances. In designing future
loans for similar purposes for countries in transition, Bank management may wish to consider
whether more flexible procurement procedures could be employed, including higher thresholds
for ICB and allowing for all procurement methods in order to better ensure needed goods are
delivered as quickly as possible;
(iii)   given the inexperience of new Borrowers with World Bank procedures, the appointment
of well qualified, procurement and disbursement advisors to provide overall project management
support is very important for the success of an operation. The role of advisors should be mainly
focused on training local counterparts to carry out the requirements in order to impart an
understanding of the procedures, rather than carrying out the work themselves; and
(iv)   higher than average resources are needed when working with new borrowers and in loans
that include policy reform components. For this Loan, the flexible design and the need to review
the imports list and technical specifications increased supervision costs.



12
STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:    Summary of Assessments
Table 2:    Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:    Project Timetable
Table 4:    Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:    Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:    Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:   Project Costs
Table 8B:   Project Financing
Table 9:    Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:   Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:   Bank Resources: Missions



13
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives       Substantial       Partial       Negligible    Not Applicable
Macro policies                      E1                                               l
Sector policies                                                                     Z a  B
Financial objectives                                                                VI B 
Institutional development *                         B               B               E
Physical objectives                                 B               B               
Poverty reduction                   B               H               B
Gender issues                       B               ao
Other social objectives             B                   B]                          0
Environmental objectives            B               H               B
Public sector management '                         [ ]              L               O
Private sector development '                                        B 0IE
Other (specify)                     B               B               H               H
B. Project sustainability            Likely                Unlikely            Uncertain
21B O
C. Bank Performance            Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory          Deficient
Identification                      O                      O                    O
Preparation assistance              O                     E
Appraisal                          []                      |
Supervision                         B                     E3H
D. Borrower performance        Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory          Deficient
Preparation                        c                      la                   a
Implementation                      B                     VI                    H
Covenant compliance                                                             B 0
Operation (if applicable)           B                      D                    B
E. Assessment of outcome       Highly Satisfactory  Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory  Highly Unsatisfactory
B               IZ]           B                 B
* Not originally envisaged in detailed terms and some indirectly achieved through Loan implementation



14
Table 2: Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title             Purpose                    Year of Approval        Status
Preceding Operations                                              None
Following Operations
1. Agricultural Development   Development of Agro-                FY94           Under
Industries                                         implementation
2. Enterprise and Financial   Private Sector                      FY95           Under
Sector Development            Development                                        implementation
3. Liepaja Environment        Waste Water Treatment               FY95           Under
implementation
4. Jelgava District Heating   District Heating                    FY95           Approved by the
Rehabilitation                Rehabilitation in a Small                          Board
Pilot Scheme
5. Municipal Services
Development Project           Municipal Services                  FY96           Approved by the
Board
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                           Date planned          Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)           2/92                  2/92
Preparation                                          3/92                  3/92
Appraisal                                            3/92                  3/92
Post Appraisal                                       6/92                  6/92
Negotiations                                         8/92                  8/92
Letter of development policy (if applicable)/        8/92                  8/92
MERP
Board presentation                                 10/22/92              10/22/92
Signing                                                                  10/23/92
Effectiveness                                        11/92                11/4/92
First tranche release (if applicable)                 -                     -
Midterm review (if applicable)
Second (and third) tranche release (if applicable)
Project completion                                  12/31/93             12/31/94
Loan closing                                        12/31/93             4/20/95'
* includes the 4-month grace period extended to finalize disbursement.



15
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY93           FY94            FY95
Appraisal estimate                      30              45
Actual                                 6.88            32.87          42.36
Actual as % of estimate                 22.9           73.0            94.1
Date of final disbursement                                           4/20/95



16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
INDICATORS             )IMPLEMENTATION
I. Stabilization       ]
Price Liberalization and    On time and completely satisfactory. Inflation declined as
the Control of Inflation  expected.
Fiscal Policy           On time and satisfactory. Challenges remain in (i) pension
reform; (ii) social safety net programs; and (iii) tax
administration.
Monetary Policy and     On time and satisfactory. Challenges remain in enhancing bank
Currency Reform         supervision
Incomes Policy          On time and satisfactory.
External Sector Policies   On time and satisfactory. Challenges remain in external tariff
policy.
II. Structural Reform   Progress has been slower than with stabilization. Although
some reforms could have been more rapid, originally scheduled
dates were optimistic given the complexities involved.
Enterprise Reform       Progress continues. Challenges remain in completing
privatization of large enterprises.
Anti-Monopoly and       Generally on time and satisfactory.
Private Enterprise
Development Policies
Commercial Banking      Satisfactory progress. Challenges remain in completing
System Reform           privatization of the state bank (Unibank).
Social Protection and   Progress continues. Challenges remain in pension reform and
the Social Safety Net   in better programs to target income assistance.
Economic Management   Generally on time and satisfactory. Needed improvements to
data quality are ongoing.



17
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Estimated                         Actual
1. Key operating indicators in SAR
Not applicable
11. Modified indicators (if applicable)
III. Modified indicators for future operation (if applicable)
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                                      Purpose as defined at              Status          Impact
appraisal/redefined                              of study
Not applicable, as all studies and
technical assistance were financed by
grants



18
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate             Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                   (US$ million)
Item                                 Local   Foreign    Total        Local   Foreign    Total
costs    costs                  costs     costs
1. Imports                                     44.0       44.0                   41.70     41.70
2. TA (equipment, training)                     1.0        1.0                    0.66      0.66
Total                           45.0       45.0                   42.36     42.36
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate             Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                    (US$ million)
Source                               Local   Foreign    Total        Local   Foreign    Total
costs    costs                  costs     costs
1. IBRD                                        45         45                     42.36     42.36
2. Co-financing Institutions*
3. Other external sources
4. Domestic contribution
Total                           45         45                     42.36     42.36
* Parallel co-financing by JEXIM Bank ($ 35 million).



19
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
- not applicable -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant                Original       Revised
Agreement   Section        Type       Status    Fulfillment   Fulfillment  Description of Covenant   Comments
Date          Date
LA                 3.01       9          C            -             -         Consultation and exchange   Continuing process
of views on progress of
MERP
LA                 3.03       5          C            -              -        Maintain adequately staffed  PLU operated
PIU                         satisfactorily
LA                 3.04       5           C           -              -        Maintain interministerial   Steering Committee
steering committee to       operated
resolve implementation      satisfactorily
issues
LA                 3.05        1         C         Within 6          -        Accounting and auditing     Accounts were
months of                   requirements                accurate and
end of FY                                               adequately kept and
audit reports were
received on time
Covenant type:                                                                                 Present Status
I=  Accounts/audits                      8 = Indigenous people                                 C = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue        9 = Monitoring                                        CD = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries      10 = Project implementation not covered by             CP = complied with partially
3    Flow and utilization of project funds      categories 1-9                                  NC = not complied with
4 = Counterpart funding                  11 = Remedies
5 = Management aspects of the project or   12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or
executing agency                           other resource allocation
6 = Environmental covenants              13 = Other
7 = Involuntary resettlement
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and                           Describe and comment on lack of compliance
Title



20
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
($ '000)
Planned                     Revised                         Actual
Stage of project cycle        Weeks       US$          Weeks         US$               Weeks         US$
Preparation to appraisal       NA         NA             -             -                 0            0
Appraisal                      NA         NA             -             -                47.4        116.1
Negotiations through Board     NA         NA             -             -                5.4          17.9
approval
Supervision                     67        155.3          -             -                74.6        241.9
Completion                      10        24.0           -             -                4.0          12.0
TOTAL
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance
No. of Days in                              Rating 2           Types of
Stage of project cycle      Month/Year  Persons Field        Specialization    Implementation DevelopmentP
Impemetaton   eveopmntProblems
status     objectives      3
Through appraisal              3/92        10     7-14        F, FX, P,
D. PE, A,
M, M, L,
E
Appraisal through Board        6/92        7      2-14        F, FX, B,
Approval                                                      P, M, E,
HR
Supervision                    10/92       4        6        F, P, L, E          I                   I
2/93        4       4         F, P, M, E         2                    2     M
6/93        2       6            F, P            2                    2     M
11/93       3        3          F, P, E           2                   2     M
5/94        1       2             A              2                    2     M
6/94        2       5            F,P             M
11/94       1        1            F              M
Completion                     5/95        2        4           F,E
6/95        2       2            F,E
I - Specialization                          2 - Performance Rating               3 - Types of Problems
A = Agriculturalist                         I = Minor problems                   F =  Financial
E = Economist                               2 = Moderate Problems                T = Technical
F = Financial Analyst                       3 = Major Problems                   M = Managerial
P = Procurement Specialist
L = Legal Counsel
FX = Foreign Exchange Specialist
D = Disbursement Officer
PE = Power Engineer
M = Medical Specialist
B = Banking Specialist
HR = Human Resources Specialist



21                                  Annex 1
-Republic of Latvia
,wV:,jof Econoomical Reforms
Yr. Lewis  EM:STON
President, I=ternatioaal Bac for
Reconstruction a-d Developmeat
ISis H street N.W.
Washin9ton, D.C. 20433
Dear Yr-. Prestor-,
The  attached  Menorardum  on  Econotic  Refo=r  Policies-
outlines  the program of iracroeconcauC stabilizatic  and
systemic reforms of the Reoublic of Latvia.  -We recqest the
World Bark to su=oort this prorartV  wits a Rehabilitatiod
Loan in the amcunt of $45 millioc ec-uivale=t.
It is our i tention to imolezment the program= described .i-
the  attached  Memarandum  i= order  toa  achieve  a  rapid.:
resum=tior   cf  ecoromic  growth  withir  a  sustainable
MacroecarLODac  framework;   G-ven *the  cotle.xity of the'
transition to a market-orierted economy, it is irevitable
that  there  will  be  some uncertainties  regarding  the
im=o: -ietation  of  this program.   Some adjustments  and
corrective action  a-e likely to be reouired.   We will;
closely monitor the progress of our reform program and we
will, where appropriate, review r.ecessary adjustments with  -
the Wcrld BarCk.
Sincerely yours;,
rnLis Kaln4nsh
Minister of Economic ReforMs
.-Repuhlic of Latvia
,; sr) g>, -g 5 gtr,0                                5t FT> lj j17pT



-22 -                                    Annex 1
LATVIA
Memorandum of Economic Reform Policies
A.    Backzround
1.            After nearly half a century under communist rule, Latvia has embarked on a program
of economic reform to transform its economy from a planned to a market-based economy. The
transition process has been constrained due mainly to the heavy dependence of the economy on the
former Soviet Union and lack of appropriate institutions to set up a market-based economic system.
The disruption in trade with Russia and other former Soviet republics has severely contracted
imported inputs and raw materials, particularly oil products. As a result, GDP has dropped sharply
in 1990 and 1991 and inflation has increased substantially.
2.            Economic performance in 1992 is also being threatened by the lack of hard currency
and imported inputs and raw materials. It is also being influenced by the continued uncertainty of
trade relationships with Russia and other former Soviet republics, although efforts to normalize trade.
continues. Even with the anticipated decline in the volume of imports from the former Soviet
republics, Latvia is still facing a large negative terms of trade shock this year. Given the small
amount of exports to convertible currency areas, the low level of foreign exchange resources makes it
difficult to finance urgently-needed imports and prevent further declines in output and employment.
3.            We have already initiated substantial efforts at economic transformation including
liberalization of wages and prices, introduction of private ownership and legal reforms, privatization
of agriculture and small enterprises and introduction of a market for foreign exchange. Further
reform measures are currently under consideration to restructure the banking system, reform the
enterprise sector and strengthen the social safety net for those who will be adversely affected by the
process of transformation.
4.            To ensure that reforms are implemented in a stable macroeconomic environment, we
also intend to put in place a package of policy measures to maintain macroeconomic stability and
avoid severe inflation and problems in the external accounts. The economic program outlined in this
memorandum sets out both our short- and medium-term objectives which aim at stabilizing the
economy while simultaneously embarking on a far-reaching structural reform program. The
discussions on stabilization policies is kept brief and a fuller discussion of our stabilization prograrn
and its quantitative targets will be found in the Memorandum we have submitted to the International
Monetary Fund (IMF).
B. Prices. Macroeconomic Management and Foreign Economic Relations
Price Reform
5.            Although most prices have been liberalized, we recognize the importance of
proceeding quickly to eliminate as many of the remaining price subsidies as possible. By January 1,
1993, prices of all remaining items subject to price ceilings, other than rent, heating oil and natural
gas, will be liberalized. Those other prices will also be gradually adjusted to cover maintenance and
production costs and to reach world market levels. It is expected that price liberalization measures



- 23 -                                     Annex  1
will result in further price increases in the coming months. However, with the consistent
implementation of firm financial and incomes policies (described below), we are determined to arrest
the rise in inflation and limit its increase to 3 % a month by the end of the year.
Fiscal Policy
6.            Further fiscal restraint is central to the success of the stabilization and reform
program. Accordingly, we have adopted a balanced budget for the second half of 1992 with the aim
of limiting the deficit in the general Government budget to less than 2% of GDP for the year as a
whole. We intend to achieve this objective through a variety of tax measures, including elimination
of most exemptions from the value-added and profit taxes and simplification of the excise taxes.
Moreover, tax administration will be strengthened, and a flat rate import duty of 15 % will be
imposed on most imports, except those covered by free trade and custom union agreements. We will
also keep a tight rein on expenditures. The remaining consumer subsidies will be reduced over time
by adopting the price policy mentioned above. A cap on the overall level of employment in the
public sector for the second half of 1992 will be established to restrain the expenditure on wages.
Currency Reform and Monetary Policy
7.            We have created the necessary conditions to pursue an independent monetary policy
by the decision to make the Latvian ruble the only legal tender in Latvia in July. Consequently, a
credit program has been established for the reminder of 1992 to maintain growth rates for money and
credit that are consistent with the target of reducing inflation, the objective of the balance of
payments, the projected decline in output and the credit needs of the newly-established private
enterprises. Also, the refinancing facilities of the Bank of Latvia will be managed in such a fashion
that are compatible with this credit program. We intend to increase efficiency of the financial sector
by moving as quickly as possible toward a system in which interest rates play an important role in the
mobilization and allocation of resources. This will require the creation of effective monetary policy
instruments which we intend to rely on in future monetary programs. We have requested technical
assistance from the IMF to facilitate this transition. We have already liberalized interest rates, and
there are no restrictions on interest rates offered or charged by commercial banks. We have also
eliminated interest rate subsidies by the banking system starting July 1, 1992.
Incomes Policy
8.            Since conditions for a market system of wage determination are not yet in place in
Latvia, we intend to monitor wage increases to prevent a wage-price spiral from emerging. For this
purpose, we will introduce a tax-based incomes policy for non-budgetary state enterprises for the
second half of 1992 and ensure that increases in minimum wages will not lead to an acceleration of
inflationary pressures.
External Sector Policies
9.            The removal of exchange and trade restrictions is the core of our strategy for
introducing a rational structure of relative prices, alleviating supply bottlenecks and exposing domestic
producers to import competition. It is our intention to announce a pegged exchange rate, once the Lat
is introduced and a high degree of price and exchange rate stability is achieved. Also, it is our



-24 -                                      Annex  1
intention to remove the bulk of export taxes by the end of 1992. We plan to review the tariff system
with a view to make it compatible with those of neighboring countries with similar characteristics. ', 
We have signed free trade agreements with Sweden and'Norway and are negotiating a customs union
with the other Baltic countries. We also intend to conduct our international economic relations on a
non-discriminatory basis and in line with multilateral principles prevailing in the world economy. In'
this context, we recognize the need for continued close economic relations with the states in the ruble
area and will take all possible measures to avoid actions that will disrupt trade with those states. We.
are also committed to remove the remaining trade barriers with the other republics, reduce the direct
involvement of the Government in trade relations, promote direct trading between enterprises and
phase out essentially all remaining privileges granted to enterprises that are suppliers to the state.
C. Structural Reform and Transition to a Market Economy
10.          In addition to the stabilization measures outlined above and the policy reforms adopted
earlier, we are now in the process of undertaking additional steps to create a competitive market
environment and to speed up the process of fundamental economic transformation. The thrust of our
structural reform program includes: (i) enterprise reform including corporatization and privatization".
of enterprises and the legal framework; (ii) pro-competition and anti-monopoly policies, including
demonopolization of enterprises, enforcement of anti-trust legislation, facilitating the growth of new
private enterprises and encouraging direct foreign investment; (iii) strengthening the commercial
banking system including adoption- of appropriate legislation, restructuring of the banks and setting up
internationally-accepted accounting and auditing standards; and (iv) putting in place a system of social
protection and social safety net including social assistance programs for the most vulnerable groups
and displaced labor arising from restructuring of the economy. Specific policies and actions that we
intend to undertake in each of the areas are elaborated below.
D. Enterprise Reform
11l.          Essential for transformation of the economy to a market-based system is the
progressive enlargement of the role of the private sector. For this purpose we will promote the
development of new enterprises and encourage direct foreign investment in Latvia. In addition, we
are committed to privatize a vast majority of our enterprises and commercially manage those
enterprises that will remain in the state sector. Reform of the enterprise sector will, however, take
time and considerable resources to design and implement. Therefore, we are counting on support
'from the World Bank and other agencies to design and assist in implementing specific policy
programs and measures.
12.           Small business development will be promoted largely through-the small privatization
program. In November 1991, we enacted a law on privatization of small municipal enterprises in
trade, catering and services and converted small state-owned enterprises to municipal ownership.
This program has since been broadened by lifting the size restriction as of mid-1992. Parliament has
instructed municipalities to privatize 35% of retail businesses under their purview by September 1992,
and the objective is to continue to carry out such privatization until it is essentially completed, at
latest by end-1993. The Ministry of Economic Reform is actively monitoring the progress of
privatization based on data collected by the Department of Statistics. In addition, we aim to improve
the environment for private businesses by creating a stable macroeconomic framework, improving



- 25 -                                      Annex  1
access to bank credit for these businesses and providing them with information on laws, regulations '
and Government policies. The sale of moveable assets and separable activities of state-owned
enterprises has been permitted in order to stimulate small business establishment, and the contracting
out of public services will be more systematically addressed in early-1993.
13.           To develop a market for land and allow sufficient growth of urban commercial space
for private investment, we will begin to ease the existing moratorium on the sales of land, particularly
within urban zones, during 1993. We will again encourage Parliament to advance. the date of
submission of housing restitution claims in order to accelerate the privatization of housing units.
Finally a draft proposal for the privatization of housing through vouchers is presently being
considered by Parliament.
14.           According to a Parliamentary Resolution passed in March 1992 regarding
privatization, we are presently developing procedures and guidelines for the privatization of large
enterprises, including the assignment of institutional arrangements. Appropriate legislation will be
completed by the latest in December 1992; this legislation envisages the sales of enterprises through a
variety of techniques to both domestic and foreign purchasers and a voucher component. Branch
ministries have identified enterprises under their purview to be privatized and have been mandated to
submit privatization plans (developed at the enterprise level, including possible pre-privatization
corporatization and restructuring) for these enterprises by November 1992. We have identified a
shortlist of 25 large enterprises to be sold in an initial round of privatization; by September 1992, we
will initiate sales by seeking technical assistance for a subgroup (5-10) of these enterprises to be sold
through a variety of techniques to both domestic and foreign buyers. Further and more extensive
privatization of large enterprises will be undertaken during 1993.
15.           For those enterprises that remain in the state sector indefinitely or will take a longer
time to privatize, technical assistance has been requested to strengthen corporate governance. Based
on the outcome of this technical assistance, we will develop concrete plans to deepen the commercial
practices of these state-owned enterprises. Steps that have already been taken in this direction
include: the elimination of state orders (except those needed to fulfill interstate agreements) and the
general removal of privileges to enterprises which are suppliers to the state. During 1993,
competitive bidding practices for Government procurement will be extended.
16.           Financial autonomy of enterprises vis-a-vis the state has been achieved and we intend
to continue to impose financial discipline on public enterprises. We have eliminated budgetary
support to enterprises, including implicit subsidies from all levels of Government, guarantees on loans
to enterprises and implicit subsidies to enterprises through the commercial banking system. By
September 1992, the Bank of Latvia will finalize a system to monitor inter-enterprise arrears and
together with the Ministry of Finance will develop guidelines to prevent the accumulation of inter-
enterprise arrears. In addition, enterprises are increasingly turning to pre-payment arrangements as a
temporary solution to reduce inter-republican enterprise arrears.
17.           To stimulate foreign investment and make Latvian enterprises more efficient and
internationally competitive, we will open up various types of investments to foreign buyers, including
all or part of large enterprises to be privatized (mentioned above). We have already sought the
assistance of the Foreign Investment Advisory Service of the World Bank to undertake a diagnostic



Annex  1
-26 -
study and to assist in designing ways to promote foreign investment. Foreign investment procedures
will be amended and institutional arrangements modified based on the results of this study.
E. Pro-Competition and Anti-Monopoly Policies
18.           Because of the inherent structure of production and distribution in the centrally-
planned economies, there are large monopolies in many sectors of the economy, particularly in
wholesale and retail trade and the distribution system. We intend to promote competition through
breaking up monopolies and multi-plant enterprises and encouraging new enterprises. We will
develop an approach to comprehensive demonopolization by December 1992. An active program of
demonopolization of wholesale and retail trade will be initiated by December 1992 and expanded to
other sectors in 1993. The program of demonopolization will be closely coordinated with the
program of corporatization so as to avoid further integration of enterprises and increase competition
and efficiency.
19.           To assess the viability of enterprises, we will complete an accounting law, conforming
to internationally-accepted accounting standards, by December 1992. To further enforce financial -.
discipline and permit systematic liquidation of non-viable enterprises, we will develop the institutional
framework for implementation of the bankruptcy law (adopted December 1991) by November 1992,
and begin liquidation of non-profitable enterprises immediately thereafter.
F. Financial Sector Reform
20.           Reform of the financial sector is a prerequisite for the effective mobilization of
resources and their allocation to efficient users. We have already taken initial steps in the reform of
this sector and are in the process of completing the appropriate legal framework. On May 19, 1992,
we adopted the Law on the Bank of Latvia to strengthen the core central banking functions of the
Bank of Latvia and to prevent that bank from engaging in commercial banking activities. A
parliamentary resolution, however, adopted on the same date allows the Bank of Latvia until end-1992
to formally separate its comrnercial banking branches. However, during this period, the comnnercial
branches will prepare separate balance sheets, will be largely independent in their business operations,
will be subject to the same rules and regulations as commercial banks and will be under the
supervision arm of the Bank of Latvia.
-21.          Based on the new Law on Banks of Latvia, we will put in place a system of prudential
regulation (both off-site and on-site) for banking supervision by September 1992 and which will be
fully functional by December 1992. This will include the evaluation of alternative institutional
arrangements of banking supervision and the development and organization of a training program for
the staff of the Bank of Latvia or the relevant supervisory institutions as needed. We will seek
external assistance especially from the IMF for these activities.
22.           Restructuring and recapitalization of the banking sector will be a top priority in the
reform of our financial sector and the development and growth of the private commercial banking
system in Latvia. As a first step in this direction, we will separate the commercial branches of the
Bank of Latvia into separate legal entities by December 1992. This action will be followed by
preparing a comprehensive plan for restructuring and privatization of the branches by December 31,
1992, with a timetable for implementation starting in 1993.



- 27 -                                     Annex 1
23.           The restructuring plan will cover financial, management and ownership restructuring
and will deal with: non-performing assets in the banking system; liquidation or recapitalization and
privatization of the commercial banks; licensing of new conmnercial banks with a-view to encourage
competition; and ways to improve the internal efficiency of the banking system. We will ensure that
all decisions and activities on the accounting and auditing system, restructuring of the banking system
and linkages with enterprise reform are carefully coordinated by the responsible agencies.
24.           Privatization of enterprises and new business entry will rapidly increase the number of
transactions in the banking system as well as the number of payments. Our current accounting
practices are still largely based on standards appropriate for a centrally-planed economy, and
accounting is still partially manual. This creates a serious bottleneck in the payments system. As in
the case of enterprises, we intend to prepare and put in place, in 1993, accounting and auditing
standards for the banks. We intend to adopt the appropriate legislation by December 1992 and will
supervise adherence to these standards. Furthermore, we will evaluate alternative measures of
improving the efficiency of the present payment system, based on the new accounting standards.
External assistance will be used for these activities, which in many instances our foreign joint venture
partners could provide us.
G. Social Protection
25.           Transformation of the economy will entail large-scale unemployment. To mitigate the
impact of this transformation on individuals and their families, we are planning to initiate measures to
create incentives to facilitate the process of labor force adjustment and to keep the budgetary cost
manageable, as well as to ensure that the costs of adjustment do not fall disproportionately on the
most vulnerable members of society. Therefore, we will remove all restrictions on labor mobility and
review carefully the costs of our social safety net system.
26.           The transition to a market economy will place an unusually heavy burden on the
social safety net if the current system of protection, which is not means-tested, is maintained. From
that perspective, it is important to define a more comprehensive poverty line as the benchmark for all
programs, taking into account international experience. We will attempt to complete the definition of
the poverty line by December 31, 1992, and will include provisions for regular revisions to maintain
its value in real terms.
27.           We will develop a network of social assistance offices to be able to channel necessary
help to the most vulnerable groups on the means-testing basis and assess the poverty gap (i.e.
resources necessary to bring up to the poverty line all those that fall under that level) by June 30,
1993. We will introduce the necessary changes in legislation, in particular in the law on
municipalities and local authorities. The system will be functional by December 31, 1992, and fully
developed by June 30, 1993. A means-tested system will provide a benefit of last resort for citizens
whose eligibility for other benefits has been exhausted or whose entitlement is inadequate.
28.           We will undertake measures to streamline the existing benefits program and make the
system compatible with the practice of market economies. We have already undertaken
implementation of sick pay reform by placing the burden of the costs of the first three weeks of
sickness on employers. Beginning January 1, 1993, we intend to start raising the retirement age
gradually over an extended period. Initially, the retirement age will be raised by two years.



28  -Annex  1
29.           Since the sustainability of budgetary expenditures under the current earnings-related
pension scheme may become difficult with a rise in unemployment, we will consider, a simplified _
flat-rate structure of pension benefits which can be introduced in 1993, if necessary, as a temporary
measure to prevent budgetary imbalances and reach the stabilization targets of the reform program.
In 1993 we will begin to prepare a comprehensive medium-term pension reform plan, based on full-
costing options under alternative economic and demographic scenarios over an extended period of
time. We will also evaluate options for establishing private pension schemes within an appropriate
legal framework.
30.           The present system of employment offices and financing labor market policies is
inadequate for the expected substantial level of unemployment in Latvia. Therefore, by December
31, 1992, we will strengthen local employment offices with additional resources (including plans for
expansion of such offices to geographic areas likely to be hardest hit by unemployment) and design
the system of retraining and other active labor market policies for displaced workers with a specified
level of financing. We will also better define the scope of other active labor market policies such as
job search assistance, employment subsidies, grants, credits and public works by December 1992.
31.           The present system does not provide any visible linkage between the negligible
employees' contribution to the Social Insurance Fund and benefits obtained. Therefore over an
extended period of time, beginning not later than September 30, 1993, we will increase the
employees' contribution and reduce the employers' contribution to the Social Insurance Fund with the
objective of reaching eventually equal shares in contributions.
Economic Management
32.           The Government recognizes that the successful implementation of the reforrm program
depends on having in place the institutions and capacity for public sector management to guide and
monitor the reform process as well as appropriate legal and institutional infrastructure within which
the private sector can operate. This includes strengthening the institutional framework for policy
development and mechanisms for coordination among the various economic ministries and the Bank
of Latvia. To this end, with the help of the IMF, we will establish within the coming months a cash
management unit in the Ministry of Finance to forecast cash flows and develop a full-scale treasury
function.
33.           We attach high priority to providing adequate staffing and training in the Department
of Statistics, Bank of Latvia, and in our ministries and to implementing mechanisms for data
collection and compilation so that national accounts, price, monetary, fiscal and balance of payments
statistics become available on a timely basis. Starting October 1992, we will prepare periodically in
English key economic indicators for monitoring progress in our reform program.
34.           We have established a Unit in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to coordinate technical
assistance. We will also establish a unit within the Ministry of Finance for external debt recording
and reporting. By October 1992, we intend to put in place a system for monitoring and recording
external debt, consistent with the reporting requirements of the World Bank.
35.          In anticipation of a resumed public investment program, we plan to establish by April
1993 a mechanism to set priorities, establish project evaluation criteria and appraise project proposals



-  29 -                                      Annex  1
for public investment. By July 1993, we will prepare the first version of a rolling, three-year public
investment program, which-unlike multi-year plans in the past--would focus on: (i) establishing
appropriate sectoral policy frameworks; (ii) setting relative public investment priorities among and
within sectors; and (iii) focusing on public investment requirements and programs rather than
enterprise investments.



30                               Annex?
LATVIJAS REPUBLIKAS FINANSU MINISTRIJA
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA 0 MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Rlga    Q3-C)5  4.3r                             199  ga,da X
Riga December 14, 1995
The World Baak
Mr. James Q. Harrison
Country Operations Division I
Country Department TV
Europe and Central Asia Region
1818 H Street, N-W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Fax 001202 477 i./ O
Dear Sir,
Re: Latvia - Rehabilitation Loan (Ln.3525-LV) Implementation Completion Report.
With reference to your letter dated November 30, 1995 we wish to express that we are very
pleased with the report.
Please find a note to b attached to the ICR The text has mniinly been prepared by the Project
Implementation Unit
Sincerely your,s,
ValentiaAna      a
State Secrt



- 31-                                 Annex 2
IBRD Rehabilitation Loan to Latvia (3525-LV)
Implementation Completion Report
The overall experience of the Loan is positive and it is the feeling that the objectives have been
generally met. Besides providing the means for import of immediate needed goods to Latvia
the Loan also gave a conciderable input of know how to the two Ministries (Finance and
Economy), Purchasing Agencies and commercial Banks. However this context is important to
highlight that a higher education of the people involved on all levels within Ministries and the
Purchasing Agencies before the implementation of the Loan would have created a better
understanding for the requirements from the Bank and the objectives of the Loan. The PITJ
was manned from both of the Ministries (Finance and Economy).
Unfortunately the name of th3 Loan "Rehabilitation Loan" caused itself a lot of missunder-
standings. Probably should a name like "Emergency Loan" or "Fast Loan" have created a
better idea of the purpose of the Loan. People in general could not really understand why there
was problematic for the PIU and the Steenrng Committee to accept projects involving to Touch
investments, replacements or renovations of existing machines etc. In some cases upset
emotions about rejected projects from the Bank caused negative feelings towards the PIU.
The location of the PIU office was discussed several times. The long and many discussions
resulted in resignation from employees, which gave a negative effect as the replacers had to be
educated. The general turnover of PIU employees has been high. One reason is that the base
for recruitment is in many cases students still studying. After finishing their studies they very
often go to the private sector.
Generally it is important for the success of the implementation of a loan to equip and -upport
the PIU which is the center in the implementation process. Without the dedication and efforts
from the PIU, advisers and support from the Swedish Government the loan would have faced
severe setbacks. The Banks generosity with allowing extensive education for the P1U was
highly appreciated and important.. The possibility to buy computers and other equipment to the
Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy was appreciated as well.Unfortunately the
entire part of the one million USD was not used.
The high level Steering Committee was established first at late autumn 1993 which
unfortunately had a negative effect on the start up implementation of the Loan- It was not only
important but also in line with the agreement that the kind of deciasions taken withtin the Loan
was made at a higher level than the PIU.



- 32 -                               Annex 2
As the loan changed character from import of consumption goods to allowing the import of
replacement equipment and machincry a need of resources for using technical advisers came up
but was never agreed upon. It was impossible for the PI1U to evaluate the importance of the
goods requested from various purchasers. A lot of time-consuming communication with the
Bank could have been avoided if such assistance had been used. Some projects that was
regarded important by the PIU and the Steering Committee was rejected by the Bank which
caused confusions and time waste,
The limit for international shopping was for some purchasers regarded far too low. As an
example, when finally the through ICBs procured pharmaceuticals arrived after a long
procurement process and unneccesary long shipping time, the need for these pharmaceuticals
were in many cases obsolete. Other companies had been able to buy the most needed
pharmaceuticals in smaller quantities and much faster and more efficient than the Loans
purchasers were able to do. One lot of ICB procured pharmaceuticals has as per mid
December 1995 not arrived to Latvia oving to a dispute between the Purchaser and the
Supplier The case has been reported for arbitration.
Most of the purchasers have expressed that the loan has fitted them very welL They have also
expressed that they are greatful for the possibilities the Loan has given to thenm Several
companies have expressed that they have received a good training in procurement and that they
have established good connections with suppliers.
Riga December 14, 1995



- 33 -                                   Annex 2
LATVIA
REHABILITATION LOAN
Selected Comments from Beneficiaries
"Lauktehnika"
"Our company received the World Bank loan for purchase of spare parts and materials
for agriculture. We found that the procedure of how to work with this credit was good, and it proved
to be correct even being rather complicated. The result of a wide range of companies invited to take
part in this bidding is that we have bought goods for the good competitive price and, in many cases,
we have found new very good partners for further cooperation.
Now we can already see the results from this purchase for the World Bank loan. The
results are good: we have sold all the bought goods, and it is clear already that we have real
possibility to repay the loan. We have good continuation of cooperation with our partners found
during the above-mentioned activities. Practically with each of the new partners we continue our
cooperation and mainly volumes are increasing. Thanks to the World Bank loan in the amount of
USD 300,000, this year we have doubled our turnover as compared with last year."
"SIA DOMA":
"Milk processing enterprises received the equipment that could not be bought in usual
circumstances. Milk processing enterprises of Latvia are (now) completely equipped with modern
quality control equipment. Concerning the technical equipment, Latvia presently is in the leading
position in Eastern Europe. It was possible to introduce milk standards in accordance with European
standards. The World Bank loan made it possible for DOMA to become a remarkable partner for
Western producers and suppliers of similar products."
"Olainpharm"
"We would like to express our gratitude to the World Bank for the Rehabilitation
Loan to our enterprise for the procurement of raw materials and equipment. Thanks to this loan,
which accounted for USD 3.5 million, our plant had an opportunity to purchase raw materials,
substances and equipment necessary for the production of pharmaceuticals. This loan helped our
plant not only to survive in difficult economic conditions appearing after the disintegration of the
former U.S.S.R. but to elaborate the manufacturing process for the production of necessary medicals
for the benefit of our people."






MAP SECTION






IBRD 24630R
N AS                -    A       SE S T O                                  N I A R
</, \ -' 1 <0 g . ; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RUSSIAN
f  f fuiA Se    wSX  QWo~~~~~~o 
\j               M~~~ITHU NI                      50O SELECTEDs CITIES                     ILROA  SCrt
RU.                      f                    .- 0        --  RIVERS               -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                          Th. wod Bo,n,8=k G<,o.p
=    POLAND       )c                                                                                                                                         bo0odo r.l.
RIGA r    BELARUS                                                                      ur ony rrunndcu,raufmr,AI9









IMAGING
Report No:        15173
Type: ICR



