Page  1
June 11, 1993
H.E. The Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
1, Smilsu Street
226919 Riga, Latvia
          Re:  Loan No. 3525 LV (Rehabilitation Loan)
               Amendments
Excellency:
     We refer to the Loan Agreement (Rehabilitation Loan) dated
October 23, 1992 (the Loan Agreement) between Latvia (the Borrower)
and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the
Bank), and to our discussions concerning proposed amendments to the
Loan Agreement.
     We hereby confirm the Bank's agreement to the amendments to the
Loan Agreement set forth in the Annex hereto.
     Please confirm your agreement, on behalf of the Borrower, to
the foregoing by signing and dating the form of confirmation on the
attached copy of this letter and returning it to us.
                                   Very truly yours,
                              /s/     Basil Kavalsky
                         Director, Country Department IV
                          Europe and Central Asia Region
Attachment
CONFIRMED: by LATVIA on 11/6/93
                                                  ANNEX
                                                 , 1993
                   Loan No. 3525 LV
                 (Rehabilitation Loan)
           Amendments to the Loan Agreement
1.   Section 2.02 is amended to read as follows:
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in United States Dollars a special deposit account in
Svenska Handelsbanken, Sweden on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
2.   Section 3.05 (b) (i) is amended to read as follows:
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in
               paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
               the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with appropriate auditing
               principles consistently applied, by independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
3.   Paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 is amended to read as follows:
     With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
Page  2
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids and recommendations for award, a description of the
advertising and tendering procedures followed and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.  Where payments
for such contracts are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to
paragraph 2 (d) of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall be furnished
to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
4.   A new Schedule 4 has been added that reads as follows:
                      SCHEDULE 4
                    Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
     2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
     3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
               deposits into the Special Account at such
               intervals as the Bank shall specify.
          (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request,
               the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
               documents and other evidence required pursuant
               to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
               or payments in respect of which replenishment is
               requested.  On the basis of each such request,
               the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
               withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
               the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
               shall have requested and as shall have been
               shown by said documents and other evidence to
               have been paid out of the Special Account for
Page  3
               eligible expenditures.
     All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
     4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
     5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
     Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
     6.  (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further
deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until
the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
Page  4
