Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.:    16382
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI
MALAWI INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
(Credit 2069-MAI)
March 18, 1997
Water, Urban and Energy 1
Eastern and Southern Africa
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                          = Malawi Kwacha (MK)
US$1.00                                = MK   2.60  (October 1988)
US$1.00                                = MK   2.73  (1989)
US$1.00                                = MK  15.38  (March, 1996)
FISCAL YEAR
April I to March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I imperial gallon (Zg)                 =1.2 US gallons = 4.55 liters (1)
I cubic meter (m/3)                   = 220 Ig  = 264.2 US gallons
I liter per capita per day (I cd)      =0.2642 US gallons per capita per day
I million imperial gallons per day
(Igd)                               =4,546 m/3/day
I meter(m)                               3.28 feet (ft)
I millimeter (mm)                        0.039 inch (in)
I kilometer(Km)                        = 0.62 mile (mi)
I square kilometer (kM2)               = 0.386 square mile (sq thi)
247 acres (ac)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB                           =African Development Bank
BUMMAS                         =Buildings Maintenance Management System
CBM                            = Community Based Management (of water supplies)
DANIDA                         =Danish Intemational Development Agency
DCA                            = Development Credit Agreement
DEVPOL                         =Statement of Development Policies and Strategies (1986/87-95/96)
DRAMP                          =District Road Improvement and Maintenance Program
DWSF                           = District Water Supply Fund
EDF                              European Development Fund
EIA                            =Environmental Impact Assessment
ERR                            =Economic Rate of Retum
EU                             =European Union
FRG                            =Federal Republic of Germany (later Republic of Germany)
GOM                            = Government of Malawi
GTZ                            = Gesellschafl far Technische Zusammenarbeit
H1DM                           =Highway Design Model
ICR                              Implementation Completion Report
IFMIS                          = Integrated Financial Management Information System
JICA                           = Japan International Cooperation Agency
KfW                              Kreditanstalt for Wiederaufbau
MIP                            = Malawi lnfrastructure Project
MIS                            = Management [nformation System
MOWS                           = Ministry of Works and Supplies
MIWD                           = Ministry of Irrigation and Water Development
NWDP                           = National Water Development Project
NTC                            =Northem Transport Corridor Project
ODA                            = Overseas Development Agency
PSIP                           =Public Sector Investment Program
PVHO                           =Plant and Vehicle Hlire Organisation
ROMARP                         =Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
SAR                            =Staff Appraisal Report
SADC                           =Southem Africa Development Council
SATCC                          = Southern Africa Trade Cooperation Conference
TA                             =Technical Assistance
UK                             =United Kingdom
UNCDF                          =United Nations Capital Development Fund
UNDP                           = United Nations Development Program
UNICEF                         =United Nations Children's Fund
USAID                          =United States Agency for Intemational Development
VLOM                           =Village Level Operation and Maintenance (of rural water supplies)
Vice President: Callisto Madavo
Country Director: Barbara Kafka
Task Manager: John Shepherd
ICR prepared By: John Kandulu



MALAWI                               FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2069-MAI)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ......................................................i
A. Introduction ......................................................i
B. Statement/Evaluation of Project Objectives and Benefits .......................................................i
C. Achievement of Project Objectives ...................................................... iii
D. Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned ..............................................v
E. Key Lessons ......................................................                                       vi
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .......................................................               1
A. Background ......................................................                                         1l
B. Statement and Evaluation of Project Objectives .......................................................2
C. Project Background .......................................................2
D. Project Description .......................................................4
E. Achievement of Project Objectives ...............................5
G. Project Sustainability ............................                                                      12
H.. Bank Performance ............................                                                           14
1. Borrower Performance ............................                                                        15
J. Performance of Coflnancing Agencies ............................                                         16
K. Assessment of Project Outcome ............................                                               16
L. Economic Analysis ............................                                                           17
M. Key Lessons Learned ............................                                                         18
Part II            Statistical Tables
Table 1:           Summary of Assessments
Table 2:           Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:           Project Timetable
Table 4:           Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:           Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:           Summary of Progress of Co-financed Components
Table 7:           Studies Included in Project
Table 8:           Project Financing Plan
Table 9:           Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:          Status of Legal Covenants
Table II:    Bank Resources: Missions
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Annexes:    I      Completion Mission Aide-Memoire
2     Borrower Contribution to the ICR
3     Performance on Cofinanced Components
4     Performance of AfDF/ADB Financed Components
5     Management Improvement Component: Training Sub-Component
Map: IBRD 21225



MALAWI
INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2069-MAI)
PREFACE
1.             This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the
Infrastructure Project in Malawi, for which Credit 2069-MAI in the amount of SDR22.3
million (US$28.8 million equivalent) was approved on November 7, 1989 and made
effective on June 19, 1990.
2.    The Credit was closed on December 31, 1995 and was fully disbursed. The final
disbursement was transacted on April 30, 1996. Cofinancing was provided by various
multilateral and bilateral donors as listed in Table 8, and disbursement is continuing in
relation to several of these components.
3.    This ICR has been prepared by M. John Kandulu, Infrastructure Program Officer,
Malawi Resident Mission (AFMMW) and reviewed by Messrs. K. John Shepherd, (Task
Team Leader, AFTU1) and Jeffrey Racki (Technical Manager AFTU 1); and Ms. Barbara
Kafka (Country Director: Angola, Zimbabwe, and Malawi). The Borrower provided
comments which have been incorporated in the report.
4.    Preparations for this ICR were initiated during the Bank's final supervision
mission that took place from July 24 to August 6, 1995 and whose Aide Memoire is
annexed to this report. The contents of this report are based on material in the project
file.






MALAWI
INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
(Credit 2069-MAI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A.   Introduction
1.    Donor support for the Malawi Infrastructure Project (MIP) was aimed, in the
transport sector, at improving the condition of trunk and rural roads in Malawi in order to
reduce transport and user costs, enhance the reliability of transport outside and within the
country, and prevent the progressive deterioration of roads caused by lack of timely
maintenance. In the water sector, the project aimed at augmenting urban and rural water
supplies to cater for a growing demand for potable water in urban centers, increasing
access to safe water by rural communities, and strengthening the capacity of the Water
Department to manage national water resources and water supply services in a sustainable
manner. In public buildings, the project aimed at rehabilitating selected public buildings
to improve their utility and extend their useful lives. The MIP was cofmanced with other
bilateral and multilateral aid donors as listed in Table 8.
B.    Statement/Evaluation of Project Objectives and Benefits
2.    The objectives of the MIP at appraisal stage were to: i) strengthen the
management capability of the Ministry of Works and Supplies (MOWS) through
technical assistance and training to effectively manage public infrastructure facilities; ii)
restore and improve the physical condition of selected main and secondary roads to
facilitate the movement of traffic and lower transport costs; iii) expand the existing
system of district roads to provide improved access for increasing numbers of rural
people; iv) expand potable water supply coverage in selected urban and rural areas; and
v) rehabilitate high priority government hospitals, schools and other important public
buildings to extend their useful lives, and improve the provision of public services.
3.    The original project objectives were clear, realistic and directed at responding to
the country's long-termn infrastructure needs, but the size and extent of the project were,
in hindsight, too ambitious, especially in view of the human and financial capacity
limitations of the implementing Ministry in particular, and the Government in general.
4.    The objectives were restructured during the project's Mid-Term Review (MTR) in
response to the country's immediate needs, primarily caused by a four-year drought that
adversely affected almost all sectors of the economy - agriculture, water, health, and
education being the worst hit. In addition to assessing overall progress in component



- ii -
implementation, the review also re-prioritized project elements and reallocated resources
to more important areas, primarily the provision of safe water and improvement of
additional rural roads for the conveyance of relief items such as food and medicines, to
communities affected by the drought. Secondly, IDA financing was re-aligned to cover
priority areas left by other co-financiers who withdrew their support in reaction to
concerns about governance. Projects such as Zomba Urban Supply including Zomba
Dam (KfW, DANIDA, JICA); Supply of Road Maintenance Equipment and Vehicles
Phase IV (JICA); and Technical Assistance and Training for MOWS Personnel (ODA
and UNDP) are cases in point.
5.    Major outputs expected from the MIP before the Mid-Term Review included:
MOWS Management Improvement
* an increased capacity of the Ministry of Works and Supplies to manage its
program efficiently;
Roads
*  about 270 km of paved roads rehabilitated and strengthened, about 300 km of
earth and gravel roads rehabilitated; about 1 15 km of earth and gravel roads
improved to bitumen standard; and about 200 km of paved roads resealed;
*  extension of the District Road Improvement and Maintenance Program (DRIMP)
rural road network to three districts, about 500 km of additional roads in other
districts, execution of spot improvements on previously developed DRIMP roads,
and support to DRIMP road maintenance through the provision of equipment,
tools and a budget;
*  9 road maintenance depots constructed and furnished, and capacities of selected
existing depots expanded;
*  a national road safety program developed and implemented;
Water Supply
* Seven urban water supply schemes improved for an extended coverage;
* 2,500 boreholes rehabilitated, and beneficiary communities trained in the
Community Based Management (CBM) of rural water supplies;
* 13 gravity-fed piped water schemes constructed in selected rural areas;
Public Buildings
* 19 selected schools, hospitals, and other public buildings rehabilitated; and
* Lilongwe and Zomba Training Centers expanded and improved.
6.    Changes made to the project during the Mid-Term Review include:
amendments to the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) to support the
MOWS road maintenance budget on a declining basis over a three-year



- iii -
period commencing fiscal 1993/94, as a result of government's failure to
meet its Covenant with the IDA (See also Paragraph 21 in the main report).
The allocations would be pro rata to the Ministry's total expenditure on road
maintenance, distributed as 30, 25 and 15% respectively for each of the three
years;
*  establishment of a Road Maintenance Initiative (RMI) Unit to facilitate the
creation of a Road (Maintenance) Fund, and a Roads Board to manage the
Fund. The Fund would augment government's allocation to the MOWS
recurrent budget for road maintenance. In addition, the Ministry requested
financing for a comprehensive investigation of the extent of over-loading on
the primary road network to determine the likely effect of upgrading the axle
load limit from 8.2 to 10.0 tonnes per vehicle axle. This would assist
government to prioritize future investments in the network;
*  IDA agreed to finance a detailed engineering design, an EIA, and later
construction of Zomba Dam and associated works for Zomba Urban Water
Supply after KfW and DANIDA withdrew support;
*  improvement of the existing source for Ntcheu Urban Water Supply would
proceed only as far as detail engineering design as the supply to the town had
meanwhile been augmented from two high-yielding boreholes as an interim
emergency intervention. Additional work requested by government during
the MTR however was identification of a more reliable alternative source for
Ntcheu, and a preliminary EIA for the selected site. Savings from this
component were used to finance the drilling of 72 drought relief boreholes;
purchase of a drilling rig; water quality testing equipment for the Central
Water Laboratory, and supervision vehicles for the Water Department for
drought mitigation;
*  institutional capacity building for the Ministry of Works was extended to
cover support for the training of Architecture, Engineering, and Quantity
Surveying students in British Universities, previously under ODA funding, as
a result of the withdrawal of British support for the project; and
*  allocation of approximately US$570,000 for the engagement of Technical
Assistance to coordinate the work of various Consultants, and to finance
minor physical works related to the Northern Transport Corridor (NTC)
Project (Credit 1 879-MAI) such as fire fighting equipment and facilities;
modifications to fuel pumping equipment; improvements to drainage and
structures. An additional effort in this component was extension of the
Credit to finance a study to privatize Lake Malawi Transport and Port
Services, as part of the restructuring of the Malawi Railways, of which it was
a sister concern.
C.   Achievement of Project Objectives
7.    The IDA component of the MIP achieved some of its objectives, namely:
increasing the capacity of the Ministry of Works and Supplies to manage its program



- iv -
annually; extending the DRIMP roads program in additional districts (100%) and
improving existing roads in others (100%); expanding safe water coverage to selected
urban schemes and rural communities through improved urban schemes (100%) and rural
boreholes (98%). However, it fell short of achieving its targets in the construction of new
DRIMP roads (39%); construction of road maintenance depots and supervisors' houses
(25%); training of communities in CBM (31 %); and the rehabilitation of public buildings
(35%) (Table 5). Significant project cost escalation after project appraisal due to
inflation and currency floatation, withdrawal of fiscal support by major aid donors, and
the effects of a prolonged drought all adversely affected the achievement of project
objectives. The overall performance of major components of the MIP is summarized in
Table 1.
Project Sustainability
8.    The extent to which the facilities improved in the project are sustained depends on
the commitment of the Government of Malawi (GOM) to the sector, and its ability to
meet recurrent expenditures adequately. So far this does not seem to be the case as the
road network and water services continue to deteriorate at an alarming rate, with some
main roads becoming impassable and bridges collapsing due to lack of maintenance.
This situation is likely to be reversed if Government implements the Road Maintenance
Initiative (RMI) currently under preparation with financial support from the Bank and the
European Union (EU). Secondly, the impressive number of experienced senior
management and professional staff successfully trained using proceeds of this Credit is
likely to drop significantly as more and more are being transferred to other GOM
agencies, moving to the private sector and Non-Government Organizations (NGOs), or
dying. (Annex 5)
9.    Rural water supply services were generally not implemented in a manner likely to
result in sustainable infrastructure. Over 2,500 boreholes were rehabilitated, but several
hundred of the communities served by these boreholes were not given adequate training
in operation and maintenance. More sustainable arrangements will be established with
the implementation of the National Water Development Project (NWDP) that was
declared effective on May 1, 1996, and the Bank/UNICEF promoted a collaborative
approach to the sustainability of rural water services. However, sustainability as
implemented under the MIP is considered to be unsatisfactory.
10.   Significant improvements made under the project to a few selected public
buildings would have been sustained through the MIP-financed Building Maintenance
Management System (BUMMAS) installed in the Buildings Department of MOWS for
the timely maintenance of the government building stock. Regrettably, this is an area that
continues to receive little attention and commitment from GOM, with preference going to
new construction rather than the up-keep of existing stock. Sustainability of public
buildings is therefore highly unlikely unless the government's attitude towards the
maintenance of its buildings changes radically, especially with regard to decentralizing
the maintenance of buildings to sector ministries. The Ministry of Works would then



- v -
assume advisory and oversight roles with respect to construction and major rehabilitation
activities only, as is already happening now post-MIP. The project failed to recognize
this aspect and was prepared on the basis of the status quo with unsatisfactory results.
Environmental Impact
11.   The Project Staff Appraisal Report predicted beneficial effects on the environment
as a result of implementing the project. Construction of new DRIMP roads, and
rehabilitation of existing earth roads has had beneficial effects of checking soil erosion in
adjacent land, as was originally predicted, through the channelization of stormwater into
engineered drainage structures. Improved road pavements have increased access to some
parts of the country during the wet season, and reduced damage to vehicles.
Abandonment of the first dam site for Zomba Urban Water Supply has ensured the
conservation of the unique ecosystem around the marsh on Zomba Plateau. Siting of the
new dam at the site of the existing dam is expected to have no significant adverse
environmental impacts, and will offer a larger body of water not only for water supplies
but also for sport fishing, camping, and other recreation. In rural areas, rehabilitation of
boreholes has afforded safe water to a large number of rural people with accompanying
positive health consequences. It has also significantly reduced the distance that families
have to walk to sources of safe water especially during periods of drought, thus freeing up
valuable time for other more productive socio-economic activities.
D.    Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
12.   GOM continued to face difficulties meeting budgetary requirements for adequate
road maintenance, and failed to take full advantage of IDA's commitment to reimburse,
on a declining scale up to December 31,1995, a proportion of its expenditure on road
maintenance. The ability of MOWS to effectively implement road development projects
and manage a sustainable national road network was compromised as a result. Secondly,
withdrawal of donor commitment for some components early in the project, continued
use of an inefficient force account on capital works, and the inability of national small-
scale contractors to satisfy contract obligations, all had negative impact on project
implementation.
13.   MOWS has, through the project, installed Management Information Systems to
facilitate program planning, implementation, monitoring, and management decision-
making. The degree to which these systems continue to function will depend to a large
extent on the ability of the concerned Ministries to retain staff trained in these areas, and
to care for and protect the expensive investments made in computer hard- and software
installations. So far this does not seem to be the case, as some equipment is reported to
be unserviceable or stolen, and six specially trained senior staff have since left MOWS.



- vi -
Economic Analysis
15.   Table 9 is a comparison of the Economic Rates of Return at project appraisal in
June 1988 for first year components, and for IDA components at the time of preparing
this ICR (August 1996). ERRs at project closure are well above those projected at
appraisal. The reasons for this are: (i) for public buildings: benefits accrued from the cost
of reconstruction avoided, and associated savings from annual maintenance costs, and for
hospitals, increased utilization of the improved facilities; (ii) for roads: increased
utilization for the conveyance of relief items to drought areas, increased agricultural
production in the 1994/95 growing season, and traffic diverted from the poorly
maintained primary and secondary road system; (iii) for rural water supply: increased
number of households per borehole, and reduced maintenance costs; and (iv) for urban
water supply: additional water sales due to system rehabilitation reducing water losses,
enabling additional demand to be met by the project.
E.    Key Lessons
17.   The MIP offers useful lessons for future operations in the infrastructure sector.
The following are some of the more important::
a) Project cost estimates made during project appraisal should be monitored
closely in the period leading to project implementation.
b) The ability of government both to provide counterpart funds, and to match
recurrent expenditures with the rate of infrastructure development should be
assessed and confirmed at the appraisal stage, and reassessed annually. Levels
of investment in development projects should be set and reset accordingly.
c) Frequent supervision missions with an appropriate skills mix should have
been undertaken throughout the life of the project, especially given the
complexity of the project and the high turnover of both Borrower and Donor
staff.
d) This multi-sectoral project, funded by many donors, was too complex and
difficult for the Borrower to satisfy each donor's requirements, to meet
budgetary requirements, and to put together the skills and specialities to
implement the project satisfactorily. The Bank's supervision budgets tends to
be allocated by project rather than by program, and the fact that MIP was in
fact three sector projects rolled into one large program resulted in project
supervision being under resourced.
e) Different elements of the same component co-financed by a number of aid
agencies, posed special challenges especially when agencies withdraw their
support for the project. Future projects should be so designed as to avoid such
complex and interdependent arrangements.



- vii -
f) The project's problems underscore the importance of developing sector
projects from a clear institutional and policy framework. The Government has
responded to this need by developing sector policies and strategies in water,
transport and environment.
g) The experience of this project reinforces the argument for increased
participation of stakeholders and beneficiaries in the development of projects,
particularly the participation of the private sector and beneficiary communities
in provision and maintenance of infrastructure. This also ensures transparency
and accountability in the use of public resources by government.






MALAWI
INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
(Credit 2069-MAI)
PART I:    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   Background
1.    Malawi is a long, narrow, land-locked country situated in the Great African Rift
Valley with a land area of about 94,300 km2 and a freshwater lake area of 24,200 km2
(See IBRD Map No. 21225) The country is characterized by a limited resource base,
poorly developed social and physical infrastructure, and low per capita incomes
particularly for rural smallholders who constitute 90 percent of the population currently
estimated just under 11.0 million. Malawi has one of the highest population densities per
km2 of arable land in Africa, and agriculture contributes over 90% of the country's
exports. Rural development is a primary economic and social objective that inevitably
requires improvement of road access to markets, public health facilities and other services
for the rural population. It also entails ensuring convenient sources of safe and easily
accessible water supplies to rural communities.
2.    Responsibility for the provision and maintenance of road infrastructure, water,
and public buildings was during implementation vested in the Ministry of Works and
Supplies (MOWS). (The subsequently formed Ministry of Irrigation and Water
Development (MIWD) now has responsibility for the provision of district (town) water
supplies.) The Malawi Infrastructure Project (MIP) was a five-year multi-discipline and
multi-donor financed project whose primary objective was to strengthen the capability of
the MOWS to manage the country's infrastructure, benefits of which would be realized
within the context of the road, water and public buildings components of the
infrastructure sector. Severe funding and expenditure constraints that faced, and continue
to face, the Government of Malawi (GOM) underscore the importance of maintaining the
existing infrastructure, and of maximizing benefits through an efficient and effective
program management system.
3.    At the time of project appraisal, a total of 11 international bilateral and
multilateral aid donors had committed themselves to finance various parts of the project.
The Government of Malawi contributed approximately 10% of the total project cost of
about US$157.7 million. The IDA Credit amounted to SDR22.3 million (US$28.8
million equivalent). The project became effective on June 19, 1990, and was closed on
December 31, 1995.



-2 -
B.    Statement and Evaluation of Project Objectives
4.    The objectives of the MIP were to: i) strengthen the management capacity of the
Ministry of Works and Supplies through technical assistance and training in order to
effectively carry out the construction and maintenance of public facilities; ii) restore and
improve the physical condition of selected main and secondary roads to facilitate the
movement of traffic and lower transport costs; iii) expand the existing system of district
roads to provide improved access for more rural people; iv) expand potable water
supplies for selected urban schemes and rural water supplies; and v) rehabilitate selected
high priority government hospitals, schools and other important public buildings so that
they contribute more efficiently and effectively to the provision of public services and
extend their useful lives.
5.    These objectives were clear and consonant with the Government's Statement of
Development Policies and Strategies (DEVPOL) for the 1986/87-95/96 planning horizon;
as well as the Bank's assistance strategy for Malawi at the time. Government's sector
development strategies emphasized improvement of existing infrastructure, and extension
of coverage to rural communities to facilitate movement to socio-economic centers, and
enhance the health and welfare of the rural poor. It is worth noting however that these
objectives assumed a continuation of the national status quo characterized by a stable
political situation, and a sound economic environment which, in turn, meant sufficient
financial resources to cover project local costs, as well as guarantee adequate allocations
on the recurrent budget to ensure the sustainability of the facilities once improved. The
modal structure of the project lent itself to easy re-prioritization of components during
project implementation in response to national dynamics. This assisted the Government
to reallocate unspent project funds to more needy areas during a period of protracted
drought when government efforts were concentrated on minimizing the severe effects of
the drought.
C.   Project Background
6.    A 1987 management study of MOWS established that the Ministry's management
could and should be improved substantially, and included an action plan for achieving
that objective. Specifically, the study recommended an improved direction setting for the
Ministry, better management control, a better functioning organization, development of
human resources, and allocation of adequate financial and material resources to carry
through planned programs. A Management Improvement Component (MIC) largely
comprising Technical Assistance, installation of management information systems, and
staff training was therefore incorporated into the project to implement recommendations
of the study.
7.    Since independence in 1964, Malawi took strides to establish a sustainable
infrastructure through ambitious externally financed projects including the World Bank
Group's highly successful First Highway (Cr. 112-MAI), Second Highway (Cr. 523-
MAI), Third Highway (Cr. 758-MAI), Fourth Highway (Cr. 1099-MAI), Fifth Highway



-3 -
(Credits 2363-MAI, 1423-MAI, and SF-6-MAI) Projects; and the Northern Transport
Corridor Project (Cr 1879-MAI). (Credits 2363-MAI and 1879-MAI were cofinanced by
the African Development Bank (AfDB) and the European Development Fund (EDF)
respectively.) The road rehabilitation and resealing components of MIP were a
continuation of work initiated under the Fifth Highway Project, and the extension of the
DRIMP component to the three remaining districts was also carried over from the Fifth
Highway Project.
All the previous projects cited above were aimed at expanding the national road network
but did not provide adequately for the development of a capacity in GOM to manage the
investments sustainably. The MIP, on the other hand, provided for technical assistance to
the Roads Department to develop its capacity to plan, construct, and maintain the national
network adequately and sustainably.
8.   In the water sector, the Government of Malawi has since independence
undertaken several projects with foreign aid financing to improve the supply of water and
water services to both urban and rural populations. The Bank Group has financed three
water supply projects in Malawi, namely:
* the Blantyre Water Supply Project (Credit 711-MAI, 1977, US$7.0 million) to
augment water supply to the City of Blantyre, and strengthen Blantyre Water
Board's management and technical capabilities;
Lilongwe Water Supply Engineering Project (Credit 1272-MAI, 1982, SDR
3.6 million) to assist GOM and the Lilongwe Water Board formulate a long
range water supply, sewerage and sanitation program, prepare studies for
water supply extension, strengthen the Board through improvements in
management and training, and help GOM develop low-cost technologies for
handling sewerage and sanitation; and
the Second Lilongwe Water Supply Project (Credit 1742-MAI, 1986, US$
20.0 million) aimed principally at augmenting the water supply of Lilongwe
through the construction of a dam/reservoir and to expand Lilongwe's water
supply system to cater for an increased demand.
Government's long-term target is for families to have access to safe water within 500 m
of each household. The urban water supply component of MIP was aimed at expanding
the capacity of seven urban water systems and enabling them to cater for a growing
demand for potable water. Rehabilitation of rural boreholes and construction of new ones
sought to improve water supplies to a large number of rural people throughout the
country, and helped reduce the time spent by families waLking long distances to fetch
water, especially in times of drought and in normal dry seasons.
9.    Rehabilitation of selected public buildings was intended to improve their utility
and extend their useful lives. Except for minor emergency repairs, most of the targeted
buildings had not received adequate routine or periodic maintenance since construction.
Thus their renewal was also meant to demonstrate the substantial savings that can be



-4-
gained from timely attention. It was also envisioned that long-term benefits would accrue
from the development of an on-going maintenance program that would obviate the need
for premature major rehabilitation or replacement investments.
D.   Project Description
10.   The Project provided financial assistance to the Government of Malawi to
implement a set of activities identified by the MOWS for management improvement and
training as well as maintenance, rehabilitation and construction works in the roads, water,
and public building sub-sectors over a five-year period commencing in fiscal 1989/90.
The IDA Credit funded components of the project as described in Paragraph 11 below.
The rest were cofinanced by ten (10) other multilateral and bilateral donors as described
in Section J and Annex 3.
11.  IDA Credit Components comprised:
(a)   MOWS Management Improvement: Implementation of a management
improvement program for MOWS through Technical Assistance, and consultant
studies for the identification, installation and institutionalization of Management
Information Systems and training;
(b)   Roads: (i) DRIMP Phase IV: Extension of DRIMP to five Districts
carried forward from the Fifth Highway Project (Mwanza, Blantyre and
Chiradzulu); rehabilitation of about 500km of additional roads in other districts;
spot improvements on 350 km of existing DRIMP roads; and maintenance
support. The first phase of DRIMP began in 1979 under the Second Highway
Project and continued under subsequent highway projects; (ii) Road
Maintenance Depots: Maintenance depots and residential houses for roads
supervisory personnel would be constructed or improved to support road
maintenance activities; and (iii) Technical Assistance and Training for
personnel of the Roads Department for a total of 298 person-months in road
planning, design and construction specifically in the rural roads division and in
the soils and materials branch; for an urban roads study, and for PVHO;
(c)   Water: (i) Urban Water Supply: augmentation of water supply systems
at Mponela, Mangochi, Ntcheu, Zomba, and Karonga through the expansion of
existing schemes and construction of new intake systems, treatment facilities,
storage tanks, trunk mains and distribution networks. Further, a complete re-
valuation of all assets belonging to schemes in the District Water Supply Fund
(DWSF) would be undertaken in order to update the Fund's asset register, and to
facilitate such future valuations; (ii) Rehabilitation of Boreholes: 500 boreholes
out of a total planned 2500 were to be financed from IDA proceeds and the
remainder by the UNCDF. Integrated into the rehabilitation program was the
Village Level Operation and Maintenance (VLOM) system which places
responsibility for the sustainability of rural water supply services under user
communities; and



(d)   Public Buildings: The Buildings Department of the MOWS, with the
assistance of Consultants, carried out an inspection of buildings from its inventory
and selected a total of 21 public hospitals, schools, colleges and other buildings
for rehabilitation and improvement under the project.
12.   Although all the components were identified by the Ministry of Works and
Supplies during the project identification and preparation phases, some components were
transferred for execution by other Ministries notably the African Development Fund
(AfDF) funded Road Safety component (Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation), the
IDA-funded Urban Roads Study (Ministry of Local Government), and the UNDP
supported Pilot Integrated Rural Transport component (Ministry of Transport and Civil
Aviation).
13.   MOWS has, through the project, installed Management Information Systems to
facilitate program planning, implementation, monitoring, and the management decision-.
making process. Computer-based programs such as the Integrated Financial Management
Information System (IFMIS), the Logical Framework, Water Billing Systems, Fleet
Management Information System and Billing Systems for the Plant and Vehicle Hire
Organization (PVHO), an enhanced Highway Design Model III (HDM III) for road
planning, the Weigh-in-Motion traffic management model and the Buildings
Maintenance Management System (BUMMAS) for public buildings are all in use in
MOWS and the Ministry of Irrigation and Water Development, as appropriate.
14.   The MIP supported a number of ready-for-implementation studies in relation to
water supply services and water resources management including the development of the
National Water Resources Management Policy and Strategies. . It also set up and
equipped the Road Maintenance Initiative (RMI) Project Unit within the Ministry of
Works and Supplies, and supported a study to rationalize (later restructure and
commercialize) the Lake Malawi Transport Services and Port Facilities.
E.   Achievement of Project Objectives
15.  Implementation of the MIP was dogged with delays which, arnong other problems
as will become apparent later, made it difficult for the project to achieved its objectives
fully, particularly in: i) the construction of new District Roads (39% achievement); ii)
construction of road maintenance depots and staff housing (25%); iii) training of
communities in Community Based Maintenance of rural water facilities (31 %); and iv)
in the rehabilitation of public buildings (35%). (See Table 5 and Annex 3) These delays
were largely attributed to: i) cost escalation as a result of time lapse between
preparation of project estimates in 1988 and declaration of credit effectiveness in June
1990; ii) inadequate annual allocations to MOWS in Part I Public Sector Investment
Program (PSIP) development budget; iii) lack of counterpart funding from GOM for Part
II of the PSIP; and iv) GOM's inability to satisfy those covenants of the credit that
impinged on the rate at which the credit was disbursed.



- 6 -
16.   Above all, the assumptions mentioned in Paragraph 5. above changed during
implementation as donor sanctions to accelerate political change, withdrawal of co-
financing agencies from the project, and a protracted drought, caused a reduction in
available resources and budget cuts. Further, a culture of total risk aversion developed in
the civil service due to the severity of the former regime stifling initiatives, causing a
considerable out-flux of managerial level staff, and a general drop in productivity in the
public labor force.
17.   At the time of the Mid-Term Review (MTR), it had become necessary to rescope
the project to respond to a prevailing adverse social, political, and economic environment
in the country caused mainly by: i) a prolonged drought in the region; ii) influx of over
one million refugees fleeing the civil war in Mozambique after the project had already
been appraised; iii) withdrawal of ODA support for Technical Assistance and funding
for overseas students in the UK, many of whom were MOWS Architects; and iv) extra
resources required for Technical Assistance (TA) to complete remaining works on the
Northern Transport Corridor Project (NTC, Credit 1879-MAI) when it became apparent
that its resources were becoming insufficient to achieve the desired results.
Consequently, more emphasis was placed on the provision of potable water, access roads
for haulage of relief items, and the improvement of hospitals in drought and refugee
concentration areas than may have at first been envisioned. Secondly, a way had to be
found to support the Ministry of Works' efforts in road maintenance as a result of GOM's
failure to allocate sufficient funds in the road maintenance budget. The Road
Maintenance Initiative (RMI) concept was thus introduced in Malawi in 1994 to facilitate
the creation of a Road Fund to be financed from a fuel levy and road user charges and
fines. The Bank was already introducing this concept elsewhere in the region with
measurable success, and it was therefore seen as a sustainable way of financing road
maintenance in Malawi.
18.   Management Improvements and Capacity Development Component (MIC):
The Ministry of Works and Supplies was, for the duration of this project, responsible for
the national road network, water supplies (except for Blantyre and Lilongwe), and plant
and vehicle fleet management. The objective of the MIP was thus to strengthen the
management of the Ministry to better manage its large multi-sectoral program. This need
was clearly brought out in a report by De Luew Cather International Ltd. in association
with Price Waterhouse titled " A Blue Print for Management Improvement: Preparing
the Ministry of Works and Supplies to Meet the Challenges of Malawi 's Future"
(January, 1988). The Management Improvement Component of MIP was therefore
modeled on the recommendations of this report and included work in the areas of
* Management Information Systems;
* Financial Management Technical Assistance;
* Plant and Vehicle Hire Organization (PVHO) Technical Assistance;
* Executive Technical Assistance; and
* Training of MOWS Management in program delivery.



-7 -
19.  Implementation of this component has been satisfactory with the exception of the
PVHO Technical Assistance which was terminated due to non-performance of the
individual procured under this sub-component, and the Buildings Maintenance
Management System which was not fully realized due to complex parameters in the
building stock, and lack of model systems in this field. However, other information
systems installed in the Ministry's key functional areas such as the Integrated Financial
Management Information System (IFMIS), the Water Billing System for the District
Water Supply Fund, and the Logical Framework for Ministry-wide program planning and
evaluation are all in active use in the Ministry.
20.   Several MOWS officers received training that ranged from in-country short
courses and workshops to undergraduate and postgraduate Degrees overseas in relevant
fields. (Annex 5) Out of 31 officers who received scholarships for postgraduate studies,
28 (90%) have completed their studies and are back in the country; 19 (6 1%) are in
relevant positions in the Ministry of Works and Supplies; 4 (13%) are in various positions
within GOM or in GOM/IDA-funded Project Implementation Units (PIUs); 5 (16%) are
still studying; and 4 (13%) have joined the private sector or Non-Government
Organizations (NGO). A total of 32 officers received sponsorships to attend various short
courses within and outside the country in their fields of expertise. Of these, 25 are still
serving in MOWS or the Water Department - a 78% rate of retention. The rest (22%)
have since left the Ministry either on posting within GOM, moved to international donor
agencies and regional development organizations, or are deceased. The overall retention
rate in the Ministry of Works and Supplies at the time of preparing this report for the
short- and long-term training and staff development effort, including those still at school,
was 80% (48 out of 60 officers). This is considered to be a satisfactory achievement,
especially in the face of a severe shortage of skills in the country and the resulting
scramble for experts on the market.
21.   Two additional efforts in this area were: i) retention of the services of the
Controller of Buildings, previously financed by ODA, under this component until the
post was localized in July 1995; and ii) engagement of Chief Architect TA to provide
support and training for young Architects until December 1995. At the time of the SAR
in 1989, there were 27 expatriates in the Ministry of Works. All these posts are now
occupied by local staff as a result of an aggressive staff development program and an
accelerated localization program under the MIC component.
22.   Roads: Successes achieved in previous DRIMP projects were replicated in
DRIMP Phase IV, with the extension to the five districts carried over from the Fifth
Highway Project and spot improvements in 17 districts completed successfully. Five
hundred (500) kilometers of new district roads were planned to be constructed to DRIMP
standard in this project using small-scale Malawian national contractors wherever these
were considered cost effective, and as part of government's deliberate policy of
development of national contractors. However construction of new roads in 21 districts
was delayed inordinately partly on account of lack of adequate local counterpart funds
and partly due to technical problems associated with the use of national contractors,



- 8 -
principal among which was the contractors' inability to secure Performance Bonds and
working capital. The Ministry made attempts to intensify implementation of the works
towards the end of the project in order to achieve the planned target. However, at the end
of the project only 195 km of track were improved to district road standard in 19 of the 21
districts.
23.   Construction of Road Maintenance Depots: This component was dropped
during the MTR process and had its resources re-allocated to higher priority areas such as
the rehabilitation of rural roads and construction of rural boreholes. Work to construct
new road maintenance depots commenced early in the project but was suspended when it
became clear that GOM counterpart funding was not forthcoming and the component
assumed a lower priority. As a result, only 8 maintenance depots and 7 residential houses
for Road Supervisors and Road Foremen were constructed to completion out of planned
30 depots and 37 residential houses.
24.   Road Maintenance Support: It was established during project implementation
that GOM allocations for road maintenance continued to decline over time, with the
allocation for 1995/96 projected to be under 40% of the Ministry's requirements. These
levels contravened Section 4.03 of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA). GOM
therefore sought agreement from the Bank to provide recurrent cost support on a
declining basis in line with its support for DRIMP roads. The DCA was amended such
that the Association would finance 30% of maintenance expenditure in 1993/94, 25% in
1994/95, and 15% in 1995/96 to provide an adequate and desirable level of service that
protected the nation's road network without storing-up additional longer term
rehabilitation costs. By December 1995, IDA had reimbursed GOM a total of MK7.111
million for 1993/94 representing 30% of its expenditure on road maintenance, and
MK6.06 million for 1994/95. The Accountant General has since claimed MK3.0 million,
being 15% of the total expenditure on road maintenance to December 1995 of fiscal
1995/96.
25.   The Labour-intensive Mobile Pavement Repair Team (MPRT): In order to
maximize the application of the allocations as amended in the DCA, the Bank developed
and proposed to GOM, during the project's mid-term review, a labor based "Mobile
Pavement Repair Team" road maintenance approach using appropriate technologies. The
method was "workshopped" with MOWS maintenance personnel to further develop the
approach, and a pilot was run in the Central Region of the country to test it. It was
confirmed at the workshop and on the pilot that the method had a lot to offer to the
sustainability of the road network in Malawi. The MOWS extended the MPRT
throughout the country using additional plant and equipment purchased from funds
reallocated within MIP.
26.   Towards the end of the project (between September and December 1995) the
Project supported the purchase of road maintenance plant and equipment consisting of 20
motor cycles for supervisory staff, 2 tipper trucks, 3 farm tractors with trailers, 4 motor



9-
graders, 5 pick-up trucks (1-ton capacity), and bulk bitumen all at a total cost of
SDR983,000. These had all been delivered and put to use by project closure.
27.   Road Maintenance Initiative (RMI) and the Integrated Road Development
Program (IRDP): Having appreciated the need to develop and establish a long-term and
sustainable road maintenance system in close collaboration with others in the region,
GOM has initiated the RMI and IRDP by employing a Road Maintenance Initiative
Coordinator initially funded from MIP and, effective January 1, 1996, by the European
Union (EU). The RMI Coordinator would, among other things, coordinate the
development and passing of Legislation establishing a Road Maintenance Fund, and
formation of a Road Board to oversee the utilization of the fund. Legislation has been
drafted and passing of a Bill by Parliament is expected within the 1997 calendar year.
Substantial outputs from the RMI Coordinator in accordance with his TOR will form the
basis of the Bank's Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project (ROMARP) presently
being identified, as a follow-on to MIP.
28.   Axle Load Study: Six main road sections on major inter-regional links were
investigated to determine the extent of axle loading on Malawi's primary network and the
likely effect of increasing the legal axle load limit from 8.2 tonnes to 10.0 tonnes to
match the standard loading in the SATCC region. This was also in response to the
increasing traffic loading on the national network which far exceeds levels that were
predicted during the design phase of many of the country's major roads. Results of the
study showed that increasing the legal axle load from 8.2 to 10.0 tonnes per axle would
not greatly increase the current adverse effect on the condition of most of the roads
investigated as most of them have deep, well designed pavements which are less sensitive
to increases in axle loading.
29.   Water: Of the four urban water supply systems planned for augmentation under
IDA financing, only two, namely Mangochi and Karonga, were fully implemented.
Augmentation works for Mangochi Urban Water Supply involved new intake works on
Shire River, 2No. pressure filters with a capacity of 66m3/hr each, construction of 1.01km
pumping main, 2 - concrete ground level storage tanks, each 400m3 capacity, and various
distribution lines. Karonga Urban Water Supply works comprised 3 - river intake wells
and a collector well, 1.8km of raw water main, 1 - sedimentation tank (60m3/hr filter
capacity) and associated treatment equipment, a 536m3 storage tank, and 13.7km of
distribution line. Current coverage for Karonga Water Supply is just over 16,000 out of a
total urban population of 20,000 (or 80%), while that for Mangochi is 18 ,000 out of a
total population of 27,580 (or 65%). The shortfall in coverage is expected to be catered
for through the implementation of water supply augmentation works under the National
Water Development Project (NWDP) by the newly formed Regional Water Boards.
30.   Ntcheu, Zomba and Mponela Urban Water Supply Schemes: Because of
delays in awarding a contract to the Consultant for Ntcheu Water Supply, and the speed
with which the Consultant proceeded, work only progressed as far as completion of
detailed engineering studies, preparation of tender documents, and identification of new



- 10-
and more dependable sources of water for the town including a preliminary EIA for the
selected alternative. Due to insufficient time available to project closure, construction
was postponed and will now be carried out under the New Water Supply component of
the NWDP. It was further agreed with the IDA that funds originally earmarked for
construction works be utilized for the construction of 206 drought relief boreholes
throughout the country. Two high yielding boreholes (7 cumecs each) prospected in the
area were reticulated into the town supply as a medium-term solution for Ntcheu urban
supply. Mponela Urban Water Supply was dropped from the portfolio as the Water
Department had carried out improvement works using in-house (DWSF) resources.
31.   Design of a new 45m high rockfill dam with a storage capacity of 330,000m3, and
extension of existing treatment works and a distribution system for the Zomba Urban
Water Supply suffered from donor withdrawal as a result of the "good governance" issue.
This project was high on the list of priority projects to benefit from a reallocation of
funds within MIP during the MTR as a long-term drought relief intervention for the urban
population in Zomba. Detailed engineering designs, preparation of tender documents,
pre-qualification of Contractors, an Economic Analysis, and an EIA for the new dam site
have been completed and adopted by the GOM. Construction of a new dam immediately
downstream of the existing Mulunguzi Dam will be carried out under the NWDP, the
original site upstream of the existing site having earlier been rejected on account of a
negative EIA on the ecosystem as discussed in more detail in Paragraph 35 below.
32.   Rehabilitation of Boreholes: Implementation of this component suffered effects
of start-up delays and contractor procurement problems, resulting in a reduction of the
total number of boreholes to be rehabilitated under the IDA credit from 1500 to 1450 to
fit within the original funding commitment in the DCA. These boreholes were in the
Northern and Central Regions of the country. A further 1000 boreholes, cofinanced by
the UNCDF within MIP, were completed in the Southern Region. An additional 278
boreholes were brought in for construction in the final eighteen months of the project to
alleviate the scarcity of water in drought-stricken rural areas. At project closure, a total of
2555 of the 2778 original plus feed-in boreholes were completed, i.e. a 92% success rate.
A Drilling Rig and assorted water quality testing equipment for the National Water
Laboratory were also purchased as part of the drought relief intervention.
33.   Formation and training of village committees in Village Level Operations and
Maintenance (VLOM) at all the improved boreholes lagged far behind schedule,
compromising their sustainability. A collaborative approach to VLOM in particular, and
to the Community Based Maintenance of rural water, was developed by MOWS, IDA
and UNICEF to reduce the backlog and accelerate future CBM and VLOM activities.
This effort was promulgated to stakeholders (NGOs, the private sector and one donor) by
the Water Department through a Bank-funded workshop. It is hoped that this effort will
be implemented under the NWDP. The project also financed TA to clear the backlog of
VLOM training and by project closure only 778 of the original 1450 planned borehole
committees had been trained; the rest were deferred to the NWDP. At the time VLOM
was included in the project as a community-based management of rural water supplies, it



was an innovative concept still in its developmental stages. MIP facilitated its further
development and institutionalization in the Water Department.
34.   The District Water Supply Fund (DWSF) Asset Valuation was completed in 1994
with MIP funding to assist GOM fulfill its financial covenants stipulated in the DCA for
the sustainable operation of the fund. The valuation report contains updated replacement
values of the assets scheme by scheme, and forms a valuable input to the Business
Planning process for the Regional Water Boards (RWB) being formed under the NWDP.
It is important however that RWB personnel be sufficiently trained in re-valuation of
assets and the meaningful use of the information in the business development of the new
Boards.
35.   Public Buildings: Out of 21 public buildings identified for rehabilitation and
improvement, only 8 (eight) were completed representing a 38% success rate for this
component. The main causes of this low rate of achievement were: i) cost escalation in
excess of 150% due to time lapse between the preparation of estimates and project start-
up; and ii) unforeseeable additional works. The eight included: three District Hospitals;
one Central (Referral) Hospital; three Secondary Schools; and a Teacher Training
College. Machinga District Hospital and Chituo Housing were dropped from the original
list as they had received alternative funding - from KfW for construction of a new
Machinga District Hospital, and from GOM for Chituo Housing.
36.   Completion of Minor Works for the NTC: While not in the original project
design, US$0.57 million was set aside in 1992 for the engagement of a Project
Coordinator to oversee the completion of remaining minor rectification tasks on the NTC.
Successful completion of the NTC was critical to the removal of transport bottlenecks
experienced by the country in its import-export trade, and as an alternative route to the
sea ports. By December 1995, all outstanding minor works, including TA had been
completed satisfactorily and within budget.
37.   Study for the Privatization of Lake and Port Services: A total of SDR27,030
was reallocated from MIP to finance a study to privatize Lake Malawi and Port Services,
formerly part of Malawi Railways. The study, which generally cites the viability of these
services, was implemented by the Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation, and the
Consultant submitted his final report in January, 1996. The report forecasts increasing
demand for MLS passenger and cargo services but emphasizes the importance of speed
and efficiency for MLS if it is to survive competition from alternative modes of transport.
38.   Environmental impact: The Project Staff Appraisal Report predicted beneficial
effects on the environment as a result of implementing the project. Construction of new
DRIMP roads, and rehabilitation of existing earth roads has had beneficial effects of
checking soil erosion in adjacent land, as was originally predicted, by channeling
stormwater into engineered drainage structures. Improved road pavements have
increased access to some parts of the country during the wet season, and reduced damage
to vehicles. Abandonment of the first dam site for Zomba Urban Water Supply has



- 12 -
ensured the conservation of the unique ecosystem around the marsh on Zomba Plateau.
Siting of the new dam at the site of the existing dam is expected to have no significant
adverse environmental impacts, and will offer a larger body of water not only for water
supplies but also for sport fishing, camping, and other recreation. In rural areas,
rehabilitation of boreholes has afforded safe water to a large number of rural people with
accompanying positive health consequences. It has also significantly reduced the
distance that families have to walk to sources of safe water especially during periods of
drought, thus freeing up valuable time for other more productive socio-economic
activities.
F.    Key Factors Affecting Project Implementation
39.   Factors generally within GOM control that contributed to the gap between
actual and expected project outcome included: i) government's failure to allocate
sufficient funds to Part II of the PSIP development budget (local contribution) for road
construction and rehabilitation; ii) the government's inability to allocate sufficient funds
in the recurrent budget to meet adequate service levels of road maintenance in compliance
with a Credit Covenant; iii) slow procurement of goods and works leading to tardy
project start-ups and failure to complete projects within time; iv) non-compliance with
Credit Covenants as agreed in the project DCA (See Table 10); and v) reduced MOW
staff capacity when large numbers of staff were sent outside the country for training.
40.   Factors generally not within GOM control that contributed to the gap between
actual and expected project outcome included: i) IDA's condition not to declare the
Credit effective until all donor commitments for cofmanced subprojects scheduled to
begin in the first year (1989/90) had been obtained; and until GOM had received firm
commitments from cofinanciers for second year (1990/91) subprojects; ii) withdrawal of
donor support on govemance grounds meant that GOM had to find alternative sources of
funds, or the projects deferred; iii) a long gestation period between project appraisal and
start-up; iv) adverse effects of a prolonged drought; v) adverse economic and political
conditions that finally forced the floatation of the local currency; and vi) requisite
additional preparatory work, such as detailed environmental impact assessments, not
envisioned at appraisal. The Bank's project processing procedures were changed in the
middle of MIP preparation to include mandatory Environmental Impact Assessments.
This later resulted in longer processing and implementation of physical components than
originally planned (Zomba Dam and Ntcheu Urban Water Supply for instance) to
accommodate the new requirement.
G.   Project Sustainability
41.   Continued capability of the Ministry of Works and Supplies on the one hand, and
of the Water Department on the other, to plan and manage their respective programs in an
efficient and effective manner depends to a large extent on their ability to retain highly
trained staff within their employ, and to use and manage the Management Information
Systems in a beneficial and sustainable manner. There is presently a significant staff



- 13 -
turnover due to attrition to the private sector and donor-funded projects, transfers within
GOM, and loss due to natural causes. Highly sophisticated management infornation
systems currently working satisfactorily run the danger of under-utilization, or of lying
idle, if the staff that was specially trained to manage them leave the Ministry and the
Department for whatever reason. GOM must therefore find ways and means of retaining
staff with rare skills, and of training people to succeed them, if it is to maximize benefits
from these expensive investments, and manage its programs efficiently and effectively.
The training given under this project to the small group of specialists referred to in
paragraph 17 appears to have succeeded in retaining an adequate proportion.
42.   The sustainability of the national road network has been the subject of
considerable concern throughout the project primarily because of low budgetary
allocations for road maintenance, despite IDA contribution to annual expenditures on a
declining scale. The level of service on the national network has so far deteriorated to the
point where most of the roads and bridges (including main roads) become impassable
during the rain season. Under 40% of the network has been maintained to a minimum
level of service for the past four years, with the rest of the network left to deteriorate
prematurely. This trend is likely to continue in the foreseeable future unless a major
intervention is introduced, such as the creation of a dedicated Road Fund, managed by a
Road Board as is currently envisaged for the proposed Road Maintenance and
Rehabilitation Project (ROMARP).
43.   The Medium Term Expenditure Framnework (MTEF) introduced by government in
the 1996/97 financial year revenue budget isolates priority sectors for a deliberate
preferential allocation of funds to facilitate the achievement of the government's
objective of poverty alleviation. The Ministry of Works and Supplies is among the
priority Ministries. Road maintenance enjoys MKI05.O million (62%) out of the total
MTEF allocation of MK169.0 million to the Ministry. Even so, this represents only 40%
of the maintenance requirements for the national road network. The rest of the sectors
selected for MTEF are agriculture, health, education, and national security. It is therefore
imperative that passing of Legislation establishing a Road Maintenance Fund, and the
formation of a Road Board to manage the fund, are accelerated in order to salvage the
network from further deterioration, and reduce road user costs.
44.   Rural water supply services were generally not implemented in a manner likely to
result in sustainable infrastructure. Over 2,500 boreholes were rehabilitated, but several
hundred of the communities served by these boreholes were not given adequate training
in operation and maintenance. The lessons of the past are that for adequate sustainability,
the communities should participate in the planning phase, and their commitment to
maintaining the facilities should be secured before physical work at the site is
commenced. This was generally not done. The water supplies for towns were provided
under somewhat more sustainable conditions. Nevertheless, the District Water Supply
Fund was consistently underfunded as many Government agencies were in arrears and
remain so at the time of writing. More sustainable arrangements will be established with
the implementation of the National Water Development Project (NWDP) that was



- 14-
declared effective on May 1, 1996, and the Bank/UNICEF promoted collaborative
approach to the sustainability of rural water services. However, sustainability as
implemented under the MIP is considered to be unsatisfactory.
45.   Significant improvements made to a few selected public buildings would have
been sustained through the MIP-financed Building Maintenance Management System
(BUMMAS) installed in the Buildings Department of MOWS for the timely maintenance
of the government building stock. Regrettably, this is an area that continues to receive
little attention and commitment from GOM, with preference going to new construction
rather than the up-keep of existing stock. Sustainability of public buildings is therefore
highly unlikely unless the government's attitude towards the maintenance of its buildings
changes radically; and more innovative structures for the maintenance of its stock, such
as decentralization and more private sector participation are tried.
H.   Bank Performance
46.  Identification: The MIP was identified with the MOWS as a continuation of the
Bank's support in the roads sector. However, agreement was reached between GOM and
the Bank during project preparation to extend the scope of the project to all the sectors in
the Ministry's program, namely water, buildings, and human resource development and
training, for a more comprehensive coverage of the Ministry's functions. Much as this
was desirable, it did not sufficiently take into consideration the Ministry's capacity to
manage the resulting large and complex project, as well as government's ability to
finance the local contribution through the Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP) and
allocate adequate maintenance costs annually on the recurrent budget.
47.   Appraisal: In 1987/88, the Ministry of Works and Supplies identified and
packaged the project components into a portfolio, drawing upon recommendations of the
studies which formed the basis for World Bank appraisal. The Bank, however, took the
lead in identifying bilateral and multilateral cofinancing donors, and coordinating
discussions between them and GOM. The Bank's performnance was not satisfactory in
forecasting project costs, and in assuming a stable political and economic enviromnent
during project implementation. Secondly, having earlier determined that the
implementing Ministry did not have enough capacity to manage its existing program and
needed to be strengthened, the Bank proceeded to appraise an expanded and complex
multi-sector project. This oversight contributed to a less satisfactory project management
capability by the Ministry of Works and Supplies during implementation, and
government's inability to service the project on the PSIP and recurrent budgets
adequately.
48.   Project Implementation and Supervision: The Bank changed Task Managers
four times in the course of project implementation, which sometimes delayed important
decisions, especially during the change-over periods. In total, the Bank fielded ten
missions totaling 59.4 staff weeks throughout the implementation period, compared to
47.2 staff weeks through to appraisal. In particular, there was no supervision in the roads



- 15-
area between June 1990 and February 1992 (Table 11). This level of supervision was not
satisfactory and contributed to an under-achievement of targets in road improvement
projects. Secondly, it took the Bank six months to review and complete the MTR even
after Government had submitted to the Bank its draft MTR report within the time frame
agreed with the Government. Consequently, this delayed implementation of critical
components of the project aimed at averting adverse effects of the drought, and those that
suffered withdrawal of donor support such as Zomba Urban Water Supply.
49.   The MTR further recognized the changed environment in the country and
Government's eagerness to accelerate project implementation. At this stage, the Bank
transferred task management to a field officer who, backed by HQ support, successfully
applied the approach developed at the MTR of monthly progress monitoring meetings
with the implementing agency, use of experienced local consultants, and resolution of
outstanding matters with the Client in the field.
I.    Borrower Performance
50.   Preparation: GOM performance was satisfactory largely because of the large
number of studies that preceded project preparation. One major problem worthy of note,
however, was the inability of the Ministry of Works and Supplies to prepare realistic cost
estimates for most of the rehabilitation works, largely on account of lack of a regularly
up-dated cost database. This was exacerbated by the fact that, by their nature,
rehabilitation works are often difficult to quantify and cost with a degree of accuracy.
This caused significant cost escalations at the time the components were implemented,
although this was later aggravated by an inclement economic environment..
51.  Implementation: Although GOM's overall performance in implementing MIP is
assessed as satisfactory, some aspects of implementation were deficient. These were: i)
inability of GOM to secure firm donor commitments timely; ii) tardy procurement of
goods and works; iii) inability of local contractors to mobilize Performance Bonds and
Insurance for capital works; iv) use of low capacity force account for capital works; v)
inadequate Part II funds in the PSIP to support construction and rehabilitation works; and
vi) management capacity limitations in implementation.
52.   The rate at which funds were disbursed however was satisfactory. At the time of
submitting GOM's pre-MTR report on September 30, 1992, SDR 7.9 million was
available for re-allocation to new priority areas while the MTR report in June 1993
showed a total disbursement of SDR17.5 million i.e. 61% of the total Credit (SDR22.3
million). GOM performance was particularly satisfactory in the Management
Improvement Component, various Consultancies, Technical Assistance, augmentation of
urban water supplies and rehabilitation of rural boreholes, and support for the NTC.
53.   During the final supervision mission in July, 1995, GOM projected that the credit
would be fully utilized by project end. As at April 30, 1996, just under SDR4.00 (SDR



- 16 -
four only) remained undisbursed. Disbursement of remaining funds identified during the
MTR accelerated with improved project management mainly as a result of transferring
project supervision to the field.
54.   Compliance with the legal Credit covenant in Section 4.03 of the DCA relating to
adequate allocations in the Revenue Budget for road maintenance was, overall,
unsatisfactory. Specifically, budgetary support for road maintenance throughout the
project remained below agreed levels. This Covenant was later dropped when agreement
was reached with the Bank to amend the DCA to include an IDA contribution of SDR2.4
million towards road maintenance funding for 1993/94 to 95/96, on an exceptional basis.
This was, however, subject to additional GOM allocations in the recurrent budget to
achieve acceptable levels of service on the network.
Article IV of the DCA covers financial covenants relating mainly to accounting and audit
requirements for the project, and financial performance indicators concerning the District
Water Supply Fund (DWSF). There had been no problems with compliance with these
covenants as the implementing Ministry maintained detailed records of all transactions,
and audited DWSF Accounts regularly. However, Government debt to the DWSF in
excess of 90 days continued to remain very high to the end of the project. (Table 10)
J. Performance of Cofinancing Agencies
55.   In addition to the International Development Association (IDA) and the
Government of Malawi, the MIP was cofinanced by ten other bilateral and multilateral
agencies as listed in Table 8. A condition for negotiations of the IDA Credit was that
GOM receive firm commitments from cofinancing donors for financing subprojects
whose implementation was scheduled to begin in the first year (SAR Chart 2). Donor
commitment to projects was in a number of cases slow to materialize. Instances where
neither donor would commit to a component until others committed, imposed an extra
negotiation burden on the Government, often resulting in failure to secure firm funding.
Consequently, IDA Credit Negotiations were delayed by nearly five months. Table 6
shows progress made in the implementation of cofinanced components at the date of this
report. A brief discussion of the performance of each cofinanced component is given in
Annex 3. Of the ten Cofinancing Agencies listed in Tables 6 and 8, two (JICA and
DANIDA) withdrew completely, three (KfW, UNDP and ODA) withdrew part of their
commitment, one (EDF) suspended a component of its commitment and later resumed,
and one (AfDF) was subject to delays due to its internal restructuring program. Five
(EDF, USAID, AfDF, UNDP and GTZ) are supporting components which are still
continuing. Given the circumstances, no attempt was made to seek the comments of the
Cofinancing Agencies on their own performance.
K.   Assessment of Project Outcome
56.   The MIP was unique and particularly complex, as it cut across several subsectors,
and was cofinanced by a total of eleven donors with the Bank as the lead donor, and the



- 17 -
Government of Malawi contributing to local costs. Consequently, it stretched the
Ministry of Works and Supplies' resources to the limit. Tying effectiveness of the IDA
Credit to financing from other donors only served to delay project implementation and
contributed to cost escalation. Component costs also escalated because of progressive
deterioration of the facilities in the time leading to implementation, poor estimating, and
lack of monitoring of costs during the project preparation period. All these affected the
outcome of the project to varying degrees.
57.  In general, the project met its objectives only partially, albeit in their altered state,
as described in more detail in Paragraph 13 above. This is mainly because the Borrower
had to respond to adverse socio-economic and climatic environments. The Bank's
flexibility in allowing GOM to modify its priorities, however, facilitated the achievement
of the some of the objectives. Much more could have been achieved in the roads sector in
particular if government contribution to the development as well as recurrent budgets as
committed in the DCA had been forthcoming in a timely manner. Donor withdrawal
from large capital projects resulted in more IDA-financed components in the PSIP, but
the overall impact of this withdrawal on the national infrastructure was substantial. For
instance, several roads improved with previous donor support remained in an extremely
poor state of disrepair at project closure.
L.    Economic Analysis
58.   Table 9 compares the Economic Rates of Return at project appraisal in June 1988
for first year components, to those of major IDA components at the time of preparing this
ICR (August 1996). The same model was used in both cases. No calculation of ERR was
made at appraisal for smaller sub-projects such as the road safety program, gravity-fed
rural piped water schemes, training, and technical assistance as they were seen as
complementing the larger project and were well justified. ERRs at project closure are
well above those projected at appraisal and range between 27% and 97% for the
rehabilitation of public buildings largely from benefits accrued from the cost of
reconstruction avoided, and associated savings from annual maintenance costs.
Rehabilitation of hospitals, in particular, gives even higher ERRs on account of increased
utilization of the improved facilities, an unprecedented increase in the number of patients
aggravated by an influx of refugees fleeing the civil war in Mozambique, and due to
diseases associated with the effects of drought such as diarrhea and malnutrition
especially in children. ERRs for DRIMP roads too are above the average 12% calculated
at appraisal, and are 38% for extension works, 26% for spot improvements, and 21% for
new roads. As in public buildings, this improvement is mostly attributed to increased
utilization for the conveyance of relief items to drought areas which were specially
targeted; reduction in annual maintenance costs; increased agricultural production in the
1994/95 growing season due to excellent rains; and due to traffic diverted from the poorly
maintained primary and secondary road system.
59.   Rehabilitation and construction of boreholes give equally high ERRs (1 18% and
50% respectively) mainly due to increased number of households per borehole,



- 18-
particularly in drought-hit areas; savings accrued from walking long distances to safe
water points; and reduced maintenance costs as a result of the transfer of responsibility
for the operation and maintenance of boreholes to user communities through the VLOM
concept. Improved health of communities as a result of using safe water supplies is also a
contributing factor. For urban water supplies, the ERRs ranged between 13% and 17%,
and are well above the 6.1% calculated at appraisal. This was due to additional water
sales, made possible by reducing water losses through system rehabilitation. This
enabled additional demand to be met by the project, which in turn resulted in improved
health for the users of the improved schemes.
M.   Key Lessons Learned
60.   By its sheer size and complexity, the MIP offers a rich ground for useful lessons
for future operations in the infrastructure sector. The following are considered as key:
a) Project cost estimates made during project appraisal should be monitored
closely in the period leading to project implementation. Flexibility should be
built into project financing to cushion the effects of cost escalations especially
in weak economies.
b) Levels of investment in development projects should be set having regard to
projected annual Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP) sector ceilings, and
the ability of the Ministry of Finance to allocate sufficient counterpart funds to
avoid deferment of components. The ability of government to match recurrent
expenditures with the rate of infrastructure development should also be
assessed and confirmed at the appraisal stage, and reassessed annually.
c) Frequent supervision missions with an appropriate skills mix should have
been undertaken throughout the life of the project to monitor project progress
and ensure compliance to Credit Covenants, especially given the complexity
of the project and the high turnover of staff on both the Borrower and Donor
sides. Project implementation can be facilitated when task management and
supervision responsibilities are transferred to an experienced officer in the
field. In the current project, the decision to rescope the project and transfer
management responsibilities to the field should have been reached proactively,
and not wait for the midterm review.
d) Benefits accrued from implementing a complex multifarious project funded by
a host of bilateral and multilateral aid donors should be traded-off against
difficulties faced by the Borrower in satisfying each donor's requirements, its
resource base to meet budgetary requirements, and its capacity to implement
the project satisfactorily. In the case of the MIP, the multi-sectoral approach
was not a good idea because: i) it was too complex to deal with as one
program; ii) different skills and specialties were required to manage it in the
Clients organization; and to supervise water supply, roads, public buildings,



- 19 -
and capacity building components by the Bank; and iii) Bank supervision
budgets tend to be allocated by project rather than by program, and the fact
that MIP was in fact three sector projects rolled into one large program may
have complicated project supervision.
e) Different elements of the same component co-financed by a number of aid
agencies, (e.g. Zomba Dam, Treatment Works, Extension of Distribution and
New Sewerage Works for KfW, Danish International Development Agency
(DANIDA), and the Japanese International Cooperation Agency (JICA)
respectively) pose special challenges especially when one agency withdraws
its support for the project. Future projects should be so designed as to avoid
such complex and interdependent arrangements;
f) Problems encountered in implementing a complex infrastructure project, and
the lessons learnt from it as cited above, underscore the importance of
developing sector projects from a clear institutional framework. Development
of long-term sector policies such as the National Water Resources
Management Policies and Strategies, the National Transport Policy, and the
National Environmental Action Policy guide the formulation of current
projects. Government adopted sector policies are increasingly becoming a
mandatory requirement by the Government of Malawi for public sector
investment projects in Malawi.
g) The argument made in f) above may be extended to include the increased
involvement and participation of stakeholders and beneficiaries in the
development of projects, particularly the participation of the private sector and
beneficiary communities in provision and maintenance of infrastructure.
Creation of a Road Fund and an independent Roads Board to finance and
manage road maintenance respectively; and the Community Based
Management (CBM) of rural and peri-urban water services are good examples
of the application of this lesson. This also ensures transparency and
accountability in the use of public resources by government.






PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES AND ANNEXES



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES AND ANNEXES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:     Summary of Progress of Co-financed Components
Table 7:     Studies Included in Project
Table 8:     Project Financing Plan
Table 9:     Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:    Bank Resources: Missions
Annexes:    1      Completion Mission Aide-Memoire
2     Borrower Contribution to the ICR
3     Performance on Cofinanced Components
4     Performance of AfDF/ADB Financed Components
5     Management Improvement Component: Training Sub-Component



TABLE 1:         SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
Assessment Parameter           Substantial         Partial         Negligible      Not Applicable
A. Achievement of
Objectives
Macropolicies                                                                                  x
Sector Policies                                            x
Financial Objectives                                                         x
Institutional Development                x
Physical Objectives                                        x
Poverty Reduction                                                                              x
Gender Issues                                                                                  x
Other Issues                                                                                   x
Other Social Objectives                                    x
Public Sector Management                                   x
Private Sector Management                                                                      x
Likely.          Unlikely,        U ,  . 1
B. Project Sustainability                                                    x
Highly.  .~~~~~~~';                 .".-
C. Bank Performance
Identification                                             x
Preparation Assistance                                     x
Appraisal                                                                    x
Supervision                                                                  x
.2. ."i;  S  ;  . ,,Sfiad      f r   _ Dcficint 
D. Borrower Performance
Preparation                                                x
Implementation                                             x
Covenant Compliance                                                          x
Operation                                                                    x
-x                Highly;                                ,,i   %  Ar+t-: 4Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome                                                     x
Note: * (See Annex 5: Management Improvement Component: Training Sub-Component)



TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Project ID        Amount                       Purpose                       Year of   Status (%
USS mill.                                                 Approval  Complete)
_~    =.
Preceding Operations
1. Transport Sector
3MAL-PA-002              0.50     Highway Engineering: Detailed engineering of the  1967     Completed
Zomba-Lilongwe Road (290km)
3MAL-PA-005              11.50    Highway: Reconstruction, bitumen paving of the    1968     Completed
Zomba-Lilongwe road. Consultants study of road
transport licensing regulations.
3MAL-PA-013              10.00    Highway II: Construction of the Lilongwe-         1975     Completed
Kasungu road (113 km). First phase of a District
Road Improvement and Maintenance Program
(DRIMP).
3MAL-PA-019              10.50    Highway III: Construction of Kasungu-Jenda road   1978     Completed
(85km) feasibility study and detailed engineering of
lenda-Mzuzu road
3MAL-PA-026              33.00    Highway IV: Construction of main Jenda-Luwawa,    1981     Completed
and Mbowe-Mzuzu-Ekwendeni Road and DRIMP
Phase II
3MAL-PA-035              44.9     Highway V: construction of Luwawa-Champhoyo       1984     Completed
road; DRIMP Phase III; provision of weigh bridges.
MW-PA-1634               140.75    Transport I (Northern Transport Corridor):       1987     Completed
altemative route to sea port of Dar-es-Salaam in
Tanzania for import/export trade
2. Water Sector
711 -MAI                  7.0     Expanded water supply capacity for Blantyre;      1977     Completed
strengthening management of Blantyre Water
Board.
1272-MAI                  4.0     Formulation of long-range plan for Lilongwe Water  1982    Completed
Board.
1 742-MAI                20.0     Expanded water supply storage water and           1986     Completed
distribution system for Lilongwe.
Following Operations
MW-PA-34489               16.2    Railways/Lake Services Restructuring Project:     1995     Active
Revitalizing the shorter route to Nacala;
restructuring commercialization and ultimately
privatization of Railways and Lake Services
MW-PA-1667                94.1    National Water Development Project:               1995     Active
implementation of GOM's Water Resources
Management Policy and Strategies.



TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle             Date Planned        Actual Date
Identification                     February, 1987       February-October 1987
Initial Executive Project Summary           -           January 13, 1988
Pre-Appraisal                      January, 1988        October 1988
Preparation                        February, 1988      February, 1988
Appraisal                          June, 1988          November, 1988
Negotiations                       November, 1988       April, 1989
Board Presentation                 January, 1989       November 7, 1989
Signing                                     -           December 14, 1989
Effectiveness                      April, 1989         June 19, 1990
Mid-Term Review*                   April, 1991         Nov. 1992-May 1993
Project Completion                 June 30, 1995        December 31, 1995
Date of Last Disbursement          December 31, 1995   April 30, 1996
Note: * MTR commenced in November 1992, was suspended, and
completed in May 1993 after the Borrower submitted missing data and
information.
Source: Project File and relevant Aide Memoirs



TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATES AND ACTUALS
(US$ MILLION)
FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95               FY96
SAR Estimate                3.1      8.9      16.5      23.1     27.4      28.0        28.8
Actual                      3.3      8.9      14.8      19.3     22.2      25.7       28.8*
Actual as % of estimate     106      98        90        84       81       92          100
Date of final                                                                        April 30,
disbursement                                                                           1996
Note:  *      =       Balance of Disbursement as at April 30, 1996 was just
under SDR4.00
Source: MIP, Project Accounts Office, Ministry of Works and Supplies.



TABLE 5: Key Indicators of Project Implementation
Key Indicators                Planned           Actual       Achievement
Physical Outputs
1. Roads
1. 1 DRIMP Phase IV Extension          3 Districts      5 Districts        167
1.2 Spot Improvement - DRIMP Roads      350km             350km             100
1.3 DRIMP New Roads                       500km             195km            39
1.4 Road Maintenance Depots
1.4.1 Maintenance Depots              30 units            8               27
1.4.2 Supervisory Staff Housing       37 units            7               20
2. Water
2.1 Extension of Urban Water Supply*     4 Schemes     3 Schemes              75
2.2 Rehabilitation of Boreholes
2.2.1 Rehab. of Boreholes              2500              2450             98
2.2.2 Training of Committees           2500              778              31
2.3 Construction of New Boreholes            0               246              *
2.4 Design of Water Schemes                  0                2                *
3. Public Buildings
3.1 Rehabilitation of Public Buildings      21                8               38
3.2 Lilongwe & Zomba Training Centers        2                0               0
4. Studies                                   0                8
Note:  * Ntcheu urban water supply completed to final engineering design and preparation of
tender documents, and Mponela Urban Water Supply was carried out by GOM using own
resources.



TABLE 6 - SUMMARY OF PROGRESS ON MAJOR IDA AND CO-FINANCED COMPONENTS
Cofinancin  Cost /(a)             Completion
Project Name / Description          Agency    Planned   Actual           Date      Remarks
(US$ mil.) (US$ mil.)
1. Roads
1.1 Rehab. of Paved Roads
Chikwawa-Bangula (74km)        AfDF              3.9          0               Delayed due to ADB restructuring and difficulties with procurement of services
Limbe-Thyolo-Mulanje-Muloza (104km)  EDF            15.4  ,    21.8 In progress    Delayed to to donor withdrawal (govemance). ^ Cost given is Tender Value
Chilumba-Karonga (80km)        EDF                6           0               Deferred pending realization of savings from L-T-M-M above.
Feasibility study commenced.
Lilongwe-Salima (79 km)        ODA              14.3       30.8 May' 94       Completed but with BP4.5 million in Contractor claims due to excessive earthworks
1.2 Rehab. of Other Roads         AfDF             7.5             On-going      153 out of planned 286 km of earth road were improved to
gravel standard using national contractors
1.3 Road Improvements             AfDF             2.2
Karonga-Chitipa-Nakonde-Mpulungu                                   On-going      Detail Engineering Design in progress
Mzimba-Mtangatanga                               1.9          0               Deferred due to lack of funds
Bangula-Nsanje-Marka ( 74km)    AfDF/IDA          0             On-going      Feed-in to MIP, Detail Enginerring Design in progress
Dwangwa-Nkhata-Bay (& Bua Bridge)   EDF             6.5        24.8 Aug. 1994     Cofinanced with KMW (EDF 90km, KfW 45km + Bua Bdge.)
KfN              7.9       20.5
1.4 Resealing of Paved Roads      AfDF              4.6        3.5
Nkhota-kota-Dwangwa (58km)                       1.2        1.8               Completed 1995
Benga-Nkhotakota (53km)                          1.1        1.7               Completed 1995
Mzuzu-Nkhata-Bay (37km)                          1.3         0                Deferred
Mzuzu-J. Mzumara-Chiweta (68km)                    1.0          0               Deferred
1.5 DRIMP Phase IV                IDA               5.1        6.8 Dec. '95
1.6 Improvements to 8 Bridges     AfDF             2.2         0.4               Two bridges completed and a third commenced. Slow progress due to cost
due to cost escalation and procurement delays for reduced number to be
improved.
1.7 Road Signs                    DANIDA            1.5         0               Withdrew support due to govemance issue
1.8 Maintenance Equipment         JICA             5.8          0               6th Japanese Grant Aid: Withdrew on political grounds
1.9 Vehicles and Equipment        JICA             2.3          0               6th Japanese Grant Aid: Withdrew on political grounds
1.10 Road Maintenance Depots      IDA              0.7         0.3              Under achievement due to use of inefficient force account
1 11 Rural Transport Pilot Program  UNDP             0.5            In-progress   In progress in Min. of Transport and Civ. Aviation. Pilot trucks
on trial by local (rural) rural transporters
1.12 Road Safety                  AfDF             1.0            May, '96      Min. of Transport and Civ. Aviation - Completed



TABLE 6 - SUMMARY OF PROGRESS ON MAJOR IDA AND CO-FINANCED COMPONENTS
Cofinancin  Cost /(a)             Completion
Project Name / Description           Agency      Planned   Actual          Date      Remarks
(US$ mil.) (US$ mil.)
1.13 Bitumen Overlay Training      GTZ               1.7            In-progress    Phase I completed, Phase II in progress
1.14 Tech. Assist. and Training    AfDF              1.3         0                Funds not made available to GOM
IDA              1.8       1.27
GTZ              1.2                     1991 TA in Construction Contract Mngmnt. and DRIMP Road
Maintenance Management completed
ODA              1.1             Dec. 1993     Contracts for OSAS TA (Highway Eng., Structural Eng.,
Architects, Quantity Surveyors, and other OSAS personnel)
rendered non-renewable. Student Scholarships also withdrawn
mid-term.
UNDP             0.6          0               Withdrew support
1.15 Superv. of Constr. Projects   AfDF              1.3            On-going
2.0 Water Supply
2.1 Urban Water Supply              AfDF
Mzuzu Dam                             2.4       2.8                           Completed in July, 1994
Kasungu Dam                           1.4       1.5                           Completed in July, 1993
Karonga and Mangochi Schemes IDA                1.8         2.3               Karonga and Mangochi urban supply works completed
KfW              8.0        0.0               Withdrew support along with DANIDA (and later JICA)
2.2 Rehab. of Boreholes            UNCOF            5.0                           923 rural boreholes rehabilitated
IDA              4.4        4.5 Dec. '96       1401 rural boreholes rehab'd., 246 boreholes constructed
763 Committees trained in CBM of boreholes /(d) (46%)
2.3 Gravity-fed Rural Schemes      USAID             1.6                          Technical Assistance reviewed the PHICS /(b) Program and 8
schemes constructed /(c)
2.4 Tech. Assist. and Training     UNDP              0.6            Dec. 96        374 Village Committees trained in CBM of rural boreholes (37%)
May, '95      TA to design improved direct action shallow well pump
completed, prototype under field test
2.5 Superv. of Urban Water Supplies  AfDF            0.9        0.9 June, '95     Completed (Mzuzu and Kasungu)
IDA              0.9       0.52 Sept. 1995    Completed (Mangochi, Karonga and Design of Ntcheu Supply)
3. Public Buildings
3.1 Rehab. of Public Buildings      IDA              6.9        3.6               8 out of original 21 institutions rehabilitated to completion
3.2 Training                       UNDP              0.4          0               Withdrew support
3.3 Supervision and Design         UNDP              0.8          0               Withdrew support
4. Project Preparation Finance (PPF)    IDA            1.5                           Fully utilized and refunded



Sources: Ministry of Works and Supplies                                         Notes:
Pmject Office, and
Ministry of rrigation and Water                                           1. Most donors paid their costs off-shore, hence no expenditure records in project
Planning Section                                                      2. (a)/ Induding contingencies but net of taxes and duties
(b)l Primary Health Intervention for Child Survival
(c)t Sekwa, Usisya, Ruarwe, East Bank (Limphangwe, Maperera, Mbabzi, Livunzu),
and Namitambo Schemes
(d)I Community Based Management (of rural water services)



TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study                Purpose as derined at Appraisal      Status     Impact of Study
1. "Malawi Lake and Port    Investigate privatization and         Completed   Privatization and
Services Privatization and  commercialization options for profitable   December   Commercialization
Commercialization Study"    operations, and recommended best option  1995     of Services
(KPMG Peat Marwick)         for implementation
2. "Ntcheu Urban Water      Detailed design for augmentation of   Completed   Facilitate
Supply: Detailed Engineering  supplies for Ntcheu Urban           May 1995   construction of
Study and EL " (Willie &                                                       augmentation works
Partners).                                                                    in the NWDP
3. "Zomba Water Supply:     Ready-for-construction drawings, tender   Completed   Preparation for
Detailed Engineering Study,   documents, and pre-qualification of  November   construction
Economc Analysis and EU"   tenderers for Dam, Treatment Works, and  1995      Contract award.
(Lahmeyer International)    Distribution System
4. Project Coordinator for the   Trouble-shooting and coordination of  Completed   Facilitated project
NTC, Various Progress       completion of remaining minor         September   completion and
Reports (John Ryder)        rectification works on the NTC        1995        finalisation of
accounts
5. "DWSF Asset Valuation    Update asset base and coordination of  Completed   Provides base
Study" (COWiconsult)        completion of remaining minor         August      information for
rectification works on the NTC        1995        Business Planning
for the new
Regional Water
Boards
6. "Axle Load Study" (Centre  Investigate the degree and extent of axle   Completed   Set minimum fine
for Scientific and Industrial    loading on the primary network &  February    of MK300/tonne
Research, RSA)              implication of increasing the legal axle    1994  overload and inputs
load limit from 8.2 to 10.0 tonnes               into the planned
Road Fund under
ROMARP
7. "Assessment of Road      Identify options available for the    Completed   Used as spring-
Maintenance Requirements"   maintenance of the national road      November   board for setting
(Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick and   network, with associated levels of  1993      levels of service and
Partners)                   service and costs. Select and advise              developing the
recommend option                                  "Mobile Pavement
Repair Team"
approach.
8. "Urban Roads Study"      Assess urban road infrastructure      Completed   Preparatory input to
(BCEOM/Lahmeyer             condition and recommend improvements   October    the on-going Local
International Ltd.)         including a Facility Maintenance and  1992        Government Dev.
Rehabilitation Information system.                Project



TABLE 8: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
Local  I Foreign | Total   % of Total
Source          (US$)    (US$)   (US$)
Government of        12.7        -       12.7      8.0
Malawi
IBRD/IDA           9.9        18.9    28.8       18.3
EDF              5.8       16.1     21.9      13.9
KfW              4.6       11.3     15.9      10.1
USAID             0.8       2.5      3.3        2.1
Afl)F/ADB           8.4       30.4     38.8      24.6
JICA             0.4        7.7     8.1        5.1
UNCDF              1.8       3.2      5.0       3.2
UNDP              0.7       2.7      3.4        2.1
ODA              4.0       11.4     15.4       9.8
GTZ              0.2       2.7      2.9        1.8
DANIDA**            0.9       0.6       1.5       1.0
TOTALS            50.2      107.5    157.7       100
Note: ** Withdrew support early in the project to influence political change.



TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
ECONOMIC RATE OF
SECTOR                 COMPONENT                                      RETURN
At
Appraisal       At ICR
(SAR)
PUBLIC BUILDINGS
1. Kamuzu Central Hospital              -              32
2. Mzuzu Govt. Secondary School         29             48
3. Blantyre Secondary School            -              51
4. Lilongwe Girls Secondary School      23             49
5. Blantyre Teachers Training College   -              27
6. Nkhota kota District Hospital        -              97
7. Nkhata Bay District Hospital         -              72
8. Rumphi District Hospital             -              66
ROADS *
1. DRIMP IV Extension                   -              38
2. DRIMP Spot Improvement               -              26
3. DRIMP New Roads                     >12             21
WATER
1. Rehabilitation of 1450 Boreholes    20             118
2. Construction of 246 new              -              50
Boreholes,
Purchase of new Drilling Rig, and
Drought Monitoring Equipment
6              17
3. Karonga Urban Water Supply           6              13
4. Mangochi Urban Water Supply



TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Note: All legal covenants refer to the District Water Supply Fund (DWSF), and are Type 2.
DCA    Status at  Original   Revised        Covenant Description                Comments
Section   07/31/95    Date      Date
Submit annual audited accounts  Condition in Bank documents
4.01(b)   C                              within 6 months of year end    were later changed to 9 months
4.05                31 Mar,   31 Mar,  Total revenues to cover
(a)(i)   C          1992       1992      operation, maintenance and
depreciation
4.05                31 Mar,   31 Mar,  Positive net income after
(a)(ii)    C        1994       1994      operation, maintenance,
depreciation and interest
expenses
4.05     C                               Maintain a current ratio of not    Presently CR is 1.25 mainly on
(aXIii)                                  less than 1.4                  account of Creditors rising from
MK736,449 to over
MK8,000,000
4.06(a)   C                              Not incur any new debt
DWSF Study now completed but
4.07     CP.        I Oct.     I Oct.    Undertake annual revaluation of  lacks some information for
1990       1994     fixed assets                   meaningful revaluation. WD to
obtain from COW] for final
payment.
4.08(a)   NC        31 Mar,    I Oct.    Ensure that Ministries and
1990       1994      parastatals do not have arrears    Arrears continue to persist
in excess of 90 days
4.08(b)   C                              GOM to convert loan of
MK3.688 million to capital
contribution



TABLE 11: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Stage of    Date   No. of   Days    Staff Skills Mix    Status   Develop      Problems Identified
Project Cycle         Persons   in                          of      Object
Field                     Implem
Through        02/88  4         15     PHE, SSE, STE,    N/A        N/A       N/A
Appraisal                              WE
09/88  8        22      PHE, SSE, Econ,   N/A       N/A        N/A
OA, TEd., STE,
SFA, PO
Appraisal      N/A    N/A       N/A    N/A                N/A       N/A       N/A
through Board
approval to
effectiveness
Supervision    04/90   1        15     PHE                  N/A       N/A     N/A
06/90   1        12     SSE                  N/A       N/A     GOM Senior Staff Losses
02/91   1        5      SSE                   I         I      Component cost escalation
09/91  1         5      SSE                  N/A       N/A     Donor pull out
03/92   1        8      STE                   3         3      Low recurrent budgets, non-
compliance with covenants
07/92  3         11     STE, SSE, Econ.       3         3      Inadequate counterpart
funds, non-compliance with
covenants, drought, donor
withdrawal
11/92  4        11      STE, TE., SE,         3         2      Inadequate counterpart
Econ.                                 funds, non-compliance with
covenants, drought, donor
withdrawal
12/93  4        13      STE, CE, PE, FA.      2         2      Low revenue budget alloc.
for road maintenance
Large arrears on DWSF;
07/94  4         17     STE, 2-CEs, FA.       S         S      low revenue budget
allocation for road
maintenance
Completion     07/95   5        11     STE, FA, SWS,                          Procurement delays and
PE, CE                                compliance with Covenants
Note:  PHE = Principal Highway Engineer, SSE = Senior Sanitary Engineer, STE = Senior
Transport Economist, WE = Water Engineer, Econ. = Economist, OA = Operations
Assistant, TEd. = Technical Educator, SFA = Senior Financial Analyst, FA = Financial
Analyst, PO = Project Officer, SWS = Senior Water Specialist, PE = Planning Engineer,
CE = Civil Engineer



AIDE MEMOIRE                                    ANNEY 1
MALAWI LNFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT (CREDIT No. 2069M.Nk)
SUPERVISION   ISSION. JULY 24 TO AUGUST 4, 1995
I. INTRODUCTION
A World Bank mission consisting of ',r. Peter Pohland (Deputy Resident
Representative, World Bank Nalawi Resident .Miission, Tearn Leader), Mr. John
Shepherd (Water Resources Management Specialist, World Bank, Washineton
DC ), Mr. A. Chakravarti (Financial Econornist), and Mr. M. John Kandulu
(Registered Enzineer), supervised the above mentioned project.
2.-   M'veetings were held with the Ministries of Works and Supplies, and Irrigation and
Water Development. Mr. Shepherd accompanied the INICEF Resident
Representative, Dr. Natalie Hahn, on July 28 on a field visit to Nsanje to review a
TNICEF supported Commnunitv Based Management CBM) program and
appreciate the successes and failures of the progam.
3     This is the last formal World Bank supervision mission prior to the project closing
date of December 3 1, 1995. It is not envisioned that project activities will be
extended beyond this date.
4.    The mission wishes to express its appreciation for the assistance and cooperation
received from the Government of Malawi, the Ministries of Works and Supplies,
and Irrigation and Water Development in particular.
Findings and Recommendations of this Akide-Memoire are those of the rmission and
are subject to confirrmation bv World Bank Headquarters in Washington D.C
For the Govenment of Malawi             For the World Bank
Eric H. Msolomba                        Peter K. Pohland
(Secretary for Works and Supplies)      (Task Manager)



ANNEX I
II.   OBJECTIVES
6.    The objectives of the rmission were as follows:
6.1   assess physical proeress, the financial position and projected expenditures
up to the closing date of the Credit (December 31, 1995) for those
components being funded by iDA, namely institutional capacity building,
water supplies, roads and civil works;
6.2   confirm the amounts of DDA funds and Government contributions that are
available for final reallocation to priority areas within the project;
6.3   agree on realistic implementation timetables based on 6.1 and 6.2 for the
remaining period; and
6.4   discuss the format, timetable and data requirements for the Project
Implementation Completion Report (PICR).
m.   NLAJ  F'JDINGS
Physical Progress and Financial Status
7.    Resulting from information obtained from, and subsequent discussions with the
implementing ministries, the current allocations based on the final expenditure of
IDA component is summarized as follows:
SDR ('000)  % of Total
Mlanagement Improvement                  4345         19
Roads                                   6163          27
NTC Support                               388          2
Water Supply                             7090         32
BuiRiings                                3250         I5
PPF Advance                              1064          5
Unallocated                                0
Total                                   22300        100
8.    The scope, cost estimate and timetable for project components as summarized in
Attachment 1. were reviewed and generally agreed between the Ministries of
Works and Supplies, and Irrigation and Water Development on the one hand, and
the mission on the other.



ANNEX 1
9.    As was the case during the previous mission, a significant amount of unallocated
funds resulting mainly from savings in earlier projected expenditures meant that
there is considerable scope to augment priority activities. It was emphasized by
the mission that as there were only 6 months left to the project completion date,
these savings should be allocated to quick disbursing activities otherwise remaining
funds would lapse, and will not be available for use by Government.
IV.  AGREEMENTS REACHED
The following discussion highlights agreements reached during the mission:
MIP Phase I Components:
10.   Manpower Development:  The total allocation for this component is
SDRS44,000. An undisbursed balance of SDR 50,000 remained at the end of July,
1995. MOWS confirmed that the remaining amount wil be fully disbursed to 13
-     out of 14 students presently completing their studies, before the project completion
date. (Attachment 2) One Water Department student however (M.W. Mikuwa)
will remain in college beyond December 1995. His costs will be transferred to
N1!WDP at the expiry of MIP. The Ministry of Irrigation and Water Development
is advised to put into train actions that ensure that there is a smooth transfer of
responsibilities between the two IDA-financed projects.
11.   MIP Phase II Components:
IFNUlS Extension to the Regions: The Consultant responsible for the
implementation of this component is presently on site under a new contract to
implement the additional works. MOW envisions completion before project
closure this December.
Extension of the computerized DWSF Billing System to Districts will be
implemented by the original software Consultant, under an addendum.
Procurement of hardware will be effected through NCB with a local supplier under
a separate agreement.
To clear compdter data management problems being faced by MWS and MIWD,
the two Ministries will undertake to implement virus clean-up and hard disc
reformatting exercises, preferrably through private sector computer companies
paid from MIP balances.
NTC Support: This project is on-going and will be completed before the end of
this year.
Lake Services Study: A total of SDR27,030 have been earmarked for the Lake
Services Study as part of the Malawi Railways restructuring exercise. The study



ANNEX 1
will be undertaken in the Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation and will be
completed before the NI1P project closure date.
DRIMIP New Roads and Bridges: Projected totaL expenditure on DRIMP Phase
IV to project closure is SDR290,000 (.MK6,940,084 ,  SDR= MX23.95) for a
total of 219.1 km of earth road to be improWved. MOWS will intensify
implementation of the works in order not only to stay within the remaining period,
but also to complete the works ahead of the rainy season. MIOWS confiums that
adequate Part II funds are available to complete the work.
Water Supply Component: Preparation of the final design and tender
documents for improvements to Ntcheu Water Supply has now been completed.
Due to the short time left to project closure, construction will now be considered
under the New Water Supply Projects component of the National Water
Development Program (NWDP) which is scheduled for effectiveness in October
this year. The balance of funds originally earmarked for these works has been
advanced to the NWDP for the construction of 206 drought relief boreholes.
Tenders have been received and are being evaluated. The Ministry will submit a
detailed proposal for project supervision for the Bank's consideration.
Buildings: As at August 2, 1995, Rumphi District Hospital was 70% completed
on original works and completion is scheduled for December 1995. Completion of
Bank approved additional works is scheduled for second week of December. No
further extensions will be accepted. It is not expected that the Final Account will
exceed the approved allocation of SDR215,000. Contractor is mobilizing and has
programmed project completion within the remaining period.
The Contractor for the rehabilitation of Nkhota-kota District Hospital is now on
site and will work on an accelerated program to complete the works within the
project deadline.
12.   Road iMaintenance Support and Pilot Project
12.1  Maintenzance Support: IDA and GOM agreed to amend the DCA such
that the Association would finance 30% of the road maintenance expenditure in
1993/94, 25% in 1994/95, and 15% in 1995/96. GOM has since claimed, and has
been reimbursed a total of MK7. 111 million by the IDA, representing 30% of
,NIK23.7 million spent on road maintenance in 1993/94 fiscal year. The Auditor
General is presently carrying out a financial audit of the Ministry's 1994/95
revenue budget. MOWS will therefore be in a position to submit to the Bank its
25% claim for Road Maintenance for reimbursement for FY1994/95 before year
end. A balance of approximately SDR842, 000 is still to be disbursed under this
component. The projected expenditure breakdown for this amount is given in the
table below. Ministrv of Works and Supplies confirmed that all balances will be
expended before the project completion date. The mission emphasized that



ANNEX I
procurement under this component should be closely monitored so that there is no
slippage in tendering and in the delivery of goods and services.
Road Maintenance Support: Projected Expenditure Breakdown
Item    ______Quantity   Rate (i'TK)   Total(NM) 
I Motor Cvcles          20            38,500      770,000
2. Tipper Truckes        2           645,000    1.290,000
3. Tractors/Trailers     8           345,000    2,760,000
4. Graders               2         22 515',000    5,030,000
5. Pick-ups              5           200,000    1,000,000
6. Bitumen             (Bulk)                   5,700,000
7. Refund for 1994/95          |                6,060,000
Total                          l              *22,610,000
* As at August 17, 1995, SDR = MK23.00 (approx.), Total = SDR983,Q0
12.2  Road Nlaintenance Pilot Project: The pilot phase of a low-cost road
maintenance method initiated by the Bank was executed between May and June
this year and was extremely successful. The project involved pothole patching over
a 200 km stretch of surfaced road between Lilongwe and the Southem Region
Border of MI near Balaka. This was achieved within one month. SDR250,000
was allocated for purchase of equipment and for the pilot run, and has been fully
utilized.
Additional funds have been allocated for an extended program n all the three
regions.
Village-Level Operation and Maintenance (VLOM) of Rural Water
Supplies
13.   Formation of village committees for VLOM and training thereof for the initial
1450 boreholes still lags seriously behind civil works. The situation will obviously
worsen when the72 plus 206 boreholes under the drought relief water supply
program have Veen completed. Technical Assistance funded from MIP has been
engaged for the period July 1- December 31, 1995 to assist the Water Department
clear the backlog of Community Based Management (CBM) activities, of which
VLOM is a component. The TA will submit a detailed activity program and
deliverables, acceptable to the Bank, which should include implementation of a
Monitoring System for water supply and sanitation services for rural communities.
Further, implementation of future programs should preferably be preceded by an
action plan that takes into consideration the Contractor's construction program.



ANNEX 1
14.   For this reason, the mission recommends a coUaborative approach to future CBM
activities of donor financed rural water supply projects. The collaboration would
include such players as major aid donors, NGOs, the private sector, and relevant
Government agencies in this area. It is however expected that Government will be
the prime mover of this effort. It will also identify a focal point for all activities
related to CBM for rural water supplies.
Road Maintenance Initiative and Integrated Road Development
Program (IRDP)
15.   Halaying appreciated the need to develop and establish a long-term and sustainable
road maintenance system in close collaboration with others in the region, GOM
has employed a Road Maintenance and Development Coordinator whose main
tasks were outlined in the Aide Memoire for the July 18-August 5, 1994
Supervision Mission.
Institutional Capacity Building and Manpower Development
16.   The high rate of vacancies among professional staff continues to pervade the two
Ministries. The mission did not review the manpower skills assessment proposed
during the previous supervision mission as this has not been undertaken by MOWS
and Water Department. It is recommended that this be undertaken without undue
delay taking due cognizance of the timing of the Civil Service Census component
of the Institution Development Project (IDP 2) presently being implemented by
GOM.
Legal Covenants:
17.   Article IV of the DCA covers the financial covenants agreed to by the Borrower.
The covenants relate mainly to accounting and audit requirements for the project,
and financial performance indicators concerning the District Water Supply Fund
(DWSF). As has been the case before, there have been no problems with
compliance withthe covenants as the Ministry continues to maintain detailed
records of all transactions.
18.   Audited accounts for the 1993/94 financial year were submitted to the Bank last
March. Accounts for 1994/95 are being prepared and will be submitted within the
required nine-month deadline after the end of a financial year.
Preparation of project accounts is still being done manually. Regrettably, the
proposal to engage a computer firm to computerize record keeping was not carried
out. An opportunity still exists to implement this proposal in the remaining period
using off-shelf PC-based computer packages presently available in the country.
Improved accounts data wrill be very usefil as an input into the Project



A-NNEx 1.
Implementation Completion Report The MWS will initiate this activitv without
further delay
It is however expected that future projects of this nature will invariably be
designed with improved accounting and record-keeping systems.
19.   DWSF Asset Valuation: A final report has now been received from
CON'Iconsult that ircorporates Goverr.ent's comments. The repor. clearly
contains the updated replacement values of the assets scheme by sche:re, and
forms a reasonable basis for revaluation under the Business Planning task of the
NW%'DP. Further, the written-down values of the assets of each scheme have been
worked out presumably based on the most commonly used scheme of depreciation,
i.e. by decomposing the assets into broad types, assigning lives to each type, and
depreciating by the straight line method.
However, to regularly update these valuations requires the availability of this
decomposed information including dates of completion of construction, the
economic lives adopted, etc. It is not quite clear that the COWIconsult report
provides this information. It was therefore agreed that MIWD will write a strong
letter to COWIconsult indicating shortfalls between the Terms of Reference and
the contents of the report, and requesting the Consultant to make good before
payment of remaining sums can be made. The Ministry will copy the letter to
MXVWS and the Bank for information.
It was also agreed that training in the use of this information would best be carried
out as an integral part of the Business Planning effort for the Rezional Water
Boards under the NWDP.
20.   There has been no improvement in compliance with the financial covenants as
compared to the previous supervision mission. A summary is provided in
Attachment 3. Of the eight (8) covenants, six (6) have been met adequately. The
following however, are a cause for concern and call for immediate remedial action:
20.1  the current ratio has deteriorated from 2.6 in 1992/93 to 1.25 during
1993/94. The major reason for this is an increase in creditors from
M2Z736\,449 to MK6,155,693 for the two fiscal years respectively.
20.2  as stated at paraeraph 19 above, the asset valuation study undertaken by
COWI does not seem to provide adequate information to permit MIWD to
undertake an annual revaluation. GOM will therefore not be able to
comply with the requirements of this covenant.



ANNEX 1
20.3  arrears from Ministries to the DWSF continue to exist. At the end of
1992/93, debtors totaled to MK3.360 million. This amnount increased to
MK7.738 million at the end of 1993194. Major debtors continue to be the
Army, Police, Ministry of Education, and Ministry of Health. Although the
DWSF is now takdng strict action to disconnect supplies to defaulters
(notices to this effect have been issued in all regions), these sanctions wuill
not apply to the major institutional debtors mentioned above.
Since March 31, 1994, total debtors have decli,ed to MK3.783 million. However,
the existence of these arrears still amounts to non-compliance with Section 4.08 of
the DCA. It is time therefore that GOM took decisive action on this matter.
Continued non-compliance may compromise formation of the Regional Water
Boards in the NWDP and delay its implementation.
August 9, 1995
Lilongwe, Malawi



T::-',,o.-'.i3a-:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
I__________   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A ~.A,k
ANYEX2 2
LRr <2 r' A 1,    C I'-33 
.. _ ....    .   .    _  .  .   ..   . _ .  2    _ ..K..;  \
-            ~~INFRAS.TRU'CTURE PRO-TECT (R09
I`.T?LF\IEENT'.-TION C 0)NTPLF-T1O    REPOQRT
T:.a-   O cu for C U  !-e 7c. S  ----,e    3    MYv                 7C-Csf, .-o;
7         sef.O cNo   . c s ;ka                                 ;.; Clc'ne C-G
Nhet GelyeH  !_ezo gove=--,,-t issues, it mav -   s.:lt note
kat *or o-p. .a projec   -ss                                     Si.-
.Alexa.ner Gibb and P^ an-t.s to  revievv t'.e e  rc.    nd
feasibility s,Sy rocef- slly cos_ci n  ould s;_.ir r. eaz!y
1993. Funr's _-ez a-aila2^ie --of'-c. -.k Eu7o-3-eta  '4,-Qon.
7 X Te len-li: o'f;.'e Ba.,g_a-lNa-, - Ns    MZ.-k  roaZ P7Cojec: 's, 
6    So far7'N'o 'o,-di-es '-a-'enco.^ee  -cd-.  is -,-rozzs; on,
These are rhe onily co,,m,n.t I '-nave.
I ~~~~~e  ~ ~    ~      Y0 7B   -e  
L:LONc-~~~~~~,o;r 3..-- 
..\I;wo Nf. Ka=.malern
CorPnL.is,Eior.T  for M LTor   REs
for: SECfRETAoRY FOR WeORK:'  AND                   ar'PPLIES
s~~~~~.                  W>   it soor:: : w;oi:i' o  th9e    *,;_  ;-,*,_ Ci i  *t;;  - Karnt  ro



ANNEX-3
Performance of Cofinanced Components
1.    The European Development Fund (EDF) IUS$21.9 million]: At the time of
preparing the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the EDF had committed US$21.9 million for
the reconstruction of the Limbe-Thyolo-Mulanje-Muloza (80.0 km) and the Karonga-
Chilumba (75.0 km) Roads in the Southern and Northern Regions respectively; and for
co-financing with KfW the construction of Dwangwa-Nkhata Bay Road (90 and 42 km
respectively, straddling the Northern and Central Regions). Although Limbe-Thyolo-
Mulanje-Muloza Road was tendered at the end of December 1992, EDF suspended any
further work pending a significant improvement in the political governance of the
country. The project was re-tendered in December 1994 after the country adopted
democratic principles, and is presently under construction with completion expected in
the first half of 1998. As a result of delaying implementation by almost four years,
project local costs have escalated significantly mainly on account of inflation and the
floatation of the local currency in February 1994. Karonga-Chilumba Road, now
extended to Chiweta (104 km), is currently under feasibility study.
2.    As stated at Paragraph 1 above, EDF and Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
(KfW) cofinanced the construction of Dwangwa-Nkhata-Bay Road (132 kim) to Class I
Bitumen Standard, and replacement of the single-lane Bua Bridge on the Dwangwa-
Nkhota-kota stretch with a stronger two-lane concrete bridge. Contract payments were
split between EDF and KfW 61% and 39% respectively for the road component with the
EU picking up the bill for Bua Bridge. In spite of serious delays in contract mobilization
and construction start-up, this component was completed only two months behind
schedule. In addition, KfW committed a US$8.0 million contribution towards the
construction of Zomba Dam for Zomba Urban Water Supply but later withdrew
commitment in favor of completing remaining works on the Container Vessel for the
Northern Transport Corridor Project.
3.    United States Agency for International Development (USAID) [US$3.3
million]: USAID supported a number of capacity building efforts in the Ministry of
Works and Supplies through its Human Resource and Institutional Development (HRID)
program. These included: (i) Technical Assistance (TA) in the development and
institutionalization of a computer-based data processing capacity (completed in January
1992); (ii) TA in Curriculum Development to improve and upgrade the curricula offered
at the Ministry's Training Centers in Lilongwe, Zomba, and Blantyre (PVHO)
(completed); and (iii) TA in advisory services for the Primary Health Intervention for
Child Survival (PHICS) component of Gravity-fed Rural Water Supply Schemes.
USAID also committed financing for the construction of 12, and rehabilitation of one
gravity-fed rural water supply schemes (completed). Of these, eight new schemes were



ANNEX 3
constructed and one rehabilitated, representing a 70% achievement at the close of the
MIP although work continues in the PHICS program.
4.    African Development Fund (AfDF) tUS$38.8 million]: The AfDF committed
the largest component of the MIP totaling US$38.8 million, about 26% of the total
US$151.8 million net of taxes. At the time of preparing the SAR, the fund had appraised
its road components through its Road Maintenance and Construction II (ROMAC II)
program. It had also committed itself to finance two of three dam projects namely
construction of the new Mzuzu Dam, and raising an existing dam in Kasungu in the
Northern and Central Regions respectively. The third, Zomba Dam and associated works
was taken by KfW. Projects included in the AfDF financing plan for the roads sector
were:
* rehabilitation of Chikwawa-Bangula (paved) road (45km);
* rehabilitation of various earth and gravel roads (286 km);
* improvement of Mzimba-Chikangawa earth road (25km) to a paved standard;
* resealing of Benga-Nkhotakota-Dwangwa (11  lkm), Mzuzu-Nkhata Bay (37), and
Mzuzu-John Mzumara-South Rukuru-Chiweta (68 km) paved road sections;
* improvements to 8 road bridges;
* support to the National Road Safety program; and
* technical assistance, training, and support for information management systems.
5.    Annex 4 shows key indicators of implementation achievement for the AfDF
portfolio. In summary, although the two projects in the water supply sector, both of
which were implemented as first year projects, enjoyed an excellent success rate, those in
the roads sector did not. The African Development Bank underwent a major restructuring
and reorganization in the course of implementing the MIP which adversely affected the
flow of funds for project implementation. This delayed decisions in the procurement of
consultants and contractors, and affected progress in the implementation of the first year
program as a result of delayed payments to contractors. Consequently, only four of the
ten earth and gravel road sections earmarked for rehabilitation were completed (40%);
l 1 1km of 216 km of paved roads resealed (51%); and I out of 8 road bridges
reconstructed (13%). Mzimba-Chikangawa Road (25km) planned for improvement to
bitumen standard was deferred due to insufficient funds, and the reconstruction of
Chikwawa-Bangula paved road (45km) is presently at the tendering stage.
6.   Implementation of the AfDF portfolio suffered for the same reasons as those cited
for IDA components above, i.e. bids far in excess of appraisal estimates compounded by
the lapse of time between project appraisal and implementation. In the case of the AfDF
however, this was further exacerbated by an ambitious programn that may not have taken
into consideration the Fund's ability to fully finance it, and the Fund's restructuring and
re-organization program that came mid-stream of project implementation.



ANNEX3
7.   Japanese International Development Agency (JICA) [US$8.1 million]: JICA
committed US$8. I million for the provision to the Government of Malawi of road
maintenance plant, equipment and vehicles under the 6th Japanese Grant Aid package.
Financing was, however, withdrawn early in 1992 to force political change in the country
towards pluralism and the respect of human rights. It was not reinstated as was the case
for other donors.
8.    United Nations Capital Development Fund [US$5.0 million] provided funds
for the rehabilitation of 1000 boreholes in the Southern Region out of which 923 were
completed (92%). However, only 374 (37%) village water committees were formed and
trained in Community Based Management (CBM) of rural water under UNDP financing
due to the depletion of funds.
9.    United Nations Development Program [US$3.4 million] withdrew support from
the Management Improvement Component (training sub-component) of the MIP for the
same reasons given elsewhere above. UNDP and IDA, however, co-financed TA to
design an improved direct action shallow-well hand pump, a prototype of which is
currently undergoing field tests; and formation and training of communities in CBM as
mentioned in Paragraph 60 above. The Rural Motorized Transport Scheme being
implemented in the Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation is on-going and pilot trucks
are presently on a trial run by local (rural) transporters.
10.   Overseas Development Agency (ODA, UK, US$15.4 million) granted funds to
the Government of Malawi for the reconstruction of the Lilongwe- Salima Road (80 km)
within the MIP. Construction was completed and the road opened to traffic in May 1994,
more than a year behind schedule. This project suffered from heavy claims by the
Contractor totaling 4.50 million British Pounds, 60% of which is attributed to excessive
earthworks (overhaulage of suitable material). In addition to the Lilongwe-Salima Road,
ODA also supported eight (8) Engineering Technical Assistance personnel in the Civil
Engineering, Quantity Surveying, Architecture, and Structural Engineering fields; and
scholarships to staff in the Ministry for tertiary training in the United Kingdom. This
facility was withdrawn in 1992 for political reasons as mentioned above, and the IDA
management improvement component was utilized to cover the remaining students and
extended TA personnel wherever this was deemed cost effective, especially in the Water
and Buildings programs where there was a severe shortage of trained Malawians.
11.   Geselischaft fuir Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ) [US$2.9 million] funded
two Technical Assistance expatriates: one in the management of rural roads (DRIMP) and
the second in road construction contract management. Both contracts were not renewed
after termnination as national (Malawian) experts had taken over their duties after
appropriate training. GTZ also financed a Bitumen Training Production Unit (BTPU) for
road maintenance personnel in the Roads Department. Later, this training was extended
to local private sector contractors to develop their skills, and to prepare them to take on



ANNEX3
contract maintenance of bitumen roads, hitherto the territory of direct labor works. At the
closure of MIP, a total of 125 road maintenance supervisors and 20 private contractors
were trained in bitumen production, pothole patching, and premix overlays. Phase II of
this component is continuing beyond the MIP to April, 1998.
12.   Danish International Development Agency [Danida, US$1.5 million]
withdrew its support for the replacement of road signs on the national road network,
under the auspices of the Southern Africa Transport Coordination Council (SATCC), on
governance issues. This component remained unfunded to project closure.



ANNEX 4
Performance of AfDF/ADB Financed Components
Key Output Indicators           Planned    Actuals    % of
Targets             Planned
ROADS:
1. Reconstruction of Chikwawa-Bangula Road    45km      0         0
2. Rehabilitation of Earth and Gravel
Roads:
2.1 Junction MI -Nkhoma                   15km       Okm        0
2.2 S73 Loop                              29         29         100
2.3 Mchinji-Mkanda                        36         36         100
2.4 Balaka- Junction M3                   29         0          0
2.5 Msokera-Lifupa Lodge                  53         0          0
2.6 Kamchocho-Banda-Euthini-Mpherembe    54          0          0
2.7 Nsande-Cape Maclear                   19          19        100
2.8 Junction M3-Malindi                   12          12        100
2.9 Embangweni Mission-Luwawa             25         0          0
TOTAL (Rehab. of Earth & Gravel Roads)  286          96         34%
3. Road Improvement to Paved Surface
3.1 Mzimba-Chikangawa (Mtangatanga)       25         0          0



ANNEX 4
Performance of AfDF/ADB Financed Components
4. Resealing of Paved Roads
4.1 Benga-Nkhota kota-Dwangwa              111         111        100
4.2 Mzuzu-Nkhata Bay                       37          0         0
4.3 Mzuzu-J. Mzumara-S. Rukuru-Chiweta    68           0         0
5. Reconstruction of Road Bridges          8           1         12
WATER SUPPLY
6. Mzuzu Urban Water Supply Scheme         20m high earth-fill
dam and pumping
equipment             100
7. Kasungu Urban Water Supply Scheme       Existing dam raised by
4.5 m and new
pumping station built 100



ANNEX 5
Management Improvement Component: Training Sub-Component
NAME OF OFFICER         YEAR      COURSE                            DURAT1ON         LOCATION                    Status
K L. GUNDASI            92193     Post-grad ARCHITECTURE            12 MONTHS        D OF JORDANSTONE            COMPLETED
L J CHITSANTHI          92193     Post.grad ARCHITECTURE             12 MONTHS       LEEDS POLYTECHNIC           COM,PLETED
V J. CHIRWA             92/93     Post-grad ARCHITECTURE             12 MONTHS       0 OF JORDANSTONE            COMPLETED
E. MACHIKA              92/93     Post-grad ARCHITECTURE             12 MONTHS       DUNDEE. UK                  COMPLETED
SCHOLAR
SHIPS
T E.W NYIRENDA          94/95     M Sc (BRIDGE DESIGN)              12 MONTHS        UNITED KINGDOM              COMPLETED
B E NAYEJA  _           94195     M Sc (BRIDGE DESIGN)              12 MONTHS        UNITED KINGDOM              COMPLETED
A A MTHINI              94/95     M.Sc (BRIDGE DESIGN)              12 MONTHS        UNITED KINGDOM              COMPLETED
D.C C. PHIRI            94/95     M Sc. (BRIDGE DESIGN)             12 MONTHS        UNITED KINGDOM              COMPLETED
W CHIUME                94'95     B.Sc (BUILD MNGMNT)               12 MONTHS        UNITED KINGDOM              COMPLETED
F DIMU                  94/95     MSc (BRIDGEDESIGN)                12MONTHS         UNITEDKINGDOM               COMPLETED
P KALIATI               94/95     RIBA Pt 3                         12 MONTHS        UNITED KINGDOM              Still at School
K MUN'THALI             94'95     RIBA Pt 3                         12 MONTHS        UNITED KINGDOM              COMPLETED
SO. NGOMA               94/95     RIBA Pt 3                         12 MONTHS        UNITED KINGDOM              COMPLETED
C K N KUMANGIRANA       94/95     M.Sc. (COSNTR MNGMNT)             12 MONTHS        UNITED KINGDOM              COMPLETED
W.B. GONOWE             94/95     M.Sc. (BUILD MNGMNT)              12 MONTHS        UNITED KINGDOM              COMPLETED
S THONDOYA              94/95     M Sc. (ARCHITECTURE)              24 MONTHS        REP OF SOUTH AFRICA         COMPLETED
M W MIKULWA             94/95     M Sc (Water Resources Mngmnn)     24 MONTHS        UNITED KINGDOM              StIll at School
F KWAULE                95196     Water and Errtonmental Engineernng  24 MONTHS      UNITED KINGDOM              Still at School
H H MTHINDA             92/93     M.SC (STRUCTURES)                 18 MONTHS        U OF PRETORtAIRSA           COMPLETED
J A MAKUNJE             92/93     M.SC. (CIVIL ENG.)                12 MONTHS        U OF STELLENBOSCH/RSA       COMPLETED
M J KANDULU             92/93     M SC (PROJECT MGT)                12 MONTHS        LOUGHBOROUGHIUK             COMPLETED
M SULUMBA               92/93     M.SC. (CONST. MGT.)               12 MONTHS        HERRIOT WATTISCOTLAND       COMPLETED
C.K. ZULU               92/93     M.SC (WATER ENG.)                 10 MONTHS        U OF DAR-ES-SALAAM/TZ       COMPLETED
B KAPOTEZA              92/93     M SC (CONST MGT)                  12 MONTHS        U OF STELLENBOSCH/RSA       COMPLETED
S M N. MAINALA          93/94     M SC. (H.R, MGT)                  36 MONTHS        DIST. EDUCATION/MLW         ON-GOING
H KANJERE               92/93     B.SC. (ENV. ENG)                  48 MONTHS        SOUTH LONDON POLYNUK        Still at School
S D T MATENJE           92/93     CONST. CONTRACTS &                3 MONTHS         GEORGETOWN UIWASH DC.       COMPLETED
PROJ. PROCUREMENT
W 0 MBVUNDULA           90/91     M SC (PROJ ANALYSIS)              12 MONTHS        U OF YORKIUK                COMPLETED
J J. SOMBA              90191     M SC. (CONST MGT.)                12 MONTHS        LOUGHBOROUGH/UK             COMPLETED
W Y MWAFULIRWA          93194     MECH ENG REGISTRATION             8 WEEKS          UNITEO KINGDOM              COMPLETED
P P NAMWAWA             93/94     MECH ENG REGISTRATION             8 WEEKS          UNITED KINGDOM              COMPLETED
SHORT COURSES
L MPANJE (Miss)            ,    0 COMMUN WATER SUPPLY & SAN         3 MONTHS         Loughborough/UK             COMPLETED
M A KAMMALERE           92193     SEMINAR RD CONST                  2 WEEKS          ARIZONA/USA)                COMPLETED
B K MSYALI              92/93     SEMINAR RD. CONST                 2 WEEKS          ARIZONAMUSA)                COMPLETED
C KALONGA (MISS)        92193     COMPUTER ADV MGT COURSE)          2 WEEKS          CSIR/RSA)                   COMPLETED
0.8 KAPINGASA           92/93                                                                                    COMPLETED
K. BANDA (MRS)          92S93                     -                                                              COMPLETED
G D. MANGANDA           92t93                                                                                    COMPLETED
O KANKHULUNGO           92t93     PROCUREMENT                       2 WEEKS          ESAMI                       COMPLETED
B M CHIRWA              92)93                                                                                    COMPLETED
K L MVULA               Y2/93                                                                                    COMPLETED
50 OFFICERS             92/93     NEGOTIATING SKILLS                2 WEEKS          TRAINING CENTRE/MALAWI      COMPLETED
B D.S MHANGO            90o1      PROJECT EVALUATION                12 WEEKS         U OF STRATHCLYDE/UK         COMPLETED
DJ BAULENI              91/92     ARCHITECTURE                      12 WEEKS         LUND UNV /SWEDEN            COMPLETED
N L CHAKHAME            91/92     MONITORING & EVALUATION           9 WEEKS          U OF E ANGLIA/NORWICH UK    COMPLETED
G B NKHWAZI             91192     SITE MANAGEMENT                   12 WEEKS        CROWN AGENTSJUK              COMPLETED
J J SOMBA               91t92     O.S CONFERENCE                    1 WEEK           A.S. UNIV.ZARIA NIGERIA     COMPLETED
E H MSOLOMBA                      EVALUATION STUDY/                                                              COMPLETED
PAVEMENT MGT SYS                                  HARAREIZIMBABWE
D KARA                                                                                                           COMPLETED
VARIOUS PARTICIPANTS              DISBURSEMENT WISHOPS (IDA)        I DAY                                        COMPLETED
TUTOR & 15 TRAINEES     939       CLERK OF WORKS COURSE             4 MONTHS         MOW TC LILONGWE             COMPLETED
VARIOUS                 93'94     COMPUTER TRAINING,                                 VARIOUS                     COMPLETED
MANAGEMENT & TECHNICAL






32                  \.      to   cJodnoo
X >   5oo4 *>.             ( .->                                                      MALAWI
INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
C    CIPA 
\ jt.                4P    ' zrOg .                                                                                               D
  jg  Y A R '9 N G A \y  w.    t                       SECOND. THIRD
ML3OMETERS r,    20    4 0            3     100                                                                           ' AND FWORT"    FIRST YEP R
TEARk PIROGRAR  _P_ROGR
W.ELES 0         2T        40        6D                                                                                                        Rood C      nls
/       \       (    *      >~~~~~.C hDOuibo  i                                                  RehIoYloll
h TIATT      .    HAIRDO                                                        R r ..........  .........    ..G - oo g R-
'- r N/ O RTHE2, JR N                      ,                                          ; - DRIMP Phor. IV
AUMPIHI -Y   O~DOEW.                   -              -       Dorr~ CoroW. oo
roh            Io,o ToII                                                        ........ R-d,o b.,,-&d
-12j                   oI                                              ,                                  . ,                                         Sleone,mRole
Eeboc.ee     A'  .,~                . :\ 
*'b\HJ R             )ooobo   )             .                                         -.. *4u' w   NAoTod CgdlodpI Cnsi rul
Z3 A                             M, B I A !C t N IAghomphog / y........ ..... Rwd bI  Ado ErOon
RS jJ J                                                                                                                                   N. II C8p.Se
<  Id,OIRkOIO ~    ~        ~       ~        ~         I11d.
hOArDI                                 S                                                   M i  S  L  Z  A I)I .    ;        E
M.    h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
FJ 2  K A S)t  ) N G U >/ " )U ...................................A..N..                    \   1-
rH nsungu << ) s ! \ M   O Z A M  B I Q                           U                                    E .O
COOg 0I1  rI  d                                 IhpL.d ,1                   ,.  1                                                                                             _
H Iatofta  N G HAXI J I   X   D  0 ,   C I U 4\4  j8,   \   |  I
) j\'                 )  tt~~V M  A N  G TA      .eoA
M                             BIQU2L1<o8                                                                                                                       ^vA
/   A0 
rAZ.nYAJ bU6a R.UP/LAF  \  \F         A                K             ANTCHEU,  L           FI_UndC          o uJE
rlk ~ ~    ~    ~    j A LA 5r saa  >bse \ \I          
1o= ths tiv>wrlwawe 1.l Irse   \<  j    <  rr                         ;}    a0wy  %               seit~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~36









IMAGING
Report No.;          16382
Type:      ICR



