Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19131 MOZ
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 55.4 MILLION
(US$ 75 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
FORA
NATIONAL WATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
May 12, 1999
AFTUI
AFC02
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of May 12, 1999)
Currency Unit: Mozambican Meticais
US$ 1.00 = Mt 12,450
SDR 1.00      US$ 1.36
FISCAL YEAR
Government & Public Enterprises
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB             =    African Development Bank
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
CIDA             =    Canadian International Development Association
COGEA                 Commisao de Gestao de Empresas de Agua (Commission for the Management of
Water Services)
CRA                   Conselho de Regulaqao do Abastecimento de Agua (Council for the Regulation of
Water Supply)
GOM              =    Government of Mozambique
DASU             =    Departamento de Agua e Saneamento Urbano (Department of Urban Water and
Sanitation)
DN               =    Director Nacional (National Director of Water)
DNA              =    Direc,ao Nacional de Aguas (National Directorate of Water)
FCGD             =    F6mm Coordenador da Gestao Delegada (Stakeholder's forum)
FIPAG            =    Fundo de Investimento e Patrimonio do Abastecimento de Agua (Asset and
Investment Water Fund)
HRD              =    Human Resources Development
IPP                   International PriVate Partner
MAE              =    Ministerio de Administraqao Estatal (Ministry of State Administration)
MOPH             =    Ministerio das Obras PNiblicas e Habitac,o (Ministry of Public Works and Housing)
MPF              =    Ministerio do Plano e Financas (Ministry of Planning and Finance)
NDF              =    Nordic Development Fund
NWD              =    National Water Development Program
NWDP I           =    National Water Development I
NWDP II          =    National Water Development II
NWP                   National Water Policy
PIM              =    Project Implementation Manual
PL               =    Project Leader
PSM                   Private Sector Management
PSP              =    Private Sector Participation
RWSS             =    Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
UEP              =    Urban Environmental Project
WRM              =    Water Resources Management
Vice President: Callisto Madavo
Country Director: Phyllis Pomerantz
Sector Manager: Jeffrey Racki
Team Leader: Jane Walker



Mozambique
National Water Development II
CONTENTS
A: Project Development Objective ................................................................2
1. Project development objective .....................                                       ...........................................2
2. Key  performance  indicators ...............................................................2
B: Strategic Context ................................................................3
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goals supported by the project .......3
2. Main  sector issues and  Government strategy  ...............................................................3
3. Sector issues to  be  addressed  by  the  project and  strategic  choices .............                                            ...................5
C: Project Description Summary ................................................................6
1. Project components ................................................................6
2. Key  policy  and  institutional reforms  supported  by  the  project ................                                          ......................7
3. Benefits and  target population ................................................................7
4. Institutional and  implementation  arrangements ............................................................ 8
5. Monitoring  and  Evaluation  (M/E) ...............................................................                                                11
D: Project Rationale ...............................................................                                                                               12
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .................. .......................... 12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies .......... 13
3. Lessons learned  and  reflected  in  the  project design ..................................................... 13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ................................................... 14
5. Value  added  of Bank  support in  this project ............................................................... 14
E: Summary Project Analysis ...............................................................                                                                        15
1. Economic ..............................................................                                                                           15
2. Financial ..............................................................                                                                           15
3. Technical ..............................................................                                                                           16
4. Institutional ..............................................................                                                                       17
5. Social ..............................................................                                                                              17
6. Environmental assessment ..............................................................                                                            18
7. Participatory approach ..............................................................                                                             18
F: Sustainability and Risks ..............................................................                                                                          19
1. Sustainability ..............................................................                                                                     19
2. Critical Risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1) .................... 20
3. Possible  Controversial Aspects ..............................................................                                                    21



G: Main Loan Conditions ........................                                         21
1. Conditions of Effectiveness ..................                                21
2.Financial Covenants ..................                                         22
3.Dated Covenants ..................                                             22
H: Readiness for Implementation ........................                                 22
I: Compliance with Bank Policies ........................                                23
Annexes
Annex 1.       Project Design Summary
Annex 2.       Detailed Project Description and Environmental Summary
Annex 3.       Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.       Economic Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Annex 5.       Financial Summary
Annex 6.       Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.       Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al.      Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B.       Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.       Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7.       Financial Management
Annex 8.       Project Implementation Manual Table of Contents
Annex 9.       Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 10.      Documents in Project File
Annex I l.     Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 12.      Country at a Glance



Mozambique
National Water Development Project II
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFC02
Date: May 12, 1999                                  Team Leader: Jane Walker.
Country Director: Phyllis Pomerantz                Sector Manager: Jeff-rey Racki
Project ID: MZ-PA-52240                            Sector: WW - Water Supply & Sanitation Adjustment
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan        Theme(s): Private Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention:    [ I Yes  [XI No
Project Financing Data
I  Loan    [X] Credit        ] Grant       [] Guarantee     [] Other ISpecify]
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 75.00
Proposed terms:   [] To be defined      [X] Multicurrency       [] Single currency
[I Standard Variable   [] Fixed            [ LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):          10
Years to maturity:             40
Commitment fee:           Not exceeding 1/2 of 1%
Service charge:                0.75%
A U
Government                                               7.59                   2.65            10.24
Cofinanciers (AfDB, Netherlands)                         10.1I                 19.49            29.60
IDA                                                      19.18                 55.82            75.00
Total:                                                   36.88                 77.96           114.84
Borrower: Government of Mozambique
Guarantor: Government of Mozambique
Responsible agency: Ministry of Public Works and Housing, Fundo de Investimento e Patrim6nio do Abastecimento de
Agua, Direccao Nacional de Aguas
Estimated disbursements Bank FY/US$M):
Annual         1.49        10.30       17.28        18.60        15.94       11.39
Cumulative         1.49       11.79        29.07        47.67       63.61        75.00
Project implementation period: 5.5 years
Expected effectiveness date: September 30, 1999     Expected closing date: September 30, 2005
Implementing agency: FIPAG, DNA
Contact person: Americo Muianga, National Director, National Directorate of Water, Ministry of Public Works
and Housing
Address: Av. 25 de Septembro, 942, Maputo, Mocambique
Tel: 420470                   Fax: 302130/420469            E-mail: PNDA@virconn.com
OCS PAD Form: October 9, 1998



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The main objective of the project is to improve the quality, reliability and sustainability of water services for the
cities of Maputo, Beira, Quelimane, Nampula, and Pemba (target cities) through promoting greater private sector
participation in the provision of these services. More specifically, the project seeks to:
*  Commence institutional and regulatory reform within the urban water sector with the introduction of commercial
principles in the operation and management of water services through the use of a private sector operator
*  Accelerate capacity building and human resource development for the sector through training and demonstration
effects within the context of the private operator contract
* Provide an institutional framnework that improves the quality and sustainability of users services and acts as an
operational model for water services, as these begin td be decentralized to municipal based management.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Outcome /Impact Indicators:
*     Mandated tariff policy that water pricing will be based on principles of full cost recovery.
*    Work towards the establishment of autonomous publicly owned water companies in the 5 targeted cities that
are run on commercial principles of cost recovery and that are managed and run by private sector operators.
-     Assist in the devolution of the responsibility to provide water supply to the Local Authorities as
municipalities take an increasing role in direction and ownership of the new water companies.
*     Creation of a water sector regulatory agency for urban water service provision.
Output Indicators
*     In the target cities, the population with improved access to safe reliable water supplies would increase from
the current level of 0.8 million to 1. lm by 2004.
*    FIPAG: Full cost recovery achieved by year:
O&M +depreciation         O&M +depr. +debt service
FIPAG.        Year 4 of Operations       Year 5 of Operations
September 2004            September 2005
*    Reliabi lity of service i proves  % of customers receiving <24 hrs supply/day
Cities        09/99  09/02  09/04
Maputo        80     60       20
Beira         95     55        5
Quelimane     100   60         5
Nampula       100   50         5
Pemba         100    70        5
*     Percentage of microbiological water quality samples meeting target values
Il1 09/02  09/04
1 All cities   50%    95%



Page 3
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: Report No. 17180-MOZ dated November 21, 1997; Date of latest CAS: discussed by the
Executive Directors on December 18, 1997.
The project would support the CAS objective ofpromoting sustainable economic growth bv.
*  Providing improved coverage, higher quality and more sustainable water services for major urban areas which
will improve the quality of life and enhance productivity of individuals and households;
* Ensuring more efficient and cost-effective service delivery for domestic, commercial and industrial enterprises;
* Promoting principles of cost recovery, self-sufficiency and demand led growth to ease the fiscal burden at the
municipal and Central Government level.
The project would support the CAS objective of capacitv building and development of human resources primarily
through the promotion of private sector-led service delivery by:
e Introducing private sector participation in the provision of water supply services in the five cities;
= Laying the foundation of wider institutional reform covering all cities by fostering options for the private sector
participation in the provision of urban water services;
- Demonstrating to GOM and the municipalities a wide range of efficient and cost-effective management practices
that result in better service delivery;
- Strengthening sector human resource capacity through employment and training under modem private sector
management practices;
- Implementing demand led market based principles that will result in the involvement of a wide range of
stakeholder including municipalities, commercial and industrial users, private sector groups and NGOs.
Providing for and promoting new institutions for professional sector oversight, management and regulation.
The project would support the CAS objective of strengthening development partnerships:
The project provides a framework within which:
*  Donors are working closely together and in a coordinated manner, for the first time in the urban water supply
subsector, to support GOM in its efforts to plan and implement a program of sustainable development.
* Partnerships between GOM and the newly elected municipalities.
* Partnerships between GOM and the private sector.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Sector Issues:
Water resources management and source protection:
Improving environmental management is urgently required in Mozambique and increasingly becoming an issue. The
country's natural resources form the basis of its economy and are the principal sources of income and future
economic growth. The majority of Mozambique's water resources are those of its major rivers, almost all of which
arise in other countries. Over the last three decades, upstream riparians have diverted much of the yield of several of
these rivers for irrigation and other consumptive uses. From 1991 to 1996, Mozambique faced severe water
shortages, with insufficient water for irrigation requirements, saline water intrusion into estuaries, and significant
water supply interruptions in different parts of the country. Arrangements for more equitable sharing of water
between the riparian countries are important to ensure that Mozambique will have sufficient safe water sources for
the provision of adequate potable water for communities.



Page 4
Urban water and sanitation service delivery:
The urban population of Mozambique is growing rapidly and represents 38% of the national total. Since 1990, the
annual growth rate in urban population averaged over 7%, partially due to the effects of the prolonged civil war. The
huge influx of immigrants has overwhelmed water and sewer systems designed for much smaller populations. The
current potable water supply service is inadequate and is characterized by low levels of coverage and very poor
quality and reliability. Only about 30 % of the urban populations have access to safe water. Inadequate sanitation
and drainage further contribute to the deteriorated conditions for urban populations. These deficiencies, in tum, have
led to very poor health statistics and a degraded quality of life resulting in lower individual and household
productivity and poverty entrenchment.
Sector management capacity and sustainabilitv:
Both water resources and potable water are managed through central govermment authorities, while the sanitation
services (including the majority of sewerage) is the responsibility of municipal govemments. The public
administration responsible for the service delivery is extremely weak, and is characterized by underskilled and poorly
trained and paid staff. Management capacity is extremely scarce. Cost recovery for water services is low, which in
part reflects the low efficiency of the service. User fees for sewerage and sanitation are minimal or non-existent.
Much of these fees are not retained for service provision but are used for other municipal purposes.
Government Strategy:
Background and Overview:
The Government of Mozambique is addressing the multiple sector issues within the water and sanitation sector with a
range of innovative polices and strategies. In August 1995, GOM adopted a comprehensive sector strategy document
entitled the National Water Policy (NWP). The policies to which GOM committed itself include: increased
beneficiary participation, recognition of water as an economic as well as a social good; decentralized autonomous and
financially self sustaining provision of water supply and sanitation services, integrated water resources management
taking environmental impacts into account; multi-objective investment planning; a greater focus on capacity building;
and an increased role for the private sector. GOM has prepared and approved a National Water Development
Program (NWD Program) to implement the above polices. The achievement of these polices' objectives is found in
three broad initiatives, as follows:
Water Resources Managment, Rural Water Supply, and Institutional Reform:
The first component of the NWD Program financed by IDA and co-financed by Nordic Development Fund (NDF)
and CIDA supported National Water Development I Project (NWDP-I, Cr. 3039-MOZ), which became effective in
June 1998. Under the credit, Mozambique is participating in studies of transboundary rivers; increasing its
capacities to support the international technical negotiations that are required to reach agreements, as well as its
water resources management capacities; reforming its approach to the provision of rural water supply services with
the objective of implementing a demand oriented approach; and developing a strategy for water resources
management and the management of bulk water for irrigation and other purposes. The project also includes
significant support for capacity building within the Direccao Nacional de Aguas (DNA).
Urban Water Reform and Management:
Under the program, GOM has decided to undertake a sweeping refonn of the urban water supply provision. The
program starts with institutional reform at the very heart of service delivery to move away from central management,
and towards more deregulated management involving better regulation and financial planning. Specifically, GOM has
taken steps to provide for: (i) full private sector management for water supply services in 5 major cities with an
expected follow-on for 8 further towns; (ii) tariff reforms that aim at full cost recovery; and (iii) the establishment of
a Regulatory Board (Conselho de Regulacao do Abastecimento de Agua - CRA) for the sector. The Program for
urban water supply also includes investments in rehabilitation and extension of systems. The proposed NWDP-II is
poised to support the urban water supply component of the NWD program in association with the African
Development Bank and Dutch bilateral support.



Page 5
Urban Sanitation and Related Urban Services:
With respect to sanitation and sewerage services, the major component of the GOM long term program of public and
municipal sector reform is decentralization. This is seen as a means to make the provision of sanitation and sewerage
services, along with related infrastructure services - especially drainage, more efficient and more accountable to the
users. Devolution of authority and resources to municipal government is already advanced. However, institutional
capacity at the municipal level is extremely weak. The proposed IDA-supported Municipal Development Project is
being developed to address major issues in the delivery of urban services. The project is taking a long-term view (10-
15 years) in which significant upgrading of the capacity of local governments is expected to be achieved. Specific
investment in wastewater and sanitation are programmed within this proposed credit.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Staged Initiatives:
The proposed project comprises one component of a broader program of total water supply sector management and
development for Mozambique. Given the known limited institutional capacity of the country as a whole and in the
sector particularly, a strategic choice was made by IDA to support the ambitious water reform program in a set of
three specific sub-sector initiatives, as follows: (i) water resources, rural water and capacity building (NWDP-I -
1998); (ii) urban water (NWDP-II - 1999); and (iii) urban services, including sanitation and drainage (Municipal
Development Project - 200 1). For example, during most of the preparation phase, the NWDP-I project and the
proposed NWDP-II project were being prepared as a single large and complex project. In July 1997, GOM and the
Bank together made a decision to split the project into two. The result is simpler, more manageable projects.
Nevertheless, while capacity strengthening, particularly in project management within DNA, is on-going; the
implementation of some components under DNA's control has been slow. DNA acts as a project executing agency
for NWDP I and will act as the executing agency for a small component of NWDP II.
Use of Private Sector Management:
Of the main sector issues outlined above within the water sector, one of the most important is the inadequate
provision of urban water supply to the major cities of Mozambique. Complementary and essential to this lack of
provision, is the problem of the implementation capacity to achieve improved services and the sustainability of
service delivery to consumers at a reasonable cost and in a reasonable timeframe. Specifically, GOM undertook a
strategic decision to augment the management and operational efficiency of the water companies in the cities of
Maputo, Beira, Quelimane, Nampula, and Pemba by contracting out to a private sector operator through a
competitive bidding process while retaining oversight through the creation of a regulator. An autonomous public
sector body (Fundo de Investimento e Patrim6nio do Abastecimento de Agua - FIPAG) will hold all state water assets
in the five towns and contract with the private operator for services through a range of contracting options. The
decision reflects wider GOM public management reform which focus on a more results oriented public service where
scarce public sector resources are devoted to oversight and regulation while permitting the private sector to operate a
range of services under a regulated environment.
Multi-donor Participation:
In support of the significant demand for investment in rehabilitation and extension of the five cities systems, IDA has
encouraged a strategy that will allow participation by a range of donors. Over the medium term, there is scope for
additional investments, mainly for expansion works in the core secondary cities. This is in addition to current funding
committed by IDA, AfD)B, and the Dutch Government which supports some expansion of the systems, but is mainly
focused on rehabilitation. Other donors including the French and Germnan governments and the European Union have
already expressed interest in participating in the project. It is expected that most of the bi-lateral funding will be in
the form of grants. Further, there is considerable scope for additional funding within the overall urban water
program, which is wider than the 5 cities covered with the project.



Page 6
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components: (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown)
A. Private Sector Management of
water supply systems for five
cities.
*  Lease Contract                    B.P.*
*  Management Contract                            5.71                 5.71
*  Rehabilitation & New
Connections                                  14.67                 14.16
*  Program Management                             2.30                 2.30
Management Components A and B        B.I.        13.31                11.25
by FIPAG
Human Resources Development and                   0.80                 0.80
Training
Total A                   36.79      32       34.21      46
B. Water Supply Works.              W.U.
Water Supply Works                                49.07               20.33
Design and Supervision                             5.00                5.00
Total B                   54.07      47       25.33      34
C. Urban Water Supply Policy &       B.I.
Strategy.
Equipment for CRA                                  0.30                0.30
TA for the CRA                                     1.50                1.50
Urban Water Supply Strategy                        2.00                2.00
Peri-Urban Pilot                                   .40                 .40
Project Management                                  .40                 .40
Total C                    4.60       4        4.60       6
Total      95.46      83        64.14     86
Project Costs (with contingencies)   112.20      98       75.00    100
Interest during construction     2.65       2         0         0
**Total Project Costs   114.84      100       75.00    100
*Note: The cost of Lease Contract (est.US$24.5m) is not included in the Project Costs as this cost will
be financed by the Customer Tariff and will be the responsibility of the Private Operator.
**Note: Totals may not add due to rounding.



Page 7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Policy Reforms:
*    Autonomy and financial viability of urban water services through the creation of a public water institute,
FIPAG, as a transition to greater decentralization of service provision;
*    Greater participation by municipalities through their role in the Stakeholders Forum (F6rum Coordenador
da Gestao Delegada - FCGD) and through their assistance in the selection of the Board of FIPAG, and
eventual devalution of FIPAG into several municipally based utilities;
*    Use of private sector provision of urban water services through the contracting out of the operations of the
water companies to the private sector;
*    Pricing of water service based on economic cost of water through the national Decree of the water Tariff
Policy;
*    Full consumer participation in the key institutions (the CRA and FIPAG), and through programs for
participatory decision-making on major system extensions.
Institutional Reforms:
*     Creation of FIPAG and the transfer of ownership and operation of the state water companies, which cease
to exist, to FIPAG;
X    Evolution of FIPAG into municipal based water companies with decentralized ownership;
*     Creation of the Independent Regulator (CRA).
3. Benefits and target population:
The project will directly benefit an estimated 1.1 million people, representing about 47% of the consumers
in the five cities. Of those already served by connections (about 800,000 people, or about 35% of all potential
consumers), whether through house or yard connections or public standpipes, most currently receive supplies for
only a limited number of hours per day. Of these, many also receive supplies of poor microbiological quality, at
low pressure, and not every day of each month. To those consumers who are already connected but are poorly
served, the project will bring services that are close to continuous and meet national standards of pressure and
microbiological quality. These consumers will pay higher prices. Of the families and individuals who are not
currently connected to the formal systems, most are poor, most pay more per cubic meter for their supplies than
those currently connected (e.g. in Beira, in early 1998, 32% of households had direct connections to the formal
water supply system and paid an average of US$0.091M3, while 30% purchased vended water at an average price
of US$2.20! M3), and many must walk long distances to fetch water, a burden that falls disproportionately upon
women.
Some 300,000 people will receive formal services, through direct connections or standpipes, for the first
time. For these improved and more reliable services, most of those who have been using vended water will pay
lower unit prices, but improved metering and tariff policies, and options to choose between the forms of service,
will allow most of them to adjust the balance of convenience, quantity consumed and monthly total paid, to match
their own budgets. Improvement in the management of the services, both operationally and financially, will allow
increased reliability and sustainability of the systems. Further poor and unreliable water services in the five cities
are a constraint on operations by commercial and industrial enterprises increasing their operating costs and
making these enterprises less competitive. Improved service levels, particularly reliably, will reduce constraints
and promote confidence and increased investment.
The increased skills of personnel involved in the sector, the improved framework of investment
management, regulation and sector policy, and the experience gained in managing private sector management
operators, will establish a base upon which to continue to improve and expand urban water services, both within
these initial five cities and within other cities as the deregulated management model of the water sector expands.



Page 8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
For Components A and B:
* Executing agency: FIPAG under MOPH;
* Coordinator: Chairman of the Board of FIPAG through the CEO (Chief Executive Officer) of FIPAG.
For Part C:
* Executing agency: Direccao Nacional de Aguas (DNA) under the MOPH;
* Component Coordinator: Head of Departamento de Agua e Saneamento Urbano (DASU) under the guidance
of the National Director of Water Affairs (ND).
Implementation period: September 1999 through March 2005
Project Co-ordination: Maior Institutions and Roles:
FIPAG. All water supply fixed assets, presently at the disposal of state water companies in the five cities
will be vested with the new FIPAG, created by decree number 73/98 dated December 23, 1998. A Stakeholders
Forum will be formed as a consultative body on the Private Sector Program (PSP) for the Minister of MOPH. It
will nominate members for appointment to the Board of FIPAG. This forum will be presided over by a
representative of the MOPH and will include members appointed by Minist6rio de Plano e Financas (MPF) and
Ministerio de Administraqao Estatal (MAE), as well as representatives of the CRA and FIPAG. Representatives
of the local authorities will be consultative members but they will be entitled to vote on all matters related to the
water supply systems in their area. The Board of FIPAG will consist initially of 5 professionally qualified
individuals. FIPAG will have a professional chief executive officer (CEO) responsible for daily management of
the institute, who will be recruited by the MOPH. The CEO will be assisted by a professional group of managers
representing the following competencies: utility management, investment program management and financial
management. Environmental expertise will also be located in FIPAG to ensure that correct environmental
practices as set out in the Environment Action Plan (EAP) are implemented. An accountant will also be part of
the FIPAG management team, as well as advisory legal services. The FIPAG professional team will be supported
by a substantial technical assistance budget. FIPAG will be responsible for the implementation of components
A&B of the project. Full job description of the professional staff and managers of FIPAG, as well as the
operational policies and norms of FIPAG, are to be set out in the PIM.
FIPAG will be the Employer (signatory to the contracts) of the Private Operator (PO), who will replace
Agua de Maputo. FIPAG will also take over duties and obligations for water service delivery for the four water
companies of Beira, Quelimane, Nampula and Pemba and enter into Management Contracts with the PO on the
operations of water supply in these cities. As part of the GOM strategy to devolve responsibilities to the Local
Authorities in a gradual and deliberate way, new public companies with both state and municipal ownership will
be created in the four cities over the course of the project. The authority and responsibilities of FIPAG include: i)
investment and financial management for rehabilitation and expansion of water supply assets; ii) maximization of
efficiency and return on existing assets; and iii) contract management, monitoring and enforcement of its
contractual obligations of the selected PO. FIPAG will review and approve the Strategic Business Plans and
reports prepared by the PO. Until the new public companies are established, FIPAG will also be the formal
employer of the employees of the former four northern water companies and support working capital
requirements. Authority and responsibilities of FIPAG are outlined in a Performance Contract with the Ministry
of MOPH.
Private Operator (PO). FIPAG will contract technical and commercial operations of the water supply
service to a PO. The PO will be a company incorporated in Mozambique. Between 70% and 85% of its equity
will be owned by an International Professional Partner (IPP) and the remainder by private Mozambican interests.
The working capital to be brought by the Private Operator has been set at US$3 million equivalent minimum.



Page 9
The Private Operator will enter into five contracts with FIPAG, consisting of a 15 year "Lease Contract" for
Maputo, and four identical five year "Management Contracts" for the four other cities.
Under the Lease Contract for Maputo, the PO will be responsible for operating and maintaining FIPAG
facilities, billing customers and collecting the Customer Tariff, at its o- .n commercial risk. The PO will retain
part of the Customer Tariff, the Operator Tariff, and use the difference to pay a Rental Fee to FIPAG and a
Regulation Fee to the CRA. The Operator Tariff will be fixed for five years, but regularly adjusted according to
a contractual cost index formula during this period. The PO will be responsible for financing its own operating
equipment, inventories and working capital from the Operator Tariff. The Operator Tariff will be entirely
covered by the Customer Tariff. In addition, the PO will be responsible for implementing the rehabilitation and
extension program related to secondary and tertiary distribution, connections and meters, (the Delegated Works).
The PO may also act as the agent of FIPAG in the procurement, implementation and acceptance of all works
under the control of FIPAG that are not part of the lease and management contracts (the Non-delegated Works).
Under the five year Management Contracts for the four other cities, the PO will be responsible for
operating and maintaining FIPAG facilities, billing customers and collecting the Customer Tariff, on behalf of
FIPAG. FIPAG will pay the PO a Management Fee, part of which will be linked to the PO's collection and
operational performance. FIPAG will also finance the supply of the PO's operating equipment and inventories for
these four cities.
Direc,cao Nacional de Aguas (DNA) of Ministerio das Obras Puiblicas e Habitaqao (MOPH), in
particular Departamento de Agua e Saneamento Urbano (DASU) and Departamento de Gestao de Recursos
Hidricos (DGRH) plays a key role in the monitoring and management of water resources and supplies. The
formal responsibility for planning and implementation of urban water supply projects will be transferred from
DNA to FIPAG, starting with the five cities under the project. DNA's executive functions regarding domestic
water resources management (mainly bulk water supply) will eventually be phased out when all the five ARAs
(Administracao Regional de Aguas) are operational. However, DNA professional personnel will be used on a
consultative basis by FIPAG. DNA will also support the MOPH on assessing the implementation of the
Performance contract to be signed with FIPAG. The ongoing NWDP I Project Unit of DNA will remain the
interface between DNA and NWDP II. It will be used to provide specialized services such as procurement and
accounting to the Component C of NWDP II. Component C will be implemented and coordinated under the
direction of the National Director (DN) who will be assisted by the Department Head responsible for urban water
supply and sanitation (DASU).
Project oversight and policy guidance:
The policy guidance and project oversight will be provided by the Minister, the National Director (DN) of
DNA and the FIPAG Board.
Sector Regulation:
Conselho de Regulacao do Abastecimento de Agua (CRA). A three member regulatory board for the
water supply sector has been created as a Public Corporation. The Decree number 74/98, dated December 23,
1998, to that effect has been passed by the Cabinet. The CRA will regulate water supply operations and issue
instructions for FIPAG and the Operating Company in particular with regard to consumer tariffs, quality of
services and network expansion programs. New tariffs proposed by FIPAG will be only effective after approval
by CRA. CRA will act also as a forum for hearing of views and complaints from customers and municipalities,
and for pre-arbitration between FIPAG and the Operating Company. Further, it may be noted that institutional
arrangements of the project are designed in reference to the new Decentralization Law (Decree number 72/98,
dated December 23, 1998) to provide for progressively increased involvement of Local Authorities through
participation in the Stakeholders Forum, and a consultative role in relation to the CRA.



Page 10
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: (The outline of the financial management strategy is set
out in Annex 7)
FIPAG to IDA: FIPAG's main tasks are: (a) to manage the lease contract for Maputo and the four management
contracts for the 4 cities; and (b) to oversee the investment programn (capital works) for the Maputo lease contract
and the capital works plus operation and maintenance program for the 4 cities. FIPAG will administer project
accounts related to Components A and B for IDA. FIPAG will be structured to provide efficient procurement,
financial management, reporting and administration. Financial procedures will be developed to cover intemal
financial controls and compatibility with other Government reporting requirements. For example, ideally, FIPAG
will maintain accounting records in respect of 4 bank accounts: (a) Current Account in Meticais (Part 1 Account) at
a commercial bank acceptable to IDA to which drawdowns from the Special Account and the Project Account (Part 2
account, see (b)); (b) Project Account in Meticais (Part 2 Account) at a commercial bank acceptable to IDA to
which Counterpart Funding by Government will be deposited; (c) Special Account in US Dollars/Meticais at a
commercial bank acceptable to IDA; and (d) IDA Loan Account (Washington) in US Dollars/ Meticais /SDR.
As FIPAG commences operations, highly skilled accounting and financial management staff will be recruited. In the
first years of the project the management of FIPAG will be assisted by a team of experts, including a Financial
Manager. These experts are to be engaged in conjunction with the Private Operator commencing operations. At this
juncture in the start-up stage in the establishment of FIPAG's financial management system, FIPAG will not
immediately begin with the PMR-based disbursements, as discussed in the World Bank's Loan Administration
Change Initiative Handbook (LACI, September '98). Thus, in the short-term, existing disbursement procedures, as
outlined in the World Bank's Disbursement Handbook, will be followed (i.e. Direct Payment, Reimbursement and
Special Commitment). However, the development of FIPAG's financial management system, in accordance with the
Financial Management Action Plan (presented in the PIM), is expected to facilitate the introduction of PMR-based
disbursements within 18 months of credit effectiveness. Further details are set out in Annex 7.
Tlhe PIM, referred to above, will include Procurement and Financial Manuals that will be followed in the project
implementation by FIPAG. In addition, provision has been made to include a selective and intensive training
program to enhance skills, especially in areas of Bank procurement procedures, compatibility with Bank's special
accounts, SOEs and disbursement procedures. Financial statements will be produced on a quarterly and annual basis
for IDA and the FIPAG Board.
DNA to IDA:
With respect to DNA's financial management of Component C, this will be straitforward. Component C consists of
mainly engineering studies and consultancies. Payments made for these expenditures will be by direct payment by
IDA and/or reimbursement. DNA will use a spreadsheet to monitor these transactions and there will be quarterly
reports. Accountancy practices of DNA have been found to be consistent with and acceptable to the Association.
Both FIPAG and DNA will have an annual audit undertaken by external auditors acceptable to the Association.
Private Operator (PO) to FIPAG: The PO will provide extensive reports to FIPAG. These are set out in TITLE IX
of the draft Contract Agreements and include, but are not limited to:
TITLE                                 Frequency -                                                |
Annual Reports - Technical and Financial  Within 3 months of the end of the GOM fiscal year and then annually
Market Survey                         3 Months prior to the submission of the Strategic Business Plan (SBP)
Strategic Business Plans(SBP)        After 12 months, after 4 years and after nine years
Annual Detailed Investment Plans     After 12 months and annually thereafter
Collection and Costs Summary Tables   Quarterly
Audited and Working Accounts          Annually



Page 1 1
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements: (full details are set out in Annex 6)
Procurement: The majority of the procurement under the project will be undertaken under the auspices of FIPAG.
Some procurement mainly for studies and consultancies will be undertaken by DNA for Component C of the project.
Further, the Lease and Management contracts contain selected construction works and procurement of goods that
were bid as a part of the procurement process for these contracts. Consequently, the winner of this competitively bid
contract (the Private Operator) will not be required to follow WB guidelines for the procurement of these items.
Such items are referred to as "Delegated Works". The Private Operator will be required to procure goods, works and
consultancy services for the "Non-Delegated" component of the project under World Bank guidelines.
Most consultant selections will be addressed through competition among qualified short-listed firms in which the
selection will be based on Quality-and-Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) by evaluating the quality of the proposal before
comparing the cost of the services to be provided. For some low cost assignments (less than US$50,000), the
Consultant Qualification (CQ) method may be used. Technical assistance for procurement will be in the form of
hiring of individual consultants or through contracts with consulting companies. Contracts less than $100,000 each
may be awarded on a sole source basis subject to adequate justification and prior review by IDA. Training (total
value US$0.8m) will primarily comprise hiring of individual short term consultants and support for training
programs.
Disbursement: Disbursement of IDA funds will be made on the basis of incurred eligible expenditures. For FIPAG,
IDA will make advance disbursements from the proceeds of the Credit by depositing funds into a Special Account to
expedite program implementation. The Special Account operated by FIPAG in the amount of US$ 1,000,000 is
proposed. It is also proposed that a Project Account is established by the Borrower for FIPAG, that will be funded at
least 3 months in advance by the GOM. The initial deposit will be US$ 250,000, with subsequent quarterly deposits
of US$ 175,000 until US$ 2,000,000 is reached. The purpose of these funds is working capital to be provided by the
GOM in the first 4 years of FIPAG's operation. Additional counterpart funding for capital works and other expenses
is estimated at US$ 1.58 million.
For component C, which is administered by DNA, funds will be disbursed from the credit only by direct payment
and/or reimbursement. It is expected that the majority of payments will be direct payments from the credit to a third
parties for goods and services upon the Borrowers request.
5. Monitoring and Evaluation (M/E)
For FIPAG, the responsibility for meeting the performance targets and outputs specified for the urban water supply
will be the FIPAG Board and implemented by the CEO. For the DNA components of the project, this will be the day
to day responsibility of DASU with the DN responsible for meeting performance targets and outputs.. The overall
implementation of the project will rest with the Ministry of Public Works and Housing (MOPH). M/E will be steered
by the Project's Design Summary Matrix (Annex 1), the Project Implementation Manual, and the corresponding
Project Implementation Plan. MIE will be implemented through a variety of activities including: (1) the annual
meeting of the Stakeholders Forum for FIPAG; (2) reports and meetings of the CRA, which represent consumer
groups and beneficiaries; (3) IDA supervision missions; (4) quarterly and annual financial reports; plus the annual
audit reports - Annex 7 sets out financial reporting requirements; (5) mid-term review (MTR) of project
implementation jointly with IDA and other donors no later than 30 months after effectiveness; and (6) key
performnance indicators at dated implementation milestones as provided in the implementation plan. FIPAG and
DNA will provide IDA with progress reports on project implementation and outcomes, using the format agreed at
negotiations. An Implementation Completion Report will be prepared within six months after the credit closes.
GOM will contribute to the ICR with its own evaluation of the project.



Page 12
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Within the overall framework of policy and institutional reform of the water sector, the GOM undertook to change
the management of the water companies of the cities of Maputo, Beira, Quelimane, Nampula, and Pemba by
contracting with the private sector. Within the design of the project to include private sector participation, the
following project alternatives were considered:
Forms of PSP (Private Sector Participation) management:
To achieve improvement of the performance of the water supply companies, the possible options ranged from
technical assistance, through commercialization, to the various forms of private sector management (PSP). The PSP
options included management contracts with or without performance incentives, affermage/lease options, and full
concessions. Evaluations of the relative effectiveness of this range of options suggested that those involving technical
assistance and corporatization are unlikely to result in rapid performance improvement. A risk analysis concluded
that transferring the commercial risk to a private sector operator appeared to be appropriate for Maputo, but this was
not considered feasible for the other cities until the market for water supply services is better assessed, and there is an
opportunity to assemble more complete information on their financial and service performance. Accordingly, a lease
option was decided for Maputo, and management contracts with performance incentives for the remaining four cities.
Cities to be targeted.
The number of cities and their locations to be targeted under the initial PSP management option began a strategic
decision making process. Options ranged from Maputo only, through to Maputo plus all 12 provincial cities. At one
extreme, Maputo, with the country's largest urban water supply system, appeared to offer an attractive opportunity
for private sector management and associated investment to benefit a large number of people. Confining the reform
to Maputo, however, would be contrary to the Government's decentralization and investment policies, which for
reasons of providing for economic growth, poverty reduction, and of encouraging wide participation of civil society
in the process of devolution of municipal services, requires major reforms and investments to confer benefits more
widely than in the rapidly growing Maputo area. At the other extreme, an attempt could be made to place all 13 city
water systems at once under private sector management. This options was considered too risky due to difficulties of
communication, coordination, regulation, and the limited capacities available to manage a project of such scale and
complexity. It was decided that the cities to be included in the PSP management initiative would be Maputo, Beira,
Quelimane, Nampula and Pemba, the largest urban complexes in Mozambique. These same cities participated in the
Local Government Reform and Engineering Project (PROL, Cr. 2530). In these cities work, supported by the project,
centered on the strengthening of local government, the upgrading of other municipal services, and the development of
structure plans. Building on lessons from this project, a second urban project Municipal Development Project (MDP)
is proposed.
Investment priorities:
This set of decisions also led to the choices of investments in urban water supply systems to be included in the
sequence of two IDA projects: the NWDP I and NWDP II projects. While all five of the water supply systems will
require continuing investment over many years, especially in rehabilitation of existing networks and construction of
extensions into new service areas, most of this investment should be undertaken within an environment of policies and
management that will assure sustainability, and the NWDP II will help assure that the process of policy reform
started under NWDP I is supported and strengthened. However, some facilities in the headworks of some water
supply systems are in poor condition, with significant risks of failure. It was agreed that NWDP I should include
such works for Beira, Nampula and Pemba as are necessary to secure reliable supplies into the cities, and the
planning and design of the larger scale works that are likely to be required for Quelimane. Design of these works is
now under way under the NWDP I project. Considerable institutional strengthening of one of the executing agencies
of the NWDP II project, the DNA, is ongoing under NWDP I.



Page 13
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies:
(completed, ongoing and planned)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed                 National Water Development I (MZ-       S               S
PE-3039)
Rural Rehabilitation (Cr.2479)         S                S
Local Government Reform and
Engineering Project (PROL, Cr. 2530).  S                S
Municipal Development Project
(under preparation)
Other development agencies:
Netherlands, Swiss
Development Cooperationomv.
(SDC), Agence Frangaise de
Developpment (AFD), Italy,
UNDP, Denmark, European
Union (EU), Portugal, SIDA,                                       ,...
CIDA, AfDB.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Accountability and autonomy:
T'he current institutional, regulatory and ownership framnework for the public sector water agencies mn
Mozambique is not conducive to sound financial performance nor to the provision of efficient services.
There is currently no accountability nor autonomy for the financial operations and no incentive structure
for staff to improve efficiency of service delivery. Previous capital investments, mainly donor provided,
were not linked to performance outputs. Most of the focus of these investments was on engineering issues.
A lesson learned in the sector is that sustainable improvements in urban water service delivery are unlikely
to be solved through project based investments alone. An investment program should always be linked to a
substantial reform program involving institutional and economic (pricing) reform.
Full Stakeholder Ownership:
The introduction of a substantial reform program in the water sector must have full stakeholder ownership,
both government and consumers. This is particularly important with the introduction of the international
private sector as a key partner in the sector. A program of information and consensus building with all
stakeholders is a critical part of the project design.
Communitv Based Programs for Peri-Urban Areas:
The reform of water utilities and the strengthening of their capacity is at the heart of the drive to extend
water and sanitation services to the poor and to address mounting urban environmental problems. Further,
regional evidence shows that conumunity-based programs are a necessary complement to larger central and
municipality based water and sanitation systems. These types of programs play a key role in the provision
of appropriate sanitation services and related hygiene education, and in meeting the water needs of peri-
urban settlements by providing a framework for joint action with the central providers - the utilities. Under
the proposed NWDP II, it was agreed to incorporate a peri-urban pilot project covering water supply,
sanitation, and hygiene education services. While this pilot will be managed by DASU and it will call upon
work being developed under the Sanitation Study as part of NWDP I, the development of the pilot will be



Page 14
closely associated with the private operator (PO) who will be managing central water services. The pilot
project will draw on regional donor experience in the peri-urban sector, including that of the Bank's
Regional Water Supply and Sanitation Group based in Nairobi.
African Experience with Private Sector Participation (PSP):
PSP in the urban water sector in Africa has established a track record. SODECI, a privately operated
water company, in Cote d'Ivoire, has been in business for over 40 years and successfully provided water
for over 325,000 customers located throughout the country. Guinea, Senegal, Ghana and South Africa also
have privately operated water and wastewater schemes that are currently in operation. Cameroon, Congo,
Tanzania and Zambia are developing private sector arrangements. A review of regional experience has
recommended the need for an independent "regulator" and for the private sector operator to take as much
"commnercial" risk in the transition as possible. The hierarchy of preferred options are: (1) a lease contract;
(2) a performance based management contract; and (3) a fee for service management contract. African
experience has also demonstrated that proper pricing has the power to manage demand, and thus the
importance of designing a tariff structure to allow access of lower income groups to improved piped water
services. This experience has also shown that if tariffs are kept too low, most of the poor will never be
provided with adequate water services at reasonable prices.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
In August 1995, GOM approved the NWP, including the private sector management of the five water
companies of Maputo, Beira, Quelimane, Nampula, and Pemba. To implement the policy, the Government
established an interministerial commission, COGEA (Commission for the Management of Water Services),
chaired by the National Director, DNA, to oversee: (i) the formation of the Private Sector Operation and
Management Contracts, (ii) the preparation of decrees for the implementation of the institutional
arrangements, and (iii) draft tariff policies. Significant progress has been made in all areas. Most recently,
in April, 1999 increases and improvements to urban tariffs were approved by GOM. Previously, GOM
approved the following policy and legal documents:
*    Legal framework for PSP (private sector participation);
*    Decree on creation of FIPAG (Asset and Investment Water Fund) and its statutes;
*    Decree on creation of CRA (Regulatory Board) and its statutes;
*    Decree adjusting the Investment Law to cater for PSP;
*    Resolution on Water Tariff Policy.
Official bidding documents were issued in October 1998 for the lease contract for Maputo and the
management contract for the four remaining cities. Three bids from POs for the private sector management
were received in January 1999 and were evaluated. IDA has given its official no objection for the GOM
to negotiate with the lowest bidder. The decision to nominate a winning bidder and its fornal
announcement, a condition of negotiations, has been met. The signed and executed contract between
FIPAG and the PO is a condition of effectiveness.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
IDA has been active in the development of the water sector in Mozambique since the mid 1990s and has
been a keen supporter of the GOM's National Water Policy which was promulgated in 1995. The
National Water Development I Project, supported by IDA, SDC, SIDA, CIDA and NDF was designed to
support the implementation of this comprehensive policy. A number of bilateral and multilateral
development agencies and a number of NGOs have been providing Mozambique with assistance for many
years in the sector, with European bilateral agencies dominant in urban water supply. Dutch technical
assistance has been significant. The World Bank group however has added value by supporting the private
sector approach to urban water supply reform as designed under NWDP II. Within the donor community,



Page 15
IDA has unrivalled experience with a range of PSP efforts in the sector and within the region. Further, the
Bank Group is particularly well-placed, given its world wide experience in similar type operations, to call
on its large body of knowledge and expertise to capture international lessons learned and best practices in
support of the project. The project, however, will rely on a multi-donor approach, particularly the AfDB
and Dutch assistance at the commencement of the Credit. Wider donor assistance, as in the first project, is
expected.
E: Summary Project Analysis:
1. Economic: (see Annex 4)
[X] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$ 76.49 million; ERR= 35.3%
The econormic analysis is based on the evaluation of the costs and benefits of the project to the population
of the five cities where the project will be implemented. The benefits identified under the project and used
for the calculation of the Project's economic rate of return are: (a) cost savings for not having to buy water
from private vendors; (b) cost savings for time saved by not having to fetch water; (c) cost savings for not
having to boil water; and (d) consumer surplus on the increased quantity of water used.
The project would improve water supply coverage and service to communities of the five cities through
private sector management of the city water supply systems, and investments in the water supply
infrastructure (primarily rehabilitation). The immediate impacts of the project would be safer and more
reliable water supply services for about 1.1 million people living in urban and peri-urban areas. The
project would also provide additional water supply to serve industrial, institutional and commercial users.
Furthermore, the project would help to strengthen the institutional capacity in the sector aiming at
optimizing the use of existing infrastructure and local water sources, improving planning and project design
capacity, increase productivity and efficiency, and reduces water losses and waste.
2. Financial: (see Annex 5)
To evaluate the financial viability of the Project, FIPAG's operations and financial statements over 15
years have been projected and analyzed. The financial model has the following base assumptions:
*  On-lending. The capital expenditures and other costs in the five cities will be co-financed through a
combination of sources from the IDA, AfDB, and the Dutch Government. To support the commercial
principles of FIPAG, IDA funds for capital works are to be onlent at 6.25% with a repayment period of
22 years including a grace period of 5 years.
*  Operating costs. Projections only take into account the operations under the new project and do not
include revenues, operating costs, assets and liabilities of the ongoing operations. An evaluation of the
utilities' assets will be undertaken in the first year of the proposed project to help ascertain the actual
value of FIPAG's starting assets.
*  FIPAG's revenues. Are based on the fixed and variable rental fees it expects to receive from Maputo's
lease operator, the connection fees and earnings before interest depreciation and tax for each of the
utilities. Since the cost of the management contract has only been provided in a lump sum for all four
cities, this amount is deducted from total revenues of FIPAG and not from individual utilities incomes.
*  Sales of water. (FIPAG's revenues) are derived from averaging high and low case estimates of water
collections. The low case was taken from Halcrow/Banque Paribas' financial evaluation report, and
the high case was taken from the low bidder's collection estimates. The derived base case collection



Page 16
ratios used in the financial projections are expected to rise from actual levels of 26%-33% (depending
on the city ) to 75-85% in year 5 of operations.
Based on the above assumptions, FIPAG is able to generate a positive income after the third year of
operations. An initial cash injection of about $2.5 million will be required during the first year of
operations to cover working capital requirements for new works. Additional cost estimated at about $2.0
million will be needed to fund current liabilities of the former utilities. These funds will be sourced mainly
from current revenues, government cash contributions and donor support.
Provided that the collections are maintained at the projected level, FIPAG is expected to start repayment of
its debt to the Government in year five, and shortly after, to generate enough funds to reinvest in new assets
if required. FIPAG could show robust enough future cash flow projections for it to raise funds directly on
the market. Annex five provides detailed financial statements for FIPAG during the first fifteen years of
operations.
3. Technical:
Capital works program:
Preparations included a study entitled "Provincial Towns Water Sector Study", GOM, August 1995,
fimded by the Netherlands and IDA, which assessed the condition of all water supply and sewerage assets,
human resources capacities, and the available financial information, and proposed a capital works program
to remedy deficiencies in the water supply and sanitation infrastructure. The needs for, and priorities,
timing and cost estimates of works to remedy the major deficiencies were also identified by the study. The
proposed works program was checked and updated by two independent engineering consultancies. The
provisions made in the project capital works program are generally consistent with and are sufficient to
cover the independent estimates provided in the bids for the private sector management contracts.
WZater resources:
*  Water for Maputo comes from the Pequenos Libombos reservoir on the Umbeluzi River, which will be
adequate for the period of the project but may become insufficient within 7 to 10 years. Sufficient
additional resources are available from other rivers in the vicinity, including the Incomati River. A
possible transfer scheme, not requiring a dam was identified in the early 1 990s to fulfil this need. The
project accordingly will support feasibility and design studies to determine and develop the optimum
scheme for providing additional water resources.
*  Beira receives its supplies form the Pungue River. Quantities are adequate, but supplies have been
interrupted during dry seasons due to saline intrusion. A re-sited pumping station is being designed,
with support from NWDP-I, to overcome this problem, and funds are provided for its construction
under this project. Exploration work is under way with KfW support to identify adequate groundwater
resources for Quelimane. If successful, this would enable a less costly form of water treatment (saving
both operational costs and the capital costs of rehabilitation of the treatment works) and would also
avoid the costs of developing additional surface water supplies, which exist but would require surface
water regulation works. Adequate water resources are available for the Nampula and Pemba, but a
study is programmed to identify the next steps of expansion of water resources for Pemba.
Meadworks:
For Maputo and Nampula, no additional headworks are required during the project. For Beira, headworks
capacity will be adequate once the new pipeline electrical system is completed (funds available under
NWDP-I) and tank capacity is increased. Quelimane and Pemba suffer from supply outages due to
pipeline bursts for Quelimnane and lack of access due to access road flooding in Pemba. The replacement of
the pipeline in Quilemane is included in the project.



Page 17
4. Institutional:
By developing the NWP and using it effectively to support implementation of the first steps of tariff reform
and private sector management of the urban water sector, and initiating a reform path for the RWSS and
WRM subsectors, MOPH and DNA have demonstrated strong abilities to formulate a reform-oriented
policy agenda. However, in spite of recent improvements, sector agencies are still weak in technical skills
in their key specialties, and in financial and human resources management capacities. This is one of the
major reasons for the selection of private sector management as the strategy for the five city water supply
systems. Additional measures included in the project to redress these weaknesses include incorporation of
the procurement function in the PSP contracts, support for human resources development activities in
FIPAG and the CRA, and for the foreign costs of training of Mozambican water company personnel. The
strategies for funding of the FIPAG and CRA include levies which have first call on the Operator Tariff for
the Maputo Water Supply System, and development of their capacities using technical assistance and
consultancies initially. The pace of the development of their capacities is matched to the expected timing of
the requirements for the calls upon the various skills and capacities required. This indicates a rapid build-
up of capacities in FIPAG to full capacity during year one, but for CRA the build up will be paced to reach
full capacity in year two.
5. Social:
Sustainability and Beneficiary Assessments. Experience in Mozambique and elsewhere has demonstrated
that beneficiary preferences (type, location, and management of water sources), and existing informal
vendors influence the sustainability of new water investments. Determining investments based on
consultation with consumers and assessment of the incentives of existing vendors, helps to increase
residents' sense of ownership of the assets, willingness to pay the cost or contribute time towards
operations and maintenance and to refrain from vandalism. Preparations for NWDP II therefore included
beneficiary assessments (BAs) of both urban and peri-urban communities of the five cities, to gain an
understanding of their priorities for water improvements and willingness to pay for those priorities. These
assessments also touched upon the impact that the current, and future, tariff structure would have on
poorer peri-urban residents. In general, the BAs concluded that if the proposed project results in greater
volumes of water delivered as planned, this will reduce informal market water prices which the poor are
most likely to pay. At the same time, the proposed tariff increases typically fell well below the current
informal market prices and therefore would only cause undue hardship if there were no improvements in
service level and informal vendors therefore increased prices. The BAs also demonstrated that the poor
were most likely to suffer higher prices and lower service levels as a result of the current low tariffs and
poor management.
Taking account of social issues during implementation. Implementation of the proposed project will also
include BAs, to identify demand for specific services in specific neighborhoods, to characterize the social
context of communities and stakeholder groups, to assist in the design of consultation mechanisms to
ensure that improvements correspond to consumer demand, and that decision-making by the local water
company and by FIPAG and CRA is well structured and fully informed. BAs and consultations so far
have highlighted the diversity of communities in terms of strength or weakness of social networks and
community organizations, income levels, and cultural preferences for organization of water management,
even within peri-urban areas, and therefore the need for a demand-driven, menu-based approach to the
provision of water supply investments and management schemes. The BAs have also consistently showed a
high level of willingness to pay for improved service levels and better management from the water
companies, even among low-income groups, largely because of the comparatively high cost of informal
market alternatives.



Page 18
6. Environmental assessment:     Environmental Category  [ ] A   [X] B    [ ] C
An environmental assessment (EA), covering the NWDP I and NWDP II Projects jointly was completed in
July 1996. Following public display, discussion and comment in the five cities, relevant comments and
updated information were incorporated in a second edition dated August 1997. No adverse comments were
received about the components of this project. A review and update of the EA was undertaken in
earlyl999, aimed at ensuring that issues and further developments during subsequent preparation which
may have environmental significance are fully taken into account and responded to. The EA contains an
Environment Management Plan (EMP) which provides guidance on the main actions to be taken to ensure
good environmental performance of the project. Resettlement. While no specific cases of resettlement as a
result of works in this project were identified during project preparation, the project provides an allocation
of US$500,000 for any possible resettlement. Drainage and sanitation. During preparation of the EA, the
beneficiary assessments and other consultations and studies, the most significant potential environmental
issue raised was the effect of improved water supplies generating increased wastewater in the cities. This
will be managed through a combination of measures outlined in Annex 2. Management and monitoring.
DNA will establish a full time Environmental Assessment Advisor, with the role of advising the ARAs,
FIPAG and the Operator/manager on the implementation and monitoring of the EMP, and establishing an
ongoing reporting program and data base. The project provides support for the provision, as technical
assistance, Environment Manager within FIPAG for the first two years of the project, to supervise the
Operator/Manager's implementation of and compliance with the EMP.
7. Participatory approach:
Private sector management. Participation in decision-making on the desirability of, and optional forms
for, private sector management of urban water supply systems included: (i) workshops with water company
managers and financial personnel, municipal mayors and administrative chiefs; (ii) public meetings in five
cities in association with the Environment Assessment; (iii) parliamentary debates, with accompanying
media exposure; and (iv) consultation with trade union representatives.
Existing and fture consumers. The direct beneficiaries of the proposed project, existing and potential new
customers of the formal water supply systems (domestic, commercial and industrial), have been consulted
through participatory discussion groups and quantitative interviews through the BAs on their preferences
for service improvements, including management improvements and on their perspective on privatizing
management of the water companies. In addition, consumers' participation will be essential to the water
companies' future success in devising solutions to eradicate problems such as vandalism of public water
points and meters, the proliferation of illegal connections, and poor payment levels. Therefore, bidders for
the lease and management contracts were required to submit their customer consultation strategies
(methods, framework, procedures). A potential resource for such work includes over 80 municipal, water
company, public health, and NGO staff in the cities concerned who have been trained on how to undertake
participatory discussion groups during the BA process.
Peri-urban areas. In peri-urban areas in particular, where there are a wider variety of possible service
levels (house connection, yard tap, standpost) and water sources (resale from yard tap, yard wells in
addition to direct connections), it will be important that consumers participate in decisions on service level
and management arrangements for public water points. Beneficiary assessments have shown the variety of
management arrangements that currently exists, as well as numerous suggestions for improvement which
vary depending on the locale, community and specific cultural norms. For example, in inner peri-urban
areas of Beira where high crime and low community cohesion exist, customers have devised their own
strategy to deal with the non-functioning of public standposts; they have invented rotating payment schemes
among 2 or 3 families which pool resources for a semi-private yard tap. Such schemes were not in place in
outer peri-urban neighborhoods of the same city where more cohesive communities lived and standposts



Page 19
functioned better. A peri-urban pilot project, as discussed in section, D.3 on lessons learned, is included in
the project.
Consultaiion during implementation. During implementation, the Operator/manager will be obliged to
undertake surveys as part of its preparation of the business plans for each water company, and in its
planning of system enhancements and extensions. These surveys would be designed to demonstrate the
level of consumer demand and consumer preferences (location, management, type) of specific investments
planned. Monitoring whether the Operator/manager is consulting consumers, and using proper methods to
do so, both in planning investments and on other issues which concern them, would be the responsibility
FIPAG as the primary manager of the contracts. In cases where conflicts or problems had developed
between the private operator and consumers, CRA would play a role in pre-arbitration. These roles are
defined in the formal decrees setting up FIPAG and the CRA.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The degree of Project sustainability is mainly dependent on:
* how successful the new institutional arrangements will be in capturing the efficiencies gained as a
result of the lease and management contracts providing a private sector-type environment of
performance incentives, and in passing the benefits on to the beneficiaries, and
* ensuring adequate on-going maintenance of the works completed under the Project.
T1he fee structure in the Maputo Lease contract is such that the financial gains resulting from operating and
collection efficiency gains, beyond the Operator's tariff, are paid to FIPAG in the form of a variable fee. It
is estimated that within 36 months after the project has become effective, tariff level will be high enough
and the collection rate improved enough to cover all costs of FIPAG before interest and taxes. Provision
is made for the management contracts for the other four cities to be re-bid after the initial 5 years, to enable
the capturing of the efficiency gains made in the first 5 years. Options include progressing towards a lease
contract for Beira and possibly Nampula. These will be reviewed at mid-terrn.
For Maputo, more than sufficient cash flow will be generated to adequately provide for on-going
maintenance. Further, provisions made under the project capacitate FIPAG to generate enough cash flow
from the Maputo operation, and later in the project Beira, to cover routine maintenance and to provide for
enough depreciation to cover replacement of the assets over the long run. To ensure maximum success in
collection, the tariff increases have been projected taking into account the findings of the beneficiary
assessment about the customers' willingness and ability to pay for safe water.



Page 20
2. Critical Risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
IFrom Outputs to Objective
M.aacroeconomic and Political instability         Mds
Lack of political will to complete implementation of  LwPeatinincludes full evaluation of the benefits of
private participation in private sector management (PSM)      PSP and dialogue on the proposal with stakeholders in
of water companies, with good market based entry.             Mozambique. Bidding for the PSP contracts was
competitive and evaluation and award will be based
on World Bank procurement guidelines
Backtracking on tariff policy for water           Substantial Continued policy dialogue between the Bank and
GOM. Once a PSP contract for the water supply
systems of the five cities is in place, contractual
penalties and other adverse effects on customers and
governments tend to discourage tariff backtracking.
GOM's well structured internal dialogue on tariffs,
which has built a succession of decisions on the NWP,
has increased commitment.
Budget allocations lower than agreed levels, and  High        The project provides for an initial provision of
disbursements to DNA/ FIPAG from MPF are delayed or           working capital from GOM to the four northern cities,
lower than the approved budget.                               and some subsidies until the collections exceed costs.
At the planned tariff levels, rental payments from the
lease contract for Maputo will be sufficient to
generate most counterpart funds after year 2. Under
NWDP-I, the budgeting and financial management
capacities of DNA are being significantly improved.
Inadequate management capacity on the part of DNA to   Low    Appointment of managers for finance and HRD from
implement the project successfully.                           NWDP-I , as well as NWDP-I extensive support for
HRD and procurement training.
Inadequate management capacity due to the creation of a  Substantial Strong TA incorporated in design of implementation;
new management institution, namely FIPAG.                     some support to be available from DNA. Lessons
learned from other African experiences.
Regulatory risk: (i) CRA will be a new institution with    High  (i) TA support to CRA; (ii) project and contractual
limited initial capacity, (ii) there is a significant risk that  incentives are provided to encourage full payment of
government institutions may continue to avoid payment of      accounts by government institutions; (iii) government
water accounts; (iii) regulatory arrangements may be          has endorsed a strong national tariff policy which
insufficient to ensure the maintenance of tariffs at          builds in automatic escalations due to inflation and
appropriate levels.                                           other factors.
From Components to Outputs
Water Supply Works: Lack of adequate sewerage and  Modest    Rehabilitation of mains and connections will reduce
drainage to deal with increased wastewater generated as a     leakage. Drainage and sanitation in Beira and
result of rehabilitation and extension of water supply        Quelimane to be included in IDA Urban Environment
system.                                                       project now in preparation. In Maputo and Nampula
drainage and sanitation to be designed and
implemented as part of this project concurrently with
water supply extensions. House connections to be
strictly limnited where sewerage not available.
Overall Risk Rating                              IH_igh
l Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Page 21
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Private Sector Participation:
The Government's program of privatization has become controversial in Mozambique. This has increased the
scrutiny which the public is giving to the proposal for private sector management of the water companies, and the
sensitivity of the public to concern which may be expressed about it. The GOM has emphasized publicly that the
water sector proposals are receiving very thorough and careful preparation, and that the proposal differs from most
previous privatizations in Mozambique in that (1) the operator(s) will be subject to strong regulatory oversight; (2)
the Government will retain ownership of the assets, and the Operators will be contracted managers; and (3) the due to
the incorporation of construction work into the contracts, and to the fact that the water companies are not heavily
over-staffed, loss ofjobs will not be a problem in this initiative. GOM is carrying out a public information campaign
in all five cities. Public exposure of the components of this project during the Environmental Assessment process,
did not bring to light serious adverse concem on the part of the public, although some were concemed about the
influx of foreigners that Private Sector Management would bring, and the likely increase in tariffs. A public
education and consultation prograrn for the five cities is being conducted. Controversy, if any, other than about
Private Sector Operators, may be generated by (1) stakeholders within the public sector who may see themselves
adversely affected by the reforms proposed, and (2) illegal users of water, as water resources management and urban
water supply management improve and prevent or penalize illegal use.
Lack of Comprehensive Strategies for Wastewater and Sanitation Managaement within the proiect
Immediate environmental impact strategies have been identified within the project to mitigate possible environmental
concems with regard to increased water supply volumes. - mainly the provision of adequate drainage and
rehabilitation of certain sewage facilities - on a site specific basis. The main thrust of the GOM and IDA's strategy
to deal comprehensively with urban sanitation, wastewater and sewerage problems is housed in the follow-on
Municipal Development Project. The main reason for this split in responsibilities is two fold. Firstly is the lack of
institutional capacity at the municipal level; and second, and some what related, is the comprehensive approach to
capacity building at the municipal level that the Urban Project intends to take . The building up of capacity in a
"piecemeal" approach for certain urban services, in this case sanitation and drainage may not be as effective or
efficient as the more inclusive approach that is currently in preparation.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1.    Conditions of Effectiveness
* CEO of FIPAG appointed, CEO FIPAG to have qualifications acceptable to IDA.
*  Contrato Programa (between the Government and the FIPAG), acceptable to IDA, specifying FIPAG's
performance targets and obligations for reporting, has been executed.
* Subsidiary Loan Agreement (between the Government and the FIPAG), acceptable to IDA, specifying on-lending
conditions from the Government to FIPAG has been executed.
* FIPAG has entered into the Lease Contract and the Management Contracts with the winning bidder for the
management of city water supply systems of Maputo, Beira, Quelimane, Nampula and Pemba.
* A completed Project Implementation Manual satisfactory to IDA.
* Accounting services available in DNA (for Component C) and appropriate start up financial arrangements for
accounting services available for FIPAG.
* AFDB loan agreement and Dutch Bi-lateral Grant agreement have been executed and are ready to be declared
effective.
* A legal opinion satisfactory to the Association, confirming that: (i) The Development Credit Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by the Government of Mozambique and is legally binding upon the GOM in
accordance with its terms; (ii) The Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by FIPAG, and is
legally binding upon FIPAG in accordance with its terms; and (iii) The Subsidiary Loan has been duly authorized
or ratified by FIPAG, and is legally binding upon FIPAG and the Government in accordance with its terms.



Page 22
2.    Financial Covenants
* the DNA and FIPAG will maintain, in accordance with sound accounting practices, records and accounts
reflecting the basic information for the preparation of the statement of expenditures.
* F][PAG will collect detailed information on the utilities' operating costs, production volumes, technical and
commercial losses and collection ratios. This information will be part of the quarterly reports submitted to IDA
under the requirements of the Bank's LACI system.
* the GOM will ensure that the tariffs will reflect the principles of full cost recovery and be sufficient to cover
operating expenses, depreciation and cost of capital, and tariff levels will be reviewed during the Mid Term
Review to assess their ability to recover all costs.
* the Government will ensure that measures are taken to improve collection rates such that enough revenues are
collected to produce a positive rate of return before debt service requirements.
* within one year after effectiveness the GOM will settle all its outstanding arrears to the utilities covered under the
Project.
* no later than 12 months after the effective date of the project, 100% of all outstanding receivables of all utilities
(except Maputo) are settled.
- F.IPAG will not incur any additional debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of
FIPAG shows that the projected net revenues of FIPAG for each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be
incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the projected debt service requirements.
3.    Dated Covenants
 Advisory Management contract to assist FIPAG to monitor the performance of the operator/manager in
implementing the PSP contracts in place by January 31, 2000.
* FIPAG shall prepare and to furnish to the Association a staffing plan and benefits package no later than January
31, 2000; no later than March 31, 2000 assure all key staff are in place.
* Not later than December 31, 1999, make an initial deposit for the Project Account, in the amount equivalent to
$250,000, to finance the Borrower's contribution to the Project.
*  Deposit into the Project Account by March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31, in each year, an
amount equivalent to $175,000 until an amount equivalent to US$2 million is reached; this is in addition to the
requirements for counterpart funding.
* Chairman of CRA and CRA Board appointed by March 31, 2000; staffing plan for CRA by June 30, 2000; and
staff in place by December 31, 2000.
* FIPAG shall produce, for its fiscal year ending on December 31, 2003, funds from internal sources equivalent to
not less than 2.5% of the annual average of FIPAG's capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred,
nsing to 10% thereafter through the close of the project.
* The Borrower shall prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, a report integrating the results of the
monitoring and evaluation activities performed, and submit to IDA by December 31, 2001, and review with IDA
by March 31, 2002 (Mid-Term Review).
H: Readiness for Implementation
1.    Contracts for the private sector management of the water supply systems. Bids have been evaluated from
three international firms for the lease and management contracts and the Bank has given a no objection to GOM
inviting the highest evaluated bidder to negotiations with a view to entering into the contracts. GOM has advised
that it plans to complete its own decision making process and inform the Bidder and the Bank prior to the scheduled
date for project negotiations.



Page 23
2.     Engineering design and construction. Works for replacement of 150 km of deteriorated mains and
installation of new connections, estimated at US$15m, are incorporated into the lease and management contracts.
These works require minimal design and procurement lead time, and construction will start in year 1 of the project.
For Maputo, construction is under way of the duplication of the Matola-Chamanculo main, which when completed
will permit 24 hours per day supply to a large area of Maputo for the first time, and design of the Laulane
transmission main, water distribution center and network is also under way. Procurement of design and
documentation contracts for headworks upgrades for Beira, Nampula and Pemba is under way, with design to
commence before scheduled project effectiveness. A drilling contract for groundwater exploration and development
for the Quelimane water supply has been awarded.
1: Compliance with Bank Policies
This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[signature] /
Team Leader: Jane Walker
[signature] (
Sector Manag            acki
[signature]
Country Director: Phyllis Pomerantz



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Mozambique: National Water Development II
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:               SetrJCountry Reports:    (from Goal to Bank
Foster a poverty reducing  Sustained private sector-led GDP    Goenetand IMF          Mission)
pattern of growth through  growth, widely shared.           rptson economic           (CAS Objective to Bank
promoting broad-based                                       growth and development.   Mission)
private-sector-led                                                                    Civil order, macro-
development, capacity                                                                 economic stability and
building and development of                                                           growth with equity in
human resources,                                                                      Mozambique continue
strengthening development
partnerships, and upgrading
key physical infrastructure.
Project Development Objective:  *  Mandated tariff policy set out  Project Reports:   (from Objective to Goal)
in law that water pricing will   *   Sectoral data base on   Government and public
Improve quality, reliability,  be based on principles of full   access to safe water    support continue for
coverage and sustainability    cost recovery                    supplies and service    change agenda of the
of water service delivery in    *  Assist in the creation of    levels.               National Water Policy,
five major cities:             autonomous publicly owned    *   Reports of FIPAG      including private sector
*  within a sound              water companies in the 5         and CRA.              management of water
institutional and          targeted cities that operate on   *   Project reports.  supply systems and
regulatory framework       full commercial principals of                          reformed tariff policy.
*  through private sector     cost recovery and efficiency
contracting               and that are managed and run
*  whlle providing an         by private sector operators
operational model for    *  Facilitate the devolution of the
water and other urban     responsibility to provide water
services as these are     supply to the Local Authorities
decentralized to          as the new water companies
municipal based           will have both state and
management                municipal ownership
. Creation of a water sector
regulatory agency for urban
water service provision



Annex 1
Page 2 of 3
Output from each component:   Output Indicators:           Project Reports:          (from Outputs to
1. Regulatory council (Dr)    *   CEO in place by project  *   Project reports       Objective)
and asset holding vehicle    effectiveness. TA contract  *   Supervision mission    *   Scarce human
fund (FIPAG, responsible     operational by January 2000.    reports                   resources in
for assets and           *   CRA Chairman and Board                                    Mozambique may
investments) established.    appointed by March 2000.                                  constrain
Staff in place and fully                                  capacities of
operational by December                                   FIPAG and Dr
2000.                                                     while excessive
reliance on outside
advisors may not
be politically
acceptable.
2. Contracts for lease and  *   Contract signed            *   Procurement steps in   .   The PSM models
management of the 5      *   Contract adjustments and re-    line with Bank            implemented will
water systems awarded to     negotiations are successfully   requirement.              be such as to result
cornpetent Private Sector    completed without resorting    *   Copies of contract     in improvements in
(PS) operator and the        to arbitration or contract      received                  financial and
framework for contract       termination.                                              service
adjustment and re-                                                                     performance.
negotiations is set up.
3. Financial performance   The financial self sufficiency of  a   Financial, physical  *   Government
improves for each city   FIPAG improves. Recovery of         and service               adheres to policy of
water supply system;     O&M and depreciation for FIPAG      performance reports       increasing real
FIPAG achieves full cost  by 2004; full cost recovery by     of operator/ manager      tariff levels to
recovery by 2003.       2005.                            *   Financial and physical    achieve self
audits                   financing of all five
water companies
4. Service levels are      Key service performance levels:    *  Service level improved:
improved.                *  Reliability of service       perceived by the urban
improves: % of customers    community measured by
receiving <24 hrs supply/day   beneficiary assessments
Cities 09/99 09/02 09/04       carried out by Operator.
Maputo 80% 60% 20%
Beira    95%  55%   5%
Quelim  100%  60%   5%
Nampula 100%  50%   5%
Pemba   100%  70%   5%
* % of microbiological water
quality samples meeting target
values: 12/02, 12/04,
All cities   50%    95%
*  In the target cities, population
with improved access to safe
reliable water supplies would
increase from the current level
of 0.8 million to 1. lm by 2004



Annex 1
Page 3 of 3
5. Investment takes place in    *   Network renewal and    *   Reports of operator/
rehabilitation and new        extension takes place in  manager and FIPAG
water supply infrastructure,  line with progranmmed
at levels sufficient to       targets.
improve service levels.
6. Environmental impacts of   *  EMP implemented.     *  DNA and FIPAG
the project resulting from                               environmental status
intensification of water                                reports
usage, construction and                              *  ARA reports on water
operations, are managed in                              resources of Umbeluzi
line with the project                                   and Pungwe Rivers.
Environmental Management
Plan and national
environmental guidelines.
7. Key national urban water    *   Policies and strategies   *   FIPAG project reports
supply policies, strategies   incorporate lessons    *   Policy and strategy
and plans.                    learned in the lease and   documents adopted and
management contracts      issued.
and are supported by    *   reports
stakeholders.
Strategies for the four
cities after the mgt
contract expires are
developed by Dec 2003.
Strategies for the
remaining 8 medium
size cities are developed
by Dec 2004.
Project ComponentslSub-    Inputs: (budget for each   Project Reports:           (from Components to Outputs)
components:                component)                 *   Periodic progress      *   Incentive framework
A. Private Sector           A. US$ 36.79m                 reports.                   and resources provided
Management of water supply                             *   Disbursement reports      to PSM operator/
systems for 5 cities                                      (quarterly)                manager will achieve
programmed outputs.
B. Water Supply Works.      B. US$ 54.07m                                        *   Timely provision of co-
financing.
C. Urban Water Supply       C US $4.60m                                          *   Timely provision of
Policy & Strategy.                                                                    counterpart funds.
TOTAL BASE COSTS            US$95.46
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS  US$114.84



Annex 2: Project Description
Mozambique: National Water Development 11
Detailed Project Description
1.    INSTITUTIONAL AND CONTRACTUAL ARRANGEMENTS
1.    Institutional Reform Supported by the Project
1.1   The institutional reform supported by the Project is based on the contracting of day to day technical and commercial
operations of the water supply service in Maputo, Beira, Quelimane, Nampula and Pemba to a professional Private Operator
(PO). GOM, which owns the each of the city water companies, has decided to transfer both the responsibility for the
provision of service and their water supply assets to a Public Institute, entitled Fundo de Investimento e Patrimonio de Aguas
(FIPAG).
2.    FIPAG.
2.1    All water supply fixed assets, presently at the disposal of state water companies in the five cities will be vested with
the new FIPAG, created by decree number 73/98 dated December 23, 1998. A Stakeholders Forum will be formed as a
consultative body on the Private Sector Program (PSP) for the Minister of MOPH. It will nominate members for
appointment to the Board of FIPAG. This forum will be presided over by a representative of the MOPH and will include
members appointed by Ministdrio de Plano e Financas (MPF) and Ministdrio de Administraqao Estatal (MAE), as well as
representatives of the CRA and FIPAG. Representatives of the local authorities will be consultative members but they will
be entitled to vote on all matters related to the water supply systems of their area. The Board of FIPAG will consist initially
of 5 qualified people. FIPAG will have a professional chief executive officer (CEO) responsible for daily management of the
institute, who will be recruited by the MOPH. The CEO will be assisted by an Utility Operations Manager, a Investment
Program (Construction) Manager and a Financial Manager. Environmental expertise will also be located in FIPAG to assure
that correct environmental practices as set out in the Environment Action Plan (EMP) are implemented. An accountant will
also be part of the FIPAG management team. The FIPAG professional team will be supported by a substantial technical
assistance budget. FIPAG will be responsible for the implementation of components A&B of the project. Full TORs and
operational policies and norms ofFIPAG will be set out in the Project Implementation Manual (PIM').
2.2   FIPAG will be the Employer (signatory to the contracts) of the Private Operator, who will replace Agua de Maputo.
FIPAG will also take over duties and obligations of the four water companies of Beira, Quelimane, Nampula and Pemba and
enter into Management Contracts with the Operator on the operations of water supply in these cities. As part of the GoM
strategy to devolve responsibilities to the Local Authorities in a gradual and deliberate way, new public companies with both
state and municipal ownership will be created in the four cities over the course of the project. The authority and
responsibilities of FIPAG are basically twofold; i) contract management, monitoring and enforcement, and ii) investment and
financial management for rehabilitation and expansion of water supply assets. FIPAG will review and approve the Strategic
Business Plans and reports prepared by the Operator/Manager. Until the new public companies are established, FIPAG will
also be the formal employer of the employees of the former four northem water companies. Authority and responsibilities of
FIPAG will be outlined in a Performance Contract with the ministries of MOPH and MPF.
2.3    The institutional arrangements provide for progressively increased involvement of Local Authorities, initially through
participation in the Stakeholders Forum, and a consultative role in relation to the CRA, with the ultimate objective of
devolvement of the urban water supply operations to municipal ownership.
3.    Direccao Nacional de Aguas (DNA)
3.1    DNA, of Ministdrio das Obras Puiblicas e Habitaqao (MOPH), in particular through two of its departments:
Departamento de Agua e Saneamento Urbano (DASU) and Departamento de Gestao de Recursos Hidricos (DGRH), plays a



Annex 2
Page 2 of 10
key role in the monitoring and management of water resources and supplies. The formal responsibility for planning and
implementation of urban water supply projects will be transferred from DNA to FIPAG, starting with the five cities under the
project. DNA's executive functions regarding domestic water resources management (mainly bulk water supply) will
eventually be phased out when all the five ARAs (Administrac,ao Regional de Aguas) are operational. However, DNA
professional personnel will be used on a consultative basis by FIPAG. DNA will also support the MOPH in assessing the
implementation of the Performance contract to be signed with FIPAG. The ongoing NWDP I Project Unit of DNA will
remain as the Project Unit for NWDP I, and may be used to provide specialized services such as procurement and accounting
to Component C of NWDP II. Component C will be implemented and coordinated under the direction of the National
Director (DN) who will be assisted by the Deputy National Director, by the Department Head responsible for urban water
supply and sanitation (DASU).
4.    Project oversight and policy guidance
4.1    The policy guidance and project oversight will be provided by the Minister, the National Director (ND) of DNA and
the FIPAG Board.
5.    Sector Regulation
5.1    Conselho de Regulacao do Abastecimento de Agua (CRA). A three member regulatory board for the water supply
sector has been created as a Public Corporation. The Decree number 74/98, dated December 23, 1998, to that effect has
been passed by the Cabinet. The CRA will regulate water supply operations and issue instructions for FIPAG and the
Operating Company in particular with regard to consumer tariffs, quality of services and network expansion programs. New
tariffs proposed by FIPAG will be only effective after approval by CRA. CRA will act also as a forum for hearing of views
and complaints from customers and municipalities, and for pre-arbitration between FIPAG and the Operating Company.
5.2    Further, it may be noted that institutional arrangements of the project are designed in reference to the new
Decentralization Law (Decree number 72/98, dated December 23, 1998) to provide for progressively increased involvement
of Local Authorities through participation in the Stakeholders Forum, and a consultative role in relation to the CRA.
5.3   The operations of the CRA will be financed by a Regulation Fee paid by the Private Operator. The project will
support some costs of initial establishment of CRA, and costs of technical and financial auditing. The Regulation fee is likely
to be sufficient for all CRA's other requirements, in the interests of ensuring its independence. It is not expected that the
Regulation function would justify permanent high level staff positions. A summary of the operations and terms of reference
of the CRA is given in the PIM.
6     The Private Operator (PO)
6.1    FIPAG will contract technical and commercial operations of the water supply service to a Private Operator. The
Private Operator will be a company incorporated in Mozambique. Between 70% and 85% of its equity will be owned by an
International Professional Partner (IPP) and the remainder by private Mozambican interests. The working capital to be
brought by the Private Operator has been set at US$3 million equivalent minimum. The Private Operator will enter into five
contracts with FIPAG, consisting of a 15 year "Lease Contract" for Maputo, and four identical five year "Management
Contracts" for the four other cities. Summaries of the Lease and Management Contracts are given in the PIM.
7     The Lease and Management Contracts
7.1    Lease Contract in Maputo. Under the 15 year "Lease Contract", the PO will be responsible for operating and
maintaining FIPAG facilities, billing customers and collecting the Customer Tariff, at its own commercial risk. The PO will
retain part of the Customer Tariff, the "Operator Tariff', and use the difference to pay a "Rental Fee" to FIPAG and a
"Regulation Fee" to the CRA. The Operator Tariff will be fixed for five years, but regularly adjusted according to a
contractual cost index formula during this period. The Operator Tariff will be re-negotiated after five years on the basis on



Annex 2
Page 3 of 10
the PO's actual performance and FIPAG future development programs. Eventually, efficiency gains achieved by the PO
should be passed on to Customers, provided that the CRA is in a position to properly document the PO performance and
costs. Customers will be under contract with the PO, not FIPAG; a summary of the standard Customer Contract for
Maputo is given in the PIM. The PO will be responsible for financing its own operating equipment (vehicles, laboratories,
workshop, computers, software, office equipment ... ), inventories and working capital. The Operator Tariff will be entirely
covered by the Customer Tariff, and FIPAG will not have to contribute to it. In addition, the PO will be responsible for
implementing the rehabilitation and extension program related to secondary and tertiary distribution, connections and meters,
(the Delegated Works). The PO will be remunerated by FIPAG for the SE construction activities on the basis of unit costs
that were part of the IPP bid and actual quantities implemented. The PO will also act as the agent of FIPAG in the
procurement, implementation and acceptance of all works under the control of FIPAG that are not part of the lease and
management contracts (the Non-delegated Works), other than works for which the Operator or a company associated with the
Operator wishes to submit a tender. The PO will be remunerated for this work based on lump sum fees bid by the PO and
related to the annual investment program supervised.
7.2    Management Contracts in Other Cities. Under the five year "Management Contracts", the PO will be responsible
for operating and maintaining FIPAG facilities, billing customers and collecting the Customer Tariff, on behalf of FIPAG.
Customers will be under contract with FIPAG, not the PO; a summary of the standard Customer Contractfor Maputo is
given in the PIM. FIPAG will pay the PO a Management Fee, part of which will be linked to the PO's collection
performance. FIPAG will also finance the supply of the PO's operating equipment and inventories for these four cities. Just
as for Maputo, PO will be responsible for carrying out the delegated works program, which in addition to mains, connections
and meters, contains also, in the case of the four cities, the provision of plant and equipment bid by the Operator. The PO
will also act as the agent of FIPAG in the procurement, implementation and acceptance of the Non-delegated Works program,
other than works for which the Operator or a company associated with the Operator wishes to submit a tender. The PO will
be remunerated for these two programs in the same manner as for the lease contract.
7.3   Staffing. Existing staff of the municipal water supply companies will be transferred to the PO in Maputo and
FIPAG for the four other cities. The PO may not retrench existing staff during an initial one year period, but is to prepare
business plans that will set out detailed human resources development programs. The PO must give preference to existing
staff in providing the workforce to undertake the Delegated Works. FIPAG will bear the costs of any retrenchment that may
arise from implementation of the lease and management contracts.
7.4    Water Bills of GOMAgencies. The PO may apply the same recovery processes to most public institutions as for
pnvate customers, including discontinuance of service. However for certain defined institutions including public hospitals
and the armed services, if accounts receivable with GOM agencies increase beyond 5% of the invoices tendered, GOM will be
obligated under the contracts to pay 75% of the outstanding balance. If accounts receivable with GOM agencies nevertheless
increase beyond what is reasonable, the Regulator may advise the PO to withhold part of its payment of the Rental Fee to
FIPAG; if in turn FIPAG experiences difficulties servicing it debt to GOM, the Regulator may advise GOM to modify on-
lending conditions to FIPAG. Eventually, GOM will leose on the differential between lending conditions made by IDA and
co-financiers and on-lending conditions to FIPAG, but the PO revenues and the FIPAG financial situation would be
protected.
7.5    The International Professional Partner aPP.) The IPP was selected after open competition among pre-qualified
companies on the basis on their technical and financial proposals. Bids were compared using a combination of the Financial
Bids (the cost to GOM of the Lease and Management Contracts and that of the rehabilitation programs to be implemented by
the PO), and the Technical Bids (the bidders' proposed strategies to improve service and management). Three bids were
received, with the financial bid of the lowest evaluated one being about 50% of the second responsive bid. The IPP will enter
into a Technical Assistance Contract with the PO to assist on procurement of goods and services on behalf of the PO and
provide day to day assistance on for example commercial management, digital mapping, water treatment, maintenance
programs or selection of management staff. For this the IPP will receive fees that will be calculated as percentages of the
goods and services procured and of the PO turnover. Implementation of the TA Contract between the IPP and the PO will be
subject to the review of the Regulator. A summary of the TA Contract is given in the PIM.



2.  IMPLEMENTATION AND ESTIMATED BASE COSTS.
Table A2.1. Components and Estimated Base Costs:                      Sheet I
Project ComDonent                                                 Base    When
Costs
US$    Year
___                          Mill.
A      Private Sector management of water supplies for Maputo, Beira,
Quelimane, Nampula & Pemba
Al    Operations: Lease Contract for Maputo and Management Contracts
for Beira, Quelimane, Nampula and Pemba
Al. 1  Lease Contract. A 15 year lease contract for the operation of the water    1999-
supply system of Maputo. (The Cost of Lease Contract (est.US$24.5) is not   2014
included in the Project Costs as this cost will be covered by the Customer
Tariff.)
A1.2  Management Contracts: Five year contracts for management services for  5.71   1999-
Beira, Quelimane, Nampula and Pemba, for operation and maintenance of       2004
the water supply service, including management of staff, recurrent funds,
meter reading, and collections.
A2    Water Supply Works and Plant incorporated in the lease and
management contracts.
A2.1  Rehabilitation:                                                      9.68   2000-
Rehabilitate water supply networks for the five cities, and the renew part of  2002
the vehicle, mobile plant and equipment inventory for the four northem
cities:
Maputo: replace 81.2 km of mains, 20,600 connections, and 37,210 meters.
Beira: replace 18 km of mains, 4,082 connections, and 6,276 meters, and
provide 45 inventory items.
Quelimane: replace 13.8 km of mains, 952 connections, and 1,811 meters,
and provide 21 inventory items;
Nampula: replace 17.5 km of mains, 1,601 connections, and 2,657 meters
and provide 27 inventory items;
Pemba: replace 17 km of mains, 851 connections, and 1,456 meters, and
provide 21 inventory items.
A2.2  New Connections:                                                     4.99   2000-
Provide new connections as follows:                                          2004
Maputo: 23,700, Beira: 13,400, Quelimane: 6,700, Nampula: 9,500,
Pemba: 1,200.
A3    Services included in the lease and management contracts
A3.1  Program management                                                   1.38   2000-
Program management by the Operator, including market surveys, strategic     2004
business plans, annual investment plans, prefeasibility studies, design
briefs, and network modeling.
A3.2  Procurement and site supervision                                     0.92   2000-
Procurement of design consultancies, construction contracts, supervision of  2004
_____  design and construction, and commissioning of works.



Annex 2
Page 5 of 10
Table A2.1 Components and Estimated Base Costs:                       Sheet 2
Proiect Component                                               Base      When
Costs
US$    Year
mill.
A 4   Management of Components A and B by FIPAG
A4.1  Working Capital for the four northern cities. $2.00 m working capital  6.00    1999
financed by GOM, $4.00 m for unfunded costs of electrical power,           -2001
chemicals and system reinstatement contracts, financed by IDA.
A4.2  Plant and Equipment for four Cities. Provide vehicles, mobile plant, office  1.51   2002-
equipment and computers for Beira, Quelimane, Nampula and Pemba.           2003
Approximately 96 items.
A4.3  Equipment for FIPAG. Computers, office equipment and furiniture,    0.30
vehicles, and water supply instrumentation.
A4.4  TA contract for FIPAG providing capabilities in project management,  4.70   1999-
financial management, accounting, construction management and              2001
environment: US$4.2m Miscellaneous TA: $0_5m                               or 03
A4.5  Consulting Services for FIPAG: Audit consultancies.                 0.80  '99-04
A 5   Human Resources Development and Training                            0.80   2000-
Human resources development and training for water supply employees        2004
(excluding on-the-job training, and excluding the OP's own staff), and
staff of FIPAG.             _
Total, Component A                                                 36.79
B.                      Capital Works and Services
B I   Water supply works:                                                49.07   2000-
Maputo: US$19.6m, including WTW new filters $3.7m, equipment                2004
replacement $1.6m, repairs to two tanks $0.3m, metering for leak
reduction $0.7m, upgrade pumping stations $0.7m, expand/develop water
& sanitation systems, $12.6m
Beira US$8.7m including new tanks: $1.5m, refurbish WTW $0.5m,
standpipes and small extensions $1.5m, peri-urban pilot $0.2m, new
intake at Pungwe R. $5m
Quelimane US$16.7m including: booster pumping station on trans. main
$0.2m, WTW refurbishment $0.5m, miscellaneous rehabilitation $0.2m,
develop new water source and treatment $ 1. Im, new transmission main
$13.6m, new tanks $0.8m, standpipes and small extensions $0.3m.
Nampula US$1.7m including: repairs to Monapo Dam $0.5m, new offices
and workshops $0.4m, standpipes and small extensions $0.5m, misc.
rehabilitation $0.3m
Pemba US$1.9m including: standpipes and small extensions $0.2m, water
treatment facilities $0.3m, replace pumps $0.2m, reconstruct gravel access
roads: $1.2m.
Resettlement provision US$0.5m
B 2  Design and supervision;                                             5.00   1999 -
Design and supervision for rehabilitation of WTWs and pumping stations,     2002
and for new chlorinators & tanks: US$1.0m; miscellaneous standpipes &
small extensions: US$0.2m; network expansions: US$1.0m; headworks
and transmission upgrades for northern towns: US$0.5m; miscellaneous
consultant contracts: US$0.3m; feasibility, design, and environmental
assessment studies for additional bulk water supplies for Maputo & other
cities: US$2.0m.
_I    Total, Component B:                                             54.07



Annex 2
Page 6 of 10
Table A2.1. Components and Estimated Base Costs:                      Sheet 3
Proiect Component                                               Base    When
Costs
US$    Year
mill
C.    Urban Water Supply Policy and Strategy
C 1  Equipment
Cl. 1 Equipment for CRA. Vehicles, computers, office equipment and furniture.  0.30    2000
C 2  Consulting Services and TA
C2. 1  Consulting services and technical assistance for CRA. Financial and  1.50  2000 -
technical audit services.                                                  2004
C2.2  Urban Water SUPDly Strategv                                         2.00   2001-
Consultancies to assist GOM in determining its policy and strategy for     2003
further development of urban water supply and sanitation services,
including the strategy, design and documentation for the next stage of
private sector management for Beira, Quelimane, Nampula and Pemba,
and for the other eight provincial cities.
C  Urban water and sanitation pilot. Technical assistance; consultancies  0.40   2000 -
2.3  including community consultation, design and education programs; and       2002
_____ small works.
C  Proiect manaement. Audit consultancies, other technical assistance and  0.40   1999 -
2.4  operating costs for DNA's management of component C.                       2004
Total, Component C                                                  4.60
TOTAL BASE COSTS                                                  95.46
Physical Contingencies                                              7.39
Price Contingencies                                                 9.35
Interest during construction                                        2.65
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                                114.84



Annex 2
Page 7 of 10
Table A2.2            Project Implementation and Financing Arrangements
Ref. Project Component                Implementing       Financing Arrangement
Agency
FIPAG DNA US$million, including contingencies
IDAI AfDBI Neth| GOM| Total
A    Private Sector Management.
A I Lease and management Contracts
A1.1 Lease Contract                     X
A1.2 Management Contracts               X            6.85                       6.85
A2  Works in lease & mgt contracts      X            16.99                0.62  17.60
A3   Services in lease & mgt contracts  X             2.76                       2.76
A4  Management of Components A & B
A4. 1 Working capital for the 4 northern  X          4.40                 2.00  6.40
cities
A4.2 Plant for the four northern cities  X           1.75                 0.06  1.81
A4.3 Equipment for FIPAG                X            0.35                 0.01  0.36
A4.4 Management Assistance for FIPAG    X            5.17                       5.17
A4.5 Audit consultancies for FIPAG      X            0.88                       0.88
A 5  Human Resources Development        X             0.88                       0.88
TOTAL A                                        40.03                      42.72
B.   Capital Works and Services
B 1  Water supply works                 X            24.40  19.60  10.00   4.88 58.88
B 2  Design and supervision;            X             5.50                       5.50
TOTAL B                                        29.90                      64.38
C.   Urban Water Supply Policy &
Strategy
C 1  Equipment for CRA                         X      0.35                0.01  0.36
C 2 Consulting services and TA
C2.1 Consulting services and TA for CRA        X      1.65                       1.65
C2.2 Urban Water Supply Strategy               X      2.20                       2.20
consultancy
C2.3 Urban water and sanitation pilot.         X      0.44                       0.44
C 2.4 Project management by DNA                X      0.44                       0.44
TOTAL C                                         5.08                       5.09
_  Interest during construction                                           2.65  2.65
_ TOTAL                                         75.00  19.60  10.00  10.24 114.84



Annex 2
Page 8 of 10
3. MANAGEMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
The management of the environmental impact of the project will be in accordance with the Environmental
Management Plan contained in the Environmental Assessment, as updated by the EA Addendum. The
responsibilities andproceduresfor ensuring good environmental performance will be set down in detail in the
PIM.
Resettlement. While no specific cases of resettlement as a result of works in this project were identified during
project preparation, a list of works for which resettlement cases could possibly be encountered is contained in the
EA Addendum. The project provides an allocation of US$500,000 for any possible resettlement. Resettlement
policy andprocedures, in line with the recommendations in the EA, have been agreed by GoM, and will be
incorporated into the PIM and into the FIPAGs instructions to the Operator/manager.
Drainage and sanitation. Risks of drainage and sanitation problems in the cities being exacerbated as a result of
increased availability and usage of water supplies, will be managed through a combination of measures, including
the following. (i) The proposed IDA urban environment program includes, first, the Urban Environment Project
(UEP) dealing with municipal capacity building, and sanitation, drainage and related issues, concentrating in the
priority cities of Beira and Quelimane. This will be followed by subsequent more comprehensive operations. (ii)
Active leakage reduction programs are built into the lease and management contracts aimed at counterbalancing
initial increases in water delivery for consumption. The level of unaccounted-for water will be a performance
measure of water supply operations. (iii) All cofinancing donors will include allocations for sanitation and
drainage as well as water supply, concentrating however on sustainable investments. The IDA contribution to this
will include making available for drainage works the emergency allocation under NWDP-I. (iv) Preparation of the
UEP will be assisted by a study funded under the NWDP-I project, to prepare a sanitation strategy and master
plan for the five cities. Data gathered under this study will also assist decision making by GoM and donors on
donor-funded sanitation and drainage options. (v) As provided in the December 1998 national urban water supply
tariff policy, funds for operation and maintenance of urban sanitation and sewerage systems will be raised for
municipalities as an additional component of customer bills for water supply services. (vi) Decisions on service
choices and combinations (standpipes and standpipe management options, yard taps, house connections, drainage,
sanitation options) will be made with the aid of community consultation, integrally with the planning process.
hese procedures will be incorporated into the PIM.
Management, monitoring and training. DNA will establish a full time Environmental Assessment Advisor, with
the role of advising the ARAs, FIPAG and the Operator/manager on the implementation and monitoring of the
EMP, and establishing an ongoing reporting program and data base. The project provides support for the
provision, as Technical Assistance, of a Manager, Environment within FIPAG for the first two years of the
project, to supervise the Operator/Manager's implementation of and compliance with the EMP. TORs of both
will be included in the PIM. Environmental performance monitoring will include environmental performance in
construction activities, water supply operations, resettlement if applicable, and water resources. Key water
resources monitoring, including flows and water quality (i) at the intake weir for the Maputo water supply on the
Umbeluzi River, and (ii) at the sugar company intake on the Pungwe River for the Beira water supply, will be
carried out by ARA-Sul and ARA-Centro respectively. The hydrological monitoring program, including roles
and responsibilities for flow gauging, water quality sampling and analysis, data reduction and archiving, and
hydrological assessment and forecasting of potential deficiencies in flow and water quality, will be set out in the
PIM. Training and HRD. The project HRD and training component will include training of DNA, FIPAG, CRA
and water supply employees in environmental skills and awareness.



Annex 2
Page 9 of 10
4. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Population (by city, in 000' and in % where applicable)
Total
Connected
Served by standpipes
Unserved
Average per capita production (served population)
Average per capita production (total population)
Water Production and Billing (by city)
Water produced             million m3/year
Water billed               million m3/year
Unaccounted for Water      %
Connections and Standpipes (by city, in 000')
Legal connections beginning of the year
Illegal Connections regularized during the year
New connections built during the year, by category
Connections closed at the beginning of the year
Connections closed at the end of the year
Total active legal connections at the end of the year, and by category:
Total house connections
Yard connections
Non residential connections (GOM Agencies)
Non residential connections
Standpipes
Metered connections by diameter of the connection, and by category (per city, in 000' and %)
Billing (By city, Metical million)
Residential
Non Residential
GOM Agencies
Standpipe
Accounts Receivables (by city, Metical million, in days of billing per category of customers)
Residential
Non Residential
GOM Agencies
Standpipe
Rehabilitation and Extension Works
Length of distribution pipelines laid, by diameter (Iam)
Number of existing connections rehabilitated
Number of meters installed on existing connections
Reliability of service (by city and by category of connection)
Connections with 24 hour service with at least 10 m pressure at least 97% of days.
Connections with less than 4 hours service on any day.



Annex 2
Page 10 of 10
Water Quality (per city)
Samples taken at production units not meeting agreed water quality standards (# and %)
Samples taken on the distribution network not meeting water agreed quality standards (# and %)
Quality of Service (per city)
Average number of days between request for connection and commissioning of connection
Average number of day between submission of a claim and settlement of the claim by Operator
Environmental - water resources
Flows (weekly averages and minima) and water quality (key parameters) for river intakes (Maputo, Beira),
reservoir holdings and quality (Namnpula), lagoon water quality and levels (Quelimane) and groundwater system
hydrological and water quality performance (Pemba, Quelimane).



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Mozambique: National Water Development 11
Component A: Private Sector Management Water Supplies
for the Five Cities
A 1. Operations                                              local         Foreign       Total
A 1.1 Lease Contract for Maputo                                                     *
A 1.2 Management Contract for Beira, Pemba, Nampula,      2.28             3.43        5.71
and Quelimane.
A. 2. Water Supply Works and Plant in PSM Contracts          4.08            10.59       14.67
A, 3. Services                                                                2.30        2.30
A 4. Management of Components A and B by FIPAG
A 4.1 Working Capital & Subsidy for four Cities            2.00             4.00        6.00
A 4.2 Plant and Equipment for four Cities                  0.15             1.36        1.51
A 4.3 Equipment for FIPAG                                  0.01             0.29        0.30
A 4.4 Management Assistance for FIPAG                      4.70             0.00        4.70
A 4.5 Audit Consultancies for FIPAG                                         0.80        0.80
A 5. Human Resources Development and Training                0.16             0.64        0.80
Total Component A                    13.38            23.41       36.79
Component B: Works Program for FIPAG
B 1. Works
B. 1.1 Water SupplyWorks                                  20.61            28.46       49.07
B 2. Design and Supervision                                                   5.00        5.00
Total component B                   20.61            33.46       54.07
Component C: Urban Water Supply Policy and Strategy -
Activities undertaken by DNA
C. 1 Equipment
C. 1.1. EquipmentforCRA                                    0.01             0.29        0.30
C. 2 Consulting Services and TA
C. 2.1 TA for CRA                                                          1.50        1.50
C. 2.2 Urban Water Supply Strategy                                         2.00        2.00
C. 2.3 Urban water and Sanitation Pilot                                    0.40        0.40
C. 2.4 Project management                                                  0.40        0.40
Total Component C                     0.01             4.59       4.60
TOTAL Base Costs                          34.01            61.46       95.47
Physical contingencies                                       1.48             5.91        7.39
Price contingencies                                          1.40             7.94        9.35
Interest during construction                                                  2.65        2.65
2.88            16.50      19.38
Total Project Cost                        36.88            77.97      114.84



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Mozambique: National Water Development Project 11
Economic Analysis: methodological aspects and results
This annex presents the economic analysis of the Mozambique National Development II Project (NWDP-II). Apart from
presenting the results, it also introduces the methodology followed in the analysis.
Beneficiaries of the Project. NWDP-I1 would improve water supply coverage and service to communities of the five
cities through private sector management of the city water supply systems, and investments in the water supply infrastructure
(primarily rehabilitation). The immediate impacts of the project would be safer and more reliable water supply services for about
1.3 million people living in urban and peri-urban areas. The project would also provides additional water supply to serve
industrial, institutional and commercial users. Furthermore, the project wouldl help to strengthen the institutional capacity in the
sector aiming at optimizing the use of existing infrastructure and local water sources, improving planning and project design
capacity, increase productivity and efficiency, and reduces water losses and waste. For example, it is expected that efficiency
gains will allow the satisfaction of an incremental demand of 17.49 MCM by the year 2003, with an incremental production
capacity of 9.38 MCM. Some economy of scale are also anticipated by the management of the five utilities by a single private
operator.
Least-cost solution. The project has selected the most economic altematives to improve the overall provision of safe
water to urban and peri-urban areas. Demand management and rehabilitation were selected over other alternatives to increase
production capacity. The five utilities will be managed by a single private operator.
Economic costs. The economic analysis was conducted using the average market rate of exchange US$1.00 = 11,500
Mts. A conversion factor of 0.9 was used for foreign financial costs. Subsidies representing about 5% of project were excluded
from total economic costs. Physical contingencies estimated at 10% of project costs were included in the economic costs.
Incremental operating costs were estimated on the basis of 2% of cumulated capital costs.
Economic benefits. The starting point for estimating benefits was the "Willingness to Pay" surveys carried out under the
"Beneficiary Assessment on Urban Water in Mozambique" (final report for Maputo and Quelimane, released in May 1997), and
preliminary results for Beira, Natnpula and Pemba. These surveys allow detailed analysis of benefits for different beneficiaries.
Under the surveys, the beneficiaries were asked how much they would pay for different level of services'. In the five
cities, consumers expressed a strong WTP for water resources improvements, even if this meant paying double the current level of
tariffs. An average household of 4 to 7 members depending on the city would be willing to pay on average US$3 and US$11 per
month or 7% and 25% of the average monthly minimum income for improved standpost and yard tap respectively2. The average
WTP for improved house connection is only 9US$ because the people interviewed, already have a good level of service. The
results are shown in the table below.
Average Willingness to pay for improved services (US$tmonththousehold)3
'The households currently with house connection where asked how much they would pay for an improved house connection; households
without a house connection where asked how much they would pay for improved yard taps or improved standposts.
2 The minimum wage employment in the civil service for two is often cited to be 500,000 Mts/month or about 43 US$.
3 The average WTP to pay figures does not represent consumers' responses to open-ended questions, but rather their reaction to two to three
price level offered. Therefore, when a consumer says that no, they cannot pay 100,000 Mts per month for water, but when subsequently
says that, yes they would pay 80,000 Mts for the same service, the interviewer does not know where between these two points the person's
exact limit lies. Therefore, an "average" WTP is an approximation.



Annex 4
Page 2 of 8
Maputo    Quelimane      eBira        Nam ula       Pernba
Public standpo                            2.98       3.88          2.45    1    2.13         2.94
Yard tap                                   5.4        9.38          11.52        11.81        16.57
House connection (with house connections currently)  14.73  8.88    6.41         6.03          8.56
Another interesting result of the survey is that a large number of the population relies on a well-developed informal market
(57% in Maputo, 61% in Quelinane) that captures the majority of the revenues in the sector (62% in Maputo and 68% in
Quelimane).
The majority of people selling in the private market resell water from their yard taps to those without connections. This
market has emerged to cover the growing gap created by steadily deteriorating formal sector services, albeit at a substantially
higher price to consumers.  In Quelimane, for example, an average household of 6 people will pay monthly US$2.18 for
approximately I m3, whereas a yard-tap owner in peri-urban areas would pay 4.45US$ a month for a billed 30 m34. In Maputo,
where water availability is higher, an average household of 7 people would pay 4.45US$ a month for approximately 4 m3, where
the average formal sector yard tap owner would pay US$1.62 to the water company for an average of 12.5 m3.
Irregular supply translates into higher price into the informal market: in Pemba, for example, because of relatively few
ground water resources, when the water system shuts down (as occurs for an average of 9 days per month), the price of bucket of
water leaps from 1,000 Mts to 2,000-3,000 Mts imrnediately. Those who sell are residents with enough income to build storage
tanks for these periods of intermittent supply.
The above results were used to estimate the demand curves for the various types of households in the project area. The
water demand relationship was assumed to be a linear function form, and defined by two known points (Pl,Ql) (for example, the
price charged by water resellers and the household consumption at that price) and (P2,Q2) in the "with-project" situation (for
example, the WTP for improved water services and the household consumption at this stated price). Given that the linear demand
curve is likely to over-estimates consumer surplus, only 80% of the latter has been included in the benefits of the project.
Water Demand Curve for Household relying on private vendors in Maputo
.................................... ..............  ...........  .................. ............I........ .......... ........................
16000                             y -1814.9x + 14229
P1 _I.  Wthout project
E12000 . 
a
*  8000 A   BV.th project
P2
4000
0~~~~~~~~~~~~
0   1   2   3          5   6   7   8   9   g0
Co nsumptio n (m3lcapftalmonth)
Among domestic beneficiaries, a distinction was made between those households who would be connected to the network,
those who are already conmected and those who will remain unconnected. The three categones of consumers will benefit from the
project. The table next page describes the situation of the different types of households in the "with" and "without project"
situation.
Benefits of the project accruing to each type of beneficiaries were estimated:
1.     In the case of the households that did not have access to the network and who will be connected, four benefits were
identified: (a) the cost savings of not having to buy water from resellers, (b) the costs savings of not having to spend time fetching
4Although actual consumption is believed to be less than 15 m3.



Annex 4
Page 3 of 8
water; (c) the cost savings of not having to boil water and (d) the consumer surplus on the increased quantity of water used.
2.     For households already on the network but suffering from suppressed demand and inadequacies of the existing system
(intermittent service, uncertain or no pressure, water contamination) two bern-fits were estimated: (a) the costs savings of not
having to boil water and (b) the consumer surplus on the increased quantity of water used and increased reliability and quality of
the service5.
3.     Finally, for the beneficiaries who will still rely on the informal market to get water, one benefit has been estimated: the
consumer surplus on the increased quantity of water used. Those without connection are expected to find more water available to
buy for more hours in the day since those with connection would have more water to sell6.
5 The analysis assumes that because the system is plagued with reliability, quality problems, low pressure and supply interruptions, those
households already connected to the public system only received a fraction (70%) of the consumer surplus .
6 The main determinant of water price in the informal market is the availability of water in the formal market. In Beira where two water
supply systems co-exists, one with water available only 6 hours a day, the other with water available 12 hours a day, the quantity of water
bought per capita through the informal market is larger and the price is lower in the area where water is available 12 hours a day. Thus, it
is expected that with the implementation of the project, water price in the informal market will lower even if tariff increases.



Annex 4
Page 4 of 8
Beneficiaries "with"and 'without" project situation
Beneficiaries                         Without project                           With pro1ect                             Remarks'
Maputo                                  55% of total households                49% of total households                 Paying source 4,241 Mts/m3
- Households not connected to the   20 lcd from paying sources (68%)            30 lcd from paying source              Closest source at 500 m
public network.                         20 lcd from non-paying sources (32%)    20 lcd from non-paying source
- Households connected to the public   45% of total households                  51% of total households                Low pressure, poor quality, intermittent
network.                               HC = 110 lcd (46%/o)                    HC = 130 lcd (46%/)                     supply: l2hours a day, 27 days a month
YC=60Icd  (15%)                        YC=6SIcd  (15%)
PS = 15 lcd   (38%)                     PS = 20 lcd   (38%)
Quejimane                               83% of total households                47% of total households                 Paying source: 5,344 Mts/m3
- Households not connected to the   16 lcd from paying sources (55%)            30 lcd from paying source               Closest source at 500 m
public network.                         20 lcd from non-paying sources (45%)    20 lcd from non-paying source
- Households connected to the public   17% of total households                 23% of total households                 Low pressure, poor quality, intermittent
network.                               HC = 75 lcd (26%)                        HC = 125 lcd (26%)                      supply: 4 hours a day, 19 days a month.
YC = 60 lcd  (32%)                      YC = 65 lcd  (32%)
PS = 15 lcd   (42%)                    PS = 20 lcd   (42%)
Beira                                  81% of total households                 67% of total households                 Paying source: 27,865 Msts/m3
- Households not connected to the   23 lcd from paying sources (44%/6)          30 lcd from paying source               Closest source at 500 m
public network                          27 lcd from non-paying sources (56%)    27 lcd fiom non-paying source
- Households connected to the public   19% of total households                 26% of total households                 Low pressure, poor quality, intermittent
network.                                HC = 80 lcd (58%)                       HC = 140 lcd (34%)                      supply: (6 112) hours a day, 20 days a
YC = 60 lcd  (32%)                      YC = 80 lcd  (52%)                     month.
PS = 20 lcd   (I 1 %)                   PS = 30 lcd   (14%)
Nampula                                 79%/. of total households               66% of total households                Paying source:22, 102 Mts/m3
- Households not connected to the   28 lcd from paying sources (44%)            35 lcd from paying source              Closest source at 500 m
public network.                        20 lcd from non-paying sources (56%)     20 lcd from non-paying source
- Households connected to the public   21% oftotal households                   27% of total households                Low pressure, poor quality, intennittent
network,                               HC=75Icd (13%)                           HC = I  Icd (24%)                       supply: 8 hours a day, 19 to 24 days a
YC = 60 lcd (14%)                       YC = 80 lcd  (29%)                     month.
PS = 15 lcd  (73%)                      PS = 30 lcd   (47%)P
Pemba                                   81% oftotal households                  60% of total households                 Paying source 28,354Mts/m3
- Households not connected to the   23 lcd from paying sources (44%)           30 lcd from paying source               Closest source at 500 m
public network.                         25 lcd from non-paying sources (56%)    25 lcd from non-paying source
- Households connected to the public   19% oftotal households                  20% of total households                 Low pressure, poor quality, intermittent
network.                                HC = 80 lcd (35%)                       HC = 107 lcd (29%)                      supply 6 to 12 hours a day, and 21 days
YC = 62 lcd (35%)                       YC = 60 lcd  (40%/a)                   a month
PS = 20 lcd  (300%)                     PS = 30 lcd   (31%)
HC = house connection; YC = Yard connection; PS = public standpipes
Consumer surplus and the costs saving of not having to buy water from resellers were estimated directly from the demand
curve. In the case of a urban household in Maputo that would connect to a piped water system through a house connection, for
example, these benefits were estimated as follows. In the "without project" situation, the household was assumed to be buying 20
liters per capita and per day from water vendors at US$1.1/m3. In the "with project situation", all household's members would
use 130 lcd and would pay 0.62 US$/m3. The monthly cost savings accruing to each member of the household were estimated at
US$0.46 = [20*30/1000*1.1*0.7]8. The consumer surplus is given by the area under the demand function between Ql and Q2, as
shown in the figure above, and represented by the area B. This was estimated at US$ 0.6 per month [(1.1-0.62)*(130-
20)*30/2/1000]9.
The cost savings of not having to boil water for drinking purpose were estimated as follows: the "Beneficiary assessment
survey" estimates that 10 % people boil their water in Maputo and 48% in Quelimane (data were not available for the other towns
at this time and were assumed to be 30%). The economic cost of fuel associated with boiling 5 liter per person per day was
estirnated at US$0.22 per person per month [5*365*200*0.042/4000/12*0.7]'. The base case assumes that 80% of the
7 In all cities, except for Maputo, water is not available through formal network for close to one third of every month (see table: "with"and
"without"project situations). This has probably the greatest impact on Pemba, Nampula and Quelimane, where residents do not have as
many alternative sources particularly in crowded middle peri-urban areas, as do residents in Beira and Maputo. In terms of hours per day of
service when it is functioning, the largest problems were encountered in Beira (Munhava system) and Quelimane where pressure was low.
8 30% of the price paid to vendors was assumed to be an economic rent.
9 Given the uncertainty surrounding the linear form of the demand curve, the calculated consumer surplus was reduced by 20%.
to'It was assumed that to boil 1 liter of water for 3 minutes some 200 kcal are needed. One kilogram of coal which economic cost wast



Annex 4
Page5 of 8
beneficiary would stop boil their water. The cost saving for not havmg to fetch water was estimated at the opportunity cost of time
spent on water fetching and is equal to US$0.89 per person and per month" '2.
A summary of the benefits accruing to each member of the household derived from the demand curve and the cost savings
associated with not having to boil water are presented in the above table.
Domestic User's Net Benefits
US$/yearlcapita I   Maputo        Quelimane         Beira           Nampula           Pemba
Newly conected          17.48          40.85            28.06            22.39            19.98
mnproved service        10.22           36.41           22.62            7.86             16.78
Non domestic consumers would also benefit from the project by increasing consumption. Yet, most of the incremental
water available will be allocated to domestic consumers (between 83% in Maputo and 95% in Quelimane). The economic benefit
has been estimated assuming that the WTP for incremental water is 0.2US$ higher than the price actually charged. This
assumption is likely to underestimate project benefits as the WTP is certainly higher. The assumption of a higher WTP is based
on qualitative discussions with industrialists/commercial interests in Beira and Pemba during the BA. In Pemba, for example, the
owner of Wimbe-Nautilus, the major beach front hotel noted that he has already spent 9,565 US$ on building a well to supplement
the water supply (the well did not produce potable water). Currently, he pays for 5,000 liter truck to transport water from a public
water source and the minimum amount of water he would like to consume in the future is 20,000 liters per day. He stated that he
paid 26 US$ per day for the truck water (=783 US$ per month excluding capital cost of the truck). In comparision, his formal
water bill is 260-435 US$ per month, and his electricty bill 870-1040 US$ per month; he said he was willing to pay more than
twice as much as he pays right nor for water since he has 70 cabanas which he cannot open until his water supply increases.
Economic rate of return
The analysis assumes an average economic life of 30 years after construction. An economic analysis of each of the individual town
was performed. The overall rate of return and the benefit cost ratio at a discount rate of 10% for water investments were estimated at 35.3%
and 5.17 for the base case scenario.
The rate of returns are lowest in Quelimane 8.1% that is explained by the larger economic costs per capita.
Maputo     Quelimane      Beira      Nampula       Pemba        Overall
IRR                  35.7%         8.1%        30.3%        37.5%        12.9%        35.3%
B/C                   5.14         0.83         3.99         5.85         1.31        5.17
NPV (million US$)     51.15        -1.37        11.22        4.69         0.53        76.49
Sensitivity Analysis
Several risks that would jeopardize the successful implementation of the project and affect its ERR were identified. They
included: (a) reduction in benefits because waste and losses would not reduced to the level expected, reduction on production costs
would not materialized, assumptions regarding cost savings of not having to boil water, of not having to buy water from resellers
or not having to fetch water have been over-estimated; (b) increase m costs because of unexpected expenditures and higher O&M
costs; and (c) a lag in benefits because of unexpected delays.
A sensitivity analysis was carried out to determine the robustness of the rate of return to changes in key variables. These
estimated at US$0.042 per kilogram, provides 4,000 kcal.
" On average, it was estimated that 45 min is spent daily to collect 20 lcd of water. The opportunity cost of time per cubic meter is 2.12
US$ = [[(500,000*0.25/11,500)/24/81*(45/60)*(1000/20)]. Therefore the monthly cost saving from not having to fetch water is 0.89US$
120*30/1000*2.12] per capita.
12 Due to the intermittent nature of water supply in the five cities, even the people connected to the network spend time fetching water or
buy water from vendors as a secondary source of water supply.



Annex 4
Page 6 of 8
results of this analysis are presented in the next table. They indicate that the IRR is fairly robust for the adverse scenario
presented.
Sensitivity Analysis Results
Scenario                                        ERR (%)
Base Case                                       35 %
Capital Costs:
Up 10%                                          26 %
Up 15%                                          25 %
Up 20%                                          24 %
Benefits delayed by I year                      28 %
Benefits delayed by 2 years                    23 %
Benefits decreased by 15%                       30 %
Benefits decrease by 20%                       28 %
Capital cost up 10% and benefits delayed 1 year  21%
Capital cost up 20% and benefits delayed 2 years    17%



NAPoTrO
Annex 4
Di2ss   rateO ee                                                       10%                                              Increuie    b-is                                 Page 7 of 8
ER                                                                  11500                                       De-ec coarens             ND cts
Oofdleteicsbenefici.eas -newlyconmected                                244 '000 peoplie                        New           leepoved
of dontesfic be-eficiasies with rnpmed srces                           697 000 peoao                                       S/year/capes     /MS/Year
hiciensesl vesne eappee.d to    eseic coarsenes                          2 Milion.C. icbe.ter                  ]7.48    |       0             020
lrosctana Becefita and Costs
Year           Cot4s       Doeset4ic Benefits  Nonfdssc Benefits        Net Benefits                                    Beneflts      Ieecrenmest0l
(MilhiUssU36)    (Mil7otitSs)           (M6iio- US5)        (MhionlUSS)   -NetBenefits   +Net Benefitr    disttibetions     volane
1999           0.43              0.00                    0                 -043            -043           0.00             0             0.00
2000           3.25              0.00                    0                 -3.25          -3.25           0.00             0             0.00
2001           8.95              0.00                    0                 -8.95           8.95           0.00             0             0.00
2002           6.67              2.85                  0.084               .3.74           -3.74          0.00            0.25           0.42
2003           4.19              5.69                  0.168                1.67           0.00            1.67           0.5            0.84
2004           0.45              8.54                  0.252                8.34           0.00           8.34            0.75           1.26
2005           0.4S              11.38                 0.336               11.27           0.00           ]1.27            1             1.68
2006-2029         OA5              11.38                  0.336               11.27           0.00           11.27            1             1.68
Disocess. Rate     10%            19.S0             60.62                  2.03                51.15          -12.35         63.50
tOERR               35.?%
NetBIC               5.14
OVELIMANE
Disca=t se                                                             I0%                                              Inreeetaal bnefis            |
ER                                                                  11,500                                      Domertic ooaanes,         ND)cO5stmnes
# ofdcoertic ceefnSiaties nueedy connected                              14 '000 people                          New          btrpeowed
4 of dainesh betaeficiiries waih htpeoved sersices                      22 '000 people                     l -S ear/capitst    Vy.e/cetp.t    S/MS/Year
licmeentsl Mnolee  peppliedto nos-d tic cos                            0.3 Million Cubic snes                  40.85           36.41          0.20
l       dWBe-tf4,s snd Cone
Year           Coast        Dotsstic Benefis  Non.domeit Beneats        NetBenefts                                      Benefts       Istcrenuitsal
(MiLionUSS)      (Mifion USS)           (MillienUSS)        (MOilionUSS)    Net Benefits   + Net Benefits    distibution    vottnee
1999           0.50              0.14                  0.01                -0.36          -0.36           0.00            0.1            0.03
2000           1.81              0.69                   0.03                -1.09          -1.09           0.00           0.5            0.17
2001           5.35              0.97                   0.05                4.33           4.33            0.00           0.7            0.23
2002           3.92              1.1]                   0.05               -2.76          -2.76           0.00            0.8            0.26
2003           3.87              1.25                   0.06               -2.56           -2.56          0.00            0.9            0.30
2094           0.29              1.39                   0.07                1.16           0.00            1.16            1             0.33
2005           0.29              1 39                  0.07                 1.16           0.00            1.16            I             0.33
2006-2029         0.29              1.39                  0.07                1.16            0.00           1.16             I             0.33
I2iacosse S/ale    10%                                                                         -1.37          -7.95           6.58
Net BIC              0.85
BEOIRA
DiscsseO cate                                                          1 0%                                             Ieceensest  benefits
ER                                                                  11,500                                       2etrticcrtntor           ND cCmnts
# of domeesic beneficsaries newly co7 neeted                            33 '00 people      avessee doss         New      |    ,n,-d   |
Oofd40ertic beseficia7ies wi4th7m7-dree s                               77  000 people                      S/year/apits |  /year/capita    S/M3/Year
le.,netOa1 vohtma  sppdlitd itosnndon7estic constnets                  0.3 Million Cubic sotet                28.06           22.62          0.20
|   b7ctneml Bentefts ad Costs
Year           Cots     | Dantsto Be-sfsl   Non-d-nsesnc Benefits       Net Benets|                                     Benefits  I| -esnel
(fio|ss)         (Mil}cnUS8)       |     MslbineUS )        (MitsonUi fl)      Net Bmefits   + Net Benets    diatttbutictn   |volune
1999           0.50              0.14                 0.0066               -0.36           -0.36          0.00            0.1            0.03
2000           1.81              0.69                   0.03               -1.00           -1.09          0.00            0.5            0.17
2001           5.35              0.97                   0.05                -4,33          -4.33           0.00           0.7            0.23
2062           3.92              1.11                   0.05               -2.76           -2.76          0.00            0.8            0.26
2003           3.87              1.25                   0.06               -2.56           -2.56           0.00           0.9            0.30
2004           0.29              1.39                   0.07                1.16           0.00            1.16             1            0.33
2005           0.29              1.39                  0.07                 1.16           0.00            1.16             1            0.33
2006-2029         0.29              1.39                  0.07                 1.16           0.00           1.16             1             0.33
Dssoo   RatReke    10%                                                                         11.22          -3.75           14.97
IERR                30.3%
|Net BIC       |     3.00



MAPUTO
Annex 4
Disnoens soto  10%                              1on~oteneo1   ~                                  Page 7 of 8
ER                                                                  11.500                                      Dotnenlie oon   r      1 NDconsutnes
#of ddmetic b-eefleiicm nwly coogected                                 244 '000 pcopl                          Ncw          impovemd 
g of dodtnent beneficiaricc with improved snesi-ns                     697 000 pople                        $/yetv/cpita    S/ye-/.pfta    V/M3 Year
IntntWmc    volume supplidi to wn.rdo46ic coosme                        2 Milon Cnbic meter                   17.48          10.22           0 20
lecroneotl B.n-fitc ad Coctc
Ycar           Cocts       Dometsd B3nefit.  Non-domectic Beeefts       Not Benetfit                                   Befits        Incw nental
(Mllion USS)      (Mlllioo US$5)        (Milon US$)         (Milon US$)   - Net Bentsti    + Net BenSfits   distibtion      volunnc
1999           0.43              1 (Y0.                  0                 -043           -0.43           000              0             000
2010           3.25              1) (X)                  0                 -3.25          -3.25          (100              0             11G O)
201            8.95              0 (X)                   0                 -8 95          S.95            0.00             0             00 0
2002           6.67              2 05                  1) 084              -3 74          -3.74           0 00           0 25            0.42
2003           4.19              5.6u                  0.i68                1.67           0.00           1 67            0.5            0 84
2004           0.45              8.54                  0252                S 34            0.00           8.34           075             1 26
2063           0.45              1138                  0336                11.27           0.00           11.27            i             1 68
2006-2029         0.45             1138                  0.336                1127           0.00           11.27             I             168
Disoout Raie       10%            19.50             68 62                  2 03                l 115         -12 35          63.50
IPR                3S7
Nct BIC             S. 14
QUELIMANE
Dion t                                                                 10%                                              Inewtentol bene.fts
ER                                                                  IISO                                        Domectic cocumets        ND
# of dententc benefetooii. ne-ly oononctod                              14 '   ppop                            N-           hm-d
# of dotmecti benefesonid  snob bmpwvcd nenit-s                         22 000 people                       /Yenic/ea $-/Oplt SlM31Ycar
Inwotmental solt  upplied to non-dosti. .omutetc                       1) 3 Millio Cubic mc                    40.85          36.41           0 20
eottntol 13enefits nod Coms
Ycar           Costs       DtoteB Benefits  Nwomc-ctt Benefits          Net Benefits                                    Benefis      Ineotentl
(Milion US$)     (Million US$)          (Milon US$)         (Millon US$)   - Net Benfis    +Not Benefits   drtdbuotno       voluo
1999           0.0              0 14                  1.01                -0.36          40.36           0 00            0 1            1 03
2000           1.S1              1) 69                 0.03        .       -09            -1.00           0.00            0.5            0 17
2001            .35              10 97                 0 05                -4 33          -4.33           0.00            0.7            0.23
2002           3.92              I 11                  005                 -2.76          -2.76          (1.00            00             026
2003           3.87              1 25                  0 06                -2 56          -2.56           0.00            0.9            0.30
20104          0.29              1 39                  0 07                 1.16           0.00           1.16             1             1 33
2005           0.29              1 39                  007                  1.16           000            1 16             I             033
21X)6-2029        0.29              1 39                  0.07                1 16           0.00            1 16             I            11.33
Dr onnot R-T       10%                                                                        -1.37          -7 95           6.58
iIERR               8 1%
Net BIC              0 S3
BEIRA
Dis-oot tote                                                           10%                                             inonetod benefits
ER                                                                  11.500                                      DotesOccneestonts         NDconenotns
6 ofdotnsd  be.friod tese-ly entntetd                                   33 000 p-eople     avetoge lo    r     Nrw      1   rtnpevtd T
#ofdomsic beocfeisri with hpwetdnet    icts                             77 '000 pople                    | S/yea/Mpine    S Vyolnop6o      01043/Ye-r
netnrnsoslltn npplid ctow n-do-lic sconnutts                            0.3 Million Cbitotter                  2S00            22.62          020
Yna            Coss    D|      t nesdeBenef1ts  No-d-tneie Benefits  | Not Bnets                                        BeneJtSs    |  I-rctents |
(Millin US$)      (Million US$)         (Mdion USS)         (Million US$) |  Net Beefits    Not Benefits |bdrtibti..n        .I-oltn
1999           0.50              O 14                 00666                -0.36          -0.36           0.00            01             0.03
2000           L1.I              069                   0.03                -1.09          -1.09           006             05            1(.17
2001           5 35               (97                  0 0 4.33                          -433            0.0             0 7            0(.23
2002           3.92          1         11 (105                             -2.76          -276            006 O           (              026
2063           3S7               1 25                   006                -2.56          -256            0.00            0.             1 130
2004           0.29              1 39                  0.07                 1.16           0.06           1 16             1             1)33
2005           0.29              1 39                  10.07                1 16           0.00           1.16             11             33
2006-2029         0.29              1 39                  0 07                1.16           0.06            1 16             1 133
Di| o   Re3t1e |   10%                                                                        112             -375           14.97
|iEM3         |    30 3%
Net BIC             3 99



Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue Earning Project Entities
Mozambique: National Water DeveloPment - FIPAG
Balance Sheet
Assets                                 3.08     15.20     38.55     57.35     74.04      77.09     83.76     91.98   101.87     113A3      124.94    138.60    153.39   169.44    186.72
Cash and other non Fixed Assests     0.10      0.10      0.10      0.10       1.96      7.31      8.71     15.46    18.38      26.80     31.40      39.77     45.44    54.94      61.87
OtherAssets (non Project)           0.00       0.00      0.00      1.82      7.21      8.61     17.60     22.76    33.44       40.28     50.90     59.90      72.73    82.99     97.05
Fixed Assets (Project)     2/       3.13      16.04     41.46     61.49     74.64     74.64     74.64     74.64    74.64       74.64     74.64     74.64      74.64    74.64     74.64
less accumulted depreciation        0.15      0.94      3.00      6.06      9.76     13.47     17.18     20.88    24.59       28.30     32.01     35.71      39.42    43.13     46.83
Net Fixed assets                    2.98      15.10     38.45     55.43     64.88     61.17     57.46     53.76    50.05       46.34     42.64     38.93      35.22    31.51     27.81
Liabilities                            3.08     15.20     38.59     57.39     74.04      77.09     83.76     91.98   101.87     113.43    124.94    138.60    153.39   169.44    186.72
Liabilities                          2.57      3.24      1.97      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00       0.00      0.00       0,00      0.00     0.00       0.00
Bilateral Grant                      0.50      1.80      2.86      3.40      3.86      3.86       3.86      3.86     3.86       3.86      3.86       3.86      3.86     3.86       3.86
Long Term Debt               3/      2.62     14.25     38.59     58.09      70.78     70.78     70.78     70.78    70.78      70.78     70.78      70.78     70.78    70.78      70.78
less current portion of LTD         0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       2.23      2.25      2.25     2.25       2.25       3.33      3.33      3.33     3.33       3.33
Net LTD                              2.62      14.25     38.59     58.09     70.78     68.55     68.53     68.53    68.53       68.53     67.45     67.45      67.45    67.45     67.45
Retained Earnings                   (2.62)    (4.09)    (4.84)    (4.10)    (0.60)      4.68     11.37     19.59    29.48       41.04     53.62     67.29      82.08    98.13    115.41
PROFIr AND LOSS STATEMENT
Revenues
MaputoLeaseRentalFee                  2.39      3.51      5.27      6.87       8.92      9.81     11.10     12.51    13.96      15.52      16.37     17.26     18.19    19.17      20.20
Fixed Rental Fee               4/     0.66      0.66      0.66      0.66       0.66      0.66      0.66      0.66     0.66       0.66      0.66       0.66      0.66     0.66       0.66
Connection Fee                        0.40      0.60      0.60      0.40      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00       0.00
EBIT Beira                          (1.49)    (0.82)    (0.01)      0.96      2.43       2.50      2.58      2.66     2.75       2.83       2.97      3.12      3.27     3.49       3.64
EBIT Quelimane                      (0.41)    (0.31)    (0.14)      0.12      0.46       0.48      0.50      0.50     0.60       0.60       0.60      0.60      0.60     0.60       0.60
EBIT Nampula                        (1.63)    (1.44)    (1.11)    (0.60)      0.20       0.21      0.22      0.23     0.25       0.26      0.28       0.30      0.32     0.35       0.36
EBIT Pemba                           (0.35)    (0.25)    (0.11)     0.07      0.28       0.42      0.44      0.45     0.46       0.48       0.51      0.53      0.55      0,59      0.61
Total Revenues            (043)       1.94      5.16      8.48     12.96     14.07     15.49     17.01    18.68       20.36     21.38     22.46      23.59    24.84     26.07
Management Contract Costs     61       0.80      0.92      1.26      1.38       1.36      0.70      0.70      0.70     0.70       0.70       0.70      0.70      0.70      0.70      0.70
Regulators fee                         0.24      0.24      0.24      0.24       0.24      0.24      0.24      0.24     0.24       0.24      0.24       0.24      0.24     0.24       0.24
Past Debt Amortization                 0.36      0.36      0.36      0.36      0.36      0.36       0.36      0.36     0.36       0.36      0.36       0.36      0.36     0.36       0.36
Depreciation                           0.15      0.79      2.06      3.05      3.71      3.71       3.71      3.71     3.71       3.71      3.71       3.71      3.71     3.71       3.71
Operating Costs of FIPAG head office   0.53      0.53      0.53      0.53       1.15      1.15      1.15      1.15     1.15       1.15       1.15      1.15      1.15      1.15      1.15
Head Oftice staff                     0.48      0.48      0.48      0.48      0.48       0.48      0.48      0.48     0.48       0.48       0.48      0.48      0.48     0.48       0.48
Technical and Financial Audits        0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.27       0.27      0.27      0.27     0.27       0.27      0.27       0.27      0.27     0.27       0.27
Professional Expertise                0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.35       0.35      0.35      0.35     0.35       0.35       0.35      0.35      0.35      0.35      0.35
Other Administrative costs            0.05      0.05      0.05      0.05       0.05      0.05      0.05      0.05     0.05       0.05       0.05      0.05      0.05      0.05      0.05
Total Costs                2.08      2.84      4.45      5.56      6.82      6.16       6.16      6.16     6.16       6.16      6.16       6.16      6.16     6.16       6.16
EBIT                                 (2.51)    (0.90)      0.71      2.91      6.14       7.91      9.33     10.85    12.52      14.20      15.22     16.30     17.43    18.69      19.92
New Debt Amortization          71      0.11      0.57      1.46      2.17      2.64       Z64       2.64      2.64     2.64       2.64      2.64       2.64      2.64     2.64       2.64
Net Income                            (2.62)    (1.47)    (0.75)     0.74      3.50       5.28      6.70      8.22     9.88      11.56      12.59     13.66     14.79    16.05      17.28
Cash FlowAnalysis
Cash beginning of period               0.00      0.10      0.10      0.13       1.96      7.31      8.71     15.46    18.38      26.80     31.40      39.77     45.44    54.94      61.87
Net Income (after interest charges)   (2.62)    (1.47)    (0.75)     0.74      3.50      5.28       6.70      8.22     9.88      11.56     12.59      13.66     14.79    16.05      17.28
Depreciation                           0.15      0.79      2.06      3.05      3.71      3.71      3.71       3.71     3.71       3.71      3.71       3.71      3.71     3.71       3.71
New Debt &Grant                        5.70     12.91     25.41     20.04      13.15     0.00       0.00      0.00     0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      o.oo     0.00       0.00
Less:
Additions to Fixed Assests             3.13     12.91     25.41     20.04      13.15     0.00       0.00      0.00     0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00     0.00       0.00
Repayment of LTDJGrant                 0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      2.23      2.25      2.25     2.25       2.25       3.33      3,33      3.33      3.33      3.33
changes in working capital             0.00     (0.67)     1.27      1.97       1.86     5.35       1.40      6.76     2.92       8.42      4.59       8.37      5.67     9.50       6.93
Cash end of period                     0.10      0.10      0.13      1.96       7.31      8.71     15.46     18.38    26.80      31.40      39.77     45.44     54.94    61.87      72.60



Annex 5
Page 2 of 6
IIFIPAG is created under the project and its first year of operations is the first year of the project.
2/ The assets of the 4 utiltities have not been valued and therefore FIPAG's begining asset size is not included in the projections.
3/ The long term debt is used to pay for the fixed assets. The LTD is repaid on a straight line basis, at the end of the five year grace period.
4/ FIPAG' receives a Fixed Rental Fee from the Lease Opertor in Maputo to cover cost of regulation.
5/ FIPAG's operating costs are only those incured by its head office.
6/ The cost of the four cities' Management Contracts have been presented as a lump sum by the bidder and is shown as general management cost in FIPAG's Profit and Loss
statement.
7/ Debt service is shown as a cost to FIPAC. It calculated at 6% for capital costs financed by the IDA Grant, and 2% for the other capital costs financed by AfDB and the Dutch
Grants.



Annex 5
Page 3 of 6
MOZAMBIQUE: National Water Development II
Project Year      0  1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9    1 0   11   1 2   1 3   14   1 5
FinancialYearEnding 12/31     1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Customer Tariff                     0.41  0.45  0.51  0.55  0.8  0.6  0.61  0.62  0.64  0.66  0.66  0.66  0.66  0.66  0.66
Operators Tariff                    0.27  0.27  0.27  0.27 0.27  0.27  0.27  0.27  0.27  0.27  0.27  0.27  0.27  0.27  0.27
Collected volumes                  17.08 19.49 21.95 24.53 27.04 29.73 32.64 35.75 37.74  39.8 41.97 44.25 46.64 49.15 51.79
Total Revenues from Collections      7.00  8.77 11.19 13.49 16.22 17.84 19.91 22.17 24.15 26.27 27.70 29.21 30.78 32.44 34.18
Operators Income                     4.61  5.26  5.93 6.62  7.30  8.03  8.81  9.65 10.19 10.75 11.33 11.95 12.59 13.27 13.98
Revenues
Fixed rental fee                      0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0
Variable rental fee                 2.39  3.51  5.27 6.87  8.92  9.81 11.10 12.51 13.96 15.52 16.37 17.26 18.19 19.17 20.20
TOTAL REVENUES                       2.39  3.51  5.27  6.87  8.92 9.81 11.10 12.51 13.96 15.52 16.37 17.26 18.19 19.17 20.20
Year       0  1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9    10   11   12   13   14   15
Balance Sheet           1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Profit and Loss Account
Water Produced MMm3/year            8.77 10.41 10.65 10.93 11.27 11.64 12.03 12.38 12.99 13.64 14.31 15.25 15.94 16.66 17.40
Water Produced MMm3/yr- lower cap   8.77  9.50 10.00 10.30 10.65 10.93 11.27 11.64 12.03 12.38 12.99 13.64 14.31 15.25 15.94
work prog
average customer tariff ($/m3) 1/   0.37  0.45  0.53  0.60 0.66 0.66  0.66  0.66  0.66  0.66  0.66  0.66  0.66  0.66  0.66
Collected volumes                   2.26  3.01  3.43  3.91  4.55 5.25  6.00 6.80 7.48  7.84 8.23  8.77  9.17  9.58 10.01
volume of water collected / produced %    26%  29%  32%  36%  40%  45%  50%  55%  58%  57%  58%  58%  58%  58%  58%
assumed improved collection rate     26%  40%  50%  60%  75%  75%  75%  75%  75%  75%  75%  75%  75%  75%  75%
Revenues                           0.84  1.35  1.82  2.35 3.00 3.47  3.96 4.49 4.94  5.17 5.43  5.79  6.05  6.32  6.61
Rev2                                 0.84  1.87 2.82 3.93 5.58 5.76  5.95  6.13 6.43  6.75  7.08  7.55  7.89  8.25  8.61
Rev3                                 0.84  1.71  2.65  3.71  5.27  5.41  5.58 5.76 5.95  6.13 6.43  6.75  7.08  7.55  7.89
Operating Costs  1/                  2.34  2.77 2.84  2.91  3.00 3.10  3.21  3.30  3.46  3.63 3.81  4.06  4.25  4.44  4.64
Op costs 3                           2.34  2.53  2.66 2.74  2.84 2.91  3.00  3.10  3.21  3.30  3.46  3.63  3.81  4.06  4.25
Total Cash Operating Costs           2.34  2.77  2.84 2.91  3.00 3.10  3.21  3.30 3.46  3.63 3.81  4.06  4.25  4.44 4.64
EBIT                               (1.49) (0.82) (0.01) 0.96 2.43 2.50  2.58  2.66  2.75  2.83  2.97  3.12  3.27  3.49  3.64



Annex 5
Page 4 of 6
"~~~~~~~fl~~~~~~s3rw.~~~~~~~~~~~n..   "~~~~~~~~~~'"  .  ,  ,'  ,          $  S. 445'S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... ... 
=_A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-A
Year          1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9   10   11   12   13   14   15
Prorit and Loss Account
Water Produced                     4.09 4.67 4.88 5.13 5.41  5.73 6.07 6.47 6.89 7.33 7.79  8.50 8.91  9.35  9.80
Water prod - low capex              4.09 4.40 4.67 4.77 4.88 5.13  5.41  5.73 6.07 6.47 6.89  7.33 7.79  8.50  8.91
average tariff ($/m3) 1/           0.28 0.35 0.45 0.55 0.70 0.70 0.70 0.70 0.70 0.70 0.70  0.70 0.70  0.70  0.70
Collected volumes                  1.28  1.66  1.94 2.26 2.62 3.03 3.48 3.71  3.95 4.20 4.47  4.88  5.12  5.37 5.63
volume of water collected / produced %    0.31  0.36 0.40 0.44 0.48 0.53 0.57  0.57 0.57 0.57 0.57  0.57 0.57  0.57  0.57
improved collection                0.31  0.45 0.55 0.65 0.75 0.75 0.75 0.75 0.75 0.75 0.75  0.75 0.75  0.75  0.75
Revenues                          0.36 0.58 0.87  1.24  1.83 2.12 2.44  2.60 2.77 2.94 3.13  3.42 3.58  3.76  3.94
Revenues with improved collection  0.36 0.74  1.21  1.83 2.84 3.01  3.19 3.40 3.62 3.85 4.09  4.46 4.68  4.91  5.15
Rev3                                0.36 0.69  1.16  1.71  2.56 2.69 2.84 3.01  3.19 3.40 3.62  3.85 4.09 4.46 4.68
Operating Costs                     1.98 2.26 2.36 2.48 2.62 2.77 2.94  3.13 3.34 3.55 3.77  4.12  4.32  4.53  4.75
Op costs 2                          1.98 2.13 2.26 2.31  2.36 2.48 2.62 2.77 2.94 3.13 3.34  3.55  3.77 4.12 4.32
Total Cash Operating Costs          1.98 2.26 2.36 2.48 2.62 2.77 2.94 3.13 3.34 3.55 3.77 4.12 4.32 4.53  4.75
EBIT                              (1.63) (1.") (1.11) (0.60) 0.20 0.21  0.22 0.23 0.25 0.26 0.28  0.30  0.32  0.35  0.38
. . . ..A ......55..
Year   Q      1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9   10   11   12   13   14   15
Profit and Loss Account
Water Produced MMm3/year           2.50 2.75 3.28 3.42 3.58 3.58 4.30 4.30 4.30 4.30 4.30  4.30 4.30 4.30 4.30
Water prod - low capex              2.50 2.75 3.28 3.14 3.28 3.42  3.58  3.58 4.30 4.30 4.30  4.30 4.30  4.30  4.30
average customer tariff ($/m3) 1/  0.33 0.37 0.42 0.48 0.55 0.55 0.55 0.55 0.55 0.55 0.55  0.55 0.55  0.55  0.55
Collected volumes                  0.82  1.17  1.35 1.56  1.78 2.03 2.30 2.43 2.58 2.73 2.88  3.12  3.22  3.32  3.42
volume of water collected I produced %    33%  43%  41%  46%  50%  57%  54%  57%  60%  64%  67%  73%  75%  77%  80%
improved collection efficiency     33%  43%  55%  65%  75%  75%  75%  75%  75%  75%  75%  75%  75%  75%  75%
Revenues                          0.27 0.43 0.57 0.75 0.98 1.12  1.27 1.34 1.42 1.50 1.58  1.72 1.77  1.83  1.88
Revenues with improved collection  0.27 0.44 0.76 .1.07 1.48 1.48  1.77 1.77 1.77  1.77 1.77  1.77  1.77  1.77  1.77
Rev 3                              0.27 0.44 0.76  0.98  1.35 1.41  1.48  1.48  1.77  1.77  1.77  1.77  1.77  1.77  1.77
Operating Costs                     0.68 0.75 0.90 0.94 0.98 0.98  1.17  1.17  1.17  1.17  1.17  1.17  1.17  1.17  1.17
Op costs 3                         0.68 0.75 0.90 0.86 0.90 0.94 0.98 0.98 1.17  1.17 1.17  1.17  1.17  1.17  1.17
Total Cash Operating Costs          0.68 0.75 0.90 0.94 0.98 0.98  1.17 1.17 1.17 1.17 1.17  1.17  1.17  1.17  1.17
EBIT                              (0.41) (0.31) (0.14) 0.12 0.46 0.48 0.50  0.50 0.60 0.60 0.60  0.60 0.60  0.60  0.60



Annex 5
Page 5 of 6
Year   0      1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9   10   11   12   13   14   15
Profit and Loss Account
Water Produced                     1.49  1.53 1.59  1.67  1.76 1.80  1.85 1.94 2.03 2.12 2.22 2.35 2.46  2.59 2.71
Water produced, low capex           1.49  1.51  1.53  1.56 1.59 1.67  1.76  1.80  1.85  1.94 2.03 2.12 2.22  2.35 2.46
average tariff ($/m3) 1/          0.35 0.40 0.50 0.60 0.70 0.70  0.70 0.70  0.70 0.70 0.70  0.70  0.70  0.70  0.70
Collected volumes                 0.47 0.56 0.65 0.76 0.87 0.96  1.06  1.11  1.16  1.22 1.28  1.35  1.44  1.49  1.56
volume of water collected / produced %    0.32 0.37 0.41  0.46 0.49 0.53  0.57 0.57 0.57 0.58 0.58 0.57 0.59  0.58  0.58
improved collection rate          0.32 0.45 0.55 0.65 0.75 0.85  0.85 0.85 0.85 0.85 0.85 0.85 0.85  0.85  0.85
Revenues                          0.16 0.22 0.33 0.46 0.61  0.67  0.74 0.78 0.81  0.85 0.90  0.95  1.01  1.04  1.09
Revenues with improved collections  0.17 0.28 0.44 0.65 0.92 1.07  1.10  1.15  1.21  1.26 1.32  1.40  1.46  1.54  1.61
Rev 3                             0.17 0.27 0.42 0.61  0.83 0.99  1.05  1.07  1.10  1.15 1.21  1.26  1.32  1.40  1.46
Operating Costs                     0.52 0.53 0.55 0.58 0.61  0.62 0.64 0.67 0.70 0.73 0.77  0.81  0.85  0.90  0.94
Op costs 3                        0.52 0.52 0.53 0.54 0.55 0.58  0.61  0.62 0.64 0.67 0.70  0.73 0.77  0.81  0.85
Total Cash Operating Costs          0.52 0.53 0.55 0.58 0.61  0.62 0.64 0.67 0.70  0.73 0.77  0.81  0.85  0.90  0.94
EBIT                              (0.35) (0.25) (0.11) 0.07 0.28 0.42  0.44 0.45 0.46 0.48 0.51  0.53  0.55  0.59  0.61



Annex 5
Page 6 of 6
Financial Analysis of FIPAG/Notes & Assumptions:
The financial analysis of FIPAG is mainly based on the findings of the Halcrow/Banque Paribas
Consultants' Financial Evaluation Report (June 1997). The assumptions made under this report were updated
taking into account the revised tariff projections, production and costs estimates of the highest ranked bidder.
Since historical financial data for the five utilities in Maputo, Beira, Quelimane, Nampula and Pemba
were either not available or unreliable, it was decided to focus on analysis of the projected financial statements
of FIPAG, the asset holding company which will manage and oversee the operations of the utilities.
In absence of actual data, the projections have been based on several main assumptions:
(i)    projections take only into account the operations under the new project and do not include
revenues, operating costs, assets and liabilities of the ongoing operations. An evaluation of the utilities' assets
will e undertaken under the proposed project to help ascertain the actual value of the FIPAG's starting assets.
(ii)   operating costs of each of the utilities is derived from the low bidder's tariff projections. It is
based on the tariff level that will be sufficient to cover all cash operating expenses. The costs of operations for
the other years are thus derived from this break-even tariff.
(iii)   some capital expenditures in Beira, Quelimane and Pemba, and the four utilities' management
contract will be financed under an IDA credit to the Government. Funds for capital investments will be onlent
to FIPAG on IBRD terms (lending rate estimated at 6.25%, 5 years grace and repaid over 22 years). Capital
expenditures in Maputo will be financed under a loan from the AfDB onlent to FIPAG at concessionary terms
(2% interest rate, 10 years grace and repaid over 30 years). Investments totaling US$ 10 million dollars will
be financed as a grant.
(iv)   FIPAG's revenues are based on: the fixed and variable rental fees it expects to receive from
Maputo's lease operator, the connection fees and earnings before interest depreciation and tax for each of the
utilities. Since the cost of the management contract has only been provided in a lump sum for all four cities,
this amount is deducted from total revenues of FIPAG and not from individual utilities incomes.
(v)    during the project technical assistance provided to FIPAG as well as the technical and
financial audits will be financed under the credit. FIPAG is expected to replace this expertise by staff financed
from internal funding. The cost of FIPAG of this technical assistance is expected to be lower than the
Technical Assistance provided under the project as the latter are expected to be mainly local professionals.
(vi)   unless otherwise decided by the Government, FIPAG is required to repay a past debt
estimated at $360,000 p.a.
(vii)  revenues from sale of water are derived from averaging high and low case estimates of water
collections. The low case was taken from halcrow/Banque Paribas' financial evaluation report, and the high
case was taken from the low bidder's collection estimates. The derived base case used in the financial
projections are expected to rise from actual levels of 26%/o-33% (depending on the city) to 75%-85% in year 5
of operations.
(viii)  all amounts are in 1999 constant dollars. Inflation is not taken into account.



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Mozambique: National Water Development Project 11
1.    Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
1.1 Procurement for Project Preparation. Two large consultancies were undertaken during project preparation.
These were the Water Supply Study for 12 towns and Maputo, and the consultancy to advise GoM on the Private Sector
Management Options for the Five Cities. The first was financed by the IDA PRU project jointly with the Dutch
Government, and the second by the PPF of the NWDP-I project and the IDA Rural Rehabilitation Project. These were
contracted by short listing of consultants. The Lease Contract for the Operation of the Maputo water supply and the
Management Contracts for the water supplies of Beira, Quelimane, Nampula and Pemba, will constitute the key package of
contracts for this project. Prior to Board consideration, procurement activities for these contracts proceeded to the point of
a decision by GOM to invite a winning bidder to negotiations on the proposed contracts, following a "no objection" from
IDA. The procurement process used was prequalification and submission of bids by prequalified bidders. Other project
preparation work was contracted following IDA guidelines for the use of consultants. The summary of proposed
procurement arrangements is presented at Table A.
1.2    Delegated and Non-Delegated Works and Goods.. The Lease and Management contracts referred to
above contain selected construction works and procurement of goods that were bid as a part of the procurement process for
the Lease and Management contracts as a whole. Consequently, the winner of this contract (referred to as the Private
Operator) will not be required to follow WB guidelines for the procurement of these items, which were already
competitively bid. Such items are referred to as "Delegated Works". It is clarified that under the project, the Private
Operator will be required to procure goods, works and consultancy services for the "Non-Delegated" component of the
project. These would be procured under World Bank guidelines. The Lease and Management contracts with the Private
Operator have provisions for paying a percentage of the purchase price for such procurement services. In addition, some
selected contracts, primarily those where there is an obvious conflict of interest, will not be processed by the Private
Operator, but will be processed by DNA.
1.3 Procurement under the Project. Total value of IDA-supported engineering and desien assignments will be
US$32.2 million, of which US$22.2 million is the total estimated IDA-supported cost of the Lease and Management
contracts. Thus the total value of other IDA-supported assignments is estimated to be US$10.0 million. These assignments
mainly comprise policy analysis, planning and design work, specific studies, and design and construction supervision.
Consultants would be hired in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants
(January 1997 version, updated September 1997 and January 1999). Most consultant selection will be addressed through
competition among qualified short-listed firms in which the selection will be based on Quality-and-Cost-Based Selection
(QCBS) by evaluating the quality of the proposal before comparing the cost of the services to be provided. For some low
cost assignments (less than US$50,000), the Consultant Qualification (CQ) method may be used. Short lists for contracts
estimated under US$ 100,000 may be comprised entirely of national consultants if a sufficient number of qualified (at least
three) are available at competitive costs. However, if foreign firms have expressed interest, they will not be excluded. In
addition, US$4.7 million will be spent on technical assistance, in the form of hiring of individual consultants, or through
contracts with consulting companies. Contracts less than $100,000 each may be awarded on a sole source basis subject to
adequate justification and prior review by IDA. Training (total value US$0.8m) will primarily comprise hiring of individual
short term consultants and support for training programs.
1.4 Works contracts (individual contract value - local costs and IDA support - US$250,000 and above) will be
awarded on the basis of ICB for an aggregate value equivalent of US$16.2 million approx (large works). This includes
contracts for urban water supply works for Beira, Quelimane and Pemba. Smaller-value works contracts (individual value
less than US$0.5 million equivalent) will be awarded on the basis of NCB for an aggregate value of US$3.4 million



Annex 6
Page 2 of 6
equivalent. It has been agreed that the Private Operator (PO), acting on behalf of FIPAG, will use NCB procedures
consistent with Bank procurement guidelines; and the tender documents used for NCB will be based on Bank's Standard
Bid Documents suitably modified. For minor works estimated to cost less than US$ 50,000 equivalent per contract, up to
an aggregate amount not to exceed US$ 800,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed price contracts
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.
1.5 Goods. Contracts for the procurement of goods supported by IDA (individual value US$200,000 equivalent
and above) will be awarded on the basis of ICB for an aggregate value of US$1.l million. Smaller value goods
procurement contracts, for an aggregate value of US$0.9 million (individual value less than US$200,000 equivalent) will be
awarded on the basis of NCB. Contracts less than $100,000 each may be awarded to the Inter-Agency Procurement
Services of the UNDP (WAPSO), for an aggregate value of $400,000 equivalent, and less than $50,000 each may be
awarded through International /National Shopping using approved procedures, for an aggregate value of US$400,000
equivalent.
1.6 The General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in the Development Business Forum at least 60
days prior to the issue of bid documents. Specific Procurement Notices would be issued before preparation of shortlists in
respect of consulting contracts above US$200,000, for any assignments not covered by the GPN. The Procurement
Planning Schedules for consultancies, goods and works are included in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) (under
preparation).
1.7 Implementation Arrangements. The procurement of most contracts, including design and construction
contracts for Non-delegated Works, will be undertaken by the Private Operator as a service to, and under the supervision of,
FIPAG. As stated in Paragraph 1.2, for this service, the Private Operator will be paid a percentage of the annual
investment program agreed at the beginning of each year. The scope of work will include planning, procurement and site
supervision. Initially, the existing procurement cell in DNA responsible for the NWDP-I project will be responsible for the
procurement not undertaken by the Private Operator. The workload is expected to be small. However, the staff in the
procurement cell of DNA is being enhanced by hiring one more procurement specialist, who is expected to be in position by
December 1999. This would bring the number of procurement specialists in this cell to three. The staff of this cell is
undergoing training financed under the NWDP-I project. When FIPAG has established satisfactory arrangements for
procurement, expected to be in the third year of the project, it will undertake procurement for components A and B not
undertaken by the Private Operator.
1.8 Prior review thresholds (Table B). For procurement of works and goods, all cases valued at US$ 200,000 or
more will require prior review by IDA. The Bank will review the selection process for the hiring of consultants proposed by
the borrower for those consultancy contracts to be awarded to firms; contracts worth US$100,000 and above will be subject
to IDA prior review; for individual consultants the prior review threshold will be US$ 50,000. However, the exception to
IDA prior review will not apply to the Terms of Reference of such contracts, regardless of value, to single-source hiring, or
assignments of a critical nature as determined by IDA or to amendments of contracts raising the contact value above the
prior review thresholds. All contracts during the first year of the project, and selective contracts thereafter, will be subject
to post-review.
2.    Disbursement
2.1 Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C). The proceeds ofthe IDA credit would be disbursed against:
(a)    100% of foreign expenditures and 90% of local expenditures on works contracts;
(b)    100% of foreign expenditures and 90% of local expenditures for vehicles, equipment and materials including
chemicals;
(c)    100% of expenditures for consulting services;
(d)    100% expenditures on training, and
(e)    100% of expenditures on operating costs to December 3 1, 2002 , and 70% thereafter.



Annex 6
Page 3 of 6
As projected by Bank's standard disbursement profiles, disbursement would be completed by four months after project
closure. Disbursement would be made against standard IDA documentation.
2.2 Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs). IDA may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditures for (i) works under contracts costing less than US$ 250,000 equivalent
each; (ii) goods under contracts costing less than US$ 200,000 equivalent each; (iii) services of consulting firms under
contracts costing less than US$100,000 equivalent each; (iv) services of individual consultants under contracts costing less
than US$ 50,000 equivalent each; (v) training and operating costs, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.
2.3 Special and Project Accounts. In order to ensure the timely provision of funds available to finance the costs
of the project, it is proposed that one Special Account is established for FIPAG in the amount of US$1,000,000, and that a
Project Account is established by the Borrower for FIPAG. Funds in these Accounts would be available to finance only
eligible expenditures under the Project. The Special Account would have an initial authorized deposit of US$ 1,000,000.
The Special Account would be replenished following application for reimbursement by FIPAG together with appropriate
supporting documentation. The amount of IDA replenishment would not exceed the authorized allocation. It is proposed
that the Project Account be funded at least 3 months in advance by the GOM. The initial deposit will be US$ 250,000, with
subsequent quarterly deposits of US$ 175,000 until US$ 2,000,000 is reached. The purpose of these funds is working
capital to be provided by the GOM in the first 4 years of FIPAG's operation. The Credit closing date would be September
30, 2005, with physical completion of works expected by March 31, 2005.



Annex 6
Page 4 of 6
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements'
(in US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                               Procurement Method               Total Cost
ICB   NCB   Other  NBF
1. WVorks
Civil Works                                       16.8       3.5      0.8     28.0          49.1
(16.2)    (3.4)    (0.7)                 (20.3)
2. Goods
(a) Vehicles, computers, office equipment &        0.5       0.4      0.6                    1.5
furniiture
(0.5)    (0.3)    (0.6)                  (1.4)
(b) Plant and equipment                            0.3       0.2      0.1                    0.6
(0.3)    (0.2)    (0.1)                  (0.6)
(e) Chemicals                                      0.3       0.3      0.1                    0.7
(0.3)    (0.3)    (0.1)                  (0.7)
3. Services
(a) Engineering services and studies **                              32.7                   32.7
(32.2)                (32.2)
(b) Technical Assistance                                              4.7                    4.7
(4.7)                 (4.7)
4. Training                                                           0.8                    0.8
(0.8)                 (0.8)
5. Miscellaneous
(a) Operations costs                                                  3.4                    3.4
(3.4)                 (3.4)
(b) Operations (GOM support to FIPAG)                                           2.0          2.0
(c) Interest during construction                                                2.7          2.7
(d) Unallocated                                                                 5.9         16.7
(10.9)
TOTAL                                             17.9       4.4     43.2      38.5        114.8
IDA    (17.3)    (4.2)   (42.6)    (0.0)         (75.0)
Note: NBF= Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are amounts to be financed by the IDA
credit
Inclutdes US22.7 nillion for goods and works for which World Bank guidelines for procurement will not apply, as
those items were an integral part of the competitive bidding conducted for the lease and management contracts as a
who[le.
For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to OD 11.02, "Procurement Arrangements for Investment Operations."
Details on Consultant Services can be shown more easily in the Table Al format (additional to Table A, where applicable).



Annex 6
Page 5 of 6
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review2
0~ ~~~~~~u  U$                                                  us1 U$l
1. Works
< 250,000             NCB                   > 200,000
> 250,000             ICB                   > 200,000
2. Goods
* 200,000             NCB                   >200,000
* 200,000             ICB                   >200,000
< 100,000             IAPSO
< 50,000              International/National
Shopping
3. Services
QCBS, CQ, SFB         100,000 (firms)
Individual            50,000 (individuals)
Single Source         All
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High
Average
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 month(s) (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
2 Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement Documentation" and contact the
Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.



Annex 6
Page 6 of 6
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category            Amount in US$Million         Financing %
Implementing Agency
FIPAG       DNA
Civil Works                           20.3                         100% foreign and
90% local
Goods
(a) Vehicles, computers, office  1.1         0.31            100% foreign and
equipment and furniture                                      90% local
(b) Plant and equipment         0.6                          100% foreign and
90% local
(c) Chemicals                   0.7                          100% foreign and
90% local
Services
(a) Engineering services and studies 28.0    4.2             100%
(b) Technical Assistance        4.7                          100%
Training                              0.8                          100%
Operating costs                       3.4                          100% local to
December 31, 2002
70% local thereafter
Unallocated                           10.9
Total costs by implementing agency    70.5         4.5
TOTAL                                 75.0
'Vehicles only



ANNEX 7
Mozambique: National Water Development Project 11
Financial Management Annex
General
The NWDP II will be implemented with two executing agencies: FIPAG and DNA. FIPAG is responsible
for the major capital works and technical assistance components (Components A & B).FIPAG will be
responsible and administer the majority of the credit of about US$ 55.5 million. DNA is responsible for
Component C which is estimated to cost about US$ 4.5 million.
For FIPAG, IDA will make advance disbursements from the proceeds of the Credit by disposing funds into
a Special Account to expedite program implementation. The special account operated by FIPAG in the
amount of US$500,000 is proposed. It is also proposed that FIPAG operate a Project Account that will be
funded at least 3 months in advance by the GOM. The annual balance will be no less than US$ 750,000
equivalent. The initial deposit will be US$ 250,000. The purpose of this account is working capital to be
provided by the GOM in the first 4 years of FIPAG's operation, as well as counterpart funding for capital
works and other expenses. GOM commitment to the project account for working capital is US$ 2 million,
and approximately US$ 1.58 million for counterpart funding.
Funds for Component C of the project will be disbursed from the credit through DNA by direct payment
by IDA, and/or reimbursement. This component will provide for goods and services It will include direct
payments from the credit to a third party for goods and services upon the Borrowers request.
FIPAG
General
1.1   FIPAG is an autonomous public sector institute. A Stakeholders Forum will be formed as a
consultative body on the Private Sector Program (PSP) for the Minister of MOPH and to FIPAG. It will
nominate members for appointment to the Board of FIPAG. This forum will consist of members appointed
by Ministrio de Plano e Financas (MPF), MOPH and Ministerio de Administracao Estatal (MAE).
FIPAG will be responsible for ensuring that financial management and reporting procedures for
components A & B will be acceptable to the World Bank and Government of Mozambique.
1.2   FIPAG's financial management system (FMS) will support and assure the efficient deployment of
its limited resources with the purpose of ensuring economy, efficiency and effectiveness in the delivery of
outputs required to achieve desired outcomes. Specifically, the FMS must be capable of producing timely,
understandable, relevant and reliable financial information that will enable management to plan, implement,
monitor and appraise NWDP IU's overall progress towards the achievement of its objectives.
1.3    At this juncture in the start-up stage in the establishment of FIPAG's financial management
system, FIPAG will not immediately begin with the PMR-based disbursements, as discussed in the World
Bank's Loan Administration Change Initiative Handbook (LACI, September '98). Thus, in the short-term,
existing disbursement procedures, as outlined in the World Bank's Disbursement Handbook, will be
followed i.e. Direct Payment, Reimbursement and Special Commitment.



Annex 7
Page 2 of 5
1.4    However, the development of FIPAG's financial management system, in accordance with the
Financial Management Action Plan presented below, is expected to facilitate the introduction of PMR-
based disbursements within 12 to 18 months of credit effectiveness.
Financial Management Action Plan
2.1    Reporting to the CEO of FIPAG, the Financial Manager of FIPAG will be charged to prepare the
Project's Management Report (PMR) every quarter. These reports will be reviewed by the Board of
FIPAG, the Ministry of MOPH and they will be sent to the CRA. In due course, the PMR will comprise:
2.2    Financial Statements, as discussed in Paragraph 11.2 below. The FIPAG Board will review and
approve Quarterly and Annual Financial Statements; they will also examine material variances between
budget/actual figures - seeking necessary remedial action, as appropriate, within an agreed timeframe.
2.3    Project Progress i.e. Output Monitoring Report (OMR). The format and details of the OMR will
need to be developed. An important aspect of the OMR will be the accompanying narrative interpreting the
Project's progress with agreed financial performance indicators and how costs to date relate to that planned
at appraisal, and its likely effect on the Program at its completion.
2.4    Procurement Management (including Goods, Works and Consulting Services)
StaffinglCapacity Building
3.1    The mobilization of a Financial Manager (FM), as part of a larger management support contract
for FIPAG, is a condition of effectiveness of the project. The Financial Manager will direct and guide the
financial management operations of FIPAG.
3.2    Qualified/experienced accounting, administrative, procurement and support staff, including a
Project Accountant, will be appointed by March 2000. Varying levels of training may be required in some
of the following areas: financial, management and government accounting; information systems and
computer applications; procedures relating to utilization of funds e.g. Special Accounts, SOEs, Special
Commitments, Procurement etc. "On the job coaching" will also be provided.
Internal Controls/Finance, Administration, Procurement & Procedures Manual
4.1    FIPAG's internal control procedures will be documented by the Financial Manager in the Project's
Finance, Administration and Procurement Procedures Manual (FAPPM).
4.2    The activities of the Project will be periodically reviewed at least once a year with an External
Audit undertaken by international auditors acceptable to IDA.
Information Technology
5.1    By June 2000, FIPAG's overall financial management information technology requirements
(hardware, software and training) will be developed by Systems consultants with oversight and in
consultation with the Financial Manager.
5.2    As a transitional arrangement, the accounting records of the Project will be maintained using a
conventional spreadsheet package.



Annex 7
Page 3 of 5
Planning and Budgeting
6.1   FIPAG is expected to be self-financing in the longer term. In the initial years, the Government will
commit counterpart funding through working capital for FIPAG. The annual allocation will be approved in
line with Government's budgetary process.
6.2   The Financial Manager, in consultation with the CEO of FIPAG will be responsible for preparing
the Project's Quarterly/Annual Cash Flow Forecast.
6.3   The FIPAG Board will be responsible for approving FIPAG's budget.
Procurement of Goods, Works and Consulting Services
7.1   The Financial Manager and members of staff will be conversant with Government and World Bank
procurement procedures, as internal control issues and the incurring of liabilities on behalf of FIPAG will
be matters of particular concern to the financial management function - specifically, Government
procedures in relation to incurring contractual commitments must be strictly observed.
7.2    A Quarterly Procurement Management Report (showing the status of procurement, civil works and
contract commitments) will be prepared jointly by the Financial Manager and the Construction Manager
for consideration by the CEO of FIPAG.
7.3   Procurement procedures, which must comply with World Bank and Government requirements, will
be documented in the FAPPM.
Banking Activities - Flow of Funds
8.1   For IDA and Govermnent funding, FIPAG will maintain 4 bank accounts as follows:
(a)    Current Account in Meticais (Part 1 Account) at a commercial bank acceptable to IDA to
which drawdowns from the Special Account and the Project Account (Part 2 account, see (b))will be
credited for Project financing and administrative expenses;
(b)    Project Account in Meticais (Part 2 Account) at a conmuercial bank acceptable to IDA to
which Counterpart Funding by Government will be deposited. Initially, a two months float will be provided
and it will be replenished thereafter in compliance with Government procedures and IDA;
(c)    Special Account in US Dollars/Meticais at a commercial bank acceptable to IDA that will
show:
* Dollar/ Meticais cost of transfers to Part 1 Account;
* Dollar! Meticais cost of direct payments to suppliers;
 Dollar advances (Meticais equivalent cost) from the IDA Loan Account;
* Opening and Closing Balances.
(d) IDA Loan Account (Washington) in US Dollars/ Meticais /SDR that will show:
* cost of transfers to Special Account;



Annex 7
Page 4 of 5
*  cost of direct payments to suppliers
* Opening and Closing Balances
8.2    Bank statements for the 4 accounts will be reconciled to the Project's accounting records on a
monthly basis. Reconciliation will be approved by the Finance and Administration Manager on a timely
basis. Identified differences will be expeditiously investigated. Control procedures will be documented in
the FAPPM.
Withdrawals and disbursements
9.1    At this juncture in the relatively embryonic stage in the establishment of financial management
system, this system is not yet ready for PMR-based disbursements, as discussed in the World Bank's Loan
Administration Change Initiative Handbook (LACI, September '98). Thus, in the short-term, existing
disbursement procedures, as outlined in the World Bank's Disbursement Handbook, will be followed i.e.
Direct Payment, Reimbursement and Special Commitment.
9.2    The development of the financial management system is expected to facilitate the introduction of
PMR-based disbursements within about 18 months of credit effectiveness.
9.3    LACI/PMR has many merits. It integrates Project accounting, procurement, contract management,
disbursement and audit with physical progress through the Project Management Report (PMR), as
summarized in Paragraph 1.1. In due course, the adoption of LACI/PMR by FIPAG will enable it to move
away from time-consuming voucher-by-voucher disbursement methods to quarterly disbursements to the
Project's Special Account, based on the PMR.
Fixed Assets, Consulting Services and Civil Works
10.1   A Fixed Assets Register will be prepared, regularly updated and checked.
10.2   Regarding Construction/Capital Work in Progress, controls will be established over the awarding
of contracts as well as for ensuring that payments are made in a timely and orderly manner in respect of
certified work. Contract Status Reports will be prepared quarterly by the Engineering Division Manager
for consideration by the FMSC as part of the Procurement Management Report referred to in Paragraph
1.1.
10.3   Control procedures over fixed assets, consulting services and civil works will be documented in the
FAPPM.
Financial Reporting (Monthly and Quarterly/Annually)
Monthly Status of Funds Report
11.1   The Financial Manager will be responsible for oversight of preparing a Monthly Status of Funds
Report for the Chairperson of FIPAG and the CEO of FIPAG.
Quarterly/Annually
11.2   The Financial Statements, following determination by the Financial Manager and CEO of FIPAG,
are likely to include:
* A Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds by Loan Category / by Activity;



Annex 7
Page 5 of 5
*  Program Balance Sheet as at the reporting date;
*  Notes in respect of significant accounting policies and accounting standards adopted by
management when preparing the accounts; and any supplementary information or explanations
that may be deemed appropriate by management in order to enhance the presentation of a "true
andfair view"
*  Special Account Statement/Reconciliation showing deposits and replenishments received,
payments substantiated by withdrawal applications, interest that may be earned on the account
and the balance at the end of the fiscal year;
*  SOE Withdrawal Schedule (pending the introduction of PMR based disbursements), listing
individual withdrawal applications relating to disbursements by the SOE Method, by reference
number, date and amount;
*  A Cash Forecast for the next 2 quarters.
11.3  Indicative formats for Financial Statements are outlined in two World Bank publications i.e.
Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook (FARAH, January 1995) and The Loan
Administration Change Initiative Handbook (LACI, September, 1998).
External Audit
12.1   Qualified, experienced and independent auditors will be appointed on acceptable terms of
reference. The external auditor will also be expected to prepare a separate Management Letter giving
observations and comments, and providing recommendations for improvements of accounting records,
systems, controls and compliance with financial covenants.



Annex 8: Project Implementation Manual (PIM)
Table of Contents
Abbreviations and acronyms
1. Introduction, objectives and content of the Manual
2. The National Water Development Project II
3. Institutional arrangements for implementation of the project
4. Project Implementation Plan (PIP)
5. Management informationi, wonaitoring and evaluation
6. Annexes
Annex X      ibliography
Annex 2       rincipal  contacts
Annex 3     Manual of financial procedures
Alnnex 4    Manual of procurement procedures
Annex S     Standard reporting formats
Annex 6     Project Implementation Plan (PIP)
Annex 7     Tables of expenditures and sources of finance
Annex $     Diet1aied annual plan for the next year
Annex 9     Dbetailed annual budget for the next year
* Draft PIM in Project Rie



Annex 9: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Mozambique: National Water Development II
~~.    11I     -TP.  ->
(NWDP was divided into    NWDP-II: US$200.3*
two Projects in July 1997.   PreAppr: US$65.2*
See section D.1)         Appraisal: US$135.1
*Due to the split in the National Water Development Project into NWDP-I and NWDP-11 in FY98, Pre-Appraisal
budget does not include preparatory work performed under the single project. All preparatory budget for NWDP as
a whole, is assigned to NWDP-I.
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                                24**
First Bank mission (identification) *             02/03/1995           02/03/1995
Appraisal mission departure                       06/24/1996           06/24/1996
Negotiations                                      05/04/1999           05/07/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                      10/1999                / /19
* NWDPI and NWDPII as a joint project
** NWDPII Only
Prepared by: DNA
Preparation assistance: NWDPI
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Jane Walker (Team Leader from Mar 99/Senior Private Infrastructure Specialist), John Shepherd (Team Leader to Feb
99/Senior Water Resource Management Specialist), Subhash Dhingra (Sr. Procurement Specialist), Alain Locussol (Sr.
Water & Sanitation Specialist), James Pannett (Project Assistant), Nga Nguyen (Sr. Staff Assistant) (AFTUl) Agnieszka
Grudzinska (Private Sector Development Specialist)(TWUWS), Catherine Seibert (Financial Analyst)(SECBO),
Mehrnaz Teymounran (Financial Analyst)(EASPS), Mamta Murthi (Economist)(PA22P), Marie-Laure Lajaunie
(Economist), Shobha Shetty (Economist)(MNSRE), Kishor Uprety (Legal Counsel)(LEGAF), James Coates (Resident
Representative), Isabel Nhassengo (Procurement and Disbursements Assistant)(AFMMZ). Consultants included Sarah
Keener (Beneficiary Assessment and Participation Specialist) and Joao Wemans (Project Planning Specialist)



Annex 10: Documents in the Project File*
Mozambique: National Water Development II
A. Project Implementation Plan
Detailed Cost Tables
Draft Project 3mplementation Manual
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Detailed cost benefit analysis
Beneficiary Studies
C. Other
1) National Directorate of Water, Republic of Mozambique: "National Water Policy"; Maputo, August 8, 1995
2) National Directorate of Water, Republic of Mozambique: "Provincial Towns Water Sector Study" DHV
Consultants BV, Consultec Consultores Assoc. Lda, Fernando Braz de Oliviera Consultores de Eng. Lda
3) National Directorate of Water, Repulbic of Mozambique, and the World Bank: "Beneficiary Assessment on
Urban Water in Mozambique - Maputo and Quelimane, Final Report, Executive Summary." SAWA, July
1997
4) National Directorate of Water, Mozambique, and the World Bank:" Environmental Assessment of the
Mozambique National Water Development Project", Noragric, Norway, August 1997.
5) National Directorate of Water, Mozambique National Water Development - II Project, Intercosult International
AS, February 1999
6) Republic of Mozambique, Council of Ministers, Decree no. 72/98 of December 23, 1998
7) Republic of Mozambique, Council of Ministers, Decree no. 74/98 of December 23, 1998
8) Republic of Mozambique, Council of Ministers, Decree no. 75/98 of December 23, 1998
9) Republic of Mozambique, Council of Ministers, Decree no. 73/98 of December 23, 1998
*Including electronic files.



MOP Schedule D
Annex 11
Mozambique National Water Development Project II
Status of Bank Group Operations in Mozambique
Operations Portfolio
As of 17-May-99
Difference Between
expected
original Amount in US$ Millions                      and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                                    disbursements a/
Project ID    Year                 Borrower                     Purpose
IBRD         IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed          Orig     Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 19
Active Projects
MZ-PE-1706       1999   GOVT. OF MOZAMBIQUE                GEN.EDUC.SEC.EXP.PRO                       0.00       71.00         0.00              69.24         0.00        0.00
MZ-PE-1799       1999   REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE             AGRIC SECTOR PEP                           0.00       30.00         0.00              29.40         0.00        0.00
MZ-PE-39015      1998   GOVERNMENT OF MOZAMBIQUE           NATIONAL WATER I                           0.00       36.00         0.00              33.31         2.25        0.00
MZ-PE-1792       1996   GOVT                               HEALTH SEC RECOVERY                        0.00       98,70         0.00              73.79        51.45        0.00
MZ-PE-1780       1994   GOVT                               GAS ENGINEERING(ENGY                       0.00       30.00         0.00               9.93         9.01        0.00
MZ-PE-1804       1994   GOVERNMENT                         2ND ROAD AND COSTAL                        0.00      188.00         0.00              81.74       55.07         0.00
MZ-PE-1811       1994   GOM                                FINANCE SECTOR CAPAC                       0.00        9.00         0.00               4.19         3.83        0.00
MZ-PE-1796       1993   GOVERNMENT                         RURAL REHABILITATION                       0.00       20.00         0.00               4.92         4.64        0.00
MZ-PE-1797       1993   GOM                                CAPACITY BUILDING(HU                       0.00       48.60         0.00              18.67       19.49         0.00
MZ-PE-1810       1993   GOM                                LEG & PUB SEC. CAPAC                       0.00       15.50         2.93               1.24         4.20        1.09
MZ-PE-1781       1992   GOVT.                              AGR.SER. REHAB.                            0.00       35.00        12.30               9.99        17.58        1.65
MZ-PE-1790       1992   GOVT OF MOZAMBIQUE                 FIRST ROAD & COASTAL                       0.00       74.30         0.00              17.24       15.36         0.00
MZ-PE-1794       1990   GOVT                               INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRIS                       0.00       50.10         0.00              11.33         5.66        5.52
Total                                                                                                 0.00      706.20       15.23              363.99      188.54         8.26
Active Projects       Closed Projects            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                   324.12            1,039.47             1,362.59
of which has been repaid:                    0.00                 6.97                 6.97
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                   690.97               996.60            1,687.57
Amount sold                                         0.00                 0.00                 0.00
Of which repaid                :                 0.00                 0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed                 :               363.99                11.42              375.41
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 30-Apr-99.
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)



Annex 12                                                          ANNEX 12
National Water Development Project 11                                                  Page 1 of 2
Mozambique at a glance                                                                   5/21199
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               Saharan    Low-
Mozambique    Africa  income        Development diamond*
1998
Population, mid-year (miions)                              16.9       614    2,048                 Life
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$) 1/                       210       500      350
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                            3.6       309      722
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population (I%)                                             2.2       2.7      2.1
Labor force (%)                                             3.3       2.6      2.3     GNP                            Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199248)                                   peIta                         primary
,                                   ~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~capita  - /    enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)                     36        32       29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                             45        52       63                      1
Infant mortality (per 1, 000 live births)                  134         91       68
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                   47        ..       ..              Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                       32        45       76
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                         60        43       47
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)        60        75       91              -     Mozambique
Male                                                      70         82      100                    Low-income group
Female                                                     50        67       81
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS 11
1977     1987      1997    1998
Economic ratiose
GDP (US$ billions)                                  ..      2.4       3.4      4.0
Gross domestic investment/GDP                              12.0      19.1    21.1                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP                           6.6      12.7    12.1
Gross domestic savings/GDP                                -12.7       1.6       1.2
Gross national savingslGDP 21                             -10.1       1.6    -0.1
Current account balance/GDP 2/                            -29.4     -17.6    -20.4      Domestic
Interest payments paid after reschedulinglGIDP      .       0.6       2.6      1 9      Savings                     Investment
Total debt after rescheduling/GDP                         171.8     216.2   180.6
Total debt service after debt relieflexports         .     18.1      47.4    25.7
Present value of debt after rescheduling/GDP                 ..      77.4    30.8
Present value of debt after rescheduling/exports 3/  ..      ..   1780.9   847.1
Indebtedness
197747 1988-48     1997       1998  1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                       -3.9    4.7      11.3      11.8      8.1                     Mozambique
GNP per capita                            -7.0    2.7       9.7       8.8      5.7                     Low-income group
Exports of goods and servioes            -14.0   15.8      -1.9       6.5    23.8   L
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987      1997    1998       Growth rates of output and investment (%J
(% of GDP)
Agroulture                                          ..    41.1       34.3    34.2
Industry                                            ..    15.0       17.8     17.9    20                  \
Manufacturing                                     ..       ..       10.1     10.1     1e
Services                                            ..  43.9  47.9  47.9 o.                         v           '
Private consumption                                 ..   102.9       90.9    89.7    -10
General govemment consumption                               9.9       7.4      9.2                -G oI          0-GOP
Imports of goods and services                              31.4      30.2    32.1   |
197747  198848       1997    1998       Growth rates of exports and imports I%)
(average annual growth)                                                                s
Agriculture                                          .        .       8.4      6.5    40
Industry                                                              19.3    13.5 
Manufacturing                                      .        .       23.2    16.0    20
Services                                            .         .        .0      8.0  60o
Prvate consumption                                -5.0      2.4       8.3     12.2    oa 95 \9                    97    99
General government consumption                    -4.8     -5.7        9.9    31.9   -20
Gross domestic investment                          0.5      7.3      17.1    27.3   -30
Imports of goods and services                     -6.7      0.1       0.7     24.2             -Exports   ---Imports
Gross national product                            -4.8      4.8      12.2     11.3
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
"The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
1 / World Bank GNP per capita Guidelines for 1998 show US$90, which was based on previous official national accounts from the
National Planning Commission(CNP). All GOP references in this table refer to official data from the National Institute of Statistics (INE),
which in average is 30% higher in nominal terms than the previous source and in new lower population figures based on the recent census.
2/ Excluding capital official grants.  31 As percent af 3 year moving average of exports, including private debt.



ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 2
Mozambique
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987       1997      1998      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                          so
Consumer prices (annual average)                ..   164.1        6.4       0.6    60
Implicit GDP deflator 1/                        ..   181.5       11.1       5.7    40
Government finance                                                                  20 -
(% of GDP) 1/                                                                        o
Current revenue                                 ..    11.4       13.4      14.4             93   94   95   96   97    98
Current budget balance                          ..    -1.9        1.6       1.0              -    GDP deflator  --CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..   -11.8      -12.6    -14.2
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1977    1987       1997      1998      Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                             ..      97        230      248      '  T
Cashew                                        48      31         29        41          I
Prawn                                         1 1     38         85        73       0
Manufactures                                  ..        0        20        14      600
Total imports (cit)                                    642        760      868       40
Fuel and energy                                .        .        78        84      200 .
Capital goods                                  .        ..      154       211F-               -
Export price index (1995=100)                          104         95       96            92  93  94  95  9S  97  98
Import price index (1995=100)                           74         95       97                IJExports     [A]Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                              140         99       99
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                               1977     1987       1997     1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                   ..    176         509      534       o  _l
Imports of goods and services                   ..    699         938     1,115      s  92   93  94   9S  96 5     97   9
Resource balance                                ..   -523        -429     -581      -1L
-to
Net income                                      ..   -170        -181     -228    -2       i
Net current transfers                           ..       0          0         0                   I
Current account balance                               -693       -610     -808    -a0
Financing items (net)                           ..    751         725      870    -40
Changes in net reserves                         ..    -58        -115      -62    .45
Memo:
Gross Reserves including gold (USS millions)    ..    139        532       571
Conversion rate (DEC, locaL/US$)              33.0   290.7  11545.6  11,850.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987      1997      1998
(USS millions)                                                                      Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed 2/         0    4,043      7,432     7,150
IBRD                                          0        0          0       G0                                              4|
IDA                                           0       87      1,076     1160                              B: 1,160
Total debt service 21                           0       42        227       122         F: 2,026                      230
IBRD                                          0        0          0        0
IDA                                           0        4          7        9
0: 462
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               ..    304        313       313
Official creditors 3/                         0      261       227       225
Private creditors                             0       46        90        81
Foreign direct investment                     ..       6        64       213
Portfolio equity                              ..       ..        ..        ..                       E: 3,550
World Bank program
Commitments4/                                 0      111       100        36      A-lIRD                       E-Bilateral
Disbursements                                 0       48       148       133      B - IDA   D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                          0        4         7         7      C - IMPG - Short-term
Net flows                                     0       45       141       126
Interest payments                             0        0         9        10
Net transfers                                 0       44       133       119
Source: Development Economics, World Bank and staff estimates.                                                        5126/99
1/ All GDP references in this table refer to official data from the National Institute of Statistics (INE), which is in average 30% higher
than the previous source from the National Planning Commisssion (CNP).
2/ After Naples terms rescheduling.
3/Excluding IMF.
4/ This excludes the US$150 million grant under the Economic Management Reform Operation.



