Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3247-MOZ
Project Agreement
(Second National Water Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
FUNDO DE INVESTIMENTO E PATRIMONIO 
DO ABASTECIMENTO DE AGUA
Dated October 6, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3247-MOZ
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 6, 1999 between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and FUNDO DE INVESTIMENTO E PATRIMONIO DO 
ABASTECIMENTO DE AGUA (FIPAG).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date 
herewith between Republic of Mozambique (the Borrower) and the 
Association, the Association has agreed to lend to the Borrower an amount 
in various currencies equivalent to fifty five million four hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 55,400,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that FIPAG agree to undertake such obligations toward the 
Association as are set forth in this Agreement; and
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and FIPAG the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the 
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to FIPAG on terms and 
conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS FIPAG, in consideration of the Association’s entering into 
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to 
Page  2
undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this 
Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the 
respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) FIPAG declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit 
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A and B of the Project 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, and environmental practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Association and FIPAG shall otherwise 
agree, FIPAG shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to the Development Credit 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the consultants' services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) FIPAG shall carry out the obligations set forth 
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General 
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and 
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) in 
respect of the Project Agreement and Parts A and B of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07of the General Conditions 
and without limitation thereto, FIPAG shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish 
to the Association not later than 
six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between 
the Association and 
FIPAG, a plan for the future 
operation of Parts A and B of  the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to 
exchange views with FIPAG 
on said plan.
Section 2.04. FIPAG shall duly perform all its obligations under 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, FIPAG shall not take or concur in any action which would have the 
effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. FIPAG shall duly perform all its obligations under 
the Contrato-programa. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
FIPAG shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect 
of assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving the Contrato-programa or 
any provision thereof.
Page  3
Section 2.06. (a) FIPAG shall, at the request of the Association, 
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, under 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and under the Contrato-programa,  and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
FIPAG shall promptly inform the Association of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the 
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the 
performance by FIPAG of its obligations under this Agreement, under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and under the Contrato-programa.
Section 2.07. FIPAG shall:
(i)
collect detailed information on the utilities’ 
operating costs, production 
volumes, technical and commercial losses and collection ratios;  
(ii)
no later than 12 months after the Effective Date, 
take measures to ensure that 
100% of all 
utilities’ outstanding receivables (except Maputo) are settled; 
(iii)
no later than 18 months after the Effective Date, 
prepare a staffing plan, in 
conjunction with the 
PO, with respect to all employees engaged in water 
supply, future employment arrangements and acquired pension 
rights; 
(iv)
no later than January 31, 2000, prepare and furnish 
to the Association, a 
staffing plan and 
benefits package for FIPAG; 
(v)
maintain an asset register (of all assets), created 
before and during the 
carrying out of 
Parts A and B of the Project; 
(vi)
no later than January 31, 2000, appoint the 
consultants to assist FIPAG in the 
monitoring of the performance of the PO in implementing the private 
sector 
Management Contracts and the Lease 
Contract; and
(vii)
no later than March 31, 2000, assure key staff are in 
place.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of FIPAG
Section 3.01. FIPAG shall carry on its operations and conduct its 
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and 
environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and 
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. FIPAG shall at all times operate and maintain its 
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, 
promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all 
in accordance with sound engineering, financial and environmental 
practices.
Section 3.03. FIPAG shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, 
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent 
with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Page  4
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) FIPAG shall maintain records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its 
operations and financial condition.
(b)
FIPAG shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements 
(balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses 
and related statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available but 
in any case not later 
than four months 
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the 
report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association 
shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records, 
accounts and 
financial statements as well as the audit thereof as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
Section 4.02. (a)
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
FIPAG shall produce, for its fiscal year ending on 2003, funds from 
internal sources equivalent to not less than 2.5% of the annual average 
of FIPAG's capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, and 
for each of its fiscal years thereafter, funds from internal sources 
equivalent to not less than 10% of the annual average of FIPAG's capital 
expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred.  
(b)
Before October 31, 2001, in each of its fiscal years, FIPAG 
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by FIPAG and satisfactory to 
the Association, review whether it would meet the requirements set forth 
in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next following fiscal 
year and shall furnish to the Association a copy of such review upon its 
completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that FIPAG would not meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for FIPAG's fiscal years covered 
by such review, FIPAG shall promptly take all necessary measures in order 
to meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term “funds from internal sources” means the 
difference between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations, 
consumer 
deposits and consumer contributions in aid of 
construction, net 
non-operating income and any reduction 
in working capital other than 
cash; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations, including 
administration, adequate maintenance and taxes and 
payments in lieu of 
taxes (excluding provision for 
depreciation and other non-cash 
operating charges), debt 
service requirements, all cash dividends and 
other cash 
distributions of surplus, increase in working capital other 
Page  5
than cash and other cash outflows other than capital expenditures.
(ii)
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference between:
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(iii)
The term “working capital other than cash” means the difference 
between 
current assets excluding cash and current liabilities 
at the end of each 
fiscal year.
(iv)
The term “current assets excluding cash” means all assets other 
than cash 
which could in the ordinary course of business be 
converted into cash within 
twelve months, including accounts 
receivable, inventories and pre-paid 
expenses properly 
chargeable to operating expenses within the next fiscal 
year.
(v)
The term “current liabilities” means all liabilities which will 
become due and 
payable or could under circumstances then existing be 
called for payment 
within twelve months, including accounts 
payable, customer advances, debt 
service requirements, taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes.
(vi)
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
of, and interest and other charges on, debt.
(vii)
The term “capital expenditures” means all expenditures incurred on 
account of 
fixed assets, including interest charged to construction, 
related to 
operations.
(vii)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
FIPAG shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the 
revenues and expenditures of FIPAG shows that the estimated net revenues 
of FIPAG for each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred 
shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated debt service requirements of 
FIPAG in such year on all debt of FIPAG including the debt to be 
incurred.
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term “debt” means any indebtedness of FIPAG 
maturing by its terms more 
than 
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan 
contract or agreement or 
other instrument providing for 
such debt or for the modification of its terms 
of payment on the date of such contract, agreement or instrument; 
and (B) 
under a guarantee agreement, on the date 
the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been entered into. 
(iii)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
Page  6
and net 
non-operating income, and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, 
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments 
in lieu of taxes, but 
excluding provision for 
depreciation, other non-cash operating charges 
and interest and 
other charges on debt.
(iv)
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference between:
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred 
in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(v)
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate amount of 
repayments of, and interest and other charges on, 
debt. 
(vi)
The term “reasonable forecast” means a forecast prepared by FIPAG 
not 
earlier than twelve months prior to the incurrence of the 
debt in 
question, which both the Association and FIPAG 
accept as reasonable and 
as to which the Association has notified 
FIPAG of its acceptability, 
provided that no event has 
occurred since such notification which has, 
or may reasonably be 
expected in the future to have, a material adverse 
effect on the 
financial condition or future operating results of FIPAG.
(vii)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on 
the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the 
Association and of FIPAG thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the 
following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement 
shall terminate; or
(ii)
the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the 
date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify FIPAG of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue 
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension 
under the General Conditions.
Page  7
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be 
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties 
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or 
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such 
party's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For FUNDO DE INVESTIMENTO E PATRIMONIO DO ABASTECIMENTO DE AGUA:
Avenida 25 de Setembro 942
Maputo
Mozambique
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any 
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on 
behalf of FIPAG or by FIPAG on behalf of the Borrower under the 
Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed by its Chairman, 
or by such other person or persons as the Chairman shall designate in 
writing, and FIPAG shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence 
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several 
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively 
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
FUNDO DE INVESTIMENTO E PATRIMONIO
   DO ABASTECIMENTO DE AGUA
Page  8
By /s/ Marcos Namashulua
Authorized Representative
