Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3247-MOZ
Development Credit Agreement
(Second National Water Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated October 6, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3247-MOZ
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 6, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of 
the Project;
(B)
the Association has received a letter, dated September 16, 
1997, from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and 
policies designed to strengthen the Borrower’s water sector (the Program) 
and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program;
(C)
Parts A and B of the Project will be carried out by Fundo de 
Investimento e Patrimonio do Abastecimento de Agua (FIPAG) with the 
Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will 
make available to FIPAG part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in 
this Agreement;
(D)
the Borrower intends to contract from the African 
Development Bank (African Development Bank (AfDB)) a loan (the AfDB Loan) 
Page  2
in an amount equivalent to $19,600,000  to assist in financing the 
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the AfDB 
Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and AfDB; and 
(E)
the Borrower intends to contract from Kingdom of the 
Netherlands (Netherlands) a grant (the Dutch Grant) in an amount 
equivalent to $10,000,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms 
and conditions set forth in an agreement (the Dutch Grant Agreement) to 
be entered into between the Borrower and Netherlands; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of 
even date herewith between the Association and FIPAG;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997), with the modifications set forth below (the 
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph 12 is added to Section 2.01 to read as set 
forth below, and the existing paragraphs 12 through 14 of said Section 
are accordingly renumbered as paragraphs 13 through 15: 
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the 
Association determines 
meets the requirements set forth in 
Section 10 of Resolution No. 183 of the Board of 
Governors of 
the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996; and ‘Participating Countries’ 
means, 
collectively, all such countries.”
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, no withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of 
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not 
a 
Participating Country or for goods produced in, or services supplied 
from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import  
of goods, if such 
payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by 
a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter 
VII of the Charter of 
the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“CRA” means Conselho de Regulaçao do Abastecimento de Agua, 
the Borrower’s Council for Regulation of Water Supply;
(b)
“DNA” means the Direçcao Nacional de Aguas, the National 
Directorate of Water within MOPH (as hereinafter defined);
(c)
“Delegated works and goods” means the works and goods 
procured in accordance with the provisions of Part C.5 of Section II of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement, and required for: (i) initial 
rehabilitation of main and connections, (ii) provision of new connections 
and meter, and (iii) vehicles, plant and equipment for construction and 
operation, all of which were contained in the competitive bid obtained 
for award of the contract to the Private Operator (as hereinafter 
defined);  
Page  3
(d)
“Environmental Management Plan” means the environmental 
management plan adopted by the Borrower on April 9, 1999;
(e) 
“Lease contract” means the contract entered into between 
FIPAG and the Private Operator (as hereinafter defined) for the operation 
of urban water supply systems in the city of Maputo, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to said contract;
(f)
“Management Contracts” means any of the contracts entered 
into between FIPAG and the Private Operator for the operation of water 
supply systems in the cities of Beira, Nampula, Pemba and Quelimane 
(collectively referred to as the four cities), as the same may be amended 
from  time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to said contract;
(g)
“Mozambican Metical” and “MT” mean the currency of the 
Borrower;
(h)
“MOPH” means Ministerio das Obras Publicas e Habitaçao, the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works and Housing;
(i)
“Performance Indicators” means indicators referred to in 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement;
(j)
“Contrato-programa” means the contract to be entered into 
between the Borrower and FIPAG, pursuant to Section 6.01 (d) of this 
Agreement, and in accordance with the Borrower’s decree 73/98, dated 
December 23, 1998, providing for FIPAG’s performance targets and 
obligations for reporting, as the same may be amended from  time to time, 
and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to said 
agreement;
(k)
“Private Operator or PO ” means a company incorporated under 
the laws of the Borrower, and which shall enter into a lease or 
management contract (as the case may be) with FIPAG to carry out the 
technical and commercial operation of water supply services in the city 
of Maputo and the four cities;
(l)
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 
3.07 (a) of this Agreement;
(m)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the 
Association and FIPAG of even date herewith, as the same may be amended 
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(n)
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual adopted by 
the Borrower pursuant to Section 6.01 (g) of this Agreement containing, 
inter alia, work plans, training plans and procedures to be used for the 
purpose of implementation of the Project, and such term includes any 
schedules to the Project Implementation Manual;
(o)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(p)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(q)
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and FIPAG pursuant to Section 3.03 (a) 
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Page  4
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty 
five million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
55,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars, in the name of FIPAG, a separate special deposit 
account (the Special Account) in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2005, or such 
later date as the Association shall establish.  The Association shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as 
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual 
installments payable on each March 1 and September 1 commencing September 
1, 2009 and ending March 1, 2039.  Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on March 1, 2019 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent 
(2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national 
Page  5
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three consecutive years the level established annually by the Association 
for determining eligibility to access the Association's resources; and 
(ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, 
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by 
them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment 
of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower 
to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring 
the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount of the Credit 
as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) 
above falling six months or more after the date on which the Association 
notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph (b) have 
occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a 
minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu 
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end: 
(a)
shall carry out Part C of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
engineering, and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
Part  C of the Project;  and 
(b)
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, shall cause FIPAG to 
perform in accordance with the provisions of the FIPAG Project Agreement 
all the obligations of FIPAG therein set forth, shall take and cause to 
be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable FIPAG to 
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
Section 3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 
(a) of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out Part  C of the Project and 
cause FIPAG to carry out Parts A and B of the Project, all in accordance 
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Page  6
Section 3.03. (a) For the purposes of Parts A and B of the Project, 
the Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time 
to time to Category (1) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement to FIPAG under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and FIPAG (the Subsidiary Loan Agreement) under 
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association, 
and which shall include that the proceeds of the Credit be onlent with a 
repayment period of 22 years including a grace period of 5 years and an 
interest rate of 6.25% per annum. 
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower 
and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works, and consultants’ services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future 
operation of Part C of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.06. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that 
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 
9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts “A” and “B” of the Project 
shall be carried out by FIPAG pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project 
Agreement.
Section 3.07. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 
3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)
open and maintain, in the name of FIPAG, an account (the 
Project Account) in MT in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
not later than December 31, 1999, make an initial deposit 
into such account, in an amount equivalent to $250,000, to finance the 
Borrower's contribution to the Project;
(c)
thereafter, deposit into the Project Account by March 31, 
June 30, September 30 and December 31, in each year, an amount equivalent 
to $175,000, until an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 is reached; and
(d)
use the Project Account funds exclusively to finance 
expenditures under the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall:
(a)
ensure that the tariffs charged on water will reflect the 
principles of full cost recovery and be sufficient to cover operating 
expenses, depreciation and cost of capital, and tariff levels shall be 
assessed during the mid-term review referred to in paragraph 5(c) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
Page  7
(b)
take all measures necessary to ensure that all the 
Borrower’s agencies pay their invoices for water supply services  within 
the  terms of trade; 
(c)
no later than 12 months after the Effective Date, settle all 
its outstanding arrears to the utilities covered under the Project; 
(d)
no later than March 31, 2000, appoint the members of the 
Board and the Chairman of CRA; and
(e)
cause CRA to: (i) no later than June 30, 2000, prepare and 
furnish to the Association, a staffing plan and benefits package for CRA; 
and (ii) no later than December 31, 2000, appoint all the necessary 
staff.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be 
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with 
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in 
respect of Part C of the Project of the departments or agencies of the 
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section 
including those for 
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later 
than four months after the 
end of each such year, the report of such audit by 
said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and 
accounts and the audit 
thereof as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association 
has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account 
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine 
such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements 
of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
Page  8
together with the procedures 
and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action 
plan acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of its financial 
management system for the Project in order to enable the Borrower, not 
later than eighteen months after the Effective Date, or such later date 
as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management 
reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A)
sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected 
sources 
and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report, and (B) 
shows separately 
expenditures financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period 
covered 
by said report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period 
following the period 
covered by said report;
(ii)
(A)
describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both 
cumulatively and for 
the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance 
with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the 
Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter 
a Project Management Report for such period. 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified: 
(a)
A situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out.
(b)
FIPAG shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the Project Agreement.
(c)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of 
the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have 
arisen which shall make it improbable that FIPAG will be able to perform 
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the 
proceeds of the AfDB Loan or 
the Dutch Grant made 
to the Borrower for the financing of the Project 
shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing 
therefor, or
Page  9
(B)
the AFDB loan shall have become due and payable 
prior to the agreed 
maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if 
the Borrower establishes 
to the satisfaction of the 
Association that: 
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or 
prematuring is not caused 
by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under 
such agreement; and
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to 
the Borrower from other 
sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement;
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
the events specified in paragraphs (b), (c) of Section 5.01 
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 30 days 
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the 
Borrower; and 
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (d)(i)(B) of Section 5.01 
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph 
(d)(ii) of that Section. 
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement 
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the AfDB Loan Agreement has been executed and delivered and 
all conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of 
the Credit Agreement, have been fulfilled;
(b)
the Dutch Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered 
and all conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of 
the Credit Agreement, have been fulfilled;
(c)
the chief executive officer, with terms of reference and 
qualifications acceptable to the Association, has been appointed;
(d)
the Contrato-programa, in form and substance acceptable to 
the Association, has been entered into;
(e)
FIPAG  has entered into the Lease Contract and the 
Management Contract with the winning bidder for the management of city 
water supply systems of Maputo, Beira, Quelimane, Nampula, and Pemba;
(f)
DNA and FIPAG have established accounting services, 
acceptable to the Association; 
(g)
the Borrower has adopted the Project Implementation Manual, 
in form and substance acceptable to the Association; and 
(h)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of 
the Borrower and FIPAG. 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, 
Page  10
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be 
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by FIPAG, and is legally binding upon FIPAG in accordance with 
its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized 
or ratified by the Borrower and FIPAG and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower and FIPAG in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Governor of the Central Bank is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Banco de Mocambique
Departamento de Relacoes Internacionais
Avenida 25 de Setembro
P.O. Box 423
Cable address: 
Telex:
MOBANCO
6355/BMMO
Maputo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
By /s/ Marcos Namashulua
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  11
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so 
to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the Credit
% of
Allocated (Expressed
Expenditures
Category
in SDR Equivalent)
to be 
Financed
(1)
Civil works
   14,990,000
100% of 
foreign 
expenditures and 
90% of 
local 
expenditures
(2)
Consultants'
100%
services, including
audit
(a) For Parts A and B
   24,140,000
(b) For Part C
    3,100,000
(3)
Goods
100% of 
foreign 
expenditures and
90% of 
local
expenditures
(a) For Parts A
    1,780,000
and B (including
vehicles)
(b) Vehicles under
      230,000
Part C
(4)
Training
      590,000
100%
(5)
Operating Costs
   2,510,000
100% of 
local
expenditures until
December 31, 2002,
and 70% 
of local
Page  12
expenditures,
thereafter
(6)
Unallocated
   8,060,000
  __________
TOTAL
  55,400,000
  ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term “Operating Costs” means incremental local 
expenditures incurred on account of Project implementation, including 
office consumables (including communication expenses), utility costs, 
staff travel and associated subsistence allowances, office rental, office 
supplies and maintenance, and fuel and maintenance for vehicles and 
equipment, but excluding salaries of the Borrower’s civil servants.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of  payments made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: 
(i) works under contracts costing less than $250,000 equivalent each; 
(ii) goods under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent each; 
(iii) services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each; (iv) services of individual consultants under 
contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; and (v) training and 
operating costs, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) improve the quality, 
reliability, coverage and sustainability of water services for the cities 
of Maputo, Beira, Quelimane, Nampula, and Pemba through the promotion of 
greater private sector participation in the provision of these services; 
(ii) commence institutional and regulatory reform within the urban water 
sector with the introduction of commercial principles in the operation 
and management of water services through the use of a private sector 
operator; (iii) accelerate  capacity building and human resource 
development for the sector through training and demonstration effects 
within the context of the private operator contract; and (iv) provide an 
institutional framework that improves the quality and sustainability of 
users services and acts as an operational model for water services in 
other cities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon 
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Private Sector Management of Water Supply
1. 
Carrying out, through a 15-year lease contract, of the operation of 
the water supply system of Maputo including rehabilitation of water 
Page  13
supply network, installation of new connections, replacement of mains and 
meters.
2.
Carrying out, through five-year contracts for management services, 
of operation and maintenance of the water supply systems in Beira, 
Quelimane, Nampula and Pemba, including management of staff, recurrent 
funds, meter reading, and collections.
3.
Provision of technical advisory services and logistical assistance 
for the management by the Private Operator, of the activities referred to 
in (1) and (2) of this Part, including surveys, plans, and  studies. 
4.
Provision of technical advisory services and logistical assistance 
for the procurement of design consultancies, construction contracts, 
supervision of design and construction, and commissioning of works.
5.
Provision of vehicles, mobile plant, office equipment and computers 
for water supply operations in Beira, Quelimane, Nampula and Pemba. 
6.
Provision of computers, office equipment and furniture, vehicles, 
and water supply instrumentation to FIPAG.
7.
Provision of technical advisory services and logistical assistance 
to FIPAG in project management, financial management, accounting, 
construction management and environment management.
8.
Carrying out of a human resources development and training program 
for water supply employees (excluding on-the-job training, and excluding 
the PO’s own staff), and staff of FIPAG.
Part B:
Water Supply Works
1. 
Carrying out of water supply works for the city of Maputo and the 
four cities, including, water treatment work (WTW), transmission 
pipelines, new filters, equipment replacement, construction and repairs 
of tanks, metering works, upgrading of pumping stations, expansion or 
development of water and sanitation systems, booster pumping station, 
refurbishment, development of new water source, wellfield and 
disinfection facilities, expansion and rehabilitation of distribution 
systems and any other water supply, sanitation and drainage work as 
necessary. 
2.
Design and supervision of rehabilitation of WTWs, transmission 
pipelines, and pumping stations, for new chlorinators and tanks, and 
distribution system expansion and rehabilitation and any other water 
supply, sanitation and drainage work as necessary.
3.
Provision of technical advisory services to carry out feasibility, 
design, and environmental assessment studies for additional bulk water 
supplies for Maputo and the four cities. 
Part C:
Urban Water Supply Policy and Strategy
1.
Provision of technical advisory services for the establishment of 
CRA. 
2.
Provision of vehicles to CRA.
3. 
Provision of technical advisory services to assist the Borrower in 
determining its policy and strategy for further development of urban 
water supply and sanitation services, including the strategy, design and 
documentation for the next stage of private sector management for Beira, 
Quelimane, Nampula and Pemba, and for other eight provincial cities.
4.
Provision of technical advisory services to carry out community 
consultation, design and education programs. 
Page  14
5.
Provision of technical advisory services and provision of goods, 
equipment and logistical assistance to DNA in the management of this Part 
C.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2005. 
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:  
General
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999, subject to the 
modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the 
Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I. 
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to 
“Bank member countries” and "member country” shall be deemed to be 
references, respectively, to “Participating Countries” and "Participating 
Country.”
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and 
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 
thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more 
each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic 
contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of 
the Borrower and works to be carried out by domestic contractors. 
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,400,000 equivalent, and goods 
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $900,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 
3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, 
Page  15
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international or 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Minor Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of 
quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in 
response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed 
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, 
and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, 
and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully.
4.
Procurement from IAPSO
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 per contract up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 may be procured from the 
Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office of the UNDP in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
5.
Delegated works and goods 
All procurement under Part A.1 and A.2 of the Project shall be 
carried out in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.13 (a) of 
the Guidelines. 
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding 
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping 
procedures the Borrower 
shall provide to the Association 
a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations 
received;
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under 
direct contracting or 
shopping procedures, the Borrower 
shall provide to the Association a copy of 
the 
specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)  the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f) and 2 
(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
Page  16
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and 
January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 
2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of 
the following Parts of this Section II. 
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to 
“Bank member countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be 
references, respectively, to “Participating Countries” and “Participating 
Country.”
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph.  The short list of consultants for services 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for experts estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection.
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants.
Services for training and tasks that meet the requirements set 
forth in Section 5 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
Page  17
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for 
its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after 
said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program 
1.
The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with the 
Project Implementation Manual, and except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or waive any provision 
thereof if, in the opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver 
may materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
2.
The Minister of MOPH, in conjunction with the National Director of 
DNA and the FIPAG Board, shall provide overall policy guidance and 
project oversight.
3.
The Borrower, in conjunction with FIPAG, shall furnish to the 
Association a semi-annual progress report including information on the 
status of the Project, having regard to Performance Indicators, and based 
on data from the monitoring system. The report shall include, inter alia: 
(a) a summary statement on the status of execution of each project 
activity; and (b) a table showing compliance with project covenants and 
progress in implementing agreed policy objectives.
4.
(a)
The Borrower, in conjunction with FIPAG, shall carry out 
jointly with the Association, a comprehensive annual project 
implementation review aimed at: (i) documenting progress toward the 
achievement of objectives; (ii) identifying and resolving obstacles to 
project implementation; and (iii) adjusting, in agreement with the 
Association, targets and corresponding programs to reflect progress 
achieved in the implementation of the Project as of the date of the 
review, and ensuring responsiveness to changes to effectively achieve the 
objectives of the Project. 
(b)
The Borrower shall, not later than four weeks prior to the 
review referred to in (a) above, furnish to the Association a report, in 
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, including an 
Page  18
evaluation of the progress achieved in Project implementation.
(c)
Promptly after completing such reviews, the Borrower shall 
carry out recommendations arising out of said reviews, with due diligence 
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into 
account the Association's comments thereon. 
5.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, on or about December 
31,2001, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following 
such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by March 31, 2002 or such later 
date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in 
subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association views on the 
matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means, Categories 1, 2 (a), 3 
(a), 4 and 5 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount of 
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that 
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special 
Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into 
the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
Page  19
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association requests for 
deposits into the respective Special Account at such 
intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 
of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Credit Account and deposit 
into the respective Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to 
have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such 
deposits shall be withdrawn 
by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, 
as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably 
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into any 
Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that 
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) 
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories for the Special Account, minus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project related to the Special Account, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation for the Special Account.  
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for 
the Special Account shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure 
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or 
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the 
Page  20
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide 
such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit 
into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association 
into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to 
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to 
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), 
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Performance Indicators
Population (by city, in 000’ and in % where applicable)
Total
Connected
Served by standpipes
Unserved
Average per capita production (served population)
Average per capita production (total population)
Water Production and Billing (by city)
Water produced
million m3/year
Water billed
million m3/year
Unaccounted for Water
%
Connections and Standpipes (by city, in 000’)
Legal connections beginning of the year
Illegal Connections regularized during the year
New connections built during the year, by category
Connections closed at the beginning of the year
Connections closed at the end of the year
Total active legal connections at the end of the year, and by category:
Total house connections
Yard connections
Non residential connections (Borrower’s Agencies)
Non residential connections
Standpipes
Metered connections by diameter of the connection, and by category
(per city, in 000’ and %)
Billing (By city, Metical million)
Residential 
Non Residential
Borrower’s Agencies
Standpipe
Page  21
