D _cunmaI of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
AJ Z35'-KO
RItt No. P-3658-KO
REPOI MID  Mm
PSIDENT OF TME
~Tfe~aIOL BRa FOR RBOsTmJCnTOW AmND D E
TO THM
EXECUTIVE IIRECIORS
ON A
P-OPSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUT EWIV3LENT TO US00 MI3LON
TO TM
RWPUBLC orF KORA
FOR A SECONDS          ADJUSTMENT LOAN
October 18, 1983
11 domf ha ap-'-I k&t  =   w be ~d by|' ol nS  ws~o
tI roW         b s$&o   }e          _     s_wiW beIdn   e WN  m  nwb



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Won (W)
Calendar        October
year 1982          1983
US$1   - V 731.31       v 790
W 1       US$0.00137    US$0.00127
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
EPB    - Economic Planning Board
BOK    - Bank of Korea
BOP    - Balance of Payments
DHCC   - Dai Ban Coal Corporation
FT     - Fertilizer Fund
GNF    - Grain Management Fund
KDI    - Korea Development Institute
KEB    - Korea Excbange Bank
KEECO  - Korea Energy Managemeat Corporation
KEPCO   - Korea Electric Power Corporation
KRIC   - Korea Heavy Industry Corporation
KIER   - Korea Institute of Energy and Resources
KOGASCO - Korea Gas Corporation
LNG    - Liquefied Natural Gas
LPG    - Liquefied Petroleum Gas
MOER   - Ministry of Energy and Resources
PEB    - Project Evaluation Bureau
R&D    - Research and Development
SAL    - Structural Adjustment Loan
VAT    - Value Added Tax



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMAY  .......   . .........................e..........
PART I - THE ECONOMY  .  ........              . ............          .....................
A.   Economic Growth  1960-79  ....................                                                   1
B.   Structural Problems at the End of the 1970s  ..............                      ....            2
C.   Stabilization Measures  and Economic Development  1979-82  ......                                2
PART II - THE GOVERNMENT'S STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM  .. ..........                                   6
A. The Role of the Government ..........................                                              6
B.   Industrial Efficiency  .               .... ..**   ..... ..*.6.60  ....... ..90                  7
C.   Energy Efficiency  .................                     ...........................             7
D.   Public Sector Efficiency  ................. ..  *                 ....... .***     ...           8
E.   Financial Sector Efficiency  ..................................                                  8
PART III -  SAL I CONTENTS AND EXPERIENCE .......................... ...                                  9
A.   Industrial Efficiency  ...... .           ............. ...  0*.........    .......*             9
B.   Energy Efficiency  .......           ................          .....................           10
C.   Public Sector Efficiency  ....*....... *........... ..  .........                              11
PART IV - THE PROPOSED PROGRAM FOR SAL II  ............                           ...............        12
A.   Industrial Efficiency  .......             ..............         ...................          13
Industrial incentives and protection policies  .............. ..                               13
Import liberalization  ........................................                                14
Tariff reform  .........             ................. ...0 ..*...                             15
Tax incentives  ................               .........  .............................        17
Foreign investment  ..            ............................. .                              17
Fertilizer industry  ........  00........             0.0....0......... 0.............. .........  18
B.   Energy Efficiency  .......* ..........   .................                                       g 19
Energy  intensity  .. .             ......................................                     19
Institutional  issues................ .................  ... ...                               21
Electric power  ..........  .............. ....- ......... .. ..-o.                            22
Petroleum products  ...................               ....   - - - -o ......                   24
Coal        ............           o.... . o .........................................         25
LNG .         .........................................................    27
Industrial energy conservation  .................                .     .............           28
Building energy conservation  ..................................                               29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of I
I their official duties. Its contents may not othawse be disclosed without World Ban. authorization.|



Page No.
C. Public Sector Efficiency ..................       ....e....c..........     30
Savings and investment ........      ........... .......-..6.c            30
Fertilizer Fund deficits ............ . . ..... .... .............        30
Grain Management Fund deficits             ...............................  31
Public investment planning ......       ........................          32
Public enterprise reform    ...................     ..................    32
PART V - THE PROPOSED LOAN ....................         ......................   34
A.  The Loan  we.................................c.o...... .......            34
B.  Effects of Structural Adjustment ....................s.........           34
C.  Benefits and Risks .... ................................... wee           39
D.  Technical Assistance ..w.....e.....*..........*........ .....             40
E.  Coordination with the IMF ..e.............           ....... .. ...       40
F.  Monitoring .................................................              40
G.  Categories of Goods to be Financed .................. . .........         40
H.  Counterpart Funds ............................                            41
_.  Procurement and Disbursement ..c............e..c......                    41
PART VI - OTHER BANK GROUP OPERATIONS .....e.c.  e .........       .....         42
PART VII - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY .........cc...... cc.w9e..e.          44
PART VIII - RECOMMENDATION . eececcc. .        ..................                44
ANNEXES
I.   Country data ......       ............ ..                                 45
II.   Status of Bank Operations .................. .................           . 50
III.   Supplementary data sheet ..................    ........... ......         52
IV.   Letter of Development Policy; Attachment:  Action Program.....            53
V.   Use of IMF Resources .......... ....... ..D.........                      68
MAP         ....................  .........                                      69



- iii -
KOREA
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan and Program Summary
Borrower:            Republic of Korea
Amount:              $300 million equivalent
Term:                Payable in 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Program
Description:       The proposed loan would be the second to support the
implementation of the Governmeat's comprehensive struc-
tural adjustment program which aims at keeping the
balance of payments manageable while sustaiuing the
growth momentum of the economy. To achieve these objec-.
tives, a comprehensive program of structural reforms is
being carried out by the Government in the areas of (i)
industry, (ii) energy, and (iii) public sector effi- -
ciency. In industry, the program includes import liber-
alization, tariff and tax incentive reforms, further lib-
eralization of foreign investment, and restructuring of
the fertilizer industry. In energy, the program includes
measures to improve pricing and investment planning in
the electric power sector, pricing, taxation, and
regulatory reform of the petroleum and coal sectors, the
introduction of LNG, and measures to foster industrial
and building energy conservation. In the public sector,
measures are being taken to improve resource
mobilization, reduce budgetary deficits and increase the
efficiency of the public sector through improved
screening of expenditures and reform of public enterprise
management. The foreign exchange provided by the loan
would be used to finance essential imports. The main
risks arise from uncertainties in the external
environment which would affect the implementation and
success of the adjustment program.
Estimated
Disbursements:     The entire loan is expected to be disbursed by December 30,
1984.
Staff Appraisal
Report:            This is a combined President's and Staff Appraisal
Report.
M!ap:                IBRD 1235



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED SECOND
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Korea for the equivalent of $300 million in further support
of a structural adjustment program. The loan would have a term of 15 years,
including 3 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
The latest Economic Report entitled "Korea: Adjusting to a New
World Environment" was distributed under cover of Sec M82-54, dated June 1,
1982. The Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex 1.
A.  Economic Growth 196C-79
1.1       Within two decades, Korea advanced from one of the world's poorest
countries to the ranks of the middle-income countries, with a per capita
income of $1,700 in 1982. The improvement in living standards was broad-
based, with the proportion of the population below the Government's "poverty
line" declining from 40X to 10Z. Between 1960 and 1979 heavy investment in
manufacturing transformed a predominantly agricultural economy dependent on
foreign aid into a-semi-industrial economy with a dynamic export sector.
Agriculture's share in GNP declined from 45% in 1963 to 17X in 1982, while
that of the manufacturing sector rose from 16% to 30% during-the same
period. Reflecting this development, the proportion of the labor force
engaged in agriculture declined from about 63% to 32% while that of the manu-
facturing sector rose from 9% to over 22%, and the share of the urban popula-
tion grew from 20% to over 50%. Rapid industrial growth absorbed large
increases in the labor force, while real wages rose by about 7% per annum. A
well-educated, industrious, and thrifty population facilitated the transforma-
tion from a rural/agricultural to an urban/industrial orientation, advanced
labor productivity, and supplied most of the savings for capital formation. A
most important factor was the adoption of an export-led growth strategy. With
poor natural resource endowment and little capital, Korea adopted a strategy
based on labor as its only abundant resource, and rapidly increasing exports
of light manufactured products became the key to sustained growth.
1.2       Economic policies encouraged investment in sectors where Korea had a
comparative advantage.  The exchange rate was maintained at a level that made
the export sector competitive, and substantial export incentives were provi-
ded. Exporters had easy access to imported inputs at international prices.
Fiscal incentives, including generous depreciation allov-ances and exemption
from indirect taxes on intermediate inputs, promoted investment. Selective
credit policies directed financial resources to important sectors, at favor-
able terms. Positive real interest rates encouraged domestic savings while
discouraging highly capital-intensive investment.



- 2 -
B. Structural Problems At the End of the 1970s
1.3       Between 1973 and 1978, the Korean economy averaged a growth rate of
10Z. In the final year of this period, GNP rose by almost 12X and investment
by 36%. However, the very success in stimulating the economy generated a
number of structural problems. First, the Korean planners, assuming
continuing buoyance of the economy and of Korea's export potential, set out to
induce changes in the country's comparative advantage in order to accelerate
its move into the next phase of industrial development. For that purpose,
large amounts of subsidized credits were made available to heavy industries
(i.e. machinery, steel, shipbuilding and petrochemicals) by the financial
system under the Government's direction. Since these industries were more
capital-intensive than light industries, and since gestation periods tended to
be long, the incremental capital/output ratio nearly doubled in comparison
with the first half of the 1970s. Consequently investment did not translate
into rapid expansion in capacity and output, and domestic supply bottlenecks
started to emerge, leading to increasing import requirements. The rapid
credit creation accompanying the investment boom fueled excess demand, and the
resulting domestic inflation exceeded the level of Korea's trading partners
and reached 18% in 1978. Labor markets tightened, particularly for scarce
skilled workers, and real wages increased at rates greatly exceeding producti-
vity growth.
I.4       The accelerating inflation, sharply rising unit labor costs, and a
rigid exchange rate policy resulted in progressively eroding export competi-
tiveness. Real exports, which had grown at an average annual rate of 32% for
over a decade, rose by only 14% in 1978 and fell by 1% in 1979 whereas real
imports rose by 12%. The current account balance deteriorated from a virtual
equilibrium iu 1976-77 to a deficit of almost 7% of GNP in 1979. While slower
growth in foreign demand and rising protectionism contributed to stagnation of
exports, the continuing strong export performance of other East Asian coun-
tries suggests that the primary cause was a decline in Korea's external
competitiveness.
1.5       At the end of 1979, there was no doubt that Korea faced major
adjustment problems. The domestic economy was severely overheated and faced
major structural problems with supply bottlenecks, excess capacities in heavy
industries, and a relatively energy-intensive output mix. The difficult
situation was greatly compounded by the simultaneous external shocks of
doubling of petroleum prices, the shift from negative to highly positive
interest rates in international financial markets, and the recession in OECD
countries. The severe economic problems from external shocks were compounded
by an equally difficult political and social crisis after the assassination of
President Park in October 1979. At the outset of 1980, it was evident that,
in the absence of corrective policies, the current account deficit would
increase to unsustainable levels during the year and beyond.
C. Stabilization Measures and Economic Development 1979-82
1.6       Early in 1980, the Government started implementing a wide-ranging
stabilization and adjustment program in response to the deterioration in
economic conditions. The magnitude of the imbalances, which were partially



-3-
rooted in the economic structure, left no doubt that the adjustment process
would take concerted efforts over several years. The highest priorities were
given tc (a) wringing out structural inflation, and (b) restoring a viable
external position, as the prerequisites for sustained growth, even though this
would entail some temporary reduction in growth. The Government faced the
challenges with a bold and resolute course of actions. It involved the
coordinated and flexible application of fiscal, monetary, credit, exchange
rate, and wage and price policies.
1.7       The extent of the deterioration in 1979-80 and the effects of the
stabilization and adjustment policies applied during 1980-82 are summarized in
Table 1. The total impact of the external shocks was still moderate through
1979. But the rapid increase of real imports, sagging real exports, and the
beginning impact of deteriorating terms of trade combined to triple the ratio
of current account deficit to GNP (in comparison to 1978) to almost 7%. In
1980, the external shocks hit the economy with full force, equivalent to more
than 9% of GNP, raising the ratio of current account deficit to GNP to 9.4%.
This further deterioration of the external balance masks the beginning of the
turn-around, with real exports increasing by 11% and real imports declining by
14%, resulting in a total adjustment effect equivalent to 7% of GNP. However,
the drastic deterioration of the terms of trade and the contractionary effects
of strong stabilization measures, amplified by a disastrous harvest, led to a
drop of GNP in excess of 6Z. The rate of inflation shot up to almost 40%, but
this reflected mostly the effects of a drastic devaluation of the Won and
pass-through of higher import prices, including those for fuel, rather than an
acceleration in the underlying rate of inflation.
1.8       The data for 1981 and 1982 highlight the causes and the extent of
the turn-around. The terms of trade had almost stabilized in 1981 and
improved substantially in 1982. Interest rates on foreign debt continued to
take their toll in 1981, but declined in 1982. The positive trade volume
-effects continued strongly through 1981, although the effects of the preceding
year's crop failure caused a one-time import surge in 1981, but turned slack
in 1982. As a result, the current account continuied to improve strongly
through 1981 and 1982, in the former year largely reflecting improved trade
performance, in the latter declining interest rates and improving terms of
trade. Real GNP grew by more than 6% in 1981, but growth was somewhat lower
in the subsequent year, due to the one-time rise of agricultural output in
1981 following the preceding year's crop failure, and to slo-wer export volume
growth. The inflation rate halved in 1981 and fell to less than 5% in 1982,
due to the combined impact of falling import prices and a reduction of the
underlying rate of inflation. Data for 1983 are still inconclusive, but they
suggest a further improvement of the current account, an overall growth rate
in the order of 7-8%, and a rate of inflation of less than 3%. The stabiliza-
tion phase of structural adjustment, thus, is likely to be successfully.
completed within this year.



-4-
Table 1: KOREA: ADJUSTMENT AND STABILIZATION
(as Z of GNP)
1979 /a   1980   1981   1982
1. Exogenously induced change in the
current account /b                           -1.3       -9.4   -3.2    2.2
Oil price adjustment                      -1.9       -4.4   -1.8    0.3
Change in non-oil terms of trade           2.1       -2.8    0.4    1.2
Change in foreign interest rates          -0.7       -1.1   -1.1    0.8
Other changes in invisibles
accounts, excluding overseas
construction /c                         -0.8       -1.1    0.3   -0.1
Extraordinary rice imports                 --         --    -l.O/e  -
2.  Actual change in the current account /b    -6.9         -2.1    1.1    3.2
3.  Adjustment (2-1) /b                          -5.6        7.3    4.3    1.0
Change in volume of oil imports /d        -0.4        0.1    -       0.1
Change in volume of non-oil imports /d  -8.8          4.1   -1.3/f -1.5
Change in export volume                    2.4        3.0    4.9    1.8
Change in net receipts from
overseas construction                   1.2        0.1    0.7    0.6
Memorandum item:
Current account deficit ($ billion)          -4.2       -5.3   -4.6   -2.5
.Z of GNP)          -6.9      -9.4   -7.4   -3.9
Crowth Rate of GCP (x)                             6.4      -6.2    6.4    5.4
Rate of inflation (Z, WPI)                        18.8      38.9   20.4    4.7
/a   Change from 1977.
/b   A negative sign indicates an increase in the current account deficit; a
positive sign indicates a decrease.
/c   Mainly increased interest payments due to greater external debt.
/d   Positive number indicates a decline in the import volume or an increase
in export volume.
/e   Made necessary by the crop failure in late 1980.
/f   Excludes extraordinary rice imports.
Source: IMF.
1.9       The trend of current account deficits is reflected in the foreign
debt data (Table 2). The increase in borrowing slowed down after a record
increase in 1980. While total debt is high in absolute amounts, it is less so
in relation to the capacity of the country to sustain and to service it: In



- 5 -
1982, the ratio of debt to exports of goods and services was 130%, and the
total (MLT and short-term) debt service ratio stood below 21%. These ratios,
in fact, exaggerate the debt turden somewhat, since they include the effects
of heavy borrowing abroad for the purpose of extending medium- and long-term
financing for the rapidly rising capital goods exports (most prominently
ships), without showing the balancing effect on net foreign debt from rapidly
rising foreign exchange claims on the rest of the world. The high share of
short-term maturities in total debt is the most unfavorable aspect of the debt
situation of the country, but under the stand-by agreement with the 1ME,
special attention is being given to its reduction over the next 18 months.
Table 2: KOREA: FOREIGN DEBT
1978     1979      1980     1981      1982
Foreign debt:  (US$ billion)         17.3     21.8      27.0     32.5      37.2
(X of GNP)                       32.5      34.1     48.4      52.1     56.5
(X short term)                   29.1      32.2     39.1      36.2     38.1
Debt service ratios:
(total % of exports of G&S)      13.2      15.2     18.4      20.7     20.9
(MLT X of exports of G&S)        10.7      13.2     12.2      13.0     15.2
Source:  Korean authorities, staff estimates.
1.10      Korea's success in stabilization - in many respects as much of a
.success-story' as Korea's spectacular growth achievement during the 1960s and
1970s - did not come painlessly. Over the crucial adjustment period 1980-82,
real GNP growth fell to an annual average of around 2% per year. Particularly
devastating was the period 1980-81. In 1980 real per capita income, after
adjustment for changes in terms of trade, declined by about 10% and real
consumption by about 1%; investment slumped by 20%. Real wages declined by 5%
in 1980, and by another 3% in 1981. Employment in industry fell by 7.5%
between 1979 and 1981, and was ir 1982 still below the 1979 level; the conti-
nuing growth of the economically active population by about 2Z per year
spilled over into unemployment as well as an increase of the services sector
where under-employment is endemic. The ability to succeed against so many
odds and in spite of a major political convulsion (in 1980) gives credit to
Korea's ability to accept serious sacrifices, if that is the unavoidable cost
of coping with an acute crisis.
1.11      Equally impressive was the Government's capacity to address the
underlying structural weaknesses of the economy in addition to the external
and internal imbalances, which commanded priority in economic policy during
1980 to 1982. Without their correction it would not be possible to return to
a sustainable growth path and to strengthen the resilience of the economy to
external shocks in the process in order to avoid a repetition of the socially



- 6 -
painful and economically wasteful experience of 1979-81. For example, reor-
ganization of certain heavy industries was begun in order to alleviate the
effects of past overinvestment and to promote efficiency, and first steps were
taken to denationalize the banking system, to deregulate financial markets, to
reduce the difference between preferential and general interest rates, and the
country returned to significantly positive real interest rates by the end of
1981. To reduce dependence on imported oil, higher import prices were quickly
passed through, and the Government launched an energy conservation plan
centered on switching to less expensive fuels (e.g. converting the cement
inductry from oil to coal) and accelerated development of nuclear power.
1.12      Most importantly, the Government developed during the height of the
acute crisis a comprehensive medium-term structural adjustment program and
made it the main theme of the Fifth Five-Year Plan (1982-86). In early 1980
the Government requested the World Bank to provide assistance for the program,
and in the succeeding months the Bank was in continuous close dialogue with
the Government as it developed and began implementing this program. This
process culminated in the approval of the First Structural Adjustment Loan in
1981, which supported important initial steps towards the structural reforms.
PART II - THE GOVERNMENT'S MEDIUM-TERM PROGRAM
FOR STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT
2.1       As the Government's Structural Adjustment Program is summarized in
the Letter of Development Policy (Annex IV), this chapter presents only a
general overview. The program is coherent, well-balanced, and ambitious, and
its implementation, already well underway, is within reach of a determined
Government and a capable administration like Korea's, provided the world
economy is expanding at a moderate pace.
The Role of the Government
2.2       The program embraces a new philosophy for economic management in an
effort to adjust it to Korea's stage of development and to the new inter-
national economic environment. In the past, the Government had set detailed
quantitative targets for macroeconomic variables such as exports, investment
and growth, and strongly influenced the direction of the economy through
financial and fiscal policies, and occasionally by direct government interven-
tion. The Fifth Plan, on the other hand, is "indicative" zid the macroecon-
omic scenarios are only projections which are to be rolled-over and adjusted
to the changing economic conditions. The new emphasis is on defining basic
policies rather than establishing macroeconomic targets or detailed investment
plans, and to leave considerable room for market forces. In the words of the
Plan: "For private economic activities the indicative function of the Plan is
brought into play. Aside from a limited number of large-scale projects,
investment choices will be left to private initiative and the Government will
do no more than indicate the general framework and direction in which such
choices should be made. The Government will further reduce its intervention
in the market mechanism through regulation and protection and will gear
various new incentive systems in order to foster creative endeavors in the
private sector."



-7-
A. Industrial Efficiency
1.3       In the course of Korea's rapid industrialization, manufacturing
industries have expanded substantially and contributed extensively to Korea's
economic growth. Up to the early 1970s, manufacturing investments were con-
centrated in light industries. Since the mid-1970s, as a step toward modern-
izing the industrial structure, the emphasis was increasingly shifted to heavy
industries such as steel, petrochemicals, shipbuilding, and machinery.
Although the direction of the shift towards deepening of the Industrial struc-
ture was legitimate in view of the changing comparative advantage of Korean
industry, the change came too fast to successfully cope with the learning
problems and was based on assumptions about the external economic environment
which were no longer valid after 1979. This caused several structural prob-
lems. First, excessive investment in capital-intensive heavy and chemical
industries created an imbalance between light and heavy industries. Second,
continuous investment in excess of domestic savings capacity led to a rising
underlying rate of inflation. Third, while promotion of large-scale projects
facilitated the growth of large firms, small and medium firms were ignored and
allowed to stagnate. Last, most of the investments took the form of tangible
physical facilities, while technological and manpower development were
neglected.
2.4       During the 5th Plan, the Government intends to change its indust:ial
policies from the past active intervention towards a greater role for market
mechanisms; the export-led strategy will be maintained and the domestic market
will be opened to international competition in order to spur the development
of industries that have a comparative advantage in world markets, to induce
innovation in technology and business management, and to correct structural
imbalances through competition and more efficient allocation of investment
resources.
2.5       The Plan indicates the following industrial policy objectives: (a)
to change the incentives system from selective direct incentives to general
indirect incentives with primary concern for improving productivity, manpower
development, and technology; (b) to encourage competition by expanding import
liberalization; Cc) to reduce and simplify the tariff structure; (d; to
increase foreign investment and accelerate liberalization of technology
imports; (e) to carefully examine large projects to avoid -balances among
subsectors and excessive investment; and (f) to give finaucial and management
assistance to small and medium enterprises.
B. Energy Efficiency
2.6       Domestic demand for energy increased substantially during the past
few years, along with rapid industrialization. Imported petroleum has been
the primary energy source, supplying over 60% of total energy used, and the
growing dependence on imported oil threatens domestic economic stability due
to the uncertainty of the world oil market. At the same time, rising oil
prices have adverse effects on the balance of payments. With limited hydro-
electric potential, no known resources of petroleum and poor quality of
domestic coal, Korea has inevitably to rely on energy imports for its economic
development. In order to achieve economic stability and sustained growth, the



Government'rs energy policy is directed toward securing sufficient and stable
energy supplies and maximizing the efficiency of energy use through appro-
priate pricing and taxation policies, and support for energy conservation
measures.
2.7       The basic policy directions are Ca) to reduce the dependence on
petroleum by utilizing alternative enerp,y sources such as nuclear energy,
coal, and natural gas; (b) to secure oil and other energy imports by diver-
sifying the sources and participating in overseas exploration and development
ventures; (c) to reduce the rate of growth of energy demand by readjtusting the
industrial structure and fostering energy conservation; Cd) to change the
existing energy pricing system to induce more efficient use of energy, leading
to energy savings and to promote investments in the domestic energy industry;
and (e) to exploit domestic energy resources and to intensify research and
prospecting activities to locate yet undiscovered energy and mineral
resources.
C. Public Sector Efficiency
2.8       To secure and sustain price stability, the Government intends to
slow the growth of spending and hold down the deficit in the national bud-
get. Efficiency and effectiveness is to be the basic guideline for the cen-
tral government's fiscal activities as well as for the operation of public
enterprises. Among the major areas emphasized in the Plan are social secur-
ity, education, structural reform of agriculture, expansion of infrastructure
and improvements in public employee compensation. In view of the seriousness
of the expansionary pressure presented by these needs, substantial efforts are
needed to eliminate non-essential expenditures.
2.9       The Plan introduces a number of initiatives to increase resource
mobilization, check the growth of expenditures and enhance the efficiency of
the public sector. The principal objectives are (a) to minimize public provi-
sion for needs which can be met by the private sector; (b) to restructure the
present tax system with high rates and rumerous exemptions towards lower rates
and few exemptions; (c) to emphasize multi-year budget planning to ensure more
efficient allocation of resources by the goverrment; (d) to reduce fiscal
deficits by eliminating the operating deficits of the Fertilizer and Grain
Management Fund, and by terminating budgetary transfers to public enterprises
to compensate for operating deficits; Ce) to eliminate borrowing from the
Central Bank which has been an important source of inflation in the past;
funds needed for public enterprises and development projects will increasingly
be raised by issuing national bonds; and (f) to enhance the efficiency and
accountability of public enterprises through increased autonomy and better
performance evaluation of management, appropriate pricing and rates of return
on investment, and institutional and ownership changes, with the objective of
graduallr relinquishing government ownership of enterprises.
D. Financial Sector Efficiency
2.10      Reform of the financial system within an efficient fiscal and
monetary policy framework which gives highest priority to price stability is
another cornerstone of the medium-term adjustment strategy. Financial



- 9 -
deepening should accelerate, thereby increasing the flow of funds through
nonbank financi-^ institutions and the securities markets and promoting
efficient operation of financial markets. The scope for resource allocation
by decen!ralizing decision-making is to be extended so that both financial
institutions and entrepreneurs can respond to market signals. To enlance the
efficiency of financial intermediation, banking institutions wiln be subject
to greater competition arising through freer entry and increased latitude for
broadening the scope of their activities.
2.11      The Plan lists the following objectives of the financial reform:
(a) to divest government-held shares of commercial banks and to remove govern-
ment control from management of banks; (b) to curtail policy loans at low
interest rates; Cc) to maintain positive real interest rates and eventually
remove government intervention in determining interest rates; (d) to encourage
commercial banks to base loan decisions on profitability, rather than colla-
teral; and (e) to expand the scope of activity of banks and to increase
competition in the financial sector.
PART III - SAL I CONTENTS AND EXPERIENCE
3.1       The Bank's first SAL, approved in December l981, was designed to
support the Government's strategy for structural adjustment. Its components
were in three of the four major areas of the Government's reforms for greater
efficiency:
Ca) Industrial efficiency;
gb) Energy efficiency; and
Cc) Public sector efficiency.
The financial sector reform has been the subject of separate complementary
lending operations, its current phase being supported by the Industrial
Finance Project (P-3589-KO) approved by the Board in June 1983.
A. Industrial Efficiency
3.2       Industrial Incentives and Protecti a Policies:  As part of the
action program the Korean Development Institute (KDI) was commissioned to
undertake a study of effective rates of protection and to formulate proposals
for the reform of the system of industrial incentives and protection poli-
cies. This study was completed and submitted to the Government at the end of
1982. The KDI study was instrumental in moving issues of incentives and pro-
tection reform from the philosophical and academic plan to the center stage of
an extensive public debate on industrial development policy, and for
strengthening the Government's case !or import liberalization and tariff
reform. The KDI study also endorsed the strategy for re-orienting industrial
incentives away from industry-specific promotion measures towards a more
functionally-oriented system, geared to promoting technology and manpower
development and energy-saving investments, and which does not discriminate
between industries. The Government has already begun to take major steps in
this direction (see para. 4.14). The SAL I action program also called for a



- 10 -
five-year program for the lending operations of the Korea Exim Bank to meet
the medium- and long-term credit needs for machinery exports. Ihis program
has been embodied in the Fifth Five-Year Plan, which includes a planned
increase in Exim Bank financing for exports on a deferred payment basis.
Act;ial Exim Bank funding is in line with the Plan targets.
3.3       Heavy Machinery Industry:  Part of the structural problems of the
Korean economy at the end of the 1970s were created by industrial policy.
Aided by subsidized and directed credit, the investment in some heavy indus-
tries was excessive. When the projected demand for these industries did not
materialize because of lower economic growth and changed comparative adantage
as the result of sharp increases in energy prices and worldwide recession, low
capacity utilization and financial strains began to emerge. The SAL I agree-
ment included a commitment to withhold Government support for further invest-
ment in these industries and to carry out a study to review the problems of
the sectors. No new investment was carried out or is being planned. The
extensive system of directed and subsidized credit is being phased out as part
of the financial sector liberalization and the system of industry-specific
fiscal incentives has been abolished (see para. 4.14). Investment decisions
are now increasingly in the hands of private industry and autonomous banks.
The above-mentioned study has been completed, and the Government is now
reviewing its recommendations. A number of measures have been taken to
rationalize the industry, including temporary protection and market sharing
agreenents for some of the firms. Subsequent to the take-over of RHIC, the
largest plant equipment maker, aimed at preventing bankruptcy, the Government
has developed a restructuring plan under which a substantial part of the firm
has been offered for sale to the private sector. The power plant equipment
manufacturing unit of the Korea Heavy Machinery Corporation (KHIC) has been
made a subsidiary of the Korea Electric Power Corporation (KEPCO) to make
optimum use of its large manufacturing facilities.
3.4       Automotive Industry:  At the time of SAL I. there was considerable
concern that some of the industrial policy mistakes in the heavy industry
sector of the late 1970s could be repeated in the automobile industry, and an
agreement was reached that the Government would defer further actions to
promote expansion of the automobile industry pending completion of a study
reviewing export prospects for automobiles and automotive components and the
consequences of rapid motorization. The study has been completed and has been
reviewed by Bank staff. It proposes some indirect support for the automobile
and automotive parts industry (e.g., an automotive testing and development
center), but recommends against providing direct financial assistance.
Government policy continues to be to refrain from providing such assistance.
The Korean automobile industry is going ahead with expansion plans with
foreign partners, but exclusively on the basis of private sector initiative
and financing. Remaining issues arising from the study of some relevance for
the automobile industry are motor fuel taxation and urban congestion. We
intend to continue our dialogue on these issues through the fuel taxation
component of SAL II (see para. 4.30), a road user cost study within the
context of a proposed Highway Sector Loan planned for this fiscal year, and an
Urban Transport Project planned for next fiscal year.



- 11 -
B. Energy Efficiency
3.5       Pricing:  Energy issues were an important component of the action
program under the first SAL. The agreements covered energy pricing Cpe_ro-
leum, coal and electric power); energy conservation in industry and buildings;
and investments in energy-intensive industries. Good progress has been made
in the implementation of these agreements. The Government has fully passed-on
increases in petroleum prices to consumers. Wholesale and consumer prices of
all petroleum products are at least at the level of world market prices, and
the differential between motor fuel prices has been substantially narrowed
after legislative action at the end of 1982./I Coal prices have been adjusted
and are now close to import prices on an energy-equivalent basis. The level
of electric power prices has remained adequate and the rate of return of the
public power corporation (7.2% on revalued net assets including construction
work in progress, amounting to 53% of net assets) compares favorably with that
of utilities in most other countries. Energy efficiency in Korea is, thus,
not a matter of large price distortions, but rather a matter of deregulation
and more vigorous application of marginal-cost based pricing principles. The
studies carried out under SAL I were a first step towards developing a
deregulation strategy for the oil and coal industries, and towards increasing
the efficiency of energy use within and across these major sectors.
3.6       Energy-Intensity:  Very good progress has been made in promoting
industrial energy conservation, and the Government's program under SAL I could
serve as a model for many other countries in carrying out energy audits and
identifying energY-savIng actions (see para. 4.38 below). In the (for Korea)
very important area of energy conservation of buildings, the SAL I program was
instrumental in increasing awareness and technical competence, and the draft
of a new building code, stressing energy conservation, is the concrete product
of the efforts under SAL I.
-C. Public Sector Efficiency
3.7       Public Resource Mobilization and Allocation:  The action program
under SAL I called for an increase in tax effort so as to raise the ratios of
taxes to GNP from 18% in 1980 to 22% by the end of 1986, and of Government
saving from 6% to 8Z. This was considered necessary in order to generate a
volume of domestic savings sufficient to satisfy the Fifth Plan's targets with
regard to investment and the inflow of foreign capital. Additional tax
measures introduced in 1982 did in fact lift the tax/GNP ratio to over 19% and
the level of Government savings to well above 6%. The decision to retain 70%
of the recent reduction of oil import prices from $34 to $29/barrel in the
form of additional public revenues would add another 1% to either ratio.
/1   Diesel and LPG excise tax rates have been increased from 7 to 9% and 0 to
10%, respectively, and the gasoline excise tax has been reduced from 130
to 100%. The adjustment was approximately revenue neutral. Neverthe-
less, gasoline prices in Korea remain among the highest in the world.
All fuels are, in addition, subject to 10% VAT.



- 12 -
3.8       Fertilizer Fund (FF) and Grain Nanagement Fund (GMF) Deficits:  The
Government expressed its intention to gradually eliminate the deficits of both
funds by the end of 1986.  For the Fertilizer Fund, this implied gradually
raising the ratio of purchase price (including handling cost) to selling price
from 69.2% in 1981 by annual increments in the order of 6% per year.
Implementation up to 1983 was ahead of schedule, with the ratio raised to an
estimated 84.4Z. Over the same period the deficit as a percentage of GNP was
reduced from 0.4Z to 0.2Z by both raising sales prices and reducing purchasing
prices. Regarding the GMF, the results were mixed. The ratios between
purchasing prices (including handling costs) and sales prices for rice and
barley were changed repeatedly, resulting in ratios of 80.0% for rice and
64.7% for barley for the crop year 1983 compared to 79.3% for rice and 45.2%
for barley in March 1981. The borrowing requirements of the GMF fell from
0.7% of GNP to 0.4%. However, while interest for accumulated debt was 26% of
total borrowing in 1981, the share had increased to more than 60Z in 1983.
Sin e most of the accumulated debt of both funds are with the Bank of Korea,
the significance of continued borrowing is less than the ratios of GNP
suggests. These issues are discussed further in paras. 4.44-4.47 below. As
part of the commitment under SAL I, the Government also carried out studies on
the implication of phasing-out the implicit subsidies, which suggested new
avenues for designing strategies and policies to create alternative sources of
income for the rural population.
3.9       Project Evaluation:  The Project Evaluation Bureau (PEB) has carried
out the commitments under SAL I. Project preparation manuals have been com-
pleted recently for-the agriculture, transportation and social services sec-
tors, as weU as a 'general sector manual' which covers projects operating in
a market environment (e.g. industrial and energy sector projects). It also
held a course for planning staff from other Government agencies, introducing
it to up-to-date project preparation and evaluation methods. The estimation
of shadow prices for capital, unskilled labor, energy and foreign exchange was
delayed because the KDI study on effective rates of protection and the 1980
input/output table, both important sources of data, were not available until
very recently, but it is now being completed as well.
SECTION IV - THE PROPOSED PROGRAM FOR SAL II
4.1       The Purpose of the Second Adjustment Loan. The Government's success
in dealing with short-term issues of restoring the external and internal
balance has cleared away the destabilizing forces which could endanger medium-
term structural adjustment.  It has also led to a growing assertiveness in
dealing with the difficult issues of medium- and long-term adjustment, most of
which still need to be done. The common theme of the action program under SAL
II is to enhance the resilience of the economy to external shocks. The main
areas of vulnerability are clearly identifiable: (a) a continuing high share
of primary energy in the country's import bill; (b) the dual threat to
manufactured goods exports from growing competition of low-wage countries and
growing protectionism of OECD countries; (c) increased imports in the short-
to medium-run due to import-liberalization under SAL preceding the expected
positive impact on exports; and (d) continuing need for sizeable amounts of
medium- and long-term borrowing abroad.



- 13 -
4.2       The purpose of SAL II is the same as that of SAL I:  To support the
continuing effort -to restore the momentum of growth while keeping the balance
of payments gap within manageable limits and achieving reasonable price
stability and social equity. The proposed SAL II supports actions in the
same three areas as SAL I but the proposed action programs build on (a) the
achievements of the past 18 months; and (b) lessons learned through new
information generated by the studies initiated under SAL I, better
understanding in Korea and in the Bank of the structural problems and of the
institutional difficulties in addressing them efficiently, gained from the
dialogue during implementation of SAL I and preparation of SAL II, and the
external and internal developments since the appraisal of SAL I.
4.3       We believe that this second SAL is excellently timed.  The Govern-
ment is in the process of taking major steps on some of the key issues of its
structural adjustment program (see Part II and Annex IV), and it places a high
value on receiving support for this program from the Bank and the IMF. The
Bank, by extending the proposed loan, would be supporting the continuation of
this strategy. The support is expected to have three general effects. First,
it facilitates coping with exogenous constraints to the strategy, essentially
through its catalytic role in improving Korea's access to external financing
at favorabIe terms. Second, it strengthens the weight of the arguments for
structural adjustment in the internal political process. And third, it
expands and deepens the dialogue on a variety of technical issues of critical
importance for the successful implementation of the strategy. In short, we
expect that our support will positively affect the speed and degree of success
of the well-designed strategy which the country has adopted.  The IMF's recent
consultation mission arrived at a positive assessment of economic management,
recent performance and prospects for sustainable growth, and the Fund has
concluded a new stand-by agreement in support of economic policies for 1983
and 1984.
A. Industrial Efficiency
4.4       Industrial Incentives and Protection Policies:  A major thrust of
the Bank's SAL program is to support the Government's medium-term program for
reform of industrial incentives and protection policies. During the 1970s,
efforts to deepen and diversify the industrial structure included the use of
protection policies to support the growth of import-substitution activities.
Estimates of the average effective rate of protection across Korean
manufacturing industries, reflecting the protective impact of tariffs and
direct import restrictions, indicate a significant increase in the incidence
of protection between 1968 and 1982. Although the average effective protec-
tion level (between 20% and 30X in 1982) is still relatively low by comparison
with other less developed countries, there are considerable differences in
levels across industries, indicating a need for rationalization of the
protection system in order to promote more efficient industrial development.
In addition, industrial incentives, in the form of taxation exemptions and
reductions, were used in a highly selective manner to promote key industries
largely in the heavy and chemical industry sector. This further contributed
to inter-industry distortions in protection/assistance levels since many
industries, such as those in the light industry sector, which received below
average protection were also ineligible for taxation incentives.



- 14 -
4.5       The focus of the Government's industrial and trade policy reforms is
to reduce inter-industry distortions in protection/assistance levels and
thereby promote a greater role for market forces in determining the future
course of industzial development with a view to increasing the efficiency,
flexibility and resilience to cyclical fluctuations of the industrial
sector. The Government's role will be refocussed away from promotion of
specific industries towards promoting development of the physical and human
infrastructure (e.g., technology and manpower development) necessary to deepen
and diversify its industrial base, and addressing the needs of specific
sectors faced with serious problems in adjusting to the new economic environ-
ment. The Government has prepared a set of broad policy guidelines for indus-
trial development in the 1980s which outlines these reform proposals and sets
out the principles to be applied in designing specific industrial policies.
The broad thrust of the guidelines includes: (a) reinforcement of industrial
competitiveness through trade liberalization, financial liberalization, indus-
trial incentives reform and removal of institutional restrictions to competi-
tion; (b) promotion of R&D activities; (c) restructuring/rationalization of
industries facing difficulties due to policy changes or changes in the econ-
omic environment; (d) infant industry assistance of limited extent and dura-
tion for promising industries; and (e) support for small and medium industry
development.
4.6       The study on industrial incentives and protection policies under SAL
I paved the way for the process of consensus-building on the direction of the
reforms, with broad agreement that Korea should move towards an essentially
free-trade policy environment. The SAL II program offers an excellent oppor-
tunity to support the implementation of these reforms and to initiate a con-
tinuing exchange of views on their effectiveness in promoting industrial
efficiency. More specifically. it provides an opportunity for the Bank to
assist the Government in designing, implementing and monitoring specific
action programs in the areas of: (a) import liberalization; (b) tariff
-reform; (c) tax incentives; and (d) liberalization of foreign investment
guidelines.
4.7       Import Liberalization:  The Government is committed to a step-wise
increase of the liberalization ratio to that of the industrialized countries
(or about 90%) by 1986./2 The liberalization ratio already had been increased
from 54% in 1977 to 76% in 1982 and a further significant increase to 80.4%
took effect from July 1, 1983. The next stage of the liberalization process,
introduction of a prenotification system, whereby a list of items to be liber-
alized in each year will be announced in advance, is now being prepared. The
system will give affected industries advance notice of planned changes in the
protection environment to give them time to make appropriate adustments. The
details of this system will be determined by the end of 1983.
/Z   The liberalization ratio is defined as the proportion of import items (in
terms of 8 digit CCCN codes) subject to automatic approval under the
Annual Export-Import Notice.



- 15 -
4.8       The importation of certain commodities may also be affected by the
provision of special laws and regulations concerned with matters such as
public health and safety. These laws and regulations do not, however, dis-
criminate between imported and domestic products. Nevertheless, with a view
to increasing .ae efficiency of impG o procedures, the Government is in the
process of reviewing means of simplifying customs clearance procedures asso-
ciated with the implementation of special laws and regulations. To this end,
special customs clearance requirements, associated mainly with implementation
of the Drugs, Cosmetics and Medical Instruments Law, affecting 390 import
items /3 were abolished as of July 1, 1983 and further measures of this nature
will beiintroduced in mid-1984.  As a further element of the import liberal-
ization program, the Government has reduced the scope of the irport surveill-
ance system. The system has been used by the Ministry of Commerce and
Industry to provide an early warning system for selected, newly-liberalized
items where there are considered to be significant risks of a rapid increase
in imports causing serious damage to domestic industries.  In the event that
such injury or threat of injury could be demonstrated, import restrictions
could be re-imposed. From July 1, 1983, the proportion of total import items
subject to import surveillance was reduced from 4% to 2%. With the introduct-
ion of the tariff reform program in 1984 the adjustment tariff system (see
para. 4.12) will replace re-imposition of import quotas as a means of assist-
ing domestic industries faced with serious injury resulting from a too rapid
increase in imports following liberalization.
4.9       As part of its program of gradually opening up the Korean economy to
greater international competition, the Government has already implemented
import liberalization measures effective July 1, 1983, as described above.
The action program includes:
(a) Preparation, by the end of 1983, of a prenotification system for
import liberalization during the period 1984 to 1986.
(b) Implementation of import liberalization measures i.t 1984 in line
with the prenotification system consistent with the Government's
objective of attaining an import liberalization ratio of around 90X
by 1986.
4.10      Tariff Reform:  The Government has decided to carry out a major
reform of the import tariff system, designed to promote the competitiveness of
Korean industries. The present tariff structure has a number of undesirable
features which mitigate against efficient industrial development. Current
tariff rates escalate considerably according to processing phase thereby
providing very high levels of assistance to, and encouragement of, simple
assembly or processing operations. Also, average tariff rates differ markedly
between industries; for example, rates for general machinery range from 15 to
/3   It is estimated that about 2,000 items out of a total of 7,560 import
items are subject to customs clearance procedures associated with the
implementation of the provisions of various special laws and regulations
concerned with matters such as public health and safety.



- 16 -
20Z, for electric and electronics equipment from 30 to 502, and for automo-
biles from 100 to 150%. In addition, rates for a single commodity may differ
according to its use, and tariffs on imports nay be rebated or exempted as a
means of assistance to selected key industries.
4.11      Draft legislation on a tariff reform will be submitted to the
National Assembly in October 1983. The reform will gradually reduce the
spread of tariff rates over the period 1984 to 1988. As a result, the average
tariff rate is expected to decline from the current 22.6Z to 20.6% in 1984 and
to 16.9Z in 1988. For the large majority of import commodities, the present
diversified tariffs (which range from zero to 1502) will be adjusted to con-
form with a much narrower band of rates. Tariff rates will be adjusted in
1984 to 5-10Z for raw materials, 20-30% for intermediate and capital goods and
40-50Z for consumer goods. By 1988, rates for intermediate and capital goods
will be further adjusted to a uniform 20% and the rates for consumer goods
will be reduced to 20-30%. Exceptions to this rate structure will be severely
limited. Certain strategic and educational materials will continue to have
duty-free entry; certain agricultural commodities and luxury goods (e.g.
watches and cars) will have duties of 40-50%; tariff rates on liquor and
tobacco will remain at 1002 and movie films and video tapes will continue to
have specific duties. Overall, the ratio of import items with tariffs of 202
or less will increase from 61.92 at present to 92% in 1988. Tariff exemptions
currently available to key industries will be abolished for most of these
industries, subject to a two-year transition period ending January 1, 1986
during which the exemption would continue to apply. The transition period may
be extended for a further two years in exceptional cases. Tariff exemptions
will be continued for commodities such as research equipment or vocational
training items.
4.12      In addition to the foregoing reforms, measures to complement the
import liberalization program will also be introduced. Under the proposed
import liberalization and tariff reform programs, some industries may be faced
with substantial reduction in protection as restrictions on competitive
imports are removed and tariff rates are reduced. Consequently, a new adjust-
ment tariff system will be introduced which will permit the temporary
imposition of the highest legal tariff rate of 100% on commodities imports of
which increase too rapidly within three years of import liberalization and
cause or threaten serious injury to affected industries. These adjustment
tariffs, which will be used on an exceptional basis, will be effective for
three years or less and the rates will be lowered gradually during this period
to ensure that this tariff is not used as a protective tool for indefinite
periods. A Tariff Commission, including scholars, businessmen, consumers and
government officials, will be established to oversee prompt, fair implemen-
tation of the system. The first stage of the tariff reforms will be
implemented in January 1984.
4.13      The action program under SAL II includes the follow4ng:
(a)  Submission of the revised Import Tariff Law to the National Assembly
during October 1983.



- 17 -
(b) After approval by the National Assembly, implementation of the
revised Import Tariff Law effective January 1984.
4.14      Tax Incentives:  Significant actions were taken at the end of 1982
to reorient the incentives system away from industry-specific promotion
measures towards a more functionally-oriented system which does not discrim-
inate between industries. The major tax incentive previously available to key
industries - reduction of, or exemption from corporate taxes - was abolished
and special provisions for depreciation for these industries were further cur-
tailed. Also incentives for R&D, available to all industries, were substan-
tially improved in 1982. A new provision was introduced whereby firms may
deduct 10% of the cost of R&D from their corporate tax liabilities, and more
generous R&D tax deduction and exemption provisions were introduced. Although
there are no concrete proposals for further reform at this time, the SAL II
program will provide an opportunity for a continuing dialogue on the implemen-
tation and effectiveness of the legislation which came into force in 1983.
4.15      Foreign Investment:  The Government is seeking to induce increased
foreign investment into Korea in order to promote competitiveness and effi-
ciency among Korean industries and to accelerate technological development. A
major reform of foreign investment guidelines was initiated in 1980. The main
features of the 1980 reforms included exparsion of the number of industries in
which foreign investment was allowed; relaxation of ownership ratios, allowing
an increase in the maximum foreign shareholding from 49% to 100% in certain
industries; a reduction in the minimum capital investment requirements from
US$500,000 to US$100,000; and major simplifications of administrative
requirements and procedures, resulting in a significant reduction in approval
periods. The process of liberalization was continued in 1982. The number of
industries open to foreign investors was further increased from 427 to 521 out
of a total of 855 industries (and from 320 to 381 out of 400 manufacturing
industries). The number of industries in which up to 100% foreign ownership
is allowed was increased from 56 to 65 (of which 61 were in the manufaccuring
sector). Also, further simplifications of administrative requirements and
procedures were introduced, iacluding reduction in the approval period of new
foreign investment from 80 days to 30-60 days and for additional investments
from 60 days to 10-30 days. This reform process is ongoing. A further major
reform will be submitted to the National Assembly during October 1983. The
main element of the reform will be the replacement of the present list of
industries open to foreign direct investment with a negative list specifying
only those industries in which foreign investment is prohibited or restricted.
Implementing regulations will be issued by the first quarter of 1984 and the
number of industries in which foreign investment is permitted will be substan-
tially increased under the new system. Approval procedures will also be
further simplified. Under the present system all applications by prospective
foreign investors require deliberation with concerned ministries and, if above
a certain size, require approval by the Foreign Capital Project Review
Committee (FCPRC). Under the new system all applications satisfying specific
criteria (including the foreign investor's share of equity in the project and
the total amount of foreign equity) will bp approved by the Kinistry of
Finance immediately, without deliberation with other ministries or approval by
the FCPRC.



- 18 -
4.16      The action program for SAL II includes:
(a) Submission of the revised Foreign Capital Inducement Act to the
National Assembly in October 1983.
(b) After approval by the National Assembly, implementation of the
revised law during the first half of 1984.
4.17           Fertilizer Industry.  As a result of the increase in petroleum
prices and depressed demand for fertilizer, the Korean fertilizer industry is
confronting difficult adjustment problems. The solution to these problems has
been delayed, partly because the industry is made up largely by joint-venture
projects between the public sector and a number of foreign partners; and long-
term agreements including rate of return and marketing guarantees were in
force for most of the plants. The Government has now developed a rationaliza-
tion program for the industry, designed to substantially reduce capacity,
adjust remaining facilities to make the industry again viable and competitive,
and to eliminate subsidies introduced a few years ago to limit the impact of
cost increases on farmers. The rationalization program would permit a sub-
stantial reduction in the cost of fertilizer production, a lowering of ferti-
lizer prices, and elimination of production subsidies after remaining joint-
venture agreements expire in 1987.
4.18      As in other countries, the sharp rise of crude oil and petroleum
product prices after 1979 led to a drastic increase in the price of naphtha
and gave production based on low-cost natural gas a substantive comparative
advantage relative to naphtha-based ammonia production. In addition, worldwide
capacity began to exceed demand significantly, with the effect that ammonia
and urea world market prices fell sharply and are now well below variable cost
of the most efficient natural gas-based plants./4 While a somewhat higher
equilibrium price will probably be re-established in the medium term, its
expected level ($250 per ton of urea) would still be below variable costs of
Korea's most efficient naphtha-based plants. Thus fertilizer production in
Korea can only remain competitive on the basis of imported ammonia.
4.19      The expiration of joint-venture contracts on a substantial part of
installed capacity at the end of 1982 gave an opportunity to draw up the
restructuring program for the industry, which terminates protection and mar-
keting agreements for a number of plants, accounting for 40% of capacity in
terms of urea, and provides for a transition phase for those plants where
joint-venture agreements remain in force. As the rationalization program pro-
vides for better capacity utilization for the latter plants, the joint-venture
agreements have been renegotiated, amending profit and marketing guarantees
and reducing the duration of the joint-venture agreement by four years (to
1987). Some of the plants for which joint-venture and purchase agreements
have expired and which are being transferred to the private sector are expec-
ted to continue to produce for exports only, on the basis of imported ammonia
/4   Many natural gas-based producers are charging less (or imputing less)
than the full long-term net-back value of their natural gas.



- 19 -
as feedstock. On that basis, existing Korean manufacturers still retain a
cost advantage in regional export markets. Fertilizer production for the
domestic market is now also based partly on imported ammonia. Bank staff have
analyzed the restructuring plan and are fully satisfied with the technical and
economic choices, such as the selection of plant closings and capacity reduc-
tion. Once the remaining joint venture contracts expire at the end of 1987,
the Government will be in a position to complete the rationalization pro-
gram. The action program under SAL II includes:
(a) Implementation of the restructuring program for the fertilizer
industry during 1983 as presently planned.
(b) Disposal of uneconomical facilities which are not covered by
remaining ioint venture agreements by mid-1984.
B. Energy Efficiency
4.20      Energy-Intensity:  Relative to other middle-income countries, Korea
is a highly energy-intensive economy, almost totally dependent on imports for
its incremental energy needs. Adjusted for income differences, Korea uses 60%
more energy per capita than the average middle-income country, and energy
imports account for close to one-third of total imports. The reasons are a
higher-than-average share of manufacturing in total output, including energy-
intensive heavy industries (steel, petrochemicals, etc.); and the temperate
climate of Korea and resulting space heating needs, combined with the avail-
ability of relatively inexpensive low-quality coal for residential and com-
mercial users./5 Thus, although Korea does not appear to use eaergy less
efficiently than other developing countries, its energy-intensity (Korea needs
nearly twice as much energy per dollar output as, e.g., Thailand or Brazil)
makes the increase of energy-efficiency an issue of paramount importance. In
the absence of strong actions, the relatively high energy-intensity of the
country would continue and, since a very large share of energy needs have to
be imported, could constrain growth and increase the vulnerability to supply
disruptions.
4.21      Tables 3 and 4 show the Government's recently revised projections of
energy demand by fuel and sector, and of the energy balance by end-use sector
and mode. They assume a substantial decrease in the growth of energy consump-
tion, with a projected energy/GNP elasticity of 0.8, i.e. one-third lower than
during 1975-80. The projections are based on detailed analyses, taking into
account actual investments for energy conservation and fuel-switching and are,
thus, well substantiated. The projections are also corroborated by the expe-
rience of the past three years:  petroleum imports increased by only 1.1% p.a.
/5 A cross-country regression analysis shows that, corrected for industrial
structure and climate, Korea's energy-intensity corresponds closely to
the predicted value. The higher share of heavy industries (e.g. steel)
explains about two-fifths of the difference, and climate, three-fifths.
Adjusted for income alone, the predicted value would be one third lower.



- 20 -
Table 3: PRIMARY ENERGY DEMAND BY FUEL AND SECTOR
Composition t%)           Growth rate (%)
1976     1981     1986p    1976-81   1981-86p
By Fuel
Petroleum                      58.7      58.4      46.2        8.8       1.8
Coal                           29.3      33.1      38.5       11.4       9.3
Firewood                       10.5       5.4       3.6       -4.7      -2.2
Hydro /a                        1.5       1.5       1.2        8.7       1.4
Nuclear                          -        1.6      10.5         -       55.3
Total                       100.0    100.0      100.0        8.7       6.1
By Sector
Industry                       45.9      47.6      49.1        9.5       6.7
Transportation                  8.5      12.6      14.6       17.6       9.2
Residential & Commercial       39.0      35.6      32.0        6.7       3.9
Public & Others                 6.5       4.2       4.3       -0.3       6.2
Total                       100.0    100.0      100.0        8.7       6.1
(million TOE)               (30.3)   (46.1)    (61.9)        -          _
1965-75   1975-80   1981-86p
Energy/GDP elasticity                                  0.9        1.2       0.8
Petroleum imports/GDP elasticity                       2.7        1.5       0.4
/a (Footnotes - see Table 4).
Source: MOER.
during 1979-82, implying an elasticity of 0.4 with respect to GDP growth. By
fuel, the role of oil is to decline and fuel-wood nearly to vanish, while the
role of nuclear, coal and imported gas (LPG and LNG) are to substitute for the
reduced share of petroleum and wood. By sector, the projections imply a re-
versal of the trend towards energy-intensive heavy industries (basic metals,
petrochemicals etc.) in favor of technology-intensive assembly industries
(machinery, electronics etc.) in response to changed relative prices and com-
parative advantage. Consumption by the transport sector is projected to
continue to grow rapidly while residential and commercial energy consumption
is projected to grow at less than one-half of the pace experienced in the
recent past. It is not yet fully clear whether the ambitious target for the
residential/commercial sector can be achieved, even with conservation efforts
far exceeding present and intended policy measures. On the other hand, how-
ever, industrial energy consumption might grow slightly less than projected in
Tables 3 and 4. In terms of end-use energy sources, the role of petroleum,
coal and fuelvood are projected to decline, while the role of electricity is
projected to increase from one-fifth to one-fourth of total primary energy
delivery.



- 21 -
Table 4: ACTUAL AND PROJECTED STRUCTURE OF ENERGY CONSUMPTION
(X of total primary energy input)
Petroleum     Coal   Electricity/a       Firevyood    Total
1981
Industry             21.6        11.5         14.6           0.0         47.6
Transport            12.3         0.0          0.3           0.0         12.6
Residential           4.8        19.7          5.6           5.3         35.6
Public                3.2         0.2          0.8           0.0          4.2
Total              41.9/b      31.4/b       21.3           5.3        100.0
1986
Industry             18.4        13.5         17.2           0.0         49.1
Transport            14.2         0.0          0.4           0.0         14.6
Residential           4.2        16.9          7.3           3.6         32.0
Public                3.3         0.2          0.8           0.0          4.3
Total              40.1/b      30.6/b       25.7           3.6        100.0
Growth rate 1981-86
(Z p.a.)              5.2         5.5         10.2         -2.2           6.1
/a   All shares are calculated on primary energy (input) basis.  Hydro-
electricity is taken at a thermal equivalent.
lb   Including inputs into electricity generation the shares of petroleum and
coal are 58.4 and 33.1% respectively in 1981 and 46.2 and 38.5% in 1986,
and the projected growth rate of petroleum imports is 2.8% p.a. for 1981-
86 (see Table 3).
p - projected
Source: MOER.
4.22      Institutional Issues.  Although Korea has made good progress towards
fostering a less energy-intensive pattern of growth, and has taken quick and,
at times, bold actions, there remain important deficiencies, namely, the
predominantly short-term outlook of policy-making and planning in the energy
sector, the lack of experience and technical expertise of some of the still
relatively new institutions in the energy field, and insufficient coordination
among the various institutions involved in energy policy making. Part of the
problem is that energy is not a sector, such as industry, transport or hous-
ing, but rather an issue affecting each of these sectors. The Ministry of
Energy is still a rather new agency, and line ministries often do not have
sufficient expertise or interest in energy policy matters in their sectors,
and at times perceive energy issues as conflicting with their principal
objectives. A case in point is residential energy conservation, where little



- 22 -
progress has been made so far (see para. 4.40 below), partly because the line
agencies in charge of housing policy see increased energy conservation stan-
dards as costly measures detracting from their main objective, to provide low-
cost housing.
4.23      The SAL II Program.  Through the SAL dialogue, the Economic Planning
Board (EPB) which has responsibility for overall policy coordination and the
Ministry of Energy and Resources (MOER) have been encouraged to develop an
integrated and long-term approach to energy issues. The action program is
comprehensive in scope and covers all primary fuels, secondary energy-carriers
and end-use sectors, and it builds on the studies under SAL I. In implement-
ing this program, EPB and MDER wil1 thus be addressing the key elements of a
coherent long-run strategy to develop an energy-efficient pattern cf growth.
An important element in strengthening the institutional framework for energy
policy is the establishment of intergovernmental coordination mechanisms,
e.g., the electric power investment planning committee (see para. 4.24 below),
and other mechanisms, aimed at improving coordination and fostering consensus
among institutions with otherwise conflicting objectives. The work on elec-
tricity pricing has been broadened from SAL I to include electric power
planning and load management issues. The focus in petroleum product pricing
has been widened to include refinery pricing and trade deregulatien, while
further work oa petroleum product taxation will be continued under a proposed
Bank highway sector loan in the context of studies on road user charges and
motor fuel taxation. Similarly, our approach to the domestic coal industry
has been broadened to include elements of a long-term strategy for the
development and deregOtation of the coal mining industry. In the remaining
areas (LNG, industrial and building energy conservation), the SAL II action
Program continues preliminary work started under SAL I.
I.-
4.24      Electric Power:  As in most other developing couttries. the electric
power sector is the single-largest element in the public investment program.
Since the beginning of our dialogue on power planning issues (during the
Economic Mission in 1981), the Government has considerably reduced the power
investment program in line with lower growth prospects, and has arranged ad-
hoc reviews of the power investment plan by an intergovernmental task force,
including EPB, MOER, KEPCO, KIER and outside experts.  The (1982) adjustment
of the power expansion plan reduces planned capacity in 1991 by 3,700 MW (22Z
of planned construction) and is estimated to reduce the investment program by
$3.8 billion (16.6Z) during 1982-91. Host of the savings wil occur during
the latter half of the 1980s, as plants already under construction are not
affected by the adjustment. The reduction of capital outlays during 1983-86
is estimated to total $1.2 billion, and import and foreign borrowing
requirements are estimated to be about $500 million less than originally
planned during 1983-86. The Government had requested further advice on power
planning issues from the Bank, and a consultation mission visited Korea as
part of the SAL II preparation. The mission has recommended refinements in
power planning methodology, including risk analysis and scenario planning, to
enhance the flexibility of long-term plans; and systematic and forward-looking
load research as a basis for further improvements in planning, pricing and
load management.



-23 -
Table 5: POWER GENERATION BY SOURCE
(Z of total power generation)
P-troleum  Coal    Hydro  Nuclear  Total
1981                                    80.0      6.3     6.5     7.2    100.0
1986 (projected)                        17.9    26.3      4.3    38.9    100.0
Growth rate 1981-86 (Z p.a.)           -12.7    51.3      2.3    55.3      10.3
Source: MOER.
4.25      Marginal cost pricing is the most important tool for demand manage-
ment in the electric power sector and can contribute substantially to enhance
the efficiency of energy use and of resource allocation. Electric power
tariffs were reviewed under SAL I. In line with the results of the SAL I
studies, electric power tariffs were adjusted during 1983 to reflect the lower
cost of imported petroleum. Tariff adjustments have been concentrated on the
residential and commercial sectors, Where the tariff structure does not yet
correspond to marginal costs. The number of blocks has been reduced and the
differential between low and high users reduced from 1:11 to 1:6 for residen-
tial service, and from 1:3 to 1:2 for commercial service. The differential
between public service and commercial tariffs has also been reduced from 1:2
to 1:1.5. While these recent actions represent substantial progress, these
ratios are still rather high. KEPCO's rates are close to marginal costs in
the industrial sector; remaining problems relate to subsidized rates for
agriculture and still bigh rates for heavy users of residential and commercial
services.
4.26      In addition, a number of improvements could be considered for
industrial tariffs (e.g. introducing more tariff options, discontinuing demand
charges at off-peak loads, reflecting load coincidence and duration, and
adjusting peak tariff periods); and direct load management techniques could be
introduced as tariff options in the residential, commercial and industrial
sector (e.g. remote control of air-conditioning or night-time water storage
heating). These options will become more important as residential and commer-
cial demand continues to grow strongly and residential and commercial tariff
levels are brought closer in line with (lower) marginal costs. However, this
will require substantial increases in load research efforts to identify future
trends and to evaluate planning, pricing and load management options.
4.27      The action program in the electric power sector covers the areas of
planning, pricing, load research and management and includes the following:
(a) KEPCO will prepare a plan for improving the tariff structure by
March 1984, and start implementation during 1984. The objective is
to bring all tariffs closely in line with marginal costs, while
taking into account objectives of social equity, energy conservation



- 24 -
and revenue requirements for KEPCO to achieve a reasonable rate of
return on invested capital and an appropriate level of internal
funding of expansion programs.
(b) The Government will introduce a rolling power investment plan, with
annual revievs by an interministerial cormittee, introduce
improvements in power planning methodology and enhance flexibility
in planning to minlmize the risk for excess investments or supply
shortages.
(c) KEPCO will establish an electric power technology institute in
1984. Within this new R&D center, sufficient staffing and funding
will be provided by KEPCO to carry out Improvements in planning and
pricing methodology and introduce a program of load research to
investigate the potential for load shifting through pricing and
direct load management.
4.28      Petroleum Products:  Prices and imports of petroleum products are
regulated by the Government for a number of reasons, including energy security
(i.e. a preference for crude oil imports on the basis of long-term supply
contracts, rather than purchasing crude oil or petroleum products in spot
markets), industrial policy objectives (i.e., maintaining a domestic refinery
industry and assuring a steady supply of refined products for industrial and
other users), and consumer protection (e.g., in view of the oligopolistic
nature of the refinery industry). Price increases in international crude oil
and petroleum product prices have been fully passed-on to consumers and all
petroleum products are now at, or substantially above, international prices.
However, the petroleum price structure does not fully reflect long-run mar-
ginal production costs as reflected in international market prices, since some
products (naphtha, diesel) are priced close to spot market prices for reasons
of industrial policy, while most other petroleum product prices are substan-
tially (20-40Z) above. Present spot market prices, on the other hand, may be
below long-run marginal costs due to overcapacities in major refinery
centers. Also, highly differentiated excise tax rates for motor fuels have
resulted in rapid substitutions (e.g., LPG for gasoline). In line with its
commitments under SAL I, the Government has recently taken a first step to
narrow excise tax differentials in order to forestall uneconomic substitutions
(see para. 3.5 above).
4.29      In view of the changes in international petroleum markets and the
rapidly changing demands on the domestic refinery industry /6 the Government
is changing its policy and regulatory approach towards the industry. It has
transferred its remaining ownership in one refinery (KOCO) to the private
sector and all three refineries are now fully in private hands. Since the
discussion on SAL II began in 1982, it has deregulated pricing and imports of
/6  Within an overall virtually stagnant demand for petroleum products, the
share of heavy fuels is projected to decline from 60Z to 35% of the total
in 1987, when LNG imports are due to start, while the share of distil-
lates is projected to increase from 40% to 60x.



- 25 -
two petroleum products in 1983 (jet fuel and solvents) as a first step towards
giving a larger role to market forces and increasing the competitiveness of
the domestic refinery industry. In order to maintain the momentum of energy
conservation, to reduce the dispersion of import tariffs, and to raise public
revenue, it has also introduced during 1983 a tariff on crude oil of 5% and
has increased the Stabilization Fund fee to S3/barrel. As a result, only 302
of the ($51barrel) reduction of petroleum prices in early 1983 were passed-on
to consumers.
4.30      While SAL I focused on the relative retail prices of two major
transport fuels (gasoline, diesel), the action program now concentrates on
petroleum product pricing and trade deregulation at the refinery level in
order to facilitate output adjustments. to make the Korean refinery industry
internationally competitive, and to limit investments in -meconomic facili-
ties. Road user charges and motor fuel taxation will be studied in more
detail in the context of an upcoming Bank road transport sector loan. The
action program includes:
(a)  Preparation during 1984 and implementation in 1985 of a long-term
program for deregulation of product pricing and trade. The
objective is to introduce a larger role for market forces, increase
the efficiency of the domestic refinery industry, and encourage
greater participation in international petroleum product trade to
facilitate the adjustment to the new structure of demand.
(b)  Review of motor fuel excise taxation during 1984 and implementation
in 1985 of a revised system. The objective is to levy road user
charges in line with cost causation while raising adequate tax
revenues.
4.31      Coal:  Due to the large increases in oil prices, coal has again
become a competitive fuel, especially in large-scale uses in the industrial
and power sector where it has a substantial cost advantage relative to petro-
leum. If present trends continue, coal could even become the single largest
source of primary energy in the 1990s (see Table 3), with coal and petroleum
providing each about 40% of primary energy requirements and nuclear, gas and
hydro the remainder (20%). However, domestic coal (anthracite) production is
unlikely to expand significantly due to the poor resource endowment and the
difficult mining conditions. While domestic anthracite mining could be
sustained and viable at present levels for another decade, it is likely to
become gradually uneconomic, concentrating on the few Letter deposits where
modernization and productivity gains are possible, and output is likely to
decline in the 1990s. Thus coal imports, projected to grow at about 20% p.a.
over the next five years, will have to account for all additional coal
requirements, and domestic anthracite is projected to account for less than
one-half of total coal demand already in 1986.
4.32      Domestic aathracite prices have been regulated in Korea for the past
three decades. During the 1960s, the main objective of the regulatory policy
was to keep coal prices low and to enforce a uniform price across the country
to protect consumers from unfair trading practices. Then, with sharply rising
prices of the main alternative fuel, imported petroleum, a new policy



- 26 -
objective was added in the mid-1970s: the regulated price of coal was allowed
to increase sharply (by over lOZ p.a. in real terms during 1976-81) to sustain
or increase domestic coal production. As a result, coal prices have now
almost reached parity with import prices, but the differential relative to
imported petroleum fuels bas been maintained: the mine-head price of coal is
about one-third of the price of imported fuel oil on an energy-equivalent
basis. Subsidies to the coal mining industry, financed by an earmarked por-
tion of the revenue from fuel oil taxes, were introduced to mitigate the
impact of price increases on consumers. Direct production subsidies reached
13% of production costs in 1981. However, relative to the real price
increases of about 10% p.a., coal industry subsidies were of secondary
importance, delaying the need to raise coal prices only by a year or two.
Table 6: COAL INDUSTRY SUBSIDIES
(W billion)
1976     1981     1982      1983 Ia
Operating subsidies                       7.5      64.6     40.3      19.1
Production                              5.5      35.1    124.4       1.1
Transport                               0.9      16.5     15.9       8.0
DHCC /b                                 1.1      13.0       -         -
Investment subsidies                      4.0      18.1     23.6      26.4
Total direct subsidies              11.5      82,7     63.9     45.5
(US$ton)                            (1.45)   (6.10)   (4.30)   (2.80)
/a Budgeted.
/b   Dai Han Coal Corporation (public enterprise).
Source: MOER.
4.33      A study of coal pricing and subsidies was carried out as part of the
action program under SAL I by KIER and it recommended to redirect producer
subsidies towards productivity-enhancing investments and to gradually phase-
out subsidies.  The Government has already moved to implement the recommenda-
tion and operating subsidies have been sharply reduced in 1982 and 1983
(Table 6). A substantial share of the funds available under tne coal industry
support legislation (6% of fuel oil tax revenues) will be allocated to a
revolving fund to finance a buffer stockpile equivalent to 1-2 months demand
in addition to seasonal stocks, and mining modernization investments. For the
remaining years of the present coal industry support legislation (1982-86),
one-half of the available funding will be allocated to the revolving fund
(which is not a subsidy) and only one-fifth has been allocated to operating



- 27 -
subsidies, with the remainder for investment, training, research and
development, and safety and welfare. The KIEM study also recommended a study
of long-term coal demand and supply options, and in the light of this study,
the developme'i- of a plan to phase-out regulatory intervention, especially
price controls. Again, the Government has already undertaken a first step.
During 1982 coal price regulations were eliminated for all but the most common
coal qualities and one standard briquette size. All other coal grades and
briquette sizes are now left to market forces.
4.34      The action program for SAL II comprises:
(a)  Adjustment of domestic anthracite prices to reflect changes in
mining costs and productivity differentials with other sectors.
(b)  Reduction of operating subsidies to no more than 20  of the fuads
earmarked under existing legislation for the coal industry during
1982-86 with the medium-term objective of eliminating operating
subsidies.
(c)  Preparation of a coal sector deregulation program during 1984 with
implementation beginning in 1985.
4.35      LNG: The Government decided in 1980 to diversify its energy sources
to include natural gas. An agreement in principle was reached with Indonesia
to begin importation of 1.5-3 million tons of liquefied natural gas (LNG) from
the Arun gas field starting in 1986/87. Because of the economies of scale
involved, it was decided to use the LNG first for power generation, and to
phase-in gas distribution networks for residential, commercial and industrial
users in the Seoul-Incheon area aL the same time.  In the longer run, the
latter are projected to become the main users of imported natural gas. At the
contracted level of LNG prices, natural gas is competitive with fuel oil in
power generation, especially if the benefits of lower emissions are taken into
consideration. Imports of LNG are now set at 2 million tons, starting in
1987, and an expansion to 3 million tons is being considered for 1989.
4.36      The introduction ot natural gas on such a large scale poses consid-
erable organizational ,rnd technical challenges. Natural gas could be competi-
tive in a number of residential, commercial and industrial uses (e.g. cooking,
space and water heating, ceramics, heat treatment, etc.), and there could be
substantial environmental benefits, especially if conversion from coal or fuel
oil is involved. The Government has recently established a gas utility com-
pany, Korea Gas Compaay 'KOGASCO) which is in charge of LNG imports, transmis-
sion and the planning of gas distribution networks. Substantial work has to
be carried out to assess the demand for natural gas in the residential, com-
mercial and industrial markets, to establish organizational procedures to
undezrtake preliminary design and cost estimates for distribution systems,
establish pricing and tariff principles, and develop an implementation
schedule. This is an area where the Bank could be of substantial help in
developing an implementation program.
4.37      The action program is designed to assist in this task.  A work pro-
gram will be initited by KOGASCO in 1984 to determine the role and efficient
use of LNG and develop implementation plans for gas distribution networks.



- 28 -
4.38      Industrial Energy Conservation:  Korea has made good progress in
promoting industrial energy conservation. Energy audits in all energy-inten-
sive industries and most large enterprises have resulted in energy conserva-
tion measures and highly profitable investments in a large number of plants
v-ith very substantial energy savings overall. The Government has supported
these investments through the Energy Conservation Fund which makes finance
available for energy conservation measures without collateral. The passage of
the Energy Rationalization Law in 1980 substantially expanded the activities
and staffing of the Korea Energy Management Corporation (KEMCO). General
audits increased several-fold to 865 plants in 1981, carried out in conjunc-
tion with safety inspections of boilers and industrial plants, REMCO's main
activity. The general energy audits identified energy savings of about 8Z on
average (Table 7) with a pay-back period for the required investments of less
than one year. In-depth audits were introduced (for a fee) in 1980 and have
identified energy savings typically in excess of 20Z. Initially, rates of
return were very high, with pay-back periods of less than one year, but as the
most obvious measures were being taken, rates of return have declined and pay-
back periods now average two years, implying still very favorable rates of
return. With audits of large firms virtually completed, general energy audits
were focussed on small and medium industry, starting in 1982. Again, rates of
return were initially very high as sectors with higher energy saving potential
were selected and are now also starting to decline, but still rather high.
About $150 million in energy saving loans were extended annually in the past
three years, substantially exceeding the investment requirements ($30 million)
identified by KEMCO through its energy audits. This attests to the interest
of the private sector.17 If recent KEMCO audits are representative, these
investments would reduce the growth of industrial energy consumption by 10-
20%.
4.39      The action program under SAL II includes:
(a)  KENCO will carry out energy audits of about 1,000 small and medium-
sized enterprises and will extend guidance and information to about
10,000 firms during 1983; and a similar program will be carried out
during 1984.
(b)  The Government will augment the resources of the Energy Saving
Facility as necessary to meet demand in 1983 and 1984.
/7 The Energy Saving Facility is not tied to KENCO technical assistance.



- 29 -
Table 7: KEMCO INDUSTRIAL ENERGY AUDITS
1983
1980       1981         1982        (Jan-April)
Audits Carried Out
General                           -         865       1,038            627
In-depth                         10          22          52             17
Fuel Savings (M)
General audits                    -         7.9        14.4            9.7
In-depth audits                10.6       21.5         22.9           25.2
Investment Required ($ million)
General audits                    -          20           8              4
In-depth audits                   4         12           21             12
Pay-back Period (years)
General audits                    -         0.6         0.6            1.1
In-depth audits                 0.7        0.9          1.0            1.9
Source: KEMCO.
4.40      Building Energy Conservation:  The residential and commercial sector
account for 36% of total energy consumption, due to the temperate climate of
Korea which requires substantial space heating (about 25% of total energy con-
sumption), and the still low energy efficiency of residential and commercial
buildings. However, market forces and appropriate pricing policies alone
cannot bring energy conservation close to the economic optimum, because of the
lack of technical expertise among residential consumers, and the separation
between decision-making for capital and operating expenditures, especially in
the case of (in Korea predominant) rental housing. As a result only moderate
progress has been made so far towards better building energy conservation
practices.  KENCO has carried out in-depth audits of large apartment com-
plexes, starting in 1981, and savings from retrofitting /8 averaging about 9%
have been identified, similar to those in the industrial sector. In the case
of new buildings, savings from better (and economically optimal) construction
practice could be much larger, ranging anywhere from 20-50%, compared to
present practice.  However, these improvements are unlikely to materialize
through market forces alone, since consumers do not have the knowledge to
assess life-cycle cost implications of technical choices, nor are they even
offered such choices. Thus, regulatory measures are required to bring
building energy conservation close to optimal levels.
/8   i.e., upgrading or replacing building components to improve energy.



- 30 -
4./1i     The workshop on building energy conservation, held in 1982 in
connection with SAL I, has contributed towards heightening the awareness for
the large energy conservation potential in this sector; a draft Building
Energy Conservation Code has since been prepared by the Korean Institute of
Energy and Resources. Due to the substantial changes in construction practice
mandated by the new code, its introduction and enactment will require exten-
sive consultation with representatives of the construction industry, indepen-
dent experts and other concerned parties before the revised code could be
implemented. The action program under SAL II includes the conduct of these
consultation processes in 1984 and the introduction of an energy-efficient
building code in 1985.
C. Public Sector Efficiency
4.42      Savings and Investment:  Concern about a sufficient level of public
savings ranked high among the issues addressed in SAL I (see para. 3.7
above). The recent macro-economic development and the development prospects
have improved significantly since then. Our macro-economic projections sug-
gest that to support an increase in the GNP averaging 7%-8% per year, an
investment rate of around 30% would be required, and that by 1988 the domestic
savings rate would be close to 28%, leaving around 2% to be financed through
capital inflows (including transfers). This is just half the level of foreign
savings originally projected for the final year of the Five-Year Plan period
(1982-1986), and the sums involved should be available through the inter-
national capital market as part of a prudent borrowing policy. The consol-
idated public sector deficit was declining from its peak of 5% of GNP in 1981
to an estimated 4% in 1983, and the agreement with the IMF is likely to
include another decline of perhaps half a percentage point in 1984; given the
size of household savings (15% of GNP in 1982) through which the public sector
deficit would largely have to be financed, deficits in this order appear
manageable.  We also believe that the now evolving system of rolling medium-
term budgeting, and the strong public Government commitment against budget
deficits, supported by the public sentiment expressed persistently in the
National Assembly, greatly reduces the risk of insufficient public savings and
inflationary financing of investment. In view of these factors, we consider
further attempts to persuade the Government to raise the ratios of tax and
public savings to GNP beyond the present levels no longer necessary. The
action on the Fertilizer Fund and Grain Management Fund deficits are modified
in part because of the overall improvement of the public finance position, but
also for reasons spelled out below. The project evaluation component has
become more prominent than under SAL I, and a major new element is public
enterprise reform.
4.43      Fertilizer Fund (FF) Deficits:  As mentioned in paragraph 3.8 above,
good progress was made on the reduction of the deficits of the FF included in
SAL I. The total deficit was reduced from 0.4% of GNP in 1981 to a projected
0.2% in 1983, and more than 60% of the total net borrowing is now on account
of interest on accumulated past debts, mostly owed to the Central Bank. More
importantly, the inclusion of the restructuring program of the fertilizer
industry into the present SAL (see paras. 4.17-4.19) provides an opportunity
to address the underlying structural problems directly. Under these circum-
stances, a temporary further increase of sales prices which are already far



- 31 -
above international levels, would be undesirable because prices would have to
be reduced in a few years and present excessively high fertilizer prices could
lead to further reduction of fertilizer application and corresponding loss of
agricultural output. It was, therefore, agreed with the Government to drop
from the Action Program further reductions of the deficits of the Fertilizer
Fund through increase of sales prices and focus instead to a support of the
restructuring program of the fertilizer industry.
4.44      Grain Management Fund (GMF) Deficits:  As discussed in paragraph 3.8
above, considerable progress was made in reducing the deficits of the GMF; its
size declined from 0.7Z of GNP in 1981 to 0.4% in 1983. As in the case of the
FF deficits, most of the financing was in the focm of rolled-over Central Bank
credits, and a rising share (61% in 1983) of net borrowing is now for finan-
cing of interest on the growing outstanding debt. Nevertheless, the continua-
tion of the recent trends of purchase and sales prices and volumes would not
lead to an elimination of operating deficits by the end of 1986 as previously
planned. Progress was limited in part by the formidable political resistance
against the perceived repercussions of a phase-out of these bidden subsidies
to producers and consumers, in part by the fact that their continuation was
seemingly 'costless under the practice of financing operating deficits and
snowballing interest obligations on accumulated debt through transactions
between public sector entities.
4.45      What is required is a new mechanism which, as precondition for a
permanent solution, forces the problems into the open. The Government is now
getting ready to take this critical step on this politically sensitive issues
with its recent decision to discontinue the past practice of uacontrolled BOK
borrowing and instead to cover the deficits from the budget, starting in
1984. This will show the preseatly hidden subsidies explicitly as public
expenditures. Given the concern in the National Assembly about public
deficits, and with the added weight of the political consensus to eliminate
these budget deficits within 2-3 years, this will set the stage for efficient
action on the GMF problem which, although manageable in a phase of improving
public finance position, has become a serious irritation for Korea's determi-
nation to strive for public sector efficiency. Since other sensitive issues
of structural adjustment will have passed the phase of public controversy, the
chances are good that a practicable and politically viable solution can be
developed.
4.46      The action program under SAL will include the following:
(a)  All borrowing from BOK will cease after 1983 and will be replaced by
direct budget subsidy.
(b)  The operating subsidies will be phased out by the end of 1987
through elimination of the price differential, and a phased program
to accomplish this and to resolve the problem of accumulated debt
will be pre-=red by mid-1984.
4.47      Public Investment Planning:  The objective of the SAL program is to
support the development of EPB's own analytical capacity as well as its
efforts to raise the standards of project preparation and evaluation of the



- 32 -
line ministries. A productive dialogue was established under SAL I with the
Project Evaluation Bureau (PEB) within EPB. The function of this unit has
changed significantly since then. In order to add credibility to the
Government's objective to abstain from interference with investment decisions
of the private sector and to avoid any semblance of -investment licensing,"
PEB no longer reviews private sector projects except in instances of large
complementary publicly-financed infrastructure investment, or of very large
publicly-guaranteed borrowing abroad. Instead, PEB focusses on the public
investment budget including that of public enterprises (those with more than
50% public equity) and reviews, as a rule, all projects and programs in excess
of 10 billion Won, before the Budget Bureau decides whether or not to include
them in the budget for the upcoming budget year. Several points are worth
noting in this context. First, PEB assumes through its systematic evaluation
a key support function in the evolving new budgeting system with a three-year
rolling budget cycle, based on the principle of zero-based budgeting. Second,
PEB is going beyond the assessment as to whether specific items are
.acceptable" and attempts to match project evaluation with overall budget or
foreign resource constraints. Third, PEB is moving towards establishing a
portfolio of projects and programs (presently comprising about 70 items)
updated and evaluated annually. A priority ranking is established for proj-
ects and programs which are acceptable in principle in order to match alloca-
tions and financial constraints; projects and programs which are eliminated on
that basis are transferred to next year's portfolio. Fourth, since in this
approach all projects and programs compete with each other for limited
resources, it becomes very important that common methods are used, universal
standards are maintained, identical exogenous assumptions are made throughout,
and that comprehensive data files are maintained and updated. To ensure com-
parable standards across-the-board, the dissemination of uniform methods of
project preparation to all Government agencies is becoming more important than
before. To meet the budget planning requirements, PEB is presently developing
a computerized system for project and program preparation/evaluation to be
used by all Government agencies, including a data base on proposed projects
and programs. The Government continues to seek the Bank's advice in imple-
menting these improvements in public sector investment planning.
4.48      The action program includes:
(a) Organization and the implementation of a general project planning
training program for staff of major ministries during 1984, to
improve the quality of project evaluation and to enforce uniform
standards for project preparation and evaluation.
(b)  A review during 1984 of the proposed project planning/evaluation
system after completion of the initial design phase by key personnel
from the main user agencies, and outside experts.
4.49      Public Enterprise Reform:  As part of its policy to give a larger
role to market forces and to decentralize decision-making in the public
sector, the Government intends to introduce this Fall in the National Assembly
a legislative proposal for public enterprise reform. Although public enter-
prise performance is relatively good in comparison with most other developing
countries, the size of Korea's public sector and its share in total assets and



- 33 -
investment is now giving rise to heightened concern in Korea about the effi-
ciency and financial situation of public enterprises and their effect on
public sector resources. The public enterprise reform law is part of the
broader strategy to redefine the role of the public sector includ4ng the
transfer of some public enterprises to the private sector (e.g., the recent
sale of Government-held shares in the commercial banks), introduction of auto-
nomous public enterprise status for revenue earning government departments
(e.g. Korea Telecommunication Authority), the reduction of directed and elimi-
nation of subsidized credit from which public enterprises have benefitted
disproportionally in the past, and changes in pricing policies to eliminate
the need for budgetary transfers to cover operating deficits.
4.50      The proposed Public Enterprise Management Law covers all wholly
publicly-owned enterprises. Its purpose is to give substantial managerial
autonomy to public enterprises and to sharply limit existing day-to-day inter-
vention by ministries and other government agencies in their management. This
is to be achieved by giving public enterprises control over budgeting, person-
nel management and procurement, by giving the chief executive and the board
control over managerial appointments, and by introducing an objective-oriented
post-evaluation and incentive system for public enterprises and their manag-
ers. This would be a substantial change from the past, characterized by
multiple and detailed outside controls over budgeting, staffing, procurement
etc. and an absence of performance-oriented incentives and promotion, which
tended to limit initiative, to impair creativity, and to encourage evasion of
managerial responsibiliti.s. The result was that, although Korean public
enterprises compare favorably to public enterprises elsewhere, their perform-
ance is not as good as in the private sector. Under the new system, perform-
ance is likely to increase even further as chief executives are given func-
tions and powers comparable to those of their cointerparts in the private
sector, subject only to the guidance of a (new) Supervisory Board and the ex-
post evaluation of the independent Management Ev7aluation Council (chaired by
the Deputy Prime Minister) to be established under the Law. The functioning
of the Council will be crucial for the successf4l implementation of the law,
as it will set the objectives for each enterpri$e and evaluate performance.
One of the most important innovations of the Law is that the Management
Evaluation Council shall provide differentiated bonuses and other rewards
according to performance.
4.51      The action program under SAL II includes the following:
(a) Submission of the Public Enterprise Management Law to the National
Assembly during October 1983.
(b) Implementation of the Law after National Assembly approval, begin-
ning with preparation of implementation guidelines, including a
public enterprise performance evaluation system, during 1984.



- 34 -
PART V - THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. The Loan
5.1       The first SAL to Korea, approved in December 1981, was for $250 mil-
lion, and our structural adjustment lending was planned on the basis of loans
at about two-year intervals. Discussions about the thrust and content of a
second SAL started in mid-1982, and the Bank was officially approached by the
Government during the Annual Meeting in September 1982. The amount of the
proposed SAL II is $300 million, which represents about 22% of the lending
planned for Korea in FY84 and 85. This amount and share of the lending pro-
gram is considered appropriate given the substantial and wide-ranging policy
reforms which it is designed to support. The loan would be in two tranches of
$200 million and $100 million, respectively. The second tranche would be
released for disbursement after the Bank has reviewed and is satisfied with
the progress achieved in carrying out the measures agreed under the proposed
loan. Among the principal measures expected to be accomplished by the time of
tranche review are: the tariff reform law, the foreign investment law and the
public enterprise management law will have been enacted substantially in the
form as presented to the Bank during negotiations, and implementatien will be
in progress. The other measures are set out in greater detail in Tabie 8.
5.2       The structural adjustment objectives and the action program under
the proposed loan are summarized in the subsequent overview Table 8.
B. Effects of Structural Adjustment
5.3       The various measures to be taken, or in a large number of instances
already taken, under the Government's structural adjustment program are
designed to improve the country's growth and balance of payments prospects by
increasing efficiency of resource use, strengthening international competi-
tiveness in sectors with potential comparative advantage, containing energy
imports, and maintaining Korea's creditworthiness in international financial
markets in a time of restricted resource availability. As it is clear from
the description in Part II of this report, many approaches are being followed
under the Government's broad program of structural adjustment and only a few
are highlighted here. In industry the liberalization of imports, foreign
investment and technology transfer, and the complementary change in tax
incentives and the financial sector are likely to have a substantial effect on
production and investment in the medium term and should contribute signifi-
cantly towards raising the rate of growth of manufacturing exports and produc-
tion. In energy, the rapid pass-through of increases in international prices
have stimulated energy-saving measures and investments by the private and pub-
lic sectors. Improvements in pricing and planning in the capital-intensive
electric power sector have led to a substantial reduction in tnvestment
requirements and further pricing and regulatory changes in the energy sector
will contribute to raise the energy efficiency and reduce import require-
ments. In the public sector the substantial efforts being made to increase
resource mobilization, contain expenditures, enhance efficiency of investment
expenditures, and public enterprise reform, will contribute very significantly
towards raising the efficiency of investment throughout the economy.



- 35 -
5.4       Over the next three years, Korea's growth will hinge on the rate at
which exports increase and the volume of foreign capital which can be
obtained. The expansion of trade will be closely related to developments in
the OECD countries that absorb three quarters of Korea's exports, in particu-
lar, the US and Japan. Past Korean export performance, and the composition of
Korea's tradeables, over half of which are the products of transport, machin-
ery electronics and metal industries, suggests that exports could increase by
an average of 9% or more through 1986, on the assumption that the structural
adjustment program of the Government will be carried out as presently
planned. The change in imports over this period will be influenced by the
energy conservation efforts supported by the SAL as well as by the Govern-
ment's program to progressively lower the tariff barriers, especially on such
items as machinery. The first will help in moderating expenditures on fuels
which presently comprise almost one-third of the import bill.  On the other
hand, import liberalization will lead to gradually increasin- import elasti-
cities.  On balance, it is reasonable to expect a progressive halving of the
current account deficit from 3% of GNP in 1983 to about 1.6% in 1988.
5.5       While the trend in trade will impinge strongly on growth prospects,
the supply of foreign financing will also be critical in determining the
economy's pace. Korea's external debt, short-term as well as MLT, grew at an
annual rate of 27% between 1978-81 before slowing to 15% in 1982. The change
in the international capital market environment makes it seem unlikely that
Korea could increase its external debt by more than 10% p.a. considering that
the dei-t/GNP ratio is in excess of 56% (1982). More plausible is a growth in
total borrowing of 7% p.a. for the period 1983-88. Given the magnitude of
interest and amortization payments, and the anticipated developments in the
balance of trade, an increase in capital flows by this amount would enable the
economy to expand by 7-8% p.a., accompanied by a decline of the debt service
ratio (including interest on short-term debt) from around 21% in 1982 to 18%
by 1988. Although below the average for the 70s, such a growth rate would
permit per capita consumption to rise by a very respectable 6% p.a. and would
lead to an increase in employment opportunities very close to the projected
enlargement of the labor force.
5.6       An alternative development path "without structural adjustment" is
not a realistic option in view of the Government's determination to carry out
its structural adjustment program and of the actions already taken. We have,
nevertheless, constructed a hypothetical "without" scentirio, illustrating the
possible impact of the structural adjustment efforts (Table 9). The "with"
scenario is presented in greater detail in the tables of Annex I. The impact
of the program is estimated to raise economic growth and per capita income by
1-2% p.a. In the "with" scenario, the higher GDP growth rate is the result of
(a) a higher efficiency of capital utilization (as ind;:ated by the reduction
of the ICOR); and (b) a one-quarter higher export growth rate, both due to the
reform of the industrial incentives system, leading to -. large role of market
forces, a more open economy, and a pattern of industrial growth more in line
with comparative advantage. In addition, the elasticity of consumption and
imports of petroleum with respect to GNP is projected to decline slowly to
0.5, while in the "without" scenario it is projected to decline only to 0.9.
In the latter case, international petroleum prices continue to be passed-on
fully to consumers, but other measures to conserve energy and switch to more
economical fuels are not implemented as vigorously.



-36-
lags41 IOf 2
Table St sDas S,3A1  A3335N   VinSM FM SAL XX
Action proganw                                  Acci~ouppiorted Mast SAL TX
seczor/obe-3me                         us    e  b SAy    I             Act1on tab= u to 10/t                     rut
A. ldutrIal  ffiei.scv
1. Inport LTAruLztton
IMPro, 1Bstrial effciency         Stuy of ludoatria tl li               (a) lacresd Import 1lbAralin-         (S) Curthar &"creaSe la iport
thrnw  imcrs.e.  matio            an  proteelo.                              tie  Crtl frm 76 to 60Z              libsraliation Das  1964
fxra impors.                                 J7/6).                                                                to achiee UberalleatiS
ratio of aro_d 90 by 164.
(b) Prweration Of prooDtifiin-
ties azt  for import l1b'-
araizantim inrium that
Peio  19864-6 (IZ/63).
2. Thriff Reform
Ga -IGGSLlzs Zvi rodeo. proectis    Study of indutrial iscastiwea         (a) Tariff reform smbattad to         Ca) After National "SMOKY
of deneatie iNdustries.             and Proeucto.Ntional&COM  i.ssuy (I10/3).                                       approva. Implemntation of
Sam tarif law. revtisio of
trlffa 1_. Ine with mr
s dsle. (1164).
Ch) Iatroduectios of flexible
tariff .eb     to a      fe tinp-
rary adjoestuet di!fricltates
(1164)
3. Tax Incentives
gatinaLt. ldoatlalPromotion                                         C.) Iotrodud am tuO, iacenti..
and Increae peblic revemema.                                                   Ige. aboliabiag iudwtry-
apacific taf ainspriona ma
readioetlo. i*meovud to
prouisioes foe all inews'-
trim (1163).
4. Foraigs Iuveautm
Lnceaue coepatitio  and fostrA                                            Ca) Further iecras  Ilk the  wu      CS) After  actional Aenn1y
tecblwoIj trausfor.                                                            bar of Isfsctres opus to             approval. imlattOsf
foreign direct imswemte              Saw foreign 4irect Invest-
Er  501 to Ml of an Sac-             mouc Iad _u1u6t tutrodme-
tors (951 of anl uinfactur-          ties of negative lIt" of
lag wwbsec_--rx). Lacreas            indeatriam Lis which foreign
Lil the Os     of aL pro_i.itd or
open to 1001 forsigu Invest-         restricted. nawbseatial
umet to 151 of inoafacterlag         iucrsss  in winer of tufts
subecor (012)                   tries p150 to foraigo.
(b)  =eie  yarsigo Capital                 aatustand Sisplifica-
Tocment: Act. asisietrd to           time of appraval preooeursa
Sfe Eatiosa Asmomaby                 (33).
(10133).
5FrtierIndustry
RatimnalLr indstril" structure.                                           CS) Preparation of foetlLizer        !-a) implamustwati  Of frtilisar
1DCsltfy r_rt&GMKLZrtIO              indontry ruttelizdrtim
progcan and ruSesg tia1.oS of         rugra  (12163).
jolut .snte  c      t) 0iapoes of _   _cononic fecl-
C3/S3).                              line., wiCh am not covere
by _)_igs_g joist .esroee
-_ to tOG  da  A_           agsaaetae (/34)
R. !asrw ef _cenaof 
1.  letrit tO   fom
futreas ef~ficency of electric      Stady of electric leon  tariffs.      Cs) PAdJ.inrse  of resiautial         (a) Navia. Of loog-rm uarinsl
pr production, mad uee by-                                                     and coesarcia tariffs to             Coatm foe All voltage lavela,
- improvements is pritiftlm                                                    clowet reflect nargiusl              and euetamer cateriesm
- imroeaentwA IS                                                              --enut"Cts (4893).                    C(2183).
effieiauny                                                              Cb) Savigion of electric pinr         Cb) Preperstimn of isopleseta~
- Imptoeota In pine planning                                                  lavasomut program C(10/2).           tim plan for tariff reform
etbdodlogr.                                                             CC) lutroduction of mIlling                (3/34).
- increased load research man                                                  pewr daevelopment plan.         (C) Isplenreatim Of (b).
Introdactios of                                                                                               (C_ Introdutionl of load
agut.mresearcb program (3/64).
Ce) Naviaw of plans" caspeef-
tim of power genration:
fatteduction of scenrio
passing anet nab aualysia
(/12/3).
Cf) Ispmavusso of Power plam-
saug umthodologR; revsew of
opttouS  for peak ioed poeSr
-Cesuecion ma ti-ieg Of
trammtwiow eapeesious
(1f   54).                                          e
_nc  atabliael  t of electric
powr trcuologr 16a fnatI-
tot_ (3Q34).
_ *ffte2q of *le St of ete _ tff (~~~~~~~-> f , t f e



-37-                                                            Pagc t 2  f:
Bbls 3: (coutiasd)
Action progm                                   Action  supported under SAL 11
Sectorffbjecise                        suppre  by SAL I                Acri  t         up to 1013                Frter  cS
2. Petroleum Products                  Adjustment of gesOIseldSL             Ca) Adjestmeet of gasoLte and         (a) preps?rltO   of long-term
Ehence efficiency of petrolec       retal prim; study of pecrolam              dliel excla tax rates.               plan for rewLsion of petro-
product production and com -        proct PrIcing.                             iocroducticn  of LPCl etcise         Len p   I uct pricxin and
ties by:                                                                       mm (2/83).                            rrade regalatss t(1z/4)
- eliaimatis  price dtortions;                                            (bC) Usueou of prime and iSpt         tb) IPleenOtattoS  of regulatory
- Introtng crude oSl ispot                                                     cantrols for jet fuel and            refom  (1965).
tariff;                                                                      sovents (41D).                   (c) Pawiew of motor fuel excise
- lbecalIzing petrolac. product                                           CC)  ntioduction of 5: ifpo              tcaatio  (12164).
pricing and trade                                                            tariff, and iingse In  rs-       Cd) ReWiaO  of motor fuel taza-
bliintloe fee o crude otl            ti. (1985).
to s2/barrel (4/83)_
3. CAma
Eu_ce effIcieacy of production      AdJnscteu of cc.l prices; study       (a) Sedutom of direct cml            a   Coorid adjustent of ce l
of dmsttc cml by:                   of eml prices and subsidies,               mitng subridies. recrienis-          Price.
- appropriate pricing;                                                         tSie  tmasrds mdSnaoic          (b) ElisLitim of operation and
- restructrn  and phasing-out                                                 and inu Otuents (1/83).               transport subsidles (1916).
pretIct  subsidies:                                                                                           (c) Sctud of lom-tero ceml
- deeulating cml industry.                                                                                          demnd and supply optios
(3184).
(d) PrEpatC.U of rli sector
regulatory reform C1214)-
Ce) Ioplstation of cml sec-
tor regulatory reforn
(1985).
E       dIezsifictio.. ensuring     seLew of feasibLilty studles.                                               Ca) Preparatiom of introduction
optiml Use of ISC and devlopig                                                                                      and efficlent se of ascura
Long-tsm strategy for gas stili-                                                                                    Was d-stributiou system
rzatio.                                                                                                             tl/8S). incloding Inters-
tionsi conference.
5. Industrial herr Cosea-stion
Increase efficiency of roerv Use    Energ au itrs of enery-intenaive      Ca) Energr audits of  -2il- and      Ca) EcerD audits of mil- and
Sn indS try,                        firm. worksbop om industrial :edim-scle enterprises                             ncdiun-stle enterprises
nera conservationl                       C(1981).                               (1964).
Cb) Increase of Enerq Saeing         Cb)  increase of infor tion pro-
Fed   dlltt  [II83).                 grS for &!SE& (1994)-
(c) Further Lncresse of EnerV
Seving Fud acillty (198).)-
6. Building Eer&P Coar_xtio
lneece efficiency of enesr ose    Worksbop on residewarallconer-          (a) Srft of bilding EnerD            (a) public review of propoed
Sn bUildings.                       clal e-rt. cosmetSton.                     Cooserution Code (12Z82). oLiding herV Conservation
Code (196J. including
interutioel conference.
(b) RSevison of proposed Code
CI2/84).
cc) ntrouduction of Ruilding
Energy Consertion Code
(2985).
c. Pubic sector Ef ficiency
1. FertilIer Fund
Reduce public sector defielt by   R   ace deficit by urraving price       (A) Reduced FF oefct fr  0.4          Ca) lplacion of fertilier
elisinsting special accm4t defI-    dlfferentlal                               to D0.  of G'P by mnrroutng          Industry ratonaitzsaton
cits.                                                                          price dlfferetial lahed of           progzan Ce abo).
schedule (03/82).
(b) Prepazstion of fertilizer
indnstry ratlauslization
prograe (0313).
2. Gratn Unsgesnt Fund
ge.Wce pubiic ector defirit by      Reduce deficit by narrving price      (a) Reduced 0'F defIeit fros         (a) Teir ttlon of QCF borraIng
elimiSting special account defi-    differential.                              0.72 to 0.42 of CGIP (192).          fom  Coeutrz  Ibk (1f183).
cSec.                                                                                                           (b) phase-out of cUrreut subsi-
di"e throuo  prie adjust-
sents (1987)_
(c) Develop plan to solve finn-
cial problem of OCF.
including accumulated debt
(7/Si).
(d) OfF policy during 190/ In
line aith tbe bove.
3. Project E lactIc.
Sreening and reducing public        Improve project Appraisal cepa-                                            (a) Training program In project
setor spending.                    bility.                                                                         planning (12/8)-
(b) pre,sratLon snd reviev of
computerized Investment
planning and project esl-
tioc system (12i84).
4. Public Enterprise Reform
oprowe pubic sector effIciency                                            (a) Public Enterprise Sn gvust        (a)  bgpleuentation of Public
chrosgb greater autonomy and bet-                                              LA  subtted to Wtioml                Enterprise Mongeent Tav..
rer performnce evaluation of                                                   as bly (10/83).                      Including development of
publi enterprises,                                                                                                  perfor_nre eauabation sys-
tem (3184).
tb) Conference on implesentatlon
of performnce-orlented pub-
llc enterprise _nagement
and *u_luation (12/14).



- 38-
Table 9: PROJECTIONS OF SELECTED ECONOMIC INDICATORS
UNDER ALTERNATIVE ASSUMPTIONS
1983-88
With         Without
structural    structural
adjustment    adjustment
Growth Rates (constant prices)
GDP                                                    7.5            6.0
Per capita consumption                                 6.2            4.6
Manufacturing production                               8.2            7.0
Exports GNFS                                           9.4            7.5
Manufactured exports                                  10.0            8.0
Imports GNFS                                           9.1            7.6
Imports of petroleum                                   3.9            5.4
Other Indicators (end of period)
Fixed investment (Z of GDP)                           30.0           30.0
ICOR (1983-88) /a                                      4.2            5.2
Current account deficit (Z of GNP)                     1.6            2.7
Petroleum imports elasticity (GNP)                     0.5            0.9
Debt/GNP ratio (Z)                                    3'.7           40.3
Debt service ratio (Z of exports of GS) /b            15.7           17.5
/a Incremental capital-output ratio.
/b   Including interest on short-term debt.
Source: Staff estimates.
5.7       The balance of payments might appear manageable even in the
without' case, with a debt service ratio (including interest payments on
short-term debt) of 17.5Z of exports of goods and services by 1988. However,
the availability of funds in international financial markets may not permit
Korea to satisfy the gross borrowing requirement of about $10 billion per
annum, most of which would have to come from private sources.
5.8       Equity Impact.  Among developing countries, Korea has one of the
most equitable distributions of Income and wealth, with only about 14Z of the
population below the poverty line, and only 11% among the rural population.
Although it is not possible to quantify the equity impact of the structural
adjustment program, it is likely to bK vositive. Higher growth brought about
by the structural adjustment program, t- a policy environment which ensures a
reasonably widespread sharing of the benefits of this growth, will lead to
better employment prospects and lower unemployment and therefore reduced urban
poverty. However, incomes of particular groups might be affected (e.g.,
employment in particular industries might be reduced as a result of the tariff
reform), but overall, the reforms should reduce the past bias towards capital-



- 39 -
intensive industries and more, rather than less, employment opportunities
should result.
C. Benefits and Risks
5.9       Benefits:  The main benefits of the loan consist of the effects of
the policy adjustments which the loan supports. First of all, the resilience
of the economy against future external shocks will be enhanced by reducing the
energy import elasticity and improving the competitiveness of industrial
output. Second, an improved performance of the economy can be expected
through a more efficient allocation and utilization of investment resources
and through a greater market-orientation of investment decisions by the pri-
vate sector, responding to more rational and simplified incentives. Over the
medium-term, these two effects will improve the balance of payments for a
given pace of economic development; or, alternatively, within a balance of
payments constraint given by the present precarious situation in international
financial markets, will improve the capacity for economic growth and social
development. This in turn, will permit Korea to regain at least part of its
earlier development momentum and to provide its stiU strongly growing labor
force with employment opportunities. Third, a growth and balance-of-payments
performance as projected under the structural adjustment strategy of the
Government, and the Bank's expression of support for this strategy, will
improve Korea's creditworthiness and help to facilitate Korea's access to
raise funds from international capital markets at reasonable terms. Finally,
the loan itself will provide foreign exchange at favorable maturities and,
therefore, assist Korea in dealing with its substantial need for long-term
foreign financing in a difficult period of sharply reduced availability of
such funds from private sources.
5.10      Risks:  The Government's structural adjustment program has three
interrelated major risks. The first arises from uncertainties regarding
international economic conditions.  They could affect the growth prospects for
Korea's exports, and the scope for, and terms of, foreign borrowings. An
unfavorable external environment - e.g., if protectionism in industrial
countries would expand significantly, or if borrowing opportunities in private
financial markets were further reduced in a significant way - could adversely
affect the pace of implementation program especially in the area of trade
liberalization and tariff reform.  The second major risk arises from difficul-
ties in estimating the quantitative effects of the policy reforms on the
economy. Neither the magnitude nor the timing of the long-term benefits and
transitional disruptions can be predicted with certainty. Hence, although the
ultimate benefits from the reform are likely to be considerable, the length
and difficulty of the adjustment process are less clear. A case in point is
the import liberalization which, if carried out effectively, is bound to
worsen the balance of payments in the short- and medium-run before the reper-
cussions on export volumes materialize. The third major risk is of a poli-
tical nature and relates to the timely and continued implementation of the
adjustment program. A number of the adjustment measures will entail diffi-
culties, or even losses, to particular groups, and the political process might
slow the pace of implementation and delay realization of the benefits (and
sacrifices) of the adjustment measures, especially if trade prospects are
substantially reduced.



- 40 -
D. Technical Assistance
5.11      Studies, mainly in the energy area, are important ingredients of the
SAL II program. In order to infuse critical know-how into the work of Korean
teams, it is proposed that the Bank be executing agency for a UNDP-financed
techrncal assistance project providing for short-term consultancies and over-
seas visits. Our experience with UNDP planning and assistance is quite
good: for both the Fourth and Fifth Year Plan, we managed a UNDP assistance
project, and a similar project was carried out under SAL I. All three proj-
ects have contributed substantially towards policy formulation across a wide
spectrum of subject areas. The Government, as well as UNDP, are keenly
interested in having a similar program under SAL II.
E. Coordination with the IMF
5.12      As in the case of SAL I, we were coordinating fully with the IMF
during the preparation of the second SAL; IMF staff participated in the last
economic mission, and Bank staff in the recent IMF Article IV consultation
mission. The Fund staff has recently negotiated a stand-by program with the
Korean authorities in support of an adjustment program through March 1985;
Executive Board approval was obtained in July 1983. The objectives of the
Fund-supported program for 1983 include: a reduction of the current account
deficit to $2.3 billion (3.2% of GNP), holding inflation (CPI) to about 5%,
and a GNP growth of 7.5%. Major policy elements of the program consist of: a
lowering of credit expansion; limits on external debt, including short-term
borrowing; and a reduction of the public sector deficit. In addition, the
Government is committed to a flexible exchange rate policy, and maintenance of
positive real interest rates. We have collaborated closely with the Fund
staff and are in agreement with the Fund's policy recommendations.
F. Monitoring
5.13      The progress of the SAL II program will be monitored through regular
supervision missions and periodic exchange of views (Section 3.03 (a) of the
Loan Agreement). Agreement has been reached on the details of the SAL II
action program and on the timing for taking specified actions and for under-
taking the necessary studies to provide the basis for the policy recommenda-
tions for actions to be supported by the SAL II program. The first such
exchange of views will take place prior to the release of the second tranche
(see para. 5.1 above) and is scheduled to occur by June 30, 1984 (Section 3.03
(b) of the Loan Agreement). As part of these exchanges the Government has
agreed to provide the Bank with reports on the status of the implementation of
its structural adjustment program. Agreement has been reached on the scope
and coverage of these reports.
G. Categories of Goods to be Financed
5.14      All goods imported into Korea, except those in a few categories
which are specifically excluded, would be eligible for financing under the
loan. The excluded categories involve goods which are being otherwise
financed by national or international financing institutions or any other
agency, goods intended for military or para-military use, and goods for luxury



- 41 -
consumption. A list of ineligible imports is given in Schedule 1 to the draft
Loan Agreement.
R. Counterpart Funds
5.15      The counterpart funds generated by the imports financed under the
loan will be credited to a special account that will be established in the
Bank of Korea and will be used to finance expenditures included in the
Government's development program.
I. Procurement and Disbursement
5.16      Contracts for the procurement of goods by the private sector, esti-
mated to cost the equivalent of less than $5 million each, will be awarded on
the basis of normal commercial practices of the purchaser. Public sector
imports under contracts below $5 million equivalent will be procured in
accordance with standard government practices, Which are acceptable to the
Bank. All purchases in the amount of $5 million or more under a single con-
tract to be financed out of the proceeds of the loan will be procured through
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. Certain
commonly traded commodities may be purchased through price quotations avail-
able from their organized international commodity markets, which is accept-
able. Whatever procurement methods are used, not more than $100 million of
the loan proceeds would be used to finance imports of petroleum and foodstuff.
5.17      The Government of the Republic of Korea will be the Borrower.  It
has designated the Korean Exchange Bank (KEB) to be responsible for maintain-
ing the loan account, the collection and coordination of the-relevant letters
of credit and supporting documentation and for the preparation and submission
of withdrawal applications.
5.18      Procurement and disbursements for the proposed loan have been
designed to ensure rapid drawdown of loan proceeds. The proposed loan will be
disbursed at the rate of 100% of the foreign expenditures for items directly
imported through reimbursement to the borrower or direct payment to foreign
suppliers. Expenditures for goods procured under contracts of $50,000 equiva-
lent or less will not be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
loan. Reimbursement applications normally would be consolidated and submitted
from time to time in amounts of at least $1.0 million equivalent. Disburse-
ments against small contracts between $50,000 and $500,000 equivalent, would
be made on the basis of a modified statement of expenditures (SOE). These
contracts would be consolidated and submitted on the basis of certified
statements from KEB which would include; (i) description of goods;
(ii) country of origin; (iii) date and currency of payment; (iv) commercial
bank; and (v) beneficiary. All withdrawal applications for disbursement on
the basis of modified SOE will be supported by evidence of payment from
commercial banks. Supporting documentation such as invoices, purchase
contract, bill of lading and report of payment will be retained by KEB for
periodic examination by Bank staff. Withdrawal applications for all contracts
of $500,000 and above will be fully documented. It is expected that
disbursement will be completed by December 31, 1984.



- 42 -
PART VI - OTHER BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND RELATIONSHIP
TO THE PROPOSED LOAN
6.1       As of September 30, 1983, Korea had received 68 Bank loans
(including one Third Window Loan) and 8 IDA Credits, totalling US$4,437
million in loans and US$106.8 million in credits (taking into account
cancellations and the refinancing of one IDA Credit in a subsequent Bank
loan). As of that date, US$1,214.8 million remained undisbursed on effective
loans, mostly from commitments in the past two years. Annex II contains a
list of outstanding Bank loans, IDA Credits, and IFC Investments as of
September 30, 1983. Progress on project implementation is generally
satisfactory, and implementation delays bave been addressed which had occurred
in several projects - mainly irrigation, highways and population - due
primarily to shortfalls in Government budgetary contributions resulting from
cost overruns during a period of high domestic inflation. The issue has been
reviewed with the Government which has taken measures to increase local
funding of Bank-financed projects. However, as the Government's budgetary
situation continues to be tight, the status and plans for counterpart
contributions will remain an integral part of country implementation reviews
held jointly with the Government. Nevertheless, despite the recent delays,
Korea's disbursement rate remaits the highest among major Bank borrowers in
East Asia.
6.2       The current pipeline of projects in the lending program for Korea
reflects an evolution in the Bank's lending approach from lending for discrete
projects concerned with micro-institutional issues increasingly to making sec-
tor loans which are aimed at addressing broad-based policy and institutional
issues. This transformation in the Bank's lending approach, made possible by
the relatively sophisticated level of development of Korean institutions, is
working well. Sector loans have already been made for Education and
Industrial Finance and are under preparation for the Transport, Agriculture
and Urban sectors. The proposed second SAL, like the first is aimed at com-
plementing this approach in the areas of industry, energy and public sector
efficiency. Future operations in industry and energy would be designed in
such a manner as to facilitate continuation of the dialogue on some of the
sectoral issues that are being addressed under the proposed SAL II.
6.3       Bank lending for the industrial sector is aimed at helping improve
Korea's trade and industrial incentives policies, at improving the performance
of t'e financial system and at developing the technological capabilities of
Korean enterprises. Trade and incentives issues which constituted a signifi-
cant portion of the Action Program under SAL I would continue to assume a
prominent role under the proposed second SAL. Issues pertaining to the
strengthening of the financial system are being addressed under the Bank's
lending for industrial finance. For example, the Industrial Finance project
approved by the Board in June 1983 supports the Government's ongoing program
of financial sector reform. The Bank's technology enhancement objectives are
being pursued through two projects approved in 1982, one for the Korea
Technology Development Corporation (KTDC) which finances research, development
and engineering and the other for the machinery industries which is designed
to provide financial and technical assistance to raise the productivity levels



- 43 -
of small and medium machinery firms. The proposed Action Program under SAL II
also includes measures to encourage direct foreign investment to foster tech-
nology transfer. Future Bank lending for industry in Korea would include
continued support for the financial sector reform, for KTDC, and for the
small- and medium-industry subsector which is expected to play an important
role in the growth of the skill-intensive industries which is crucial to the
next stage of development of Korean industry.
6.4       Future Bank lending for agriculture is expected to be limited during
coming years reflecting the completion of major infrastructural works which
the country has undertaken. The sector loan now being planned would address a
number of policy and institutional issues relating to specific aspects of
Korean agriculture being defined in a sector survey. This would complement
public finance issues related to farm subsidies and the restructuring of agro-
industries to be addressed under the proposed second SAL. Loan funds are
tentatively planned to be directed to credit institutions to support long-term
lending to farmers and other private entrepreneurs in the sector.
6.5       The Bank has played a major role in assisting the Government to
modernize and expand the transport system through lending for the railroad,
highway construction and improvement, and port expansion. Proposed future
operations would aim toward addressing sectoral and subsectoral issues such as
improving the integration of investment planning, energy conservation and
transport efficiency related to regulation and road user charges. Those
transport issues which can be handled more effectively because they involve
macro-economic policies affecting other sectors of the economy would be
handled within the context of the proposed SAL, such as policies affecting
relative fuel prices.
6.6       The Bank Group has been involved in helping to meet the requirements
for skilled technical manpower, a precondition of up-market industrial diver-
sification, to be promoted by the industrial efficiency component of SAL II.
The Bank's first sector loan for education, approved In 1980, was aimed at
improving engineering and management education and technician training. The
next operation under preparation is a second sector loan which would support
measures designed to improve qualitative aspects of secondary and higher level
science and technology education.
6.7       The Bank's recent lending in the urban sector involves support for
two regional development projects, two low income housing projects and one
water supply project. The Bank is assisting Korea in increasing the avail-
ability of basic services such as housing, water supply and sewerage, and
transportation in the urban sector and to improve the functioning and effi-
ciency of urban areas. New projects in urban transport, local government
finance and water supply are under preparation. Continuation of the policy
improvement and institution-building efforts initiated under ongoing projects
is planned by moving to sector loans, first in housing.
6.8       The share of the Bank Group in Korea's total external MLT debt
disbursed and outstanding at the end of 1982 was about 13Z, and its share of
MLT debt service was of the order of 8% at that time. These ratios are expec-
ted to be around 11% and 8Z respectively by the mid-1980s.



- 44 -
PART VII - LEGAL INSTRUKENTS AND AUTHORITY
7.1       The Loan Agreement between the Republic of Korea and the Bank and
the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
7.2       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The specific actions that the Government plans to take under
SAL II are listed in the attachment to its Letter of Development Policy
(Annex IV).
7.3       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VIII - RECOMKENDATION
8.1       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
by: Ernest Stern
Attachments
October 18, 1983
Washington, D.C.



- 45 -                            ~~~~ANNEX I
TABLE  3A                                        PAE I
KoeA. REPIINJO or     -SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SNEtT
KRAr  RErUNIC or                   REFERENC @mours 01 E5(mi03    AVERACES) /a
MOST                    (lOST RECENT ESTIMATE) lb
RECENT           HOMEt INCOME          NIDDLE ETUCE
1 96e-k    1970  ESTDt0AT          ASTA a PACIrFC      LAT. AlRICA 6 CARIB
ANA CamD sq. cI)
TOrAL                              98.5       98.5       93.5
AGRICULTURAL                      21.6        23.2       22.4
my N aM CA  CM)                     180.0       420.0     1700.0            1023.6                  2083.2
(cuLocasis OF CDAL EQUIVALENT)   203.0       723.0     1563.0             7s2.a                  1407.6
wWfTog -M VIMTS uT*STICS
POPULATioK.HID-YEAR (THOusAJDSm  251t2.0    32241.0    34UBe.0
URIIA  POPULATION (z OF TOTAL)    27.7        40.7       55.9              32.9                    65.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPLATION IN TEAR 2000 (HILL)                          52.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                           73.3
YTEAR sTAmoNRr POP. tEAaCtD                           2nss
PoPLAnOne DENSITY
PER Sq. RH.                     254.0      327.4      387.9             260.7                    35.6
PER SQ. NP. ACRI. LAND         1L61.3     13B7.3     170'.2 1Z96.5                               93.2
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (2)
0-14 YRS                       42.9        4Z.1       33.7              39.6                    40.1
1e-64 YRS                        53.7       54.6       62.3              57.2                    55.8
65 AND ABOVE                     3.3         3.3        4.0               3.3                     6.1
POPULATION c@twr0 RATE (2)
TOTAL                             2.1        2.5        1.7               2.3                     Z.3
UDA                              4.7         6.4        4.6               3.9                     3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOU)       42.7        30.3       24.0              31.3                    31.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER T10us)      13.4         9.1        6.9               9.6                     3.1
GROSS REPRaOUCrZON RATE            2.7         2.1        1.4               2.0                     Z.0
FAMIY PLANING
ACCEPrTORS. ANNUAL (THOUS)         .       671.0      686.01c
USERs ( OF MARRIED   U             ..       32.0       5.0* 44.6.
row Ai0m NraRIno
IDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                     89.0        99.0      124.0             125.2                   113.0
PER CAPrTA SUPFL. OF
CALORIES (C OF REQUIREMENTS)    97.0       107.0      128.0             114.2                   111.3
PROTEINS (CRAHS PER DAY)         57.0       63.0       82.0              57.9                    67.9
OF WICH ANEIAL AND PLSE         7.0        e.0       I4.0/d            14.1                    34.1
EITLD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE        8.6        4.0         2.0               7.6                     5.3
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)      54.4       60.3       66.1              60.2                    64.6
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER TROUS)     73.3        50.1       33.1              68.1                    62.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (7POp)
TOTAL                            12.1       58.0       71.0              37.1                    64.B
URBAN                            18.6       84.0       35.0              54.8                    77.3
RMRAL                            9.5        33.0       54.9              26.4                    44.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
C: oF FOPILATIoN)
TOTAL                              .'       25.0       34.0/.            41.4                    54.6
URBAN                              *'       59.0       80.efl            47.5                    69.8
RURAL                              -                   so-or.            33.4                    29.A
POPULATION PER PRYSICIAN        3560.0      2240.0     1690.6            77n.9                   1776.0
POP. PER  URSING PERSON         3250.0/f_h  1790.0jh    380.0            2462.6                  1012.2
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          2510.0     1950.0      64.6Cg           1047.2                   477.0
URIlti                         1290.0/f   1100.0      75o.o0/           651.1                   667.5
RUIRAL                             *-         *-         *             2591.9                  1921.6
ADPHISSIONS FER HOSPITAL BED M.               14.9         ..              27.0                    27.2
AVERAGE SIZE or HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             5.6        5.0        4.5
URRlA                             5.4        ..
RDR,U                            5.6         ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOI
TOTAL                            2.5         2.3        2.0/-'
URIAN                            2.8         2.7        2.17 I-
RURAL                            2.4         2.2        2.07,.
ACCESS SD ELECr. ([ OF DULINGS)
ToTAL                            28.4       49.9
URRA                            67.3        92.4
RUIU'L~                          12.4       29.9       64.9/d
Rl3tAL~~                    1     _.               6                                 __ 



- 46 -
ANNEX I
T A B L E  3A                                     PACE 2
0RFA, PPr. Io         - SOCIAL liDICATORS DATA SHEET
KORFA: REPUBLIC OF                  REFERENCE CROUIS (CEICNTED AVERACES) /a
YOST                     (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) lb
RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME          MIDDLE rNCtwz
19GDf!t    1970-11  ,TESTTIAIA      ASIA & PACIFIC      LAT. AMERICA 4 CARIB
DUCATIO
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                  91.fn      103.0      107.0              101.2                   105.0
MALE                   99.0      104.0       103.0            Il6.0                   106.3
FEtALF                 R9.0      103.0       105.0              97.5                   103.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                 27.0        42.0       R5.0              44.9                     40.0
HALE                   38.0       50.0        89.0              50.0                    38.6
FEMALE                 14.0       32.0        10.0              44.6                    4t.2
voCATIONAL (I or SECONDARY)        14.2        14.3       18.6              IR.5                     34.0
PUPIL-TEACHE1 RATIO
PRIMARY                          58.0        57.0       46.0               32.7                    30.7
SECONDARY                        34.0        37.0       39.0              23.4                     16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (Ct)           70.6        87.6       93.0/1             72.9                    79.5
COTmIm
PASSENCER CARS/TIIOUSASD POP        0.5         1.9        6.2               9.7                    45.6
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP       31.2       124.4      392.7             113.7                   228.2
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP           0.3        13.0      164.4              50.1                    108.3
NEWSPAPER ( ATLY GENERAL
INTERESr-) CIRCULATION
PER THOUSABD POPULATION           68.1       136.3      172.8               54.0                    64.1
CINEYA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA     4.1         5.2        1.7               3.4                     2.9
LAM  -CE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOMS)        r3-17.0    11255.0    15064.0
PEDAALE (PERCENT)                26.1        32.7       32.5               33.6                    24.9
AGIICULTURE (PERCENT)            66.0        50.0       34.0               50.9                    31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                9.6        17.0       29.0              19.2                    23.9
PARTICIPATIOR RATE (PERCEFT)
TOTAL                            33.2        35.0      31.7                38.6                    31.3
HALE                             49.5        46.8       51.9               50.7                    49.8
7E8ALE                           17.2        23.0       25.4              26.6                     14.8
ECONOMIC DEPEPDENCY RATIO           1.4         1.3        1.0               1.1                     1.4
ne DlSlTJtrIOH
PERCE.r OF PRIVATE INC0HE
RECEIVED BY
NICNEST 52 OF NOUSEIHOLOS          ..        17.1       16.1/              22.2
HIGNEST 20: OF HOUSEIOLDS          ..        66.5       45.31i            43.0
LOXEST 20t OF HOUSENOLDS                      7.1         5.77i            6.4
LOWEST 402 OF NOUSENLDS            ..        17.7       16.9               15.5
_-JVCI TARGET GRUP
ESTIMATED ARSOLUTE POVERT  INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
LRBAN                              ..          ..       320.0/1           194.5                   289.8
RURAL                              ..          ..      270.0o7            155.0                   184.5
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERT TINCOME
LEVF.L (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..      370.011            178.0                   519.8
RURAL                              ..          ..      310.07             164.8                   372.1
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLDTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (2)
URBAN                              ..          ..        18.011            24.4
RURAL                              ..          ..       11.07F            41.1
. OT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
M O T E S
/- The sroup sweragea for each Indicator are populatlor-welghted arithmetic means. Coverae of countrlma aao1e the
Indicatora depends on availability of data *md to not unform.
lb Unless otherwise noted. Data for 1960- refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; Data for L970 between 1969 and
1971; and data for -Moat Recent Estio,te- between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1975; /d 1977; Ie 1975; /f 1962; /g 1976; /h Registered. not all practicing in the country; /t 1978.
may 1983



cut La                                                                                                           -noon         . nw.  en.  Oo1oo4
sam"WOU Z013-K." POO ovaLloor .11-a0000003 .00.30                                        oassa034.    ooosma- A%Oj   oonoa       000
P.- -Ia-n                                                                 Ital-~~~~i-nA,fn3no(oon m  *oan'..f *- giono1   'I  .. losn
00 -    04M       010  -inn--pn.   . oooan J. o.t.aioo   on
'O.  0-J .-000' t iton   I  . a
'ma   oit  0*021  iis  .93mg2m  W   logml- u 41000040                     wn    J.t to T000-           poasan  WoSmn0  -  ornno.o q IOI- *03   -mAn
01400      -Joaa   p Panol-W 0-1  1000 -AsOa, T A0.000   .soo ja                              '003."'oo,     aqfoond0.5  00590                  -pant
- On.  3300510    (.3102 40 000 ~o2  -nat  flJanJ 01)01. polmlo- T-4 poW"So  -  300.  nOnjin  P00 _0 -n_~on Massd
_41   -I" P-M                                                                     O" 032  .  'ntl  *00jtn   O  0030)31-g) 010140000
'00          .-.01000 Oo0n                                                          1I .0p000'1ofOIimot 0   001  *nO Ol  OOi,'04    O1l 0.d
p  maidM go nsoons ion 'nOadSo   nsnd* or            or oapp  '.oS                           2f "janan   o002  Co 001J.,"a 3033103  01 oso    -I dhna atE
q  .00. 41 o AqP-I--0  - (panq pan qIn  0  40n4)   301 0033 J   oona0  P.-M04  2d OR0O0p 1-nwd - PMaalsA   o.hoo   ,ifn  10104)                                                                                    -
002200010.0W imo                                                                          '034mo310-16   iw   a   -X.  PO   -..
TJ. P' 0103: s-tO:I-Ad   a 1d M02 Iaso IVE     0 moWO      43 po-..jo
M J_  POP to p- II .01-  M3.rWad 1- .11s"  - ~_000U0SlS$dmn10100034 -r  OO1 P--                             o 016  0.051 10-00 0500A P 05I0 20
flOesp. (  pan o to. ononpm-  so        _    A       M        d no'--"I -P-  po. ott  'c-i1400  pa.  T020                                                , io-t
Oav, g-1 P.    'n.oat I n Innoilno         ft      nj                       -v2 Er P- oOeoo  sg 002  q    nIo4   j   --v~ 031   A. olsa  on no%  -I00W  3n R
05o10o.  ns110 10 -MWoOood   010000 00 010. '1000  1 pa Uloas.-A                 pso 00.0- an ma   or 00- An, -d Wa0.M TmOno J. OMIa De3 P0000
00 aooj 5040 ntnnol 00  '~33 'OnO) S 00)n00       noons 11.0..    000100  a.; oppaodflng3 14 pnoflq0)WoVnoA..no tol       l 000atn-a
-  01nd0120  -      JO.. 000  0100a  000    ooen   33mufiom                                 no -- pPmosp no Po l   0m o-- w  'Sn-,m Io popn Loden  S
"kn-s-K         '010  00  po    Ioaan  sad Em  01a0  010)00  p- 1Sov -ea 0030  ninoa pui- LjOo  Po.   no.
Wel-  nae 301n P   0) O out 01 o1and =   1- no     1W.no in)-                                       AP"oo.oof.pan-Oft. I, - 1fi     li. i ri'c-  oOT    v.. 0 Plnnasn
."Larat        *np Sop.  Ps   ot   oqnnno'""O005   w.oosonodo  o    'us.- mooa . p. 'Amoodn
020A 80                                                                                      '30
oat1 pan n0100l                   n 0110  2   swoApaft .o_ onnan  0 000
10 s.41   -110   p000 - am-s oa.   soopao                  -.e  aa                   .)  P.s Asm01id             .S 30.1.0)0 001  '500  2004 tnnon 00M san 000
90p 0    AIl 3005 100 3m   msIt 10s  L~n. 00                             p.o plo.    -l    - noooP.ad  'noop   Poo I          o.0033 
-1.0*0  Rn 0000 AL is 00000001*2  on   so  0003oO.  00   aan   ooo.aoa   0obn   ,c    l    IoonqPtaoa
Pas-II.. 000on   nP003OolonSMoo. 53030904103000                                     p1- .5 go o*2Wna3  -                                         . olW   ooos)to-1m00-  -IT-04
01  P-0en.  -J; o.oan.                              GM-(WlOOjOsnOao  03"a`o ALtd
-pn.. 27   A.         -I "low           Iamatn  20= 11000              00304Kio00.  200    0o-   J-n               -T oliaw    - 000000      0
I.- asaaaaft Idestolla oe                                                                            0WP  oolPs,020 '00001 looloiSg so
'.00m  .nm  1;a pooCnT    o  Wft  o000A Map 1  nin"  aind0-                                             '0-OzO 30 Z    -41 lfct  00OIoIO
'n.I    1*20002                                             1 -0440pao'0-000'09.                  00040in
nin  no01000000  ~ 01301 L 00003 OlO  300.0. 00 30000..pm lin10  013 qOnJ  0000  - 000 -t0033.O  03 nIn.0OTanboO
0000000  000Op)  1310  _ 0203.000  3..' _       Itods   -0103  snnnOIo                                                      '-loP iso Lp.  'etat '0000 toallodsS
'00010000003  Lapsampoo 00 aooSandn  00004003                          SoSpl   5" O*2"3'0"d - (.-`2 P00 00000 J2.1!--a33p0 1.04
-p anoonsqop           .*3sqo.   Oirlaomao    001-00o0*1tn  '(--PoA .10-c  -aeon, - (001 1                                                 00003O, ooMAR
0e--000  ALosollao                     P001 O.33onoou.S ..0 OWW lO3m5a                   = mo  n0910n11.. '00,02
.00  n0o03  00ooo030  t    J.nse 'tLIOasomnoA 'on %no  nol.3d                          0  0110   00.n00    3005*10n3  0330-'1' 
001oolOI003   ooid lbl o.  030-20  ton          M-00 I00300000d                     J-)10000 lml)00003.002t
= 1pcos30000p          s-00J  .0130*0-10042,00                                                                          ' 'P   OR1 p    01 000  0001 00..
.0111000  I.o1.1   otOOo M  -Wiainp osoii  atom.- noobal.                                    Atois00.A              0L  bPIN KonO  00031 4001o3
an11 anmOooO.034 a          oft0305p30300(004os0 Am  Ma003ftJo 010P  000 pa. 'QWog 3n04Ma Iso.'  OIGlnOO  00M  10na000a
tocJ"   feOt   n010StOootnOlddonoao I                          e3d.J0i5312PJ paOMe  011 0040001  00d as    I0 o0000101
00100023  boaPao   00M 000  000   1 OW. 000" Wa0sp30 lOsooa  Oct 'ooann  00021 O-oodW  tao  5Od   Os.0a03 aan
o       PI1avs mOs0000  '301003033 - 0000 d00 d00. A5.055i014"3  00  .-01a 0033d   100m 0000    -- 0001 0 -00d-  -10 0 -
'N'S.Z., ,oodt d-   - 3  00)01 ti. P  a01j!i"afi                     on  A-aoOoald0oa -4O.  p0Al   010  01M 0100da 'WSRn00Po         ona
.1-2 pw  t- .1.20   M .  Pa -t-                                                             s-~~~0*0~   oO   o 'in  atano  000 00- 10
R . .-Isd                                                           -.ndw0 .01  0jn00  dnnooo  001 0 10a  000 oann
'L10aoodnn   ttlSt Iwa   o 'm13e'lO" 00'00                 ""3.   "I",ooa  "00 npo   o oat:.. pu   ot...JR00004
00300 .00003300 00001000 0100030010 0010 n00o~on, 0Rn1003mn3     3003  0010  0000 30ft00. 003000 4.00__.=atfO '-n.oaJaOO-!S       lai
p.o oanaaio nOnOsed-00  inf. *1100003 PMp    .U 'Lo.oOSns  okat.                     s'41j 30*200001010 Poono`1  0001.- qai P.1i. '00  0005   11
3-  doa    uspa  02''OJa-0010400                         is iop-m onOson,Al030.5  PnlAmo  nnan 4010120 "I.- o.10.-0   .0 103003   '00103
'00033.3100501100 i  d Ml0Sa 030_00004  .lO1o;t.o .00000 700                                    ..0mo0* 0.010a  MLdod
1- Add 4- awpn Adadaa-   v   -alass -- .3"   Pas         , O'  aotS o10  00 d O1 moso 001301da T-`(00000.20   00)0.  0
'0009 0.lop-n   Pt -!SPlotIflRKai!m d!  0041OO
"s3atop 20Oa 00o~001- 50 30100  0000 - ~toii044i1000I50V5W       101 00* '051 '300P A.L Aj 5000-  03.0 as
000000 30A.0aio Am. 3.00     00010004:000 00000000                                                                           00 P.11150i 1*4160-0.000
ftoema som00 '0o001140          p O0mO lso'30 "  ldo 4,-0  *omooo  00130'04,000o0'051'00
"MU1 00010   0   0II~f   000   0 00   10000004000033010*  10   0000000  SO10001010    0
3.0 000OXg,o0.  d0a034  301104-3130l 'OMa0101 waIM              'anooon                  sMt'.pa   0   OIaom'i)5'301o    00 00. 4300J.
000100  44 100 0010050 0 ~a plhinS ioinoond 10  310300  0001m         00005     30 1oaodt.ao. To 3.3 11 tWno -1 (Sant,000100              10
003.00  4005030.."0013001p 0%0t001            '00103000    Mon.'00 54'oan  im0   00   00
0010P-a          00m..0p.    as    lol 0l0 n-ogas2l 0010103                                  0034000  103010m000  0014&2Rode,-P 0n     01ill                        0
000M 003300103  000000000  Oo  0po11:                           .  9                       O '5.0   0.00  ae03  03100*  -0 000300 1   p-  0iin1?W
Pa.oouooad  0 3m.Oa Li npsmo  300015 -  sos Io-Pto11  40,1-0dtj0511                                                                            '030  UOt MnIII
0000NSI    dosos00O  00000   0100.1000i300000                                            30  0020100 331003 00 0050 P000a001003d0330. *00'100 MOT 
bIo00003  a.       to.sIm0          T whoop                                             I...0000.4 -   V00,0 903p0100100100sf         g'nq'k  moa
01 "sama 000Ti00 '00510 .O   00 0MP103  410flS. 'WI"     01000jod  0.On, OanWnoOm1-  010 0000ft  51000.  5 000s0300M  t  p 010  031   '30004,0    91011 3   013w001
sit ": aus"I llassmA"     '0005na` =     qz.  030ll   0000331103 gm    va(00 3rq 00000  0500084 daafi '03.033 M 030pi 'qon)o   00 a 030ea0 0313-
ti o0enl0    i 01a   am In s4s1 1010alOn 013 COl .100RI4001 0.0q01104 p. -1103051smal  03.0 no p.83. 4101.-no1 0-00  000 0004 0a 30          p non, 030  tIpo   Mig
300531000 '10000  so mtt00204



ANNEX I
Population:  39,331 (mid-1992. thousand.)                          - 48                                                     P Pr,.  4 of 5
GNP Per Capita: U851,679 (1992)
KOREA - ECoNOmiC INDICATORS
Amount
(million Us9 St                       Annual arnwth rates (1) at constant prices
current prices)                              Actual                                9roected
Indicator                                    1982 /a             1978       1979       190       1981       1921                      19
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Cross domestic product                    68,418               11.3        7.1      -3.5        7.1        5.3            7.5        7.5
Agriculture                              11,1B5              -4.0       6.7      -22.0       22.0        3.8            4.0       4.0
Industry                                26,747               20.8       8.4       -0.1        5.3        6.1            8.0       B.5
Services                                30,486               11.0       6.0       -2.4        3.6        4.8            8.8       8.0
Consumption                               51,487               11.0        7.4      -1.0        3.7        3.6            7.5        6.7
Gross investment                           17,514              35.9       17.5     -24.4        5.0        0.1            8.0        7.5
Exports of GNFS                           26,575               17.5      -3.6        9.9       17.2        4.6            8.8        9.5
Importn of CNFS                           27,215               29.1        8.6      -7.7        8.5       -0.1            8.9       8.6
Gross tatlonal savings                     14,531              14.1        3.7     -17.7        3.0       18.2           13.4        9.4
PRICES
CDP deflator (1975 * 100)                                     164.6      197.4     246.7      296.2     309.1           319.0     464.1
Exchange rate (US$1 *)                                        484.0     484.0      607.6      681.0      731.1
Export price index (1975 - 100)                               135.4      161.8     170.3      174.5      167.1          164.3     238.7
Import price index (1975 - 100)                               105.9     129.2      163.9      171.7      158.4          157.0     233.3
Terms of trade index (1975 - 100)                             128.0      125.2      103.9     101.6      105.5          104.6      102.3
Share of GDP at msrket prices (I)                      Average annual increase (Z)
(at current p rices)                                (rIces)
1960    1970    1975    1980    1995                                                     85      85-90
Gross domestic product            100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0            8.6        9.8       9.2        7.0        7.5
AgricuLture                      36.7    26.9    24.5    16.5    15.9    12.4           4.3        4.9       -1.2        7.3       4.0
Industry                         20.1    29.5    33.9    41.3    44.4    49.2           17.4      15.3       13.5        9.5       8.4
Service,                         43.2    43.6    41.7    42.3    39.7    38.3            8.1       7.7        7.6        6.7        7.7
consumption                      85.3    83.0    80.1    76.4    65.7    58.1            6.7       7.8        7.1        5.7       7.0
Gross Investment                 11.0    26.9    29.0    30.2    33.2    33.8           23.6       11.2      14.6        6.0        7.5
Exports of CNFS                   3.4    14.3    27.6    35.7    43.7    49.6           29.3      25.4       16.1        9.8        9.5
Imports of CNFS                  12.8    24.1    36.3    42.7    42.6    43.9          20.2       15.8       17.0        6.8       8.9
Gross national savings            8.0    19.5    20.6    21.7       -        -          17.2      14.6        9.0       12.7        9.2
As 2 of CDP                      Labor Force in 1990             Millions    (S)
1960      1970       1975       1980
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                             Agriculture                     4.7      32.2
Current revenues                          18.5      17.8       17.9       19.9           Industry                        3.9      27.1
Current expenditures                      14.3      13.1       15.4       15.6           Service                        5.1      35.5
Current surplus                           4.2        4.7        2.5       4.3            Unemployed                      0.7       5.2
Capital expenditure                       3.6        6.4        6.4        5.9
Foreign financing                          ...       1.0        1.3        1.0               Total Labor Force          14.5     100.0
1960-70          1970-75           1975-80           190-85           1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual CNP growth rate (Z)                                  8.7              9.0               7.9               7.0                7.6
Annual CNP per capita growth rete (Z)                       5.9              6.9               5.2               5.5                6.1
Annual energy consumption growth rate (2)                  14.2              9.6               8.7               5.7                6.0
icOR                                                        1.9              2.7               5.4               4.2                4.2
Marginal savings rate                                       0.3              0.3               0.3               0.3                0.3
Import elasticity                                           2.2              1.6               2.0               1.2                1.2
/a Preliminary.
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
September 1983



- 49                                          ANNEX I
Population: 39,331 (mid-1982, thoussade)
GNP Per Capita:  US$1,679 (1982)
KOREA- BALANCE OF PAYMENTS. EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEbT
(uillion Us. at current prices)
Indicator                                                            Actual                              Prometed
1970    1975    1971    1979    1980    1981    1982jU      183019H8
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports af 'gods and eervices             1,379   5,909  17,124  19.523  22,587  27,552  28,500    31,230  70,972
Of whieh: morchendime f.o.b.              882   5,028  12,678  14,694  17,220  20,938  20,961    23,037  52,145
Imports of goods end services             2,180   7,992  18,651  24,115  28,360  32,476  31,500    33,860  74,003
Of which: merchandise f.o.b.             1,804   6,671  14,436  19,266  21,604  24,337  23,361    25,424  58,616
Net tranefers                                178     225     467     439      449     506     473        500     500
Current account balance                    -623  -1 858  -1 060  -4 153  -5 325  -4 418  -2 546    -2 130  -2 531
(Z of cNP) -tJ) 'T9.2   T!t!)  rTT) 1!17!   t-.) tS)                                                   (-.)  (-1.6)
Direct investment                            66       53      61       17      -5      59      100       150     250
MLT loans (net)                             '-2   1,252   2,216   2,945   2,096   4,267   2,051        2,452   2,294
ufficial                                  147      486     663     852      689   1.337     880       80      635
Private                                    95      765   1,552   2,093   1,408   2,929   1,171       1,652   1.659
Other capital (intl. errarb & omLeoeons)   372       929    -510   2,090   3,770      367      484         -   1.643
Change in reserves                           57   -376    -707    -898   -536    -275         -98      -471  -1,657
International reserves (gross)              606   2.012   5,405   6,303   6.839   7,114   7,212        7.683  14,387
Reserves as sonths isports                  3.3      3.0     3.5     3.1      2.9     2.6     2.7        2.7     2.3
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross disbursements
Officlal grarnts                            -        -       -        -       -       -      50
Concessional loans                         123     IZ3     184      193     138     159      148
DAC                                     122      108    Tw7      1713    TE        51     148i
OPEC                                      -        -      13      20       17       1       -
IDA                                       1       14       3       -       -        -       -
Other                                              I       -       -        -       -
Non-concessional loans                    317   1,511   3,729   4,448   3,655   4,779   3,937
Official export credits                  IB      151     219     341      606     144     532
IBRD                                      7      157     321     426      254     306     438
other multilateral                        5       87      89      91       90     104      116
Private                                 287   1,083   3,101   3,591   2,705   3,525   2,851
Mediu_- and LonrTerm Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed          1.797   5,540  11,937  14,553  16,274  19,964  22,006
official                                613   2,657   5,016   5,667   6,498   7,702   8,572
Private                               1,185   2,883   6,921   8,886   9,776  12,263  13,433
undisbursed                               902   1,679   6,294   5,337   7,072   5,996   5.324
Debt Service on HLT Loans
Total service payments                    268      667   1,825   2,578   2,762   3,597   4,199
Interest                                70     283      657     890   1,310   1,777   2,164
Payments as 2 exports                    19.4    11.3    10.7    13.2    12.2    13.0    14.5
Short-Term Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed            ...   2,409   3,575   6,279  10,047  13,658  14,100
Interest payments                         ...      ...     236     377      907   1,810   1,528
Interest as Z exports                     ...      ...     i.4     1.9      4.0     6.7     5.3
Average Interest Rate on New Loans (Z)
Official                                  4.5      7.9     7.4     7.6      7.5     8.4     8.0
Private                                   7.1      9.3     9.7    11.4    14.0    13.6    13.7
Average Maturity of New Loans (years)
Official                                 28.0    19.3    19.6    16.8    19.6    15.3    15.5
5                     Private                                  10.9      5.7    10.9    10.7    11.2    13.1      8.1
As 2 of debt outstanding
at end of eost recent
year (1982)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within  5 year's                         61
Maturities due within 10 years                         103
interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                           9
la Preliminary
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
September 1983



-50 -
AM= rI
Page 1 of 2 pages
KOREA,
TIE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERAZIONS IN TMME REPULC OF KOA /a
A. Statemt of wak Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1983)
Loam or                                                                            AJmot CS  flion)
Credit      Calendar                                                              (l"s cancellations)
Ncftbar       Year      Borrower                  o                         Bank   TV   ID     UndIsbursde
Tdrty-eight oasD and eight credits fuLly disbursd                          2.028.98  40.00 106.81
1319        1976   ADC                   Irrigatio                            29.0                    2.59
1364        1977   ADC                   Irrigation                           95.0                   16.84
1401        1977   Republic of Xorea    Ports II                              67.0                    8.57
1474        1977   Republic of Korea    Vocationa Training                    23.0                    0.32
1503        1978   ADC                   Agriculture/Irrigation               36.0                   16.74
1530        1978   Republic of Xorea    Rural Infrastructure II               95.0                    7.04
1640        1978   Republic of Korea      ighay rv                           143.0                    2.68
1666        1979   Republic of Korea    Chungju Nultipurpome                 125.0                   36.19
1676        197      .epublic of Korea    Electronics Technology              29.0                    9.02
1758        1979   Republic of Korea    Secod OGwagim Reonl                   65.0                   35.90
1774        1979   Republc of Korea    Population 1                           30.0                   25.86
1788        1979   Korea Electric Ct.   Power                                115.0                   19.64
1800        1980   Republic of -orea    Education V                          100.0                   29.75
1829        1980   CUB I                 Dev. Finance Co.                     30.0                    0.53
1836        1980   Republic of Korea    Railway VII                           94.0                    6.78
1851        1980   AFDC                  Agriculture II                       50.0                   IZ.98
1932        1981    LYCS VIrr IDiv. Finance Co.                               90.0                   20.02
1933        1981   1DB IV                DiV. Finance Co.                    100.0                    4.53
1974        1981   Repuboic of Korea    Third Agriculture Credit              50.0                   12.34
1980        1981   Republic of Xore    Not. Urban Land & Housing              90.0                   72.1.3
2004        1981   Sag IV                Dew. Finance Co.                     60.0                   34.64
2072        1982   Republic of Korea    Vter Supply                           90.0                   67.05
21t        1982   Republic of Korea    Agricultural Marketing                50.0                   38.27
2112        1982   KTDC                  Technology Developnt                 50.0                   37.25
2144        1982   CIIB                  DYC                                  30.0                   28.35
2215        1982   Republic of Korea    Machluery Industry                    70.0                   69.08
2216        1982   Republic of Korea    Nat. Urban Land and Rousing          100.0                   97.40
2228        1982   Republic of lKore     Provincial and Comty Roads          125.0                  124.64
2267        1983   Republic of Korea    Coal and Cement Distribution         122.0                  121.70
2309        1983   Republic of Korea   Iadustrial Finance                    255.0                  255.00
Total                                                         4 436.98  40.00 106.81 1,214.82
of which has been repaid                                       L6-451         5-
Total now outstanding                                         3,920.53 38.58 01.72
Amoan- sold                  8.83
of which has been repaid   8.83                                  _      _      _
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchnge adjustment)                               3 920.53 38.58 101.72
Total undisbursed                                             1,214.82   -       -    1,214.82
la The status of the projects listed In Part A is described in a seParate report On aUl RanT/DAfinanced
PrOJeets in execution. which IS updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on
April 30 and October 31.



- 51 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2 pages
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1983)
Fiscal                                                       Amount (S uillon)
Year      Obligor                Types of Business           Loan Equits   Total
1968    RDFC                     Development Financing         -      0.7    0.7
1969    Ron=s Silk Co.           Textiles                      1.4    0.3    1.7
1970    Atlas Paper              Pulp and paper               4.5    0.5    5.0Ja
1971    Korea Investment
Finance Corp.          Capital Narket Development   -      0.7    0.7
1974    KDFC                     Development Financing         -     0.4    0.4
1974    Korea Investment
Finance Corp.          Capital Market Development   -      0.3    0.3
1975    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products          16.0    1.3   17.3
1975    Korea Securities
Finance Corp.          Capital Harket Development  5.0    0.6    5.6
1975    Tong Yang Nylon
Company, Ltd.          Synthetic Fibers             6.9    2.1    9.0
1975    Rae Un Dae Develop-
ment Company, Ltd.     Tourism                      2.8    0.;    3.5
1976    Korea Investment
Finance Corp.          Capital Market Development  -       0.4    0.4
1976    Chonju Paper Mfg. Co.    Paper                        5.0    0.5    5.5
1976    Korea Zinc. Co., Ltd.    Zinc                        15.0    4.0   19.0
1976    KDFC                     Development Financing       17.8     -    17.8
1976    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.   Electronic Products          10.0    0.4   10.4
1977    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products           -     0.2    0.2
1977    KDFC                     Development Financing         -     0.3    0.3
1977    Korea Securities
Finance Corp.          Capital Market                -     0.5    0.5
1977    Korea Development
Leasing Corp.          Capital Market              15.0    0.4   15.4
1978    KDFC                     Development Financing         -      1.1    1.1
1979    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products           -      1.7    1.7
1979    KIFC                     Capital Market                -      0.6    0.6
1979    Korea Development
Leasing Corp.                                        -     0.2    0.2
1979    Cold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products           -      1.5    1.5
1980    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products           -      1.8    1.8
1980    Korea Investment
Finance Corp.          Capital Market                -     0.6    0.6
1980/   Korea Securities
82/84    Finance Corp.                                        -      2.3    2.3
1980    KDFC                     Development Financing         -      2.2    2.2
1981   Taihan Bulk Terminal      Grain Port Terminal          7.0    2.5    9.5
Co., Ltd.
1982   KIFC                      Capital Market                -      0.6    0.6
1982   K-TAC (Korea Technology
Advancement Corp.)      Research & Development        -     0.6    0.6
1983    KDIC                     Money & Capital Wkt.          -      0.9    0.9
Total gross commitment                              106.4   30.9  137.3
less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                                87.1    4.6   91.7
Total commitments now held by IFC                    19.3   26.3   45.6
TOTAL undisbursed                                      _        -     _
/a Cancelled at the request of the Company.



- 52 -
ANNEX III
KOREA
SECOND SDCTURAL ADOJS7NDNT LOAN
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I - Tinetable of Key Events
(a) First government presentation to the Bank: October 1982
(b) Preappraisal mission                      : March 1983
(c) Appraisal mission                         : June/July 1983
(d)  Completion of negotiations               : October 6, 1983
(e) Planned date of effectiveness             : November 22, 1983
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
Prior to June 30, 1984 or other agreed date, the Bank woula reviev
the GovernmentWs progress in implementing the structuril adjustment program as
set forth in the Letter of Develop nt Policy.
Section III - Special Conditions
Government to enter into agreements satisfactory to the Bank with
institutions to carry out studies and workshops included in the SAL II Action
PrograI-



- 53 -
ANNEX IV
October 7, 1983
Mr. Alden W. Clausen
President
The World Bank
1818 E Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
U. S. A.
Dear Mr. Clausen:
Re: STRUCrURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM OF THE REPUBLIC OF KORPEA
1.        This letter is to request a second structural adjustment loan in
the amount of $300 million in support of a program of structural adjustment
of the Korean economy. It would build upon and continue the work undertaken
muder the first structural adjustment loan which was approved by the Board
of the World Bank on December 21, 1981.
Back-ground
2.        After adjustment to the first oil price jump in 1972-73, Korea re-
established its rapid growth momentum by 1975. Between 1975 and 1979 output
expanded by an unparallelled average annual rate of about 10%, the -,1lu-Me
of real exports and fixed investmert more than doubled between 1975 and 1979,
and the investment sbare in GN'P rose from 29% to 35%, while the gross do.estic
savings ratio rose from 19% to almost 27%. The socioeconomic transformation
progressed with a similarly rapid pace. Over the same period the share of
agriculture population dropped from 46% to 36% and the share of industrial
labor force rose from 19% to 24%.
3.        During this period a number of structural ureaknesses gradually
evolved. First, the industrial structure became increasingly inbalanced.
The Government, wZhich pursued a policy of strongly guiding industrial
development .hrough credit direction, subsidized credits and generous tax
holidays for selected key growth sectors, had focussed its attention on the
development of large-scale facilities in heavy industries, such as steel,
basic chemicals, shipbuilding and heavy equipment manufacturing.  Antici-
pating continuous rapid growtl of the domestic economy and uninterrunted
growtb of international trade, these industries were designated to be the
driving force of development in the 1980s.  But problems of techulo'y ar-d
market1ng turned out to be much more difficult tc master than anticipated
and, together with the collapse of the domes.ic arnd e:ort growth mcrentnm
after 1979, resulted in large unused capacities wbich - especiallv In oil-
based and energy-intensive activities ha,. beconc cut-of-line wft4 the
comparative advarntage of the country.  W.4hile finarnc ng was concen.rated on
these Large new vcntures, the traditional er-orr industries and small- anid
medium-scale industries were deprived of sufficient funds.



- 54 -
ANNEX IV
4.        Second, the rapid growth. accormodated by expansionary monetary and
credit policies, created chronic inflation. It was amplified further by very
high nominal wage increases caused by a tightening labor market, and real
wages increases ahead of productivity growth. Insufficient investment in
traditional export industries, inflationary pressures, and a rigid exchange
rate policy gradually eroded the competitiveness of Korean exports, finally
affecting the momentum of growth itself. And third, inequalities between
Income groups and regions became more pronounced.
5.        In response to the emergence of these structural weaknesses, the
Government introduced in 1979 a stabilization program which was to serve as
the first step towards structural adjustment. However, before it could affect
the pace of development, it was overwhelmed by the second oil price jump
(equivalent to about 6% of GNP in 1980) and by the effects of the political
uncertainty arising after the assassination of President Park. The current
account balance, which was in equilibrium in 1977, had deteriorated by end-
1979 to the equivalent of almost 7% of GNP, and the rate of inflation-reached
about 18%. The year 1980 was the most difficult one, as agriculture suffered
from a crop failure, as debt service payments started to mount due to the
rising levels of real interest rates, and as stagnating world trade combined
with growing protectionism in major recipient countries of Korea's exports.
6.        The new Government initiated in 1980 a vigorous adjustment program.
The priorities were drastic reduction of the rate of inflation and return to
a viable BOP position. bonetary and fiscal policies were tightened, the Won
was drastically devalued and set afloat. Increases of nominal wages were
kept below the rate of inflation, and higher import prices were passed through
to the domestic market. The outcome of 1980 reflects the joint impact of
external shocks and stabilization measures: GNP fell by more than 6%, invest-
ment by 12%, the current account deteriorated to 9.4% of GNP, inflation shot
up further to an annual rate of 29%, and unemployment rose significantly.
The positive results of the stabilization and BOP adjustment measures started
to emerge in 1981. GNP recovered to the 1979 level, exports grew in real
terms by 17% and the BOP current account deficit declined to about 7% of GNP,
and the rate of inflation dropped sharply to around 12%.
7.        In 1982, further rapid improvement was reached along the lines of
1981. In late Spring a temporary crisis of confidence occurred when the
informal financial markets suddenly dried up after the so called "curb loan
scandal".  In response to this event, and in line with the recovery already
reached, the Government shifted to a more expansionary monetary, fiscal and
credit policy. By the end of the year, the phase of stabilization and
adjustment of the BOP was successfullv cornleted. GNP growth reached 5.3%,
the current acount deficit had declined to 3.8% of GNP, and the rate of
inflation had dropped to 3% on a year-end to year-end basis. This success
is the basis for shifting in 1983 the emphasis of Government policies back
to the unresolved problems of structural adjustment.
The Structural Adjustment Program of the Government
8.        The design o a feasible and realistic macroeconomic scenario to
attain a resilient macr-o-cconomic growth rate of about 7.5% p.a. was a major
theme for the prep.-ration of the present Five-Year Plan (1982-86), whiich took



- 55                          ANNEX IV
place during the critical years of 1980 anc 1981.1/  Such a rate is essential
to cope with the rapid increase of the labor force resulting from past high
population growth rates in con.biratico with the increasing intersectoral
switch of employment out of agriculture and traditional services into the
industry and modern service sectors.  This planned growth path is to be
consistent with maintaining internal and external balance, to be viable.
Internally, this implies prevention of another inflationary surge as the
overriding priority. ExternaUly, the necessary conditions for viability
are export growth and containment of import growth, resulting in annually
declining ratios of current account deficits to GNP and declining debt
service ratios; otherwise the substantial future borrowing requiremeats
cannot be met.
9.        As the experience of these difficult years (1978-1981) demonstrated,
the objectives of the Plan cannot be achieved without substantial structural
adjustments. Although some of the concrete targets and the macroeconomic
framework of the Plan are to some extent superseded - the actual development
was more successful than could have been anticipated - th  underlying
philosophy of the Plan and its general objectives are still fully valid and
determine the direction of the structural adjustment policies of the
Government.
10.       On the most general level, the Plan, which is now purely "indica-
tive,' reflects a drastic change in the perception of the role of the
Government in the process of development.11 While specific Government
guidance and initiative was crucial in the earlier stages of development,
Korea's economy has now reached a degree of complexity and sophistication
that initiative for diversification of output mix and for investment by the
private sector will lead to greater efficiency and more rapid growth.
Therefore, the Government has ceased to directly guide development of key
sectors and to promote expansion of these sectors by a variety of special
itcentives.  Instead, the aix of the Government is to establish the conditions
for the private sector to expand according to Korea's changing comparative
advantage by setting up an efficient policy framework and relying upon general
incentives for improving productivity and technology.
11.       Preparatory steps for structural adjustment - e.g., special studies,
preparatory work on new legislation, and introductiu.n of the first of a
sequence of complementary measures - were taken during 1982, in part in
connection with work carried out under the agreed action prngram under SAL I.
In 1983 and 1984, with the short-term problems out of the way, a series of
substantive reforms will be initiated which will shape the economic develop-
ment of Korea during the 1980s. Below, we set out the priorities of the
11 A revision of the Plan is presentl; tnder wav. It adjusts macroeconomic
assumptions umderlying the Plan to more recent trends and addresses a
nuirbei of institutional and socioeconomic issues in more concrete terms
than the initial Plan; it does not, however, change, or depart from, the
Structural Adjustment Program as developed in this letter.



-56-
ANNEX IV
structural adjustment policies and the thrust of the initiatives the
Government has already taken. or intends to take in the near future
excluding the program for social development which is not affected by the
SAL program to be supported by the World Bank. In our view, these initia-
tives are more than the sum of its parts, they form a cohercut program of
mutually reinforcing components. In the attacbment to this letter we
describe in greater detail the specific contents of the action program.
12.       Industry:  Industry will remain the backbone of Korea's economy.
Export of manufactures will remain the driving force of overall development
and industrial exports will have to maintain the external balance. This
requires that every effort be made to broaden the depth and breadth of the
industrial sector and to pursue a vigorous up-market diversification of
industrial output to skill-intensive industrial activities. As noted above,
decisions on changes of the structure of output and on investment will be
determined by market forces. This will imply the following changes of the
policy framework, mostly, but not exclusively affecting the industry sector:
(a) the scope of directed credits will be reduced and credit
subsidization will be phased out;
Cb) decisions on the allocation of investment resources will be left-
to investors and banks -(see para. 22 below);
(c) the import regime will be reformed with the objective of reaching
the level of import liberalization of the industrialized countries
by 1986;
Cd) the import tariff schedule will be overhauled with the objective
to reduce the spread of rates;
(e) tax incentives will be changed from activity-specific to function-
specific preferences, mostly for R&D and development of technology,
and for energy-saving investment;
(f)  access to foreign tec.rology will be stimulated, and foreign
Investment provisions will be relaxed;
(g) the Government will lend temporary support to the private sector
industries which either face major problems of inherited imbalances,
or which are on the verge of major expansion and require support in
the initial phase of development;
Ch)  financing of capital goods exports will be greatly expanded to
bring it up to par with financing of competing exporters; and
(i) special attention will be given to SMI, which provide a necessarv
supply basis for large-scale industries and tend to be labor-
intensive.



- 57 -
ANNEX IV
13.       The action program under Si.L I involved the following major
components:
(i)  a study was carried out to assess existing levels of protection
and industrial incentives; the results and the recommendations
are the starting points for actions presently prepared and
included in SAL II;
(ii) a study was carried out for (l) the automobile industry, which
is on the verge of a major expansion, and (ii) selected activities
in the heavy equipment industry which are suffering from severe
over-capacity; the results and recommendations will be reviewed
by the Government before further promotional or remedial actions
will be taken.
Under SAL II, the proposed action program will include the following major
items:
('ii) substantive strengthening of the import liberalization program
and preparation of an preannouncement system for step-wise
further import liberalization;
(iv) completion of preparatory work on a new import tariff and
enactment of a new tariff law;
Cv) completion and implementation of a multi-year adjustment program
for the fertilizer industry where the Government holds the majority
of equity and has to settle legal obligations to foreign investors;
and
(vi) enactment of legislation for further liberalization of foreign
investment.
14.       Energy:   Korea is among the most energy-intensive (in relation
to GNP) countries. The energy-elasticity of growth during the 1970s was
above unity, and average fuel imports accounted after 1979 for more than
30% of the total import bill of the country. A less energy-intensive growth
path, thus, is critical for the resilience of the growth path of the economy
against any future drastic change of relative prices. This - together with
the need to contain the very high investment cost linked to energy supply
and distribution requires the design of a long-run strategy addressing both
supply of primary energy, conversion of primary to secondary energy, and
use of energy. To cope with these problems, the medium-term adjustment
program contains the following major components:
(a) pricing of energy at opportunity costs in order to induce more
ratioral energy use in existing production activities and
processes, and a less energy-intensive pattern of future
production activities and processes;
(b) diversification of fuel imports from almost exclusive reliance
upon petroleum to coal and LNG;



- 58 -
ANNEX IV
(c)  increased share of nuclear vs fossil primary energy in power
generation and increased share of coal vs oil;
td) maximum economically feasible exploitation of domestic coal
deposits;
(e)  stimulation of energy conservation in industry, and in existing
and new residential and commercial buildings;
(f)  increased energy-efficiency of the transport system.
15.       The action program under SAL I involved the following major
components:
(i)  study of the technical and economic conditions affecting pricing
policies for refinery products, electric power, and coal;
(ii)  workshops on industrial energy conservation, and energy audits
for large-scale energy-intensive enterprise;
(Iil) workshops for improving energy-efficiency of buildings; and
Civ)  reduction of the retail price differential of gasoline and
diesel fuel.
Under SAL II, the proposed action program would include the major following
items:
Cv)  further adjustments of the electric power tariffs, particularly
in accordance with marginal cost at peak loads, and continuous
review of the investment program to minimize investment outlays
in view of changing demand projections, generating technologies
and refinement of load management;
(vi)  preparation of an implementation program for regulatory reform
of refinery product pricing and imports, and in the interim
changes of ex-refinery prices towards greater conformity with
opportunity cost;
(vii)  study of the long-run future role of domestic coal, preparation
of an implementation program for regulatory reform and phasing-out
of subsidies, and interim measures in this direction;
(vifi) study of long-run technical and economic aspects of introducing
LNG into Korea's energy system;
(ix)  further efforts to induce industrial energy conservation; and
(x)  completion and introduction of a comprehensive, energy-efficient
building code.



- 59 -
ANNEX IV
Since the action program extends to areas wlhere Korea has not yet had an
opportunity to accumulate sufficieLit indigenous technical know-how, we will
give priority to the use of funds available under UNDP Technical Assistance
to the acquisition of critical expertise. in addition to the action program
under SAL II, we intend to collaborate on questions of energy-efficiency
in connection with the transport sector loan, presently being prepared.
16.       Agriculture:   To maintain a viable agricultural sector is a
priority for three major reasons.  First, some measure of security of food
supply is a prime requirement of national security. Second, a measure of
income parity is a prime requirement for maintaining intersectoral and
interregional equity.
And third, in view of the limited absorptive capacity of the industrial
labor market, and of the existing urban infrastructure and of the very
high social cost of its expansion, a rapid further urbanization, particularly
further agglomeration in the metropolitan centers, is not in the national
interest. The major components o:f the program for medium-term structural
adjustment are:
(a) continued high priority for attaining rice self-sufficiency;
(b) improvement of efficiency and structure of the agricultural
sector througlh promotion of land consolidation and mechanization;
gc) the development of efficient marketing links for agricutlural
outputs and inputs;
(d) improvement of the social and physical rural infrastructure,
including transportation, to contain social forces of
Outmigration;
(e) creation of sources for off-farm income in rural areas to
provide the material basis for improving agricultural incomes
through increasing land/labor ratios without adding to outmigration.
17.       The action program under SAL I addressed, in connection witb the
income effects of phasing-out the GMF and FF subsidies on the agricultural
sector, the off-farm income issue:
a study was carried out to explore the possibilities of and the
obstacles to expansion of nonagricultural employment in rural
areas and to evaluate the experience of Japan and Taiwan.
In part as a result of this study, legislation is presently being prepared
to promote in various ways the creation of additional employment in rural
areas or within commuting distance of the rural population. Since this is
merely one of several approaches to induce industrial development in a
spatially more disaggregate patrern, the inclusion of off-farm income in
SAL II is presented below under National Land Development.



-60-
ANNEX IV
18.       National Land Development:  Over the 1960s and 1970s, growth
was given priority over all other considerations. This created a high
degree of centralization of population and industrial expan.s on in a few
major urban centers, most prominently Seoul and Pusan, wbich together
account now for roughly 31% of Korea's total population. This agglomieratior
was accompanied by rising social costs in terms of infrastructure investment
and housing, congestion, land shortage, degradation of the environment, and
interregional income disparity. In the view of the Government the point has
now been reached where those costs begin to impair the quality of life as
well as the overall efficiency of development, and a more rational spatial
pattern of development is called for. To provide the basis for a departure
in this new direction of structural adjustment, a number of new initiatives
have been or are to be taken:
(a) a comprehensive National Physical Land Development Plan has been
completed recently by the Ministry of Construction;
(b) a new Growth Pole City Development Law is being drafted by the
Ministry of Construction;
(c) a new Farm Household Income Source Development promotion law is
being. drafted by the Ministry of Agriculture;
td) increased attention is being given by the Ministry of Transpor-
tation to improve the provincial and interregioual road network;
and
(e) the Ministry for Home Affairs, which is in charge of the
administrative and financial aspects, is preparing several new
initiatives.
19.       Obviousiy, in this area policies covering a variety of issues -
ranging from development of physical infrastructure, public finance and
administration, f'nancial support and incentives to manpower development,
to mention merely the most-important links in the chain - have to be
developed jointly in order to create a consistent and effective overall
framework without major gaps. This requires extensive cooperation of a
large number of Government agencies which have some responsibilities in
this area and are not yet fully accustomed to operate under a coordinated
program of action; in addition, the extensive analytical work done so far
on specific aspects needs to be integrated into one coherent framework
and, to the extent necessary, expanded. Without either integration, the
design and the implementation of efficient and effective initiatives would
be premature.
20.       Public Finance:  Fiscal deficits and preferential credits,
financed from -central bank borrowing, were contributing causes for past
inflation. Public investment programs were often inefficient, and public
sector investment in productive activities frequently yielded low returns
or required further operating subsidies. Furthermore, in the future the
reduced overall investment rate and the reduced relative role of foreign



- 61 -
ANNEX IV
savings will make It more urgent than in the past not to crowd-out the
private sector from the capital market.  Finally, Korea has already
reached a level of taxation - taking into consideration that it does not
includc social security taxes and contributions - approximating that of
many industrialized countries. This burden of existing taxation leads
to conflicts between incentives for savings and risk-taking on the one
hand, and equitable tax collection of sufficient revenues on the other,
while struggling with a heavy burden of defense expenditures. To deal
with these problems, the medium-term adjustment program contains the
following major components:
(a) transition to zero-based budgeting, and to a rolling three-year
budget;
(b) tightened tax collection, particularly on unreported income from
financial assets;
(c)  phase-out of major hidden subsidies, such as deficits of the
Grain Managcment Fund (GMF) and the Fertilizer Fund (FF);
(d) reduced borrowing from the Central Bank and shift to financing
of reduced public sector deficits from bond issues;
(e) rigorous screening of the public investment program;
(f) increase of efficiency of public enterprises through increased
autonomy and rigorous performance accountability of their
management;
(g) phase-out of operating subsidies and budgetary allocations to
investment of public enterprises; and
(h) prudent policy of monetary growth.
21.       The action program under SAL I involved the following-
components:
(i) increase of the tax/GNP and the public savings/GNP ratios;
(ii) creation of a task force to explore the implications of the
phase-out of the GMF and FF deficits, and reduction of the
differentials between purchasing prices plus handling cost and
sales prices;
(ffi) strengthening the authority and improvement of the technical
capabilities and the methods for project evaluation by-the
Investment Review Bureau of EPB;
Under SAL II, the proposed action program will include:
(iv) design of an institutional framework antd of an implementation
program which would permit gradual phase-out of the present
GMF operation and its financing from Central Bank credits;



-62 -ANNEX IV
(v) continued collaboration between the Investment Review Bureau
and the Bank in the area of methods of project preparation and
evaluation; and
(vi) collaboration in the design of an implementation program for
the new Law on Public Enterprise Management, expected to be
enacted this Fall.
22.       Financial Sector:   Deregulation of the financial sector is a
necessary corollary to the changing role of the Government from active
guidance of investment to assuring a policy framework for efficient
resource mobilization and allocation. The medium-term strategy for
structural adjustment comprises the following major components:
(a) phase-out of subsidized loans, and reduction of the share of
directed credits;
(b) denationalization of the city banks and removal of restrictions
and instructions guiding their lending policy:
(c) gradual deregulation of interest rates;
(d) introduction of a noninterventionist system of supervision and
control of the banking system.
Since these reforms are part of the action program of the recently
concluded industrial finance sector loan, no action is considered under
SAL.
23.       External Balance:   Maintenance of a viable external balance and
of the country's creditworthiness are necessary conditions for maintaining
a sustainable momentum of growth. This requires, in addition to maintaining
a competitive rate of exchange, internal stability and inducements to
export, an active management of foreign borrowing and debt servicing. To
maintain Korea's present high level of creditworthiness, the Government
will strive to:
(a) maintain an average current account deficit over the next three
years around 3% of GNP;
(b) gradually reduce the debt-service ratio (including interest on
short-term capital);
(c)  gradually reduce the share of short term in total debts from              a
the estimated level of around 35% for 1983;
(d) encourage the inflow of long-term private capital in the form
of equity capital and bonds;
(e) diversify sources and terms of loans; and
(f) improve the internal information network on Korean borrowing
abroad.



- 63 -
ANNEX IV
As the most important of these actions arc part of the standby agreement
with the IMF, the action progrma tmder SAL JI does not include special
provisions in this area, beyond continuing consultations with the World
Bank on issues relating to creditworthiness.
Sincerely,
".                                   }' ;             X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0014
Su9  Suk-Joon
Duty Primie Minister
and
Minister of Economic Planning
Republic of Korea



- 64 -
ANE  IV
.-Attachment
Action Progran
1.     Industrialization Policy
1.1    Import Liberalization
(a)- Implementation of the liberalization measures announced July 1,
1983.
(b)  Preparation, by end of 1983, of a pre-notification system for
import liberalization during the period 1964 Lo 1986.
Cc)  Import liberalization in 1984 in line with the pre-notifcation
system consistent with the Government's objective of attaining an import
liberalization ratio of around 90X by 1986.
1.2    Tariff Reform                     -
(a) Submission-of the revised import Tariff Law to the National
Assembly during October 1983. The draft to be submitted to the National
Assembly includes a schedule for gradual adjustment of tariff rates during
1984-88. For the majority of import items tariff rates will be adjusted in
1984 to 5-10% for raw materials, 20-30' for intermediate and -'apital goods and
40-50Z for consumer goods. By 1988, tariff rates will h.ave been further
adjusted to fall within ranges of 5-10O for raw materials, 20% for interme-
diate and capital goods and 20-30% for consumer goods. Also, under the
revised 'Law, tariff exemDtions will be abolished for most of the key
industries for which they are currently available, subject to a two-year
transition period ending January 1, 1986, during which the exemptions will
continue to.apply.  The transition period may be extended for a further two
years in exceptional cases.  Ir. order to complement the import liberalization
program a new adjustment tariff system will be introduced which wil-l permit -
the temporary imposition (for up to 3 years) of -he highest legl tariff rate
of 1O(iX on imports which increase too rapidly within three years of import
liberalization and cause or threaten serious injury to domestic industry.
(b) After Nlational Assembly approval, implementation of the new
legislarion during -January .1984.
1.3    Foreign Direct Invest=ent
(a)  Submission of the revised Foreign Investment Inducement Act to the
.National Assembly during October 1983. The reforms will include replaccment
of the presen. positive list system of industries open to foreign investment
with a negative lis; system which will specify only those industries in which
foreign investment is prohibited or restricted. Implementing regulations will
be issued by the first quarter of 1984 which will set out the industries in
which foreign investment will be prohibited or restricted. The number of
ineustries in which foreign direct investment is permitted will be substan-
tially increased under the new system. There will also be further simplifi-
cation of approval procedures, includin- immediate approval by the M-finistry of
Fi:aance of investment projects satisfying specific criteria concerning factors
suchl as share and size of foreign equity in project.  Previously, all applica-
tions re-iired deliberation with concernied ministries and, if above a certain
size, approval by the Foreign Capital Project Review Committee.



-65-                            ANNEX IV
Attachment
(b)  After National Assembly approval, 1eplementation of the revised
law during the first half of 1984.-
1.4    Fertilizer Industrv
(a) 'The restructuring program for the fertilizer industry will be
implemented durir.g 1983 as presently plan:ied.
(b) Ur-economical facilities which are rot covered by remaining joint
venture agreements will be disposed of by mid-1984.
*
2.     Energy
Electric Power
(a)  KEiPCO will prepare a plan for improving its tariff structure
during the first quarter of 1984, after a review of long-run marginal fuel and
capacity costs has been completed by the end of 1983 for all customer
categories voltage levels, types of use, and time periods. The objective is
to bring all tarifs closely in line w-ith marginal costs, while taking into
account obiectives of social equity, energy conservation and revenue
requirements for KLPCO to achieve a reasonable rate of return on invested
capital aad an appropriate level of internal funding of expansion programs.
(b)  Durinig 19B4, KEPCO will start with the implementation cf the
tariff reform plan under (a).
(c)  Irn order to prepare long-term improvements in planning, pricing
and load management, a program of load research will be initiated in 1964 to
analyze and project load patterns by sector and uses, and investigate the
potential for 'oad shifting threugh pricing andlor direct load azanagement.
{d)  1REPCO will continue to review its investment plans on a yearly
basis to adiust to Changes in projected demand, and enhance tlexibility in
planni-g to minimize the risk for excess investments or supply shortages.  The
1983 revIew will include the planned composition of power generation and
introduce scenario planning and risk analysis.
(e)  XFPCO will introduce improvements in power plannilng methodo'ogy
and carry ou. durir.n  1984 a review of Lhe options for peak load power
-generation a..d the t'ming of transmission expansions.
(f) }-EPCO will establish an electric power technology institute in
1984. Within t1his new R&D center, sufficient staffing and funding will be
provided by I1EPCO to carry out the improvements in planning, pricing and load
resea=ch aentioned above.
2.2    Petroleum Product Pricinrg and Trade
(a)  A s,udy of the Ifurther revision of the regulatory framework for
petroleum -roduct pricing and trade will be carried out during 1984. A long-
term program for deregulation of petroleum product pricing and trade will be
prepzared, and inplementation will begin in =id-1985. The obiective is to
intrcjnuce a larger role for market forces, increase the efficiency of domestic
refinery industry, and encourage greater participation in international
petroleum product trade, to facilitate the adjustment to the new structure of
demand.
(b) Reviev during 1984 the system of motor fuel excise taxation with
the objective of caking such changes in the system as would be recessary for
equitable apportioning of road user char-es while raking into accGunt the need
for adequate sources of tax revenues, maintaining energy coaservaticn, and
liniting unecono=ic fuel substitutions. The result of the planned road user
charge study will also be tak-n into account.  Implementation, based on the
results of the study, would begin in 1985.



-66-                        ANEX IV
Attachment
2.3    Coal Pricing and Subsidies
(a) Domestic anthracite prices will continue to be adjusted to reflect
changes in mining costs and productivity differentials with other sectors.
*(b) In line with the country's medium-term objective of eliminating
.operating (including transport) subsidies, no more than 20X of the funds
earmarked for the coal industry during 19B2-86 under existing legislation will
be made available for operating subsidies.
(c) A study of the long-term role of coal in energy demand and of the
supply options will be completed by the end of the first quarter of 1984, and
a coal sector deregulation program will be prepared during 1984 on the basis
of this study, and implemented beginning in 1985.
2.4    LNG Implementation
A work program will be undertaken to determine the role and efficient
use of LNG and to develop implementation plans for gas distribution networks.
As part of this program, a conference will be held in 1984 with participation
of international experts with experience in introducing LNG and natural gas
distribution system. The work program and conference will cover organiza-
tional aspects (staffing, training, safety codes, operating procedures, main-
tenance, finances), natural gas demand by sector (industrial, residential
commercial, electric power), preliminary design, costing, implementation
schedules, and pricing of natural gas.
2.5    Industrial Energy Conservation
*(a) KEMCO will carry out energy audits of about 1,000 small and medium
sized-enterprises and will extend guidance and information to about 10,000
firms during 1983; and a similar program will Le carried out during 1984.
(b) The Government will augment the resources of the Energy Saving
Facility as necessary to meet demand in 1983 and 1984.
2.6    Building Energy Conservation
(a) Introduction of an energy-efficient building code by 1985.
(b)  Public review of the proposed code during 1984 includtng a con-
ference with participation of affected partie4 (architects, engineers,
construction firms, etc.), and international experts, with experience in
designing and administering energy efficient building codes.
3.     Public Finance
3.1    Grain Managemenet Fund
(a)  The CGF will cease borrowing from the Bank of Korea starting in
1984 and finance current deficits, if any, from the national budget.
vu} The price differentials between buying and selling price, and all
current subsidies will be eliminated by the end of 1987.
(c) By mid-1984 the Government will prepare a phased program of action
to eliminate subsidies and to resolve the problem of accumulated debts.
(d) The GMF policy tor the crop year 1983/84 will narrow the price
differential and forth- crop year 1984/85 will be in accordance with the
medium-term program under (c).
3.2    Project Evaluation
(a) Organization and implementation of a general project planning
training program fur staff of major ministries during 1984, to improve the
quality of project evaluation and to enforce uniform standards far project
preparation and evaluation.



-67 -                        ANNEX IV
Attachment
(b)  After compl1'?tion of the initial design phase, a review during 1984
of thie proposed corput.erized plannin-ie-valuation system by key personnel from
tte main user agencies and outside exrerts.
(c)  Review of the completed sector manuals by Bank staff during 1984.
(d)  Continuation of the dialogue with the Bank on project plannin- and
program evaluation methods during 1984.
3.3    Public Enternrise Reform
(a)  Subzission of the Public Enterprise Management Law to the "-tional
*           Assembly during October 1983.
(b)  ImpLementation of the Law after National Assembly approval,
beginniing -with preparation of implementation guidelines, including a public
enterpr-ise performance evaluation syste=, during the first quarter of 1984.
(c) Preparation, for implementation during 1984, of a personnel
development prograu for the new evaluation secretariat, inc,uding formal
training and a conference with participation of international experts.
t



KOREA: Use of IMF Resources
tIn millions of SDRs)
Gross Credit Drawings
Compensatory              Regular
and buffer      Oil      stand-bys                 Repay-                   Net credit
stock drawings  facility  and EFFs    Total /a       ments /b     Charges /c  drawings /d
1973                                                                           _
1974                        90.0        20.0   110.0                          0.2        110.0
1975                       107.3                107.3                         8.5         107.3
1976         40.0           55.4         9.0   104.4          20.0           18.4         84.4                           1
1977                                                          10.3           20.4        -10.3                          a
1978                                                          89.5           19.6        -89.5                          X
1979                                                         -97.4           10.8        -97.4
1980        160.0                      320.0   480.0          25.0           12.8        455.0
1981                                   576.0   576.0          40.8           78.1        535.2
1982        106.2                               106.2         34.8          104.7          71.4
1983 projected                         192.0   192.0          62.2          113.4         129.8
1984    "                              288.0   288.0         261.5          131.5          26.5
1985    "                               96.0    96.0         361.8          125.0       -265.8
1986                                                         266.8           99.3       -266.8
1987    "                                                    218.0           77.4       -21d.0
1988    "                                                    224.8           52.0       -224.8
1989    "                                                    144.0           31.9       -144.0
1990    "                                                    144.0           16.6       -144.0
/a  Use of Fund Credit (regular stand-by drawings, EFF drawings, oil facility drawings,
compensatory facility drawings and buffer stock drawings)
/b  Repayments through repurchase..
7TW Interest on Credit Drawings and on Trust Fund borrowing.
7d- a-b
Source: IMF



IbRD 12351
DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC               V
CHINA   I                                  OF KOREA
J S.s". f                           r2t,\gS0j-                                     oEast Sea
JAPAN                                                                                            3w
East         Ocea n
27             ~~~~~~~~~12.6
ea.u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Yellow  Sea                         r<.
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
Railways
d                                                                                                Railways w,r consst,,ctias
4   Airports
4, Parts
Prnci. bod.a.s
_ _ _ lt_Sinternatinal boundari*s
20   d    0 so    W,   o NO/'lvo . 
0      20      so      00       o
MILES
127       124                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~127-     2r19



