Report No. 941a-SE
Appraisal of a
Feeder Roads Project   FILE COPY
Senegal
March 4, 1976
Western Africa Projects Department
Highways Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =        CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$ 1            =        CFAF 225
CFAF 1 million   =        US$4,444
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                       British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)             =       3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)        =       0.62 mile (mi)
1 square
kilometer (km2)      =       0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 metric ton (ton)      =       2,204 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCEOM         =   Bureau Central d'Etudes pour l'Equipement d'Outre Mer
BPP           =   Subdivision for Feeder Roads
CCCE               Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
DER           =   Division de l'Entretien Routier in DPW
DPW           =   Directorate of Public Works in MPWUT
DSP           =   Directorate of Studies and Programming in MPWUT
FAC               Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
FED           =   Fonds Europeen de Developpement
ICC                Interministerial Consultative Committee
MPWUT         =   Ministry of Public Works, Urban Development and Transport
ONCAD         =   Office National de Cooperation et d'Assistance au Developpement
SAED          =   Societe d'Am'enagement et d'Exploitation des Terres du Delta
SODEVA        =   Soci'ete de Developpement et de Vulgarisation Agricole
SODEFITEX     =   Societ6 de D6veloppement des Fibres Textiles
STN           =   Societe de Terres Neuves
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFfICIAL USE ONLI
SENEGAL
APPRAISAL OF A FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY
1.   INTRODUCTION.1
2.   BACKGROUND                                                     2
A. The Economy.                                                2
B. The Rural Sector           ..                               2
-  Roads and Agricultural Development                      3
- The Marketing System and Impact of
Road Improvements.                                   4
C. Roads. .                                                    4
- The Network ....                                         4
- Traffic on Feeder Roads.                                 5
- The Road Transport Industry.                             6
- Highway Administration.                                  7
D. Financing of Feeder Roads.                                  8
3. THE PROJECT .10
A. Description   ..10
-  Improvement and Maintenance of Feeder Roads .          10
-  Technical Assistance to MPWUT .11
- Purchase of Equipment .12
B. Cost Estimates   ..12
C. Execution   ..14
D. Project Monitoring    ..15
S. Procurement..... ...                                       16
F.  Financing and Disbursements       .       .16
4.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION ................................           17
5.   RECOMIEND A i' )I"        ........................             19
Th-is report      i ,    -_ cd by Messrs. C. Delapierre (Engineer/Economist,
RMIVA) R. C-.s  n (i,conomist, RMWA) and J. Brown (Loan Officer) following an
apprai:.al LUm ;on in May 1975.
This documner.l i3 a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offici -:. . ieis. Its c;ntentF may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
TABLES
1.   Development of the Highway Network
2.   Highway Maintenance Expenditures
3.   Design Standards
4.   Road Improvement Program 1976/77
5.   Road Improvement Program 1977/78 (provisional)
6.   Road Improvement Program 1978/79 (provisional)
7.   Road Maintenance Program
8.   Equipment to be Purchased under the Project
9.   Project Costs
10.   Initial Schedule of Implementation
11.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
ANNEXES
1.   Agriculture
Table 1   -    Agricultural Regions of Senegal
Table 2   -    Agricultural Production by Region
2.   The Road Transport Industry
Table 1   -    The Privately Owned Trucking Industry in Senegal, 1975
Table 2a  _A   Vehicles with 12.5 T Payload and more in 1975
Table 2b  -    Vehicles with less than 12.5 T Payload
Table 3a  -    Road Transport Costs
Table 3b  -    Road Transport Rates
3.   Technical Assistance to M5PWUT - Job Descriptions
4.   The Rural Communities
5.   Details of the Feeder Roads Improvement and Maintenance Program
6.   Guidelines for the Selection of Feeder Roads to be Improved
in the Second and Third Years of the Project
7.   Details of the Economic Evaluation
Table 1   -    First-year Benefits and Economic Costs of the
Improvement Program by Region and Type of Road
Table 2   -    Summary Evaluation of the Benefits of two Road
Projects in the Niayes Area
Table 3   -    Economic Rate of Return
CHART
Organization of the Ministry of Public Works, Urban Development,
and Transport (World Bank 15278)
MAP
Senegal - Fie     xx'- Rn^- Project (IBRD 11868)



SENEGAL
APPRAISAL OF A FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
SUMARY
i.        Agriculture plays a central role in Senegal's economy, employing
over 70% of the total labor force. Although contributing only about 35% of
GDP, the sector's leverage on the economy is considerable through its impact
on exports and on the purchasing power for locally produced goods and services.
Groundnuts account for 60% of agricultural value added, and for 35 - 55% of
commodity exports. The majority of the rural population is concentrated with-
in 200 km of the capital, Dakar, in the Cap Vert Peninsula, and the Ground-
nut Basin (Sine Saloum, Thies and Diourbel) where population density varies
from 15 - 100 per km2. Small-scale rain-fed farming accounts for 95% of
agricultural production. In the Groundnut Basin, a central feature of Gov-
ernment's rural development strategy has been a national Agricultural Credit
and Extension Program (Programme Agricole) which has been supported by
Credits 140-SE and 404-SE. Starting in the early 1960s, Programme Agricole
was the basis for moving farmers from subsistence agriculture to minimum
package technology. The recently approved Sine Saloum Agricultural Develop-
ment Project (Credit 549-SE/Loan 1113-SE) would assist the diversification
and intensification of agriculture in the southern Groundnut Basin.
ii.       The potential for future agricultural development is highest in
the south and southeast of Senegal where population density is low, annual
rainfall is above 1000 mm, and soils are generally more fertile than in the
Groundnut Basin. Development programs emphasize cotton, maize and upland
rice in the Casamance and Eastern Senegal regions, irrigated rice production
in the valleys of the Casamance and the Senegal River, and vegetable produc-
tion on the basis of underground water resources in the coastal region north
of the Cap Vert peninsula. The Bank Group has actively supported these
efforts, in particular through the financing of a rice-growing project in the
Casamance (Credit 252-SE), two settlement projects in Eastern Senegal (Credits
254-SE and 578-SE), a River Polders Project in the Senegal River Delta
(Credit 350-SE), the Debi Lampsar Project (Credit S-18-SE), and the proposed
Casamance II project.
iii.      The Office National de Cooperation et d'Assistance au Developpement
(ONCAD) has the monopoly for groundnut marketing and is becoming increasingly
active in cereals marketing. ONCAD buys produce at fixed prices and organizes
their transport by trucks to the storage centers, and from there to the oil
mills. Truck owners are paid transport rates which vary according to the
state of feeder roads. Savings resulting from the improvement of feeder roads
will accrue to ONCAD in the first instance, since ONCAD will be able to reduce
transport rates accordingly. Unit savings are not sufficiently important to
warrant a significant increase in groundnut producer prices. But feeder road



- Ai -
improvements will have stimulating effects at the farm level, e.g. through
better and cheaper supply of consumer goods, more timely and regular supply
of agricultural inputs, and better opportunity for selling surpluses of
cereals. Development of feeder roads in the south and southeast is expected
to contribute to a more balanced geographical distribution of the rural popu-
lation in relation to the agricultural potential of individual regions.
iv.       The proposed Feeder Roads Project is designed to support agric'tl-
tural development, and to strengthen the institutional framework for the con-
tinuous expansion and proper maintenance of the feeder road network. Feeder
road improvements under the proposed project will be directed towards ongoing
and planned agricultural development projects, including projects financed
by the Bank Group, with a regional bias initially towards the Groundnut
Basin and Casamance. The project consists of the implementation of a three-
year program for the improvement and subsequent maintenance of about 1000 km
of feeder roads and the maintenance of about 250 km of existing feeder roads,
including procurement of highway equipment, spare parts, materials and sup-
plies and a building for the Subdivision for Feeder Roads (BPP), and technical
assistance to implement and monitor the proposed road improvement and mainte-
nance program.
v.        In order to maintain a desirable degree of flexibility in the feeder
road rimprovement program, the work programs for the second and third years of
the project will be reviewed, and if warranted, revised, taking into account
new agricultural projects or delays in the implementation of scheduled pro-
jects. An Interministerial Consultative Committee (ICC) will be created which
will make annual assessments of feeder road requirements in different parts
of the country, and have proposals analysed by the Directorate of Studies and
Programming (DSP) recently established within the Ministry of Public Works,
Urban Development and Transport (MPWUT). Criteria for the selection of new
feeder road proposals would be agreed upon by the Government and the Bank.
The list of roads to be improved each year will be submitted to the Bank for
approval.
vi.       Project costs are estimated at US$8.5 million equivalent (net of
taxes), with foreign exchange costs of US$6.6 million (77%); taxes and duties
are estimated at US$1.6 million equivalent. The proposed Third Window Loan
of US$6.6 million would finance the entire foreign exchange cost of the pro-
ject. The Government's contribution would be US$1.9 equivalent, or about 23%
of total project costs net of taxes.
vii.      Physical execution of the project is scheduled to start in late-
1976 and to last three years. Improvement and maintenance works will be
carried out by BPP's own forces with the support of domestic contractors and
possibly rural community self-help. Equipment will be purchased, operated,
and maintained by the Central Equipment Division in MPWUT. Equipment, mate-
rials, spare parts and supplies amounting to US$5.0 million will be procured
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines. Contracts for equipment, materials and supplies costing less
than US$20,000 and for spare parts can be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding following local procedures acceptable to the Bank; the



- iii -
total amount of such purchases would not exceed US$400,000. Contracts for
the construction of works amounting to US$0.5 million will be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally following procedures accept-
able to the Bank. The proposed project includes contingencies amounting to
US$1.2 million.
viii.     Senegal is in the process of creating Rural Communities, groups of
villages with about 10,000 inhabitants, as part of its policy of government
decentralization. These communities have autonomous budgets financed from
a Rural Tax. Although modest in size, the budgets could make a useful con-
tribution to the cost of maintaining the feeder roads to be improved under
the proposed project. Contributions could also be made in the form of labor
for routine maintenance operations. The Government has agreed to explore
the possibilities of obtaining voluntary contributions in cash and/or labor
from the Rural Communities, thus potentially reducing the burden on the
national highway maintenance budget.
ix.       Loan funds will be disbursed as follows:  (a) 100% of c.i.f. costs
(Dakar) of equipment, spare parts and other imported supplies and materials
and 91% of the cost net of tax, of imported items purchased locally; (b) 100%
of foreign expenditure for technical assistance; and (c) 64% of total costs,
with taxes, of works by contractors.
X.        Improvements and maintenance of feeder roads have been justified
on the basis of savings in vehicle operating costs, except for the betterment
of two proposed roads which has been justified on the basis of their contri-
bution to increased production in conjunction with planned agricultural pro-
jects. Institution-building is of primary importance, and this component of
the project is expected to have benefits well beyond the scope of this project.
xi.       All sub-projects included in three annual improvement programs
have a first-year benefit of at least 10%; the rate of return of the entire
project is about 14%. The project is only moderately sensitive to variations
in project cost and in the level and rate of growth of benefits; however,
the assumptions used for benefits are rather conservative.
xii.      Agreement having been reached with the Government on the issues listed
in para. 5.01, the proposed project is suitable for a Third Window Loan of
US$6.6 million to the Government of Senegal on standard terms.






SENEGAL
APPRAISAL OF A FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Senegal has over the last four years given increased
priority to the rehabilitation and maintenance of its highway network. How-
ever, most of the feeder roads on which close to one million tons of agri-
cultural commodities are transported annually, have so far received only
limited attention. Recognizing the need for a supplementary effort in this
field, the Government asked the Association in 1973 to finance a study of
feeder road improvement needs under the Second Highway Project (Credit 366-SE).
For the implementation of the proposed project, which is based on the results
of that study, the Government has created within the Directorate of Public
Works (DPW) of the Ministry of Public Works, Urban Development and Transport
(MPWIJT) a Subdivision for Feeder Roads (Bureau des Pistes de Production, BPP).
1.02      The proposed Feeder Roads Project is designed to support agricul-
tural development, and to strengthen the institutional framework for the
expansion and adequate maintenance of the feeder road network. Feeder road
improvements under the proposed project will be directed to ongoing and planned
agricultural development projects, including those of the Bank Group, with
emphasis towards the Sine Saloum, Thies/Diourbel, and the Casamance regions.
The project consists of a three-year program for improvement and subsequent
maintenance of about 1,000 km of feeder roads, and maintenance of about 250
km of existing feeder roads.
1.03      Project costs are estimated at US$8.5 million equivalent (net of
taxes) with foreign costs of US$6.6 million (77%); taxes and duties are esti-
mated at US$1.6 million equivalent. The proposed Third Window Loan of US$6.6
million would finance the entire foreign exchange cost of the project. The
Government's contribution would be US$1.9 million equivalent, or about 23%
of total project costs net of taxes.
1.04      The project would be the fourth financed by the Bank Group in the
highway sector of Senegal. The First Highway Project (Credit 198-SE, US$2.1
million, 1970) provided for construction of four feeder roads totalling 78 km,
and for execution of a comprehensive highway maintenance study. The project
has been completed satisfactorily. The Second Highway Project (Credit 366-SE,
US$8.0 million, 1973) consists of the strengthening of 109 km of paved roads,
a four-year road maintenance program based on the study financed under the
first project, and a study of feeder road requirements. There have been
substantial cost overruns in the road strengthening program which are partly
due to inflation and changes in the exchange rate of the US$, but also to slow
Amplementation of the whole project during the first two years. The strengthening



-2-
program has been reduced to 35 km in agreement with Government and some funds for
this component were switched to maintenance operations with higher priority.
The highway maintenance program is now making satisfactory progress. A Third
Highway Project, appraised simultaneously with the proposed Feeder Roads
Project, includes the strengthening of additional sections of the highway
network, and sections of the Second Highway Project that could not be completed
due to the cost overruns mentioned above. In addition to these road projects,
three agricultural development projects financed by the Association over the
last four years have contained programs for rural road improvement kpar&. 2.10).
1.05      The proposed project is based on the study financed under the
Second Highway Project and carried out by consultants BCEOM (France) in 1974,
with the support of the Bank's Regional Mission in Western Africa (RMWA).
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of
Messrs. C. Delapierre (Engineer/Economist, RMWA), R. Gusten (Economist, RMWA)
J. Biderman (Economist), and J. Brown (Loan Officer) which visited Senegal
in May 1975.
2. BACKGROUND
A.   The Economy
2.01      Senegal is located mostly within the Sudano-Sihelian zone of the
coast of West Africa, and has a land area of 196,700 km . Population is
about'5.0 million, growing annually at about 2.2%. Urban areas account for
about 25% of total population, the largest being around the capital, Dakar
(pop. 0.6 million). Per capita GNP in 1975 was estimated at US$320, while
rural per capita incomes average about one-fifth that amount.
2.02      In 1972, the economy came under severe strain as a result of the
worst series of droughts in this century. In 1973 there was another though
less severe drought, and by the end of the year total reserves had reached
an all time low of minus US$31 million, the real standard of living in rural
areas had declined to early 1960 levels, and Government's financial situation
had become very precarious. Faced with this situation, Government resorted
to heavier external borrowing and assistance to avoid a slowdown in its
investment program. During 1974 and 1975, the economic situation improved
markedly as a result of sharp price increases, until recently, for groundnuts
and rock phosphate. In addition, satisfactory rainfall in both years improved
crop production, and Government took steps to improve its financial situation
by substantially reducing the level of subsidies on food for consumers.
B.   The Rural Sector
2.03      Despite relatively poor soils and erratic rainfall, the agricultural
sector is central to Senegal's economy; it accounts for about 35% of GDP, up
to 55% of exports, and about 70% of all employment. Moreover, as Senegal



- 3-
has few known alternatives, agriculture will continue to be the largest
source of employment for the forseeable future. Details on the agricultural
sector are given in Annex 1.
2.04      There are several important sectoral characteristics:  small-scale
farms account for 95% of all production; groundnuts account for almost 70%
of agricultural exports; 60% of the rural population is concentrated within
about 200 km of Dakar in the Groundnut Basin which is composed of the regions
of Thies, Diourbel and Sine Saloum; and large areas in the northern and east-
ern parts of the country are suitable only for livestock production under
extensive grazing. Thus, there are significant variations in the distribu-
tion of population, but with smaller differences in cropping patterns.
2.05      Government's efforts to develop agriculture have been directed to:
(a) increasing groundnut and millet production, especially in the Groundnut
Basin; (b) diversifying production by promoting rice and cotton in regions
of higher rainfall such as Eastern Senegal and Casamance; (c) promoting live-
stock development in Eastern Senegal and resettling farmers in this region
from the more populated Groundnut Basin; and (d) developing the irrigation
potential of the Senegal River Basin. Central to implementing Government's
rural development strategy are Programme Agricole (PA) which supplies farmers
with a minimum package of agricultural inputs, and the semi-autonomous develop-
ment agencies, organized on either regional or product lines and reporting to
the Ministry of Rural Development, which provide extension services. The
2,000 cooperatives throughout the country, of which 1,700 are based on ground-
nut production, are important intermediaries for the distribution of agricul-
tural inputs and credit, and for the collection of produce. These cooperatives,
which are supervised and supplied with agricultural inputs by the Office
National de Cooperation et d'Assistance au Developpement (ONCAD), have
200,000 members, but are used for narketing purposes by members and non-members
and serve a total of about 1.2 million farmers.
Roads and Agricultural Development
2.06      In addition to constraints imposed by nature, important factors
limiting increases in agricultural production are the lack of roads in rural
areas where they are needed, and the poor maintenance of those which do
exist. The absence or poor quality of these roads has contributed to high
costs and inefficiencies in agricultural marketing. Transport costs are as
high as CFAF 50 (US$0.22) per t. km in sandy areas of the Groundnut Basin, and
given the low prices for cereals which prevailed until recently, collection
of cereals from remote areas was unprofitable. Inadequate feeder roads have
also slowed agricultural modernization by hindering the regular and timely
supply of inputs and extension services by ONCAD and regional development
agencies. Lack of roads in regions where good soils and rainfall and low
population densities make agricultural development attractive, is one reason
people have been reluctant to emigrate and thus relieve population pressure
in the Groundnut Basin. At present, the feeder roads which are constructed
and maintained are often chosen on an ad hoc basis. The proposed project



- 4 -
would include an Interministerial Consultative Committee to review feeder
road requests from various government agencies and have them screened accord-
ing to technical and economic criteria established with assistance from the
Bank.
The Marketing SX!Itm and                           ents 
2.07      Agricultural production falls into two main categories, crops grown
for export, mainly groundnuts, and those grown for domestic coa.sumption, pri-
marily cereals; the mechanism for marketing varies according to these ca egories.
Office National de Cooperation et d'Assistance au Developpement (ONCAD) has the
monopoly for the marketing of groundnuts 1/ which it buys at a uniform producer
price from about 1,700 cooperatives throughout the country. Transport rates are
fixed in five categories by ONCAD according to road conditions. Benefits result-
ing from the project will accrue to ONCAD where road improvements result in a
road being shifted from a lover to higher category or to transporters if they
result in improvements of a road through better maintenance within a given cate-
gory. These transport cost savings will allow ONCAD to improve and extend its
services to farmers. Competition among the private groundnut transporters is
strong enough to ensure that transport savings accruing to transporters would
be passed on to the farmers in the form of lower rates on the transport of
consumer goods, agricultural inputs and commodities other than groundnuts.
Specifically with respect to cereals, marketing is less well organized than with
groundnuts and road improvement would have a more direct impact. While Govern-
ment has decided to expand ONCAD's role in cereal marketing, cereals are
presently bought both by ONCAD (20-30,000 tons annually) and by private traders
(about 50,000 tons). Producer prices for cereals are set by Government, but
except for ONCAD purchases, products are sold freely, often below Government
prices. Cereal marketing suffers particularly from a lack of storage capacity 2/
and transport. In regions where poor road conditions allow limited access, the
unreliability and high costs of transport and the lack of competition among those
traders willing to collect produce result in lower producer prices. Farmers are
therefore less inclined to generate marketable surpluses. In these circumstances,
access to feeder roads and the resulting reduction of transport costs, and the
increased competition this would permit, should help stabilize producer prices at
levels attractive to farmers and consequently stimulate production increases.
C.   Roads
The Network
2.08      Senegal's road network is largely concentrated in the third of the
country stretching out from the Cap Vert peninsula to the northern, central
and southern Groundnut Basin, and from the latter to Casamance and Eastern
1/   The average volume of groundnuts marketed in recent years has been about
750,000 tons, although in years of good rainfall the groundnut harvest
can amount to 1 million tons.
2/   A study of cereals production, marketing, and storage has recently begun,
financed under the Sine Saloum Agricultural Development Project (Credit
549-SE/Loan 1113-SE).



- 5 -
Senegal. The northern Groundnut Basin is linked to St. Louis as part of
the main network. A further road runs parallel to the Senegal River from
St. Louis to Matam. The network of feeder roads is fairly dense in the area
west of the line Louga-MBacke-Kaffrine, but poor in other areas, especially
in Eastern Senegal and Upper Casamance.
2.09      Of the total network of about 13,300 km (Table 1), about 9,100 km
are classified, which means that their maintenance and improvement is
the responsibility of DPW. However, only about 5,840 km are presently
maintained by the DPW within the framework of the Second Highway Project;
of the remaining 7,460 km of roads, 4,200 km are not classified, and are
under the competence of local authorities whose limited financial means
do not permit them to carry out any significant improvement or maintenance
work. Less than half of the 7,460 km of feeder roads has been partly
improved, the remainder of the system consisting of rather ill-defined
tracks which are often impassable. The proposed project addresses itself to
the economically most important roads of the partly improved or unimproved
feeder road network.
2.10      Development of the rural roads system has been an important element
in many IDA-financed transport and agricultural projects:
-    the First Highway Project (Credit 198-SE) provided for the
construction of four feeder roads totalling 78 km in the
Sine Saloum Region;
-    the Second Highway Project (Credit 366-SE) contained the
comprehensive survey of feeder road requirements on which
the proposed project is based;
-    the Casamance Rice Project (Credit 252-SE) called for the
construction of about 250 km of feeder roads in the project
area (Sedhiou); and
-    the First and Second Terres Neuves Settlement Projects
(Credit 254-SE and Credit 578-SE) provided for construction
of 166 ktm of secondary and feeder roads in the project area
located in Eastern Senegal.
The other major effort in feeder road development is the network of cotton
roads built by Societe pour le Developpement des Fibres Textiles (SODEFITEX)
with financing provided by the European Development Fund (FED). This network
is located in Upper Casamance and adjoining areas of Eastern Senegal.
Traffic on Feeder Roads
2.11      Traffic on feeder roads consists mainly of groundnuts and other
agricultural products, and agricultural inputs. Traffic amounts to nearly
one million tons in years of good harvests.    Traffic growth over the last



- 6 -
decade has reflected the slow increase in agricultural production as well as
large fluctuations due to a series of drought years. ONCAD's traffic repre-
sents about 80% of the total traffic on the feeder road network considered
in the proposed project. Traffic growth in rural areas is projected to be 4%
annually on average, but may be higher in areas in which agricultural develop-
ment programs will focus.
2.12      Traffic on tracks leading from individual cooperatives to miajor
feeder roads is typically 500 - 1,500 tons per annum or 2-5 vehicles per day
(vpd). The volume of traffic increases towards the main collecting cente.s
(seccos), and, as on some of the project roads, may reach 20-25,000 tons per
annum or 20-30 vpd in the vicinity of these seccos. For the collection of
produce on remote and sandy tracks, light trucks of about 5 t pay-load are
widely used, while on the better roads the share of medium-sized trucks of
7--11 t payload increases. From the seccos, groundnuts are forwarded to the
oil mills by heavy trucks of 20-25 t payload.
2.13      Traffic on rural roads is highly seasonal.  Evacuation of ground-
nuts takes place between mid-December and mid-May, and the marketing of
millet and sorghum starts one month before the groundnut campaign. During
this period, traffic is nearly double the annual average, while during the
other half of the year traffic levels are very low. A significant feature
of transport conditions in the Groundnut Basin is that the sandy tracks are
easier to negotiate during the rainy season when the sands have a higher
bearing capacity, than during the dry season when traffic is at its peak.
The Road Transport Industry
2.14      The road transport industry in Senegal specializing in rural trans-
portation including agricultural commodities and inputs comprises about 250
firms (Annex 2). There are 19 large firms owning between 16 and 60 vehicles
each (of which two are cooperatives of small owners), while one firm out of
two owns only 1-2 trucks, mostly of lighter build. Much of the freight
generated by commerce and industry is transported by the large modern firms,
while the small firms rely on the groundnut campaign and the general market
(foodstuffs, cattle, building material, miscellaneous), and suffer from the
effects of the sharp seasonal variations in traffic. In this sector, com-
petition is fierce, and rates on the unregulated market are frequently barely
sufficient to cover direct operating costs.
2.15      ONCAD's produce-marketing and input-distribution operations are by
far the most important road transport activity in Senegal. The improvement
of the feeder road network proposed under the project concerns ONCAD's
collection of produce which uses:
-    92 trucks owned by ONCAD;
-    325 trucks bought by ONCAD and sold on hire-purchase terms
to small transporters who are to pay off the outstanding
portion of the price by hauling groundnuts at the ONCAD-
determined rates, the so-called "trucks under control";



- 7 -
-    in addition, ONCAD draws on the large number of private
transporters who supply approximately three-quarters of
the carrying capacity required.
2.16      Remuneration of transporters is calculated on the basis of a detailed
mapping and grading of all the roads and tracks used for hauling of each
cooperative's crop to the nearest secco.  Roads are classified in five cate-
gories with rates per t. km graded according to the quality of roads:
no track                             CFAF 60 per t. km
bad track                              "  50 per t. km
ordinary track                         "  28-31 per t. km
improved gravel road                   "  22 per t. km
paved road                             "  17 per t. km
Transporters are consulted, but their degree of organization is low and the
overall level of rates is largely determined by ONCAD. However, the classi-
fication of individual tracks is governed by a kind of market mechanism: if
the condition of a track is worse than indicated by its classification, ONCAD
receives complaints and finds it increasingly difficult to find transporters
for hauls on such roads. This assures that rates reflect the relative
quality of tracks rather faithfully. The spread of rates is large, but it
must be taken into account that the bad tracks can be negotiated only by
small trucks which have much higher costs per t. km than medium-sized trucks
used on better roads. Also, speed on bad tracks is very low, and the long
time spent on these hauls must be adequately remunerated because in the short
groundnut campaign, time is literally money for transporters, earning oppor-
tunities in other seasons being very poor.
2.17      Regarding the transport of passengers and of non-regulated commodi-
ties, largely consumer goods for the rural markets, competition is sufficiently
strong to ensure that savings in vehicle operating costs will in general be
passed on to the rural population.
Highway Administration
2.18      Within MPIUT, DPW is responsible for construction and maintenance
of the highway system. ?4PWUT comprises six Directorates (see organization
chart). DPW has five Divisions in Dakar and seven Regional Divisions. The
maintenance of the highway network falls under the responsibility of the Road
Maintenance Division (DER). The equipment is managed and repaired by the
Central Equipment Division (PCM) and maintenance works are carried out by the
Regional Divisions. A Subdivision for Feeder Roads, Bureau des Pistes de
Production (BPP), which has been created within the DER, will be in charge of
improvement and subsequent maintenance of the feeder road network.
2.19      DPW has over past years experienced a shortage of experienced staff
at the upper and middle levels. The Director and most of the Regional Engi-
neers, technicians, foremen, and operators are Senegalese, but DPW's head
office functions are carried out primarily by 14 French engineers provided



- 8 -
under the French technical assistance program. Four fellowships for DPW engi-
neers, to be provided under the proposed Third Highway project, will help
alleviate the staffing situation at the upper levels. MPITJUT will also
require additional personnel to staff BPP, and to fill key positions in the
Directorate of Studies and Programming (DSP). The Government has had difficulty
in hiring qualified personnel for engineering positions, primarily due to the
relatively low scale of Government salaries compared with those offered by
private industry. Efforts have been made to relieve the staffing situation
by raising the salaries of Government employees in 1974, but little progress
has been achieved so far in recruiting qualified local personnel. Middle-
and lower-level personnel required for the reorganization of highway maintenance
operations are recruited primarily through transfer and training of existing
DPW staff. The Government has long realized that its staffing needs can be
met only through extensive efforts in technical education. Several training
programs are now being implemented at two technical colleges (St. Louis and
Dakar), a technical university at Dakar, and a polytechnic school at Thies,
which together will provide an annual output of about 60 engineers and technical
personnel from 1976 on. In addition, training of middle-level staff required
for maintenance operations has started at the Center for Permanent Technical
Training as part of the four-year maintenance program financed under the
Second Highway Project.  Therefore, prospects are good that MPTUT can in the
near future fill its positions with qualified local personnel, and that
positions now held by foreigners can progressively be taken over by Senegalese
staff over the coming years.
D.   Financing of Feeder Roads
2.20      Until FY74, no funds were allocated for feeder roads, except those
included in Bank/IDA-financed projects. Since then, about CFAF 40 million
have been budgeted annually for these roads. These funds represent only a
small portion of Government's total expenditures for roads and its revenues
from road-user charges; less than 1% and 0.5% respectively. However, with the
proposed project alone, additional average annual expenditures of about CFAF
170 million will be made on feeder roads over the next three years. If
Government continues the program at its present rate and extends it to the
next hierarchy of feeder roads--the extensive farm-to-market network--which
is highly likely in view of Government's growing emphasis on rural development,
the financial requirements for these roads will grow very rapidly. In fact,
present estimates are that over CFAF 700 million will be required annually
for feeder road construction, improvement and maintenance by 1985. Given
Government's other commitments in the highway sector, it is unlikely that
sufficient funds would be allocated to the DPW budget for feeder roads. A
two-pronged strategy to stem this shortage of funds consists of (i) reducing
the costs of feeder road works and (ii) finding extra-budgetary funds to
supplement DPW's funds.
2.21      Consultants BCEOM, as part of their feeder road study in Senegal,
examined various ways of reducing feeder road costs and concluded, inter alia,
that the following operations could be performed with considerable cost savings
by labor-intensive methods:



- 9 -
(i) excavation and truck loading of laterite for regravelling; and
(ii) routine maintenance, including patching and cleaning of ditches
and culverts.
The proposed project envisages the use of these methods. Although a step in
the right direction, consultants' analysis concentrated on equipment-
intensive and labor-intensive methods and did not explore the other and
often more promising alternatives of intermediate technologies. Government
has agreed to look into these alternatives during project execution with the
help of the technical assistance experts under the project. Government has
agreed to discuss its findings, and a program for follow-up action with the
Bank at the same time as the program for the second year of the project is
submitted to the Bank for approval.
2.22      Regarding alternative sources of funds, consideration has been given
to the possibility of increased participation from the ultimate beneficiaries
of feeder road improvements, the Rural Communities they serve. This partici-
pation could be in the form of cash contribution, self-help labor, or a
mixture of both. Two factors fortuitously enhance the success of this approach.
First, as a result of a Government's administrative decentralization, the Rural
Communities are fast becoming the basic administrative units with their own
autonomous budgets (Annex 4). Experience with the more established communities,
particularly in the Thies region, has shown that roads run second to wells on
their list of priorities. The communities can therefore be expected to contri-
bute financially and with self-help labor for roads in their areas. Secondly,
as explained in para. 2.21 above, considerable scope exists in feeder road
improvement and, particularly, maintenance for the use of labor - a resource
relatively abundant in these communities. The Government has agreed to explore
the possibilities of obtaining voluntary contributions in cash or commitments
of labor from the Rural Communities for maintenance of feeder roads, after
consultation with these communities and in accordance with the Law of Rural
Communities (Law 72-75, 19 April 1972, specifically Article 82). In addition,
to encourage the communities, the Government agrees that, when selecting roads
to be included in the program of the second and third years of the Project and
subsequent programs concerning feeder roads, priority will be given to pledges
of voluntary contributions from the Rural Communities, and Government will
examine with the Bank a formula by which this factor can be taken into account.
Before the above mentioned contributions become available, DPW will have to
spend about CFAF 125 million annually, after termination of the project, for
maintenance of the feeder roads to be improved under the project. The Govern-
ment agreed that it will allocate this amount for maintenance of the project
roads, and that these annual allocations will be increased in line with cost
increases and maintenance requirements of the feeder road network.



- 10 -
3. THE PROJECT
A.   Description
3.01      The proposed project consists of the implementation of a three-year
program for the improvement and subsequent maintenance of about 1,000 km of
feeder roads and maintenance of about 250 km of existing feeder resds,
including the following:
(a) purchase of highway equipment and spare parts;
(b) purchase of materials and supplies for the operations
included under the project;
(c) technical assistance to (i) the Subdivision for Feeder
Roads (BPP) for implementation of the proposed road
improvement and maintenance program and (ii) monitoring
of the project; and
(d) construction of BPP's headquarters.
Improvement and Maintenance of Feeder Roads
3.02      The project provides for improvement of about 1,000 km of rural
roads in key areas of ongoing and planned agricultural development, and for
the maintenance of this network. The project covers: the Groundnut Basin
which comprises the administrative regions of Thies/Diourbel and Sine Saloum,
the Casamance region, and the west part of Eastern Senegal. The project would
not cover the Senegal River region and the Cap Vert peninsula; the latter
already has a fairly well-developed secondary network which is mostly paved,
while the road requirements of the former will be determined within the frame-
work of plans to develop the Senegal River Basin through major irrigation
works.
3.03      The proposed improvements consist of:  (i) reshaping of roadway;
(ii) regravelling of selected sections; and (iii) building or reinforcing of
drainage and crossing structures. Three road design standards are planned
as follows:
TYPE POA - track designed to carry up to 6-7,000 t annually or
about 10 vpd will have a 6 m reshaped roadway and
will be gravelled over sandy sections only;
TYPE PAl - one-lane road designed to carry up to 20,000 t annually
or less than 20 vpd will have a 7 m roadway and will
be gravelled, where necessary, over 4 m width to a
thickness of 12-20 cm depending on soil quality and
traffic levels;



- 11 -
Type PA2 - two-lane road designed to carry at least 20,000 t
annually or 20-30 vpd will have a 8 m roadway and
will be gravelled over 6 m width and the entire length
to a thickness of 15-20 cm depending on soil quality.
Details of road design standards are shown in Table 3.
3.04      A work program for the first year of the project has been established
on the basis of the survey carried out by consultants BCEOM and the findings
of the appraisal mission (Table 4). Provisional programs based on the same
sources and on a review of agricultural development programs scheduled to be
implemented over the next 3-4 years have been added for the second and third
years of the project (Tables 5 and 6), but these are subject to changes if
new agricultural projects are launched or scheduled projects are delayed
(para. 3.13). The entire three-year program is expected to comprise about
400 km of POA roads, about 500 km of PAl roads, and about 100 km of PA2 roads.
The last category concerns mainly the rehabilitation of PA2 roads that have
disintegrated due to insufficient maintenance (for details of the program
see Annex 5).
3.05      The proposed project also provides for maintenance of about 250 km
of existing gravel feeder roads which had not been included in the Second
Highway Project, because in 1972 traffic was considered too low to justify
maintenance operations (Table 7). BPP will also undertake maintenance of the
1,000 km of roads to be improved under the proposed project as the improvements
are completed. Apart from annual routine maintenance, periodic maintenance
will take place after six years, on the average.
Technical Assistance to MPWUT
3.06      To implement the road program BPP will need two engineers and two
administrative assistants at headquarters in Dakar. The latter can be re-
cruited in the country. In the absence of experienced Senegalese engineers,
the two posts of engineers will be filled from abroad. This technical assist-
ance will be required for about two years until Senegalese engineers have been
trained. The experts' duties would include on-the-job training of these
Senegalese engineers, expected to graduate in 1976 (para. 2.19), who will
take over responsibility during the third year of the project. The proposed
project provides financing for the two experts over two years. The experts'
job descriptions and required qualifications, given in Annex 3, have been
discussed and agreed with the Government. In the field, BPP will require
about 85 foremen, operators and mechanics. Staff requirements for these
positions will primarily be filled through local recruitment. Training of
newly recruited staff will be carried out with the assistance of consultants
Lotuis Berger under the four-year maintenance program as part of the Second
and Third Highway Projects. The Government has taken appropriate budgetary
measures with respect to the training and employment of the personnel and
to undertake the recruitment of the personnel prior to September 30, 1976.



- 12 -
Purchase of Equipment
3.07      Except for front loaders available at the Central Equipment Division
(PCM), no highway equipment can be taken ovet from the existing stock. The
equipment purchased under the First, Second and the proposed Third Highway
projects, and a loan from Denmark, is being or will be used by the several
maintenance brigades which are now working on the main highwav network. The
rest of the PCM fleet consists of old equipment, of which only a small portion
can be reconditioned.  A brigade for road improvement has also been set up
under the Casamance Rice Project (Credit 252-SE), but is used to a considerable
extent for bottomland development and similar kinds of rural works, and will
therefore not be available for the improvement of feeder roads.
3.08      The proposed road improvement program will require equipment for
three regravelling brigades and three additional motorgraders for maintenance
operations which will be purchased and maintained by the PCM. BPP will also
need some vehicles and office equipment in Dakar. The workload of the brigades
has been calculated on the basis of actual performance by DER during implemen-
tation of the Second Highway Project. Productivity is low compared to that
observed in other countries of West Africa. Consultants Louis Berger are
investigating this matter (under the Second Highway Project), and are expected
to propose measures for improvement. Although it is expected that productivity
will increase during implementation of the highway maintenance program, no
increase was projected in calculating the output for the feeder road program
because most of the BPP personnel will be newly recruited and will go through
a learning period.
3.09      The proposed project provides funds for procurement of all necessary
equipment as listed in Table 8. Bidding documents have been prepared by DPW
and approved by the Bank. The project also provides funds for purchasing
materials such as cement, steel, lumber, and for spare parts and supplies
such as fuel, lubricants, and tires.
B.   Cost Estimates
3.10      The project is estimated to cost US$8.5 million equivalent net of
taxes and customs duties, with foreign exchange costs of US$6.6 million (77Z).
Taxes and duties are estimated at US$1.6 million equivalent. Details of cost
estimates are given in Table 9 and summarized below:-



- 13 -
(in CFAF million)              (in US$'000)
Local   Foreign    Total       Local   Foreign   Total
A. Equipment and Materials
Equipment                54.4   511.6       566.0       242     2,274      2,516
Materials                19.8      9.9       29.7        88        44        132
74.2   521.5       595.7      330      2,318     2,648
B.  Spare parts and Supplies 61.9   582.6        644.5       275     2,590      2,865
C.  Staff
- Technical assistance  11.3    87.8         99.1        50       390        440
- Head Office            27.9     -          27.9       124        -         124
- Field Staff           136.8     -         136.8       608        -         608
176.0    87.8       263.8      782       390      1,172
D. Works contracted
- Head Office            34.0    25.0        59.0       151       111        262
-Other works contracted 17.1    68.4         85.5        76       304        380
51.1    93.4      144.5       227        415       642
Totals A - D       363.2 1,285.3    1,648.5    1,614       5,713     7,327
E.  Contingencies             63.1    199.8      262.9       280       888      1,168
GRAND TOTAL        426.3  1,485.1   1,911.4    1,894       6,601     8,495
(rounded)                                      (1,900)   (6,600)   (8,500)
23%     77%       100%
3.11      Estimates of equipment costs are based on the consultants' report
using quotations from suppliers given in March 1975 and bids received for
similar equipment in November 1975. A 5% allowance has been included in equipment
costs to permit some flexibility in the selection of plant specifications.
Running costs of equipment for 180 working days per year are based on actual
cost figures registered by the highway maintenance program financed under the
Second Hlighway Project. Costs of construction of the BPP building were calcu-
lated by DPW. Estimated costs of technical assistance are based on the actual
cost of highway engineers now employed for the Second Highway Project. Price
contingencies amounting to about 14% of total project cost have been calculated
as shown in Table 9. This low price contingency is due to the fact that all
equipment is expected to be delivered during the first year of project imple-
mentation.



- 14 -
C.   Execution
3.12      Physical execution of the project is scheduled to start in late 1976,
and to take three years to complete. MPWUT Wrill be responsible for execution
of the proposed project. Road improvement and maintenance works will be carried
out primarily on force account by BPP.
3.13      BPP's brigades will at the beginning of the project be located in
the regions of Thies/Diourbel, Sine Saloum and Casamance. The location of
these three brigades will be reviewed as the project progresses. The survey
carried out by consultants BCEOM indicated that, in the longer run, there are
limits to road improvement in the northern and central Groundnut Basin where
road construction is expensive, the existing network relatively dense, and
the expected impact on agriculture rather modest (with the exception of new
lines of production such as irrigated vegetable cultivation). On the other
hand, prospective returns on road improvements in the Eastern Sine Saloum,
Eastern Senegal, and the Casamance will be considerably higher. Therefore,
after a first phase of high priority road improvements in all principal regions,
the program may be expected to turn more decisively to the new development
areas. The organizational implication is that road improvement brigades should
not be tied to the administrative region to which they are initially assigned.
It is recommended that the brigade operating initially in the Thies/Diourbel
region be transferred to Eastern Senegal in the third year of the program.
The Government has given assurances that, within the framework of the project's
objectives, feeder road brigades can be transferred from one region to another
according to the changing priorities of agricultural development.
3.14      To stimulate the development of small- and medium-scale enterprises,
construction of the BPP headquarters, drainage structures and hauling of some
laterite will be carried out by domestic contractors. About 110 small- and
medium-size contractors exist in Senegal, of which 80 are prohibited by law
from responding to bids of more than CFAF 15 million because of their limited
access to finance. They are generally oriented toward house-building; however,
they also participate in water supply and drainage projects, and in construction
of city streets. In the project area, 12 enterprises are located at Thies, 3
at Kaolack and 3 at Ziguinchor. Contracts would be awarded to enterprises
by the Regional District Engineer after local bidding. The proposed project
provides funds for these works to be contracted. However, present administrative
procedures for contract approval and payment of invoices are exceedingly slow
for contracts exceeding CFAF 3,000,000 and tend to discourage small enter-
prises from bidding even where legally possible, because delays in payment
cause serious liquidity problems for these firms. For contracts below
CFAF 3,000,000 procedures are simple and payment fairly prompt. 1/ The
Government is exploring possibilities of simplifying and expediting procedures
in general. In addition, the proposed Third Highway Project provides technical
I/   This represents, however, a significant improvement as the limit until
January 1976 was CFAF 1,000,000.



- 15 -
assistance to DPW to determine the action required to promote the domestic
construction industry. Also, the proposed project envisages using rural
community self-help for the undertaking of tasks amenable to the use of
labor-intensive techniques (para. 2.22).
3.15      The feeder roads to be included in the first year's improvement and
maintenance program are shown in Table 4. In order to maintain a desirable
degree of flexibility in the program, an Interministerial Consultative Committee
will be created no later than June 30, 1976 which reviews annually and if
necessary revises the provisional programs prepared for the second and third
years (Tables 5 and 6) in the light of new developments. This Committee
will be chaired by the Minister of Public Works, and will consist of repre-
sentatives of the Ministries of Rural Development, Planning and Cooperation,
Finance, and the Interior as well as of ONCAD. These Ministries and this
agency will review and submit annually their particular feeder road require-
ments. The proposals will be coordinated and screened from technical and
economic viewpoints by the Directorate of Studies and Programming of MPWUT,
which will also prepare feeder road programs following the proposed project.
The DSP was set up by the Decree which reorganized MPWLUT, but it is not yet
staffed. To make the Directorate fully operational, the proposed Third
Highway Project includes the services of four technical assistance experts
over three years to fill the key positions of senior planner, two transport
economists and a highway planning engineer, and to train local counterpart
staff in their respective duties. The criteria to be applied for selection
of new roads to be included in the annual work program are given in Annex 6.
The annual programs for the second and third years will be submitted for
approval to the Bank four months before the beginning of each working year.
3.16      A Presidential Decree is being drafted in MPWNT for the establish-
ment of the Interministerial Consultative Committee. The Government agreed
that the Decree will be issued no later than June 30, 1976.
3.17      The proposed schedule of implementation of the project is shown
in Table 10.
D.   Project Monitoring
3.18      Several concepts and assumptions included in the design and justif-
ication of the project require careful monitoring and regular evaluation to
determine the extent to which they can be replicated or should be modified
for use in subsequent projects. The particular items proposed for monitoring
and evaluation are:
(a) costs, productivity and quality of work performed (i) by force
account and (ii) by local contractors. In this connection
works performed by (i) labor intensive methods, (ii) inter-
mediate techniques, and (iii) equipment intensive methods,
should be treated separately and compared where applicable;



- 16 -
(b) price of alternative uses of unskilled labor used in the
project works;
(c) response of Rural Communities towards contributing funds
and/or labor for feeder road rehabilitation and maintenance
and any factors explaining such response;
(d) future development of passenger and goods traffic on project
roads;
(e) incidence of road works on transport charges for passengers
and important goods on the project roads;
(f) changes in land use; consumption and marketing patterns due
to road improvement;
(g) development of per capita income of the population in the
project area.
The technical assistance consultants being provided to the BPP will assist
the MPWUT to establish and implement the proposed monitoring system and
will provide the data for items (a) through (e) on a routine basis as part
of their work. To monitor items (f) and (g), a consulting firm, either local
or a locally established foreign firm, or qualified staff from the local
University, will be used. Thereafter, the results obtained will be reported
to and discussed with the Bank at regular intervals. These arrangements have
been discussed and agreed with the Government.
E.   Procurement
3.19      Equipment, materials  and supplies amounting to about
US$5.0 million will be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines.  Contracts for equipment,
materials and supplies costing under US$20,000, and for spare parts,
can be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding following local pro-
cedures acceptable to the Bank; the total amount of such purchases would
not exceed US$400,000. Contracts for the construction of selected civil
works (drainage and crossing structures, excavation/haulage of materials for
base courses, and BPP office building) amounting to about US$0.5 million,
will be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally
following procedures acceptable to the Bank. Construction supervision will
be carried out by BPP with the assistance of the Regional District Engineers.
All the above arrangements have been discussed and agreed with the Government.
F.   Financing and Disbursements
3.20      The proposed Loan of US$6.6 million will finance all the foreign
costs of the project, or 77% of total costs net of taxes. The Government will
finance the local costs amounting to US$1.9 million equivalent, and about
US$1.6 million equivalent in taxes, of which US$1.2 million are import duties.
The availability of this proposed Government contribution has been confirmed.



- 17 -
3.21      Third Window Loan funds will be disbursed as follows:
(a)  100% of c.i.f. costs of equipment, spare parts, and
other imported supplies and materials, and 91% of the
cost of these items if purchased locally;
(b)  100% of foreign expenditures for technical assistance services; and
(c)  64% of total costs (with taxes) of works by contractors.
A schedule of cumulative quarterly disbursements from the proposed Third
Window Loan is shown in Table 11.
4.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION  _
4.01      The economic justification of the project rests on two types of benefits
from road improvement and subsequent maintexiance, namely (i) savings in total
transport costs, and (ii) increased transport reliability, and in some cases, pro-
vision of access to possible markets. Because of the prevailing marketing syseem,
transport savings would have only a limited direct impact for the farmer on the
main agricultural product, groundnuts. The per kilo savings in transportation
costs due to the project (about 0.30 CFAF) would be insufficient to warrant an
increase in the national price ONCAD pays farmers for grounduuts (41.5 CFAF).
However, the total savings for ONCAD alone in transportation costs as a result of
the project would be substantial--on the basis of the tentative program about
US$900,000 annually by year four, representing 17% of ONCAD's present transporta-
tion costs. These savings will either be used by ONCAD to expand and improve its
services to farmers, or will be passed on to the Government's Price Stabilization
Fund. In addition, road improvements will increase ONCAD's ability to provide
essential agricultural inputs, particularly improved seed varieties, fertilizer,
pesticide and equipment, in sufficient quantity and on a timely basis to assist
farmers in increasing their output. Transport savings will have a more direct
impact on cereal production. With easier and more regular access of trucks to
farming areas reducing the risk that surpluses will not find a buyer, farmers can
take advantage of modern agricultural methods to increase their cereal production.
4.02      Institution-building is of primary importance, and the component in-
cluded in the project represents a major benefit which cannot be quantified.
It consists of: (i) establishing within DPW a Subdivision for Feeder Roads
with separate budgetary appropriations and its own equipment financed under
the project; (ii) setting up an Interministerial Consultative Committee with
MPTIJT's Directorate of Studies and Programming acting as its secretariat; and
(iii) trying to develop a system of partly financing feeder road maintenance
on a self-supporting basis through the involvement of Rural Communities. These
institutions will ensure that development of agriculture and of feeder roads
is effectively coordinated, so that the urgency of requests for feeder road
improvement from different regions of the country will be assessed according
to uniform and objective criteria. In addition, the possible participation of
Rural Communities in maintaining feeder roads may help reduce the burden of
these recurrent costs on the national budget.



- 18 -
4.03      The economic justification presented in the succeeding paragraphs
provides only an approximate indication of project feasibility, since the
exact roads to be included in the second and third-year program will be
determined only during the course of project execution. Future revision of
this provisional program is, however, expected to further improve the project's
justification. For purposes of justification for the road improvement
component, roads have been grouped into two categories:
Category I:    This category includes roads in areas where
ongoing agricultural activity is already sub-
stantial. The economic return will be based
on road-user savings.
Category II:   This comprises roads with little or no existing
traffic, but which form part of an agricultural
development project. In this case, the economic
analysis will be based on the incremental value
added resulting from the combined road/agricul-
tural investment.
4.04      Road user savings 1/ have been estimated on the basis of costs cal-
culated by consultants BCEOM in September 1974 based on analysis done by
consultants Louis Berger under the Second Highway Project, and on data gathered
by the appraisal mission. Traffic estimates, essentially agricultural commo-
dities on feeder roads, were made by BCE(OM for the present and medium-term
future on the basis of ONCAD's records, and on a survey of ongoing and planned
agricultural development projects. Traffic estimates are summarized in Table
4 for the first year improvement program, and in Tables 5 and 6 for the pro-
visional second and third year programs. These estimates assume annual traffic
growth of 4%. The actual growth rate may be higher on roads associated with
agricultural development projects. To these benefits, 25% have been added for
passenger vehicles according to estimates made by the appraisal mission. Costs
for the Case II roads were obtained from consultants Louis Berger under the
Second Highway Project, with agricultural data supplied by the Ministry of
Rural Development.
4.05      Of the roads selected for improvement during the first-year of the
project (Table 4), all of which are Case I, the 194.5 km in the Casamance
region are associated with the Casamance Rice Project (Credit 252-SE) for which
a second stage project was appraised in October 1975. The 104.2 km of roads
in the Sine Saloum region cover an area in which the Government's Programme
Agricole is active, as well as the Sine Saloum Agricultural Development
Project financed by the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique and the
Bank Group (Credit 549-SE/Loan 1113-SE). In the Thies/Diourbel region, the
proposed roads serve both Programme Agricole and an agricultural development
project financed by USAID.
1/   Details of the economic evaluation are given in Annex 7.



- 1 
4.06      All feeder roads included in the improvement program have a first-year
and an economic return of at least 10%. The average economic return is expected
to be 12%. For the estimates of benefits from the maintenance of previously
improved feeder roads (Table 7), only savings in vehicle operating costs, i.e.
cost increases that would occur in the absence of maintenance operations, have
been taken into account. On this basis, the maintenance component has a cost
benefit ratio of 1.5 discounted at 10% which is assumed to be the opportunity
cost of capital in Senegal, corresponding to an economic return of more than 20%.
The economic rate of return of the whole project would be about 14%. This re-
turn underestimates the real benefits, since it does not include the benefits
associated with increased transport reliability.
4.07      The rate of return is not very sensitive to cost overruns.  With a
cost increase of 20Z, the rate of return is about 11%. Moreover, such overruns
are not likely since equipment purchased is already being arranged for delivery
during the first year of the project; performance of the road brigades has been
estimated on the basis of results achieved by the ongoing highway maintenance
program and does not take into account productivity gains which may be expected
from greater experience. Finally, the estimate of traffic growth (4% p.a.)
is probably too low since most feeder roads to be improved are located in
areas with agricultural development programs aiming at a much higher rate of
production increases. However, this estimate allows for the eventuality of
future drought years.
5. RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During negotiations with the Government, the following items were
discussed and agreed:
(i)  Government will look into alternate intermediate technologies
for feeder roads construction, and discuss with the Bank
its findings and a program of follow-up action (para.
2.21);
(ii)  the Government will allocate the equivalent of CFAF 125
million for feeder road maintenance in the first year after
termination of the project, and the allocation will be
augmented in line with cost increases and maintenance
requirements of the feeder road network (para. 2.22);
(iii)  the Government will explore the possibilities given by the
law on Rural Communities to obtain voluntary contributions
in cash and/or in labor from the Rural Communities, and
to give preference to those communities willing to make
these contributions in the selection of roads for the
second and third-year programs (para. 2.22);
(iv) the job descriptions and required qualifications of two
experts for the Subdivision of Feeder Roads (para. 3.06);



- 20 -
(v) the Government will take appropriate budgetary measures
allowing recruitment and training for middle and lower
positions in BPP before September 30, 1976 (para. 3.06);
(vi)  the feeder road brigades can be transferred within the
framework of the project's objectives, from one region to
another according to the changing priorities of agricultural
development (para. 3.13);
(vii) the annual work programs for the second and third years of
the project will be submitted for approval to the Bank four
months before the beginning of each working year (para. 3.15);
(viii) the Decree establishing the Interministerial Consultative
Committee will be issued not later than June 30, 1976
(para. 3.16);
(ix) arrangements for monitoring of the project (para. 3.18);
and
(x) all arrangements for procurement of equipment, materials,
supplies, and awarding of contracts for civil works
(para. 3.19).
5.02      The proposed project is suitable for a Third Window Loan to the
Government of the Republic of Senegal in the amount of US$6.6 million on
standard terms.



Table 1
SENEGAL
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Develo3pmetanf the Higa._ Network, _1964-74
(km)
1964    1968    1972      19741/
1. Trunk road network
Pavjed roads,                  1,658    2,035    2,256   2,586
Engineered gravel roads          409      642      645      456
Other all-weather gravel roads 1,526    1,840    1,640    2,794
2. Feeder road network
Partly improved earth roads    4,926    4,474    4,480    3,285
Other earth roads and tracks
(mostly unclassified)                                     4,150
TOTAL                   8,519   8,991    9,021  13,271
1/ Breadkdown according to the new classification approved in June 1974:
Law NO 74-20 dated June 24, 1974 and Presidential Decree NO 74-718 dated
July 19, 1974.
Source:   DPW



SENEGAL
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Annual Highway Expenditures.!/ 1970/71-1975/76
(CFAF million)
---Personnel---------------
Operating Costs
Operating Costs      for Subdivisions                       General Administration
Year      for Maintenance 2/  A. Central Workshop  Maintenance    and Overhead 3/                Constructiord /   Total
1970/71           710                  166                559                   610                   450           2,482
1971/72           726                  165                553                   602                   450           2,515
1972/73           686                  156                573                   565                    549           2,518
1973/74           776                  134                402                   414                    730          2,462
1974/75           891                  121                496                   503                 1,000            3,002
1975/76        1,025                   129                n.a.5/                n.a.5/              1,320           n.a.
1/ Excluding urban roads and external financing
2/ Including maintenance works undertaken by contract
3/ For DPS, including building and new construction
4/  Financed from Road Fund
5/ Not separately available
Source:   DPW and BCEOM report.
March 1976
I-3.



Table 3
SENEGAL
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Design Standards
Tracks                                Roads
without     with some                    one         two
improvement  improvement                  lane        lanes
Designation                 PO            POA                      PA 1       PA 2
Yearly traffic
in tons                3,000        6-7,000                   20,000     20,000 +
Vehicles per day            5             10                        20        20/30
Roadway width
in meter                                6                         7          8
Graveled surface                         spot
width in meter                       regravelling                   4           6
Thickness of road
materials in cm                          n.a.                   12/15/20      15/20
Drainage                              lateral ditches             lateral      lateral
ditches and ditches and
paved fords   culverts
Design speed                              n.a.                      n.a.       60 km/hour
1/
Construction cost
per km (force account)
sandy soils                            n.a.                    US$14,000  US$12,250/28,000
other                                 us$1,400           US$3,500/5,250  US$8,750/12,500
1/
Yearly maintainence cost
per km (routine and 1/6
of periodic)                          US$130                   US$300          US$350
1/ December 1975 prices without taxes.
Note:  PO    piste ordinaire
POA   piste ordinaire amelior6e
PAl piste am6lioree 1 voie
PA2   piste am6lioree 2 voies
Source: BCEOM report



SENEGAL                        Table 4
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Road Improvement Program 1976/77
SectionuI Traffic               Proposed Standard
Name of_Road             Number - (OOOtons)    PO A    PA 1    PA 2
A. R,ion ThiLs/Diourbel                           ---         Km------------
Tiobe -Diourbel              1          6.7                 6.0
2         7.9                  3.0
3         8.3                  6.0
MBaila -MBackA              1.          6.3                 5.6
2         6.5                  6.5
3         7.0                  8.0
Darou Bogo -Ndindy           2          6.6                16.0
Gawane -Bambey               1          6.2                12.0
2         7.7                  8.0
Wakhaldine -Bambey           1          6.5                 6.6
Subtotal A                                                 77.7
B. rPion Sine Saloum
Boulogne -Guinguindo         2          7.3                 5.0
4        11.5                 22.5
Dia Bambali -Tissd           4          7.5                 8.6
5        10.5                  4.4
Taif Dioum -Kaffrine         4         8.2                  4.6
5        12.9                  5.0
6        13.6                  3.0
7        15.4                  3.6
8        15.9                  3.0
9        17.5                  4.0
10        21.3                          7.2
Diagaou -Diarhao             5          8.5                 8.2
Subtotal B                                                 71.9     7.2
2/
C. Rewion Cnsamance-
S-ndinier - Sara Tening       2/      (6.7)                53.0
Kamoy,a -Diaroume             '/       (6.7)               36.0
Bounkilling -Boudout          2/       (4.4)      31.5
Kambili -Djolofene           20        (4.4)      42.0
Ndi;anv - Touba Moricounda    Z/       (4.4)      32.0
Su'total C                                       105.5    8775
TOTAL 1976/77                                    105.5   238.6       7.2
Total 351.3 km
7- Section numberv refer to those used in the BCEOM feasibility study.
?1 These sections are not conteined in the BCEOM feasibility study. They
belong to the Sedhiou Rice Project area.
So:";c : M sion's estitaates.



SE Li4GAL                     Table 5
FEED)ER ROADS PROJECT
Road Improvement Program 1977/78 (provisional)
Section    Traffic          Proposed Standard (km)
Name of Road               Number    (1000 tons)  PO A  PA 1  PA 2  PA 2E
A. Region Thies/Diourbel
MBayeme - Pdkesse             1                            3.0
2              J2           9.2
3                           3.5
Tiepp - Kdbdmer               1                            5.6
2             2/           15.0
Terme STN - Kirene - RN       1          12.9              7.0
Ndiayenne Sirack - Khombole  1            5.0        2.6
2           6.7       1.8
3           8.0             3.2
Tassette - Thies              1A/         3.5        6.4
Tiombolodj - Tassette         1 -        (3.5)       8.7
Nguekokh - Tiombolodj         1           5.0       _7.5
Subtotal A                                         27.0  46.5
B. Region Sine Saloum
Nioro - Diama Moussa          1           6.0       11.0
3           9.0             2.0
4           9.9              4.0
6          14.7             6.5
8          17.0              6.5
10          24.0                     8.0
Mabo - Ndoffane               1          13.6              7.5
2          12.4              6.0
3          10.8              2.5
7           8.7             12.6
8          11.8             4.8
Tiamtne - Dinguiraye          3           5.2       1.7
4           8.0              2.3
Sine N'Gayenne - Diba NDayenne 5          6.9              8.2
Medina - Nioro                5           8.6              6.0
Keur Sette Awa - Birkelane   3            6.0        8.4
Keur Yorodou - Koumbal        4           6.0        2.4
Tioulene - Ndoffane           3           5.0       3.8   _
Subtotal B                                         27.3  68.9    8.0
C. Region Casamance
Kolda - Velingara             1          16.4                             3.2
2          16.0                             7.0
3          15.4                             3.0
4          12.8                            33.0
5          11.5                            13.4
6          11.1                            10.0
7          10.0                             6.0
Subtotal C                                                               75.6
TOctal 1977/78                                     54.3  115.4   8.0    75.6
Total 253.3 km
r/ Section numbers refer to those used in the BCEOM feasibility study.
T- see Annex I , Table 2
31 This section is not contained in the BCEOM report.
Section 7 is 10 km bng.  The remainder of 4 km is included in Subtotal C of the
Sour78c79 program.
Source: Mission's estimates.



SENEGAL                       Table 6
Page 1
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Road Improvement Program 1978/79 (Provisional)
Name of Road               Sectior/ Traffic             proposed Standard (kin)
Number   (1000 tons) PO A    PA 1    PA 2    PA 2E
A. Region Senegal Oriental 2/
Koumpentoum -Massembe         3/       (8.1)              25.0
8 Terres Neuves village
tracks                      3/       (4.8)      76.0
Koutiaba -Koumpentoum          1        4.5         8.0
2        5.6        17.0
Sine Matar -Koungheul         2         4.8         6.6
3        8.5               10.4
Ndiaytne Bamba -Koungheul    1          3.9         7.5
2        4.3        19.6
Darou Ndenssine -Malbme        4        5.0        23.8
5        7.4                 5.6
Darou Kafate -Portialtne       3        5.0        10.0
4        5.4         3.0
Subtotal A                                        171.5    41.0
B. Region Sine Saloum
Kaba -Wack Ngouna             2         6.3         1.0
3        8.7                 1.2
4       11.1                 8.4
5       12.9                 5.0
6       24.0                         5.0
Kaba -Nioro                    2        4.6         3.0
3        7.2                 1.4
4       14.1                                 8.0
Sokone -Keur Madiabel         7         5.5         2.0
8       16.0                 4.0
9       17.7                 3.0
11       21.7                         4.0
13       25.8                         2.0
Koular -Dialo Malick           2        8.7                 5.2
Keur Alassane -Dielmon        4         8.2                11.0
Tilla Garang -Keur Madiabel  3          5.8         3.6
4        3.7                 4.2
Keur Moussa -Prokhane          1        6.1         4.4
3        8.4                 4.2
Dieng Dieng -Passy            2         6,1         3.0
3        6.5         5.6
NDiayene Kane -Passy          3         5.1         3.6
4        6.3         3.4
Subtotal B                                         29.6   427T    T110    T.
(continued on page 2)



Table 6
SENEGAL                      Page 2
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Road Improvement Program 1978/79 (provisional)
Name of Road              Section    Traffic            Proposed Stanuard (km)
Number   (1000  tons)  Pb A         PA I    PA 2    PA 2E
C. Region Casamance
Kolda -Velingara             7          10.0                                4.0
8          12.6                               4.4
9          13.7                               7.0
10          15.9                               3.4
11          16.5                               2.8
Tonguia -Biarou              1          11.1               9.2
2          13.5               5.0
3          17.0               9.5
4          17.2               6.7
5          17.5               6.0
6          17.8              11.6
Ouassadou -Koundane          1           5.3      14.8
2           8.5               6.0
3           9.3               3.2
4          10.4               2.0
Pakourou -Kountaba           1           3.5      14.0
Subtotal C                                       28.8    59.2             21.6
Total 1978/79                                    229.9   147.8    11.0    29.6
TOTAL 418.3 km
Section numbers refer to those used in the BCEOM feasibility study
c/ Includes three roads in the adjoining area of Sine Saloum.
3/ These roads are not contained in the BCEOM report. They belong to the
Terres Neuves Settlement Project area.
Source: Mission's estimates



Table 7
FEEDE ROADS PROJECT
Road Maintrtnanme Proeraim (in kmn)
Name of Road           Section    Traffic           Standard of Road (km)
Number.   (l000tons       P 0 A     PA 1      PA 2
A. gegion Thibs Diourbel
Tassette -Thibs           2           7.3                   7.6
3          8.0                   8.0
Ndiaganiao -Sandiara      1           6.0                   8.4
2          6.7                   5.0
B. Region Sind Saloum
Diako -Fatick             1          3.8                    7.0
2          6.1                   5.0
3          3.5                   4.0
4          5.2                   5.0
5         11.2                             5.5
Tiaf Tiekene -Koungheul  3           4.3                   15.0
4          6.9                  12.2
5          9.9                   8.3
6         10.9                   7.0
C. Region Senegal Oriental
Boutougou -Tambacounda   1           2.4         17.2
2          3.4         18.9
3          4.1          6.9
4          4.2         16.2
5          6.5                  19.2
6          6.8                  10.8
7          7.1                  22.6
8          7.4                  16.8
9          7.6                   8.2
10          8.0                  10.2
TOTAL                                            59.2    180.3       5.5
TOTAL * 245.0 km
t1/  In addition to the roads to be improved under the project.
2' Section numbers refer to those used in the BCEOM feasibility stuty.



TEble 8
SENEGAL
FEEDER ROADS PRaJECT
Equipment to be Purchased under the Project
(cost in million CFAF)
______     ______  Unit  Costs  _____                               .  -
Desonntion              Quatt    Texes   Others   CIF   Totrl   Trxes  Others   CIF   Totri
Bul]jiozer 200 HP           3       1.7      2.1    21.1   24.9     5.1    6.3    63.3   74.7
Motor greder 120/140 -P    9        1.0      1.2    12.2   14.4     9.0   10.8   109.6  129;5
Self propelled compac-
tor 12/22 T               3       0.6      1.1    10.6   12.3      1.8    3.3    31.6   3659
Roe:d tractor 260 H-P       1       3.0      1.0    16.0   20.0     3.0    1.0    16.0  20.0
Durnp trucks 160 FP/6in3    18      1.1      0.5     4.9    6.5    19.8    9.0   68.2  117.0
Tank trucks 160  -P/8m3     9       2.8      0.6     6.1    9.5    25.2    5.4    54.9  65,5
Service trucks 2.5 T        6       1.0      0.3     2.7    4.0     6.0    1.6    16.2  24.0
Water pumip 50 m3/hour      6       0.1      -       0.5    0.6      0.6    -       3,0    3,6
and accessories
Vibrating roller 600 kg    3        -        0.1     0.9    1.0     -       0.3     2.7    3.0
,,.;ant mixer 250L;
with skip                 3       0.2.    -        0.7    0.9     0.6             2.1    2.?
Pick-up                     3       0.8      0.2     1.5    2.5     2.4    0.6      4.5   7.5
Station wagon               5       0.8      0,2     1.5    2.5      4.0    1.0     7.5   12,5
Fuel tank 4m3 on trailor
with volumeter and pump    3        0.7     0.2      1.8    2.7     2.1    0.6      5.4    6.1
Camp equipment              3       0.3     -        0.6    0.9     0.9    -        1.8   2.7
Electricel generator
4 IKVA                    3       0.3     0.1      0.6    1.2     0.9    0.3      2.4    3.6
Water tank lm3 on trailor  3        0.2     -        0.3    0.5      0.6    -       0.9    1.5
inor equipment (tools,
ir generator, topo-
grcphical instrumts)      1       0.8     0.2      2.0    3.0     0.8    0.2      2.0    3.0
Mobile service station      3       1.0     0.3      2.0    3.3     3.0    0.9      6,0    9.9
TOTAL                                                    85.8   41.5   418.5  545.8
Initie;l stock of spare                                                            26.1  32.4
parts 5% of totel costs                                            3.3    2.5      .,   3
TOTAL                                                    89.6   44.0   444.6  578.2
1/ With low bed trailer 45 t
Notes:  Front loaders are available at the Centrgl Equipment Pool (PCM)
Prices as of March 1, 1975
%urce: Consultants report and DPW.



SENEGAL                                                                             Table 9
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Pro-ect Coats (net of tax)
(in =illion CFAF)
1976 / 1977                        1977 / 1978                         1978 / 1979                         TOTAL
Local    F-relge    Total          Los.l    Foreign    Total          Lc-.l    Foreign    Tot.l         Loc.l    Foreign    Total
A. Department of Feeder Roads
- Building                                         34.0        25.0       59.0          _          _          _            _          _          _          34.0       25.0       59.0
- Purchase of vehicles                              0.5         3.3        3.8          _          _          _            _          _                      0.5        3.3        3.8
- Office equip-ent and =iscel.                      3.3         0.8        4.1          1.3        0.2        1.5          1.3         0.2       1.5         5.9        1.2        7.1
- Supplies and spare pacts                                      1.3        1.3          -          1.3        1.3          _          1.3        1.3         -          3.9        3.9
P-.-     I Person9 epedit-                                               9.3          9.35       _  5       9.3          9.3        -          9.3        27.9        -         27.9
-  herocricl -seisture.                             5.6        6  75      39.4          5 6.        .7,     39.4            -    _      3   1      .3       11.3       87, 8       9'.1
Sob-total A                              52.7        7215      124.9          16.2       4           9.5         10.6       3   T12'               79.6     121.2      2C.C
B. Improvement of Feeder Roads
- Procur--emt of equipment                        44.0        461.7      505.7          _    -                -             -         -           -         44.0      461.7      505.7
- Purcha=e of materials                             6.6         3.3        9.9          6.6        3.3        9.9          6.6        3.3        9.9        19.8        9.9       29.7
- Supplies aod spare parts                         16.0       160.0      176.0         21.0      190.0      211.0         21.0      190.0      211.0        58.0      540.0      598.0
- Personnel                                       42.9       6            42.9         42.9        -         42.9         42.9        -_        42.9       1285.57  -11.         128.7
lob-cotal B                             109.5       625.0      734.1         70.5      193.3      263.8          70.5      193.3     263.8       250.5    1011.6    1262.1
C. Maiste--cc Works
- Procurement of equip=ent (3 graders)             4.0         45.4       49.4          -          -          -            -          _           -          4.0       45.4       49.4
- supplies aod spare parts                          0.4         3.8        4.2          1.3       12.9       14.2          2.2       22.0       24.2          3.9      38.7       42.6
- Personnel                                         2.7       4            2.7          2.7        -.9        2.7          2.7        -.0         2.7         8.1      -           8.1
S.b-tota1 C                               7.1        49.2       56.3          4.0       12.9       16.9           4.9       22.0       26,9        16.0       84.1     150.1
D. Civil Works contracted
(drainage str-ct--es, culverts,  te)             5.7        22.8       28.5           5.7       22.8       28.5          5.7       22.8       28.5        17.1       68.4       85.5
Slb-total D                               5.7        22.8       28.5           5.7      22.8       28.5           5.7       22.8       28.5        17.1       68.4       85.5
E. Contingencies
- Dec. 1976 (1.10 - 1)              10%           16.9         73.8       90.7                                                                               16.9      73.8       90.7
D-Se. 1977 11.10 c1.08-lj~         191                                                17.3       46.1       63.4                                            17.3      46.1       63.4
- Sec. 19 lOLl.10 s (1.08)    2%24.1                                                                                         60.7       84.8        24.1       60.7       84.8
D- De. 1978  1.10o   (1.08)      , 282 % 
- Dec. 1976 (1.14 - 1)              14%             0.8         3.2        4.0                                                                                0.8        3.2        4.0
D-Dc  1977 (1.14 o1.12-1~          27%                                                 1.5        6.2        7.7                                             1.5        6.2        7.7
- Dec. 1978 [1.14    (1.12)- 17 43%               -           -           -.                                               2.5         9.8       12.3         2.5        9.8       12.3
Dec. cotal 198[11  x(.2)-1742            17.7        77.0       94.7         18.8       52.3       71.1         26.6        70.5       97.1        63.1      199.8     262.9
Sub-total1 E                            4t=         ==        oi=            m,5       3,5        L38            L                     1.          26,      _4          a4
Grk;D TOTAL                  i~~92 75     866.15   1038 9         U5 2       32.5__L
Note: Cools as Di Decehber 1975
S-orce: DPW and mission estitates



tk-NE CAL                                            Table In
FEEDER ROADS PP,OECT
Initial SBchedule of INPlementation
Responsible      FY 98                  FY -77                   FY 98                   FY 79
mein activities             uthorit     nd 3rd   4th   1st   2nd   3rd   4th   1st   2nd   3rd   4th   1st 2nd   3rd   4th
I  Institution Building Aspects                        I
i.Oecree reorganizinq the UPWJT                        FWWA          RMWA
ajnd creating inter alia the                          review       review
DEP                                    Govt.    _
2,Decree cteating the Interrinis-                    _rw4                                                              qWA               FWWA
review~~~~~~~~eve
|terial. Consultative Co0rittee         Govt.    _                                                                    rview             review
I3.Ministerial order establishing
the Subdivision of feeder roads        MJUT_T
\4.budget aliocetion for BPp              Gojt.
El * Procurement of Equipment
l.Preartion of bidding  dComts          DIW
2.Call for bids                          OPW
3.Evaluation of bids                     BPP
4.8election of dealers                   (eW_
5.Approvel of contracts                 (Sovt.
6.Delivery of Equipment                 dealers
7.Call for bids fuel/lubricant           EPP
8.Contrects approval                     B BPP                              -                                                                _
iII. Technical Assistance Personnel
~and BPP
ljRecruitment of experts for BPP         Govt.
2.Designation of Senegalese engin-
eers and technical assistants          MPWUT
3.Appointment of experts                 MPWUT
4.Preperation of tender document
for the BPP puilding                  BPP
S.Evaluetion of bids
6.Approval of contracts                  Govt.
?.Recruitment of oPerators, etc.         Govt.                 _                                    revies
e.Training of operators, etc.            Govt.                                                      r
9-Project NOnitring---
V. Prorgru  Preweartgion                                        '-4
1.Oatalled          ion of the lst/                              a
2nd/3rd/year progres:technical        BPP         01           ,                       _
'&WonomiCal  R. of Progr.  '_I
2.Presentation and approval by                     '. I
Interministerial Cons. Committee    DPW           e          '__
|3.Call for bids for  civil works       B$1                                                                                                 a
'a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
4A.Evaluation of ths lst/2nd/3rd/                                                              _,
year program                          B
V.        m execution                                a3           0                                                                          C
1.Creation of a separate accountg                   a,
system  in RPegional Divisions.       (PW         c                                                                                       L
contrator  I           0-
2. Construction of the It' buildg   contractor          
3fetterment and maintenance works     BYP          C1                                   L
lst year                     -
2nd year                      FD           a_
3rd year dn     c      t                  E                   -                                                           i
4.GiVil work*s,dr&i-ge               contractor                               ._ .                         ..



Table 11
SENEGAL
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(us$  o000)
Fiscal Year    Quarter              Disbursement             Undisbursed amount
During Quarter   Cumulation        at end of quarter
1977           1            200               200                6,400
2          1,000            1,200                 5,400
3          1,500            2,700                 3,900
4            800            3,500                 3,100
1978          1             300            3,800                 2,800
2            300            4,100                 2,500
3            400            4,500                2,100
4            400            4,90o                 1,700
1979          1             400            5,300                 1,300
2            400            5,700                  900
3            300            6,ooo                  600
4            300            6,300                   300
1980          1             300            6.600                   -
Source:  Mission's estimates.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
SENEGAL
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Agriculture
Agricultural production statistics and farm data are summarized in
Tables 1 and 2 of this Annex. Senegal's agriculture is concentrated in four
main regions:
i.   The Groundnut Basin.  This area with 16% of the land accounts for
65% of the rural population and the bulk of agricultural production, parti-
cularly groundnuts. Often referred to as a homogeneous region, the Basin
in fact has three distinct zones with differing population density, rainfall
and soil conditions. The Northern Basin lies north of the Thies/Diourbel
line, the Central zone is usually identifiad with the Thies administrative
region and northern Sine Saloum, and the Southern zone encompasses the south
and east of Sine Saloum. Rainfall gradually increases from north (400-600 mm/
year) to south (800-1,000 mm/year). Soils vary from very sandy in the north
to heavier but still rather sandy in the south, the latter becoming shallower
as one goes east. Population density is highest in the Central Groundnut
Basin, with 80-100 rural inhabitants per km; the other zones have more moder-
ate densities, 15-25/km2 in the north and 15-35/km2 in the south.
ii. Eastern Senegal. Rainfall is relatively favorable, ranging from
600 mm in the north to 1,500 mm on the piedmont toward the Guinean border.
Soils are generally very shallow, but fortunately existing forests protect
them from an otherwise serious danger of erosion. In some areas, notably the
southern valleys, riverblindness is present. Population density is low, at
3-6/km2.
iii.   Casamance.  Rainfall averages 1,000-1,400 mm over a comparatively
long season. The soils are deep and, in the east, dominated by silt from
the Casamance River and its tributaries; salinitX is a problem. Population
densities range from 12/km2 in the east to 40/km in the west.
iv.  2The Senegal River Valley.  While overall population density is low,
at 3-6/km , this valley holds considerable concentrations of people along
certain parts of the river banks. Rainfall is marginal for cropping, aver-
aging some 400 mm over less than 30 days, and soils over much of the area
are sandy. The heavy bottomland soils and coarser soils of the levees along
the Senegal River are used for flood-recession cropping. This region is be-
ing developed within the US$3.5 billion, 40-year program proposed by the
Senegal River Basin Organization, composed of Senegal, Mali and Mauritania.
Until the scope and timing of this program is defined and its impact on
agricultural development known, feeder road requirements cannot be determined
and thus this region is not included in the proposed Feeder Roads Project.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Senegal's two main crops are groundnuts and cereals which account
on average for 46% and 29% respectively of agricultural production. Ground-
nuts, which are refined in Senegal and exported as oil and cake, are grown
mainly in the Groundnut Basin and to a lesser extent in Casamance. The
production of cereals has been fairly evenly distributed throughout the
country and consumed for the most part on farms since Government subsidies
encouraged people, especially in urban areas, to eat imported foodstuffs.
In November 1974 Government eliminated the subsiAy for imported rice, which
had reached a value of about CFAF 7.5 billion per year. This measure has
stimulated urban people to consume more domestic cereals which farmers are
now beginning to produce in larger quantities. Rice has so far been grown
primarily in Casamance although with irrigation developing along the Senegal
River, this region should become a major exporter of rice to other parts
of the country. Cotton also is becoming an important cash crop in Eastern
Senegal, Casamance and parts of Sine Saloum.
The typical farm in Senegal is about six hectares with slightly
smaller sizes in Eastern Senegal, Casamance and along the Senegal River and
some larger farms in southeastern Sine Saloum. Average yields per hectare
vary widely according to the pattern of rainfall and the type of cultivation:
groundnut yields range from 200-970 kg, millet and sorghum from 340-870 kg.
Above average yields are being achieved by introducing improved agricultural
inputs, credit and better marketing for rainfed agriculture and by developing
irrigation in Casamance and along the Senegal River.
Government Services
A central feature of Government's rural development strategy has
been "Programme Agricole" (PA), which has been supported by Credits 140-SE
and 404-SE. Starting in the early 1960s, it aimed at increasing the produc-
tion of millet and groundnuts by making animal-drawn implements, fertilizers
and improved seeds available to farmers on credit, providing extension
services to promote the correct use of these inputs, and by developing cooper-
atives to facilitate the distribution of inputs and crop marketing. The
main organizations involved in PA are the Office National de Cooperation
et d'Assistance au Developpement (ONCAD) and the cooperatives, which ONCAD
supervises and assists.
In addition to supporting the cooperatives, ONCAD procures and dis-
tributes farm inputs, administers the associated subsidies, and maintains
and distributes the stock of groundnut seeds. It is also responsible for
marketing groundnuts and imported rice, and has begun to market cereals.
Because of its role in groundnut marketing, ONCAD is the agency primarily
responsible for the recovery of credit under PA.  Finance for this credit is
provided by the National Development Bank of Senegal (BNDS), which also
provides short-term financing of the groundnut purchases and input invento-
ries of ONCAD, short- and medium-term credits to cooperatives and loans to
individual farmers.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Senegal's 2,200 cooperatives form the basic structure in Govern-
ment's plan for organizing the rural sector. In exchange for a membership
fee of CFAF 1,000, cooperative members are entitled to credit for fertilizer,
insecticides and agricultural implements distributed under PA. In addition
to serving as a channel for collectively guaranteed credit, the cooperatives
serve as the focal point for the distribution of seeds and for the marketing
of the output of members and non-members alike.
PA's goals have been ambitious and its targets included rapid
increases in cultivated areas as well as yield increases. During the early
1960s groundnut and millet production reached record levels, at least in part
due to the promotion of fertilizers and animal traction under PA. In the
last half of the 1960s, however, yields and production of these crops declined
sharply with the onset of a series of droughts. In the 1970s production has
fluctuated with rainfall, but even in good rainfall years output has not exceeded
the record levels of the mid-1960s.  This leveling off, together with the
fact that some 80% of the farmers in the Groundnut Basin now participate in
PA, suggests that the program may have reached the limits of its development
potential in that area.
Semi-autonomous development agencies, organized on either regional
or product lines and reporting to the Ministry of Rural Development, have
begun to supplant the Ministry in the provision of extension services to far-
mers (although the latter still maintains direct responsibility for extension
in part of Casamance and for small-scale vegetable projects, generally near
Dakar). SODEVA has been given overall responsibility for extension in the
Groundnut Basin and has been primarily concerned with the introduction of
improved farming techniques under Programme Agricole in which it has been
quite successful. SAED is responsible for rice development in the Senegal
River Delta, and may become the regional development agency for the whole
valley, while SODEFITEX is responsible for cotton production, mainly in
Eastern Senegal and cereal in East Casamance. In addition to providing
technical extension services, SAED and SODEFITEX are responsible for distri-
buting inputs procured by ONCAD to the farmers and for the commercialization
and processing of farm output. A fourth agency, the Societe de Terres Neuves
(STN), is responsible for settlement projects, primarily in Eastern Senegal.
The activities of these agencies have shown that new techniques can be
effectively introduced when PA is supported by projects comprising close
extension supervision.
Agricultural Strategy and Programs
Because of the heavy concentration of population in the Groundnut
Basin, the improvement of productivity for groundnuts and cereals in that
region has been the only practical short-term means for improving the liveli-
hood of most of the rural population. However, since the agricultural poten-
tial of the Groundnut Basin is severely limited by its unreliable rainfall,
Government is now placing greater emphasis on programs outside this area



ANNEX 1
Page 4
designed to give the country some measure of protection against the most
severe effects of droughts. These programs include: (i) diversifying
production by promoting rice and cotton in regions of higher rainfall such
as Eastern Senegal and Casamance; (ii) developing the irrigation potential
of the Senegal River Basin and of Casamance; and (iii) promoting livestock
development in Eastern Senegal and resettling farmers in this region from
the more populated Groundnut Basin. The proposed Feeder Roads Project is to
be geared as closely as possible to ongoing and planned agricultural de"-elop-
ment programs. The main projects scheduled for the 1975-1979 period (with
the exception of the important projects in the Senegal River region) are
summarized below.
The Groundnut Basin. Two major operations, a USAID financed pro-
ject in the northern part and a Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique/
World Bank (Cr. 549-SE/Ln. 1113-SE) financed project in Sine Saloum aim at
increasing yields in groundnut and cereals production through the introduc-
tion of improved cultivation techniques and seed varieties, application of
fertilizer and pesticides and introduction of ox-drawn cultivation. Both
projects are executed by SODEVA and incremental production is expected to be
about 80,000 tons of groundnuts and 80,000 tons of cereals by about 1980.
Smaller projects include a 250 ha tobacco plantation near Kaffrine, expansion
of edible groundnut cultivation, and development of vegetable production
irrigated by underground water resources which have recently been discovered
in the Niayes, a semi-arid area stretching along the coast from the Cap Vert
Peninsula to St. Louis.
Eastern Senegal and Upper Casamance. FED will continue to support
cotton development through SODEFITEX. Cotton production has reached more
than 45,000 tons, and the target for 1980 is 75,000 tons. The main new
development in this program is the introduction of a cropping pattern (cotton-
raize) which has produced good results in pilot projects carried out over
the last few years. SODEFITEX expects maize production in the area to be
35-40,000 tons by 1980. Upland rice cultivation is promoted by FED in the
same area and should reach 25,000 tons by 1980 of which 10,000 tons would be
marketed. IDA has financed a Second Terres Neuves Project (Cr. 578-SE) to
settle 600 families near Koumpentoum and to prepare a regional plan and in-
vestment proposals for the development of the agricultural sector in Eastern
Senegal.
Casamance. FED is financing rice development in this region around
Velingara and in the area between the Kolda-Velingara road and the Gambian
border.  A large scale rice estate of 20,000 ha is being prepared in the
Anambe Valley south of Belingara and could reach 15-20,000 tons by 1979, all
of which would be marketed. IDA financed the Casamance Rice Project (Cr. 252-
SE) and rice production in this area has reached 35,000 tons. A second
project was appraised in May 1975 which would help increase rice production
to 52,000 tons, plus 30,000 tons of groundnuts and 30,000 tons of millet and
maize. FED has earmarked about US$1 million for small rural works projects
in irrigation and the People's Republic of China has agreed to finance two
dams near Bignona and Marsassoum where rice production could reach 15,000
tons by 1980.



SENEGAL
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Agricultural Reg_ions of SegE.l
SummarData
Groundnut Basin              Eastern             Casamance            Senegal River
North     Ceni-.re    South           Senegl_
Rainfall (mm)            400-600    600-800   800-1000          600-1500             iOn-15o00                 - 400
Rainy season (days)       30-45       45-50      50-70             long                 long                   20-30
Population density                                                                          a/
per km2                   15-25       80-100    15-35              3-6                 15-30-'
Number of Farms           18,000      57,000    20,000 57,000   22,000            30,000   47,000         25,000    6,000
Average Size cf FaTn(ha)   6.0         S.C      20.0    7.0        4,0             3.0      5.0            5.0       -.0
of which yroundnuts       3.0        2.75    12.0    3.5         1.0             1.25     2.0                       a
millets          2.5       2.75      8.0    3.0        2.0             0. 75     1.5           3.        1.0
rice                                                   0.5             l.C    0.5-1.0                    2.0
maize                                 .                0.5
cottnn                                                  .1.
Cowpeas           ,          .
a,' Basse Casamance, Ziguinchor region.                                                                                     6 3
b  Less than l inwide areas and high densities in the Senegal river valley.
Less than 0.25 ha.
Source:  Senegel Agriculture Sector Survey           (1975 , Fcbruery 20, 1975)



SENEGAL
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
tAgricltural Production by_ Regan
(Annual Average 1968-1972)
* cu_d- Edible          Oil laL &  R       'aize &, Cowpeas  Cassava Vegetable          Cropped Area not   Total
Cotton                    Fonin  (Niebe)  Potato  & Tobacco         * .  Area   Cropped    Area
AREIA N tX0ha
CGap-bert           3      -         -        1       0.1      -        1       -         2.2C     -         7        48         55
Thibs             154      -         -      153       0.6      -       14      15         0.90     -       343       317        660
Dio:;:bel        293      2.0       -       235      -         -       35      17         0.30     -      582      2,773      3,355
Sin6eSaloum       n50     5.6       2.'     320       2.3      1        6       7         0.10     -      796      1,593      2,394
Fleuve.            10      -        -        3      12.1      7       14       1         0.4C    14.0    152      4,261      4,413
Eastern Senegal   38      0.5       7.6      75       2.9     21        1       1         -        0.3    149      5,811      5,960
Casamance         114     1.8       3.8     109     63.C      28        2       5         0.1[     -      326      2,509     2,C30
Senegal          ,062    10.9      13.8     994      81.0     57       73      16         4,00    14.3  2,355    17,317    10,672
A,REA    t a  Total C_.op. Area
Cap-Vert                   -         -       15       1        -        7       2           31     -      100
Thies              ;5      -         -       46       -                         5           -      -       100
Diourbel           50      -        -        4n 0              _       7        3          -       -      100
Sin&-Saloum        57      1         -       40      -         -        1       1           --     -       100
Fleuve              7      -         -       61       8        5        9       1          -       9      100
Eastern Senegal   26       -         5       52       2       1a        1       -                  -       100
Casamance          35      1         1       33      19        9        1       1           -      -      10 
Senegal            45      1         1       12       3        2        3       2           -      1      100
YIELD kgj/ha
Cap-Ver;          500      -         -      46U-   2,000       -     Zn0    3,000      13,800      -
Thies            640       -         -      3 0        30      -     210      ,600     12,000      -
Dicurbel         520   9S0          -       3r0      -         -     230    2,500      12,500      -                           0
Sine-Saloum       BQO  1,000        830     490       39c     500    220    2,000      11,200      -
Fleuve            200      -         -      390    1,500      640    260    3,200      20,000    330             ')
Eastern Senegal  530    800       1,100     61        930     59c)   360    3,400          -      600
Casamance         970  1,20C      1,370     870    1,010      710    '00   10,0o0      10,000      -                         c 2 
Senegal           710  1,050      1,120     e70    1,0B0      670    250    3,900      13,575    360                         c O   CD
PRODUCTION 110G                                                                                                              N co
Cap-Vert            2                -        5      0.1           -       -   -        30.4       -
Thibs              98      -                 54       0.5      -      3   G 9           108 -a
ODiurbel          153     2.       -        79      -         -      8        '4        3.,       _                       C
Sind-Saloum       359    7?1        2.C     158       0.8      1      1        1i        0.9       -        
Fleuve              2      -         -       36      19.3      5                         8 4  S.2  5
Eastern Senegal   26      0.4       8.3     In        2.7      12      1        2          -      0.2
Casamance         1il     2.1       5.2      95     54.0       20      1                 1.8       -
Senegal           751    11.6      15.5     4.75    37.4       38    18       181       50,7      5.2



ANNEX 2
Page 1
SENEGAL
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
The Road Transport Industry
1.        Of the approximately 20,000 registered trucks and pick-ups in
Senegal in 1975, about 2,000 specialized in transportation of agricultural
commodities, some 1,500 are owned by private transporters and 500 are owned
or controlled by public or semi-public agencies such as ONCAD, SODEFITEX,
etc.  The distribution of privately-owned trucks by region and by size of firm
is given in Table 1 of this Annex. In Tables 2a and 2b the vehicle fleet
is broken down according to the size of trucks: on the one hand there is
the category of trucks with payloads of 12.5t and more, consisting nearly
entirely of trucks of 20t payload, and on the other hand the medium-sized
and light trucks with an average payload or 7t. In the group of heavy
vehicles there is a pronounced concentration of ownership, eight firms owning
in total about 200 vehicles which is more than 55% of the capacity of this
group. In the category of lighter trucks, there is a large group of firms
owning only 1-2 vehicles; large-scale firms are less frequent, some of those
listed being cooperatives of small operators. The remaining larger firms
are mostly identical with those listed in Table 2a since most of the firms
operating heavy trucks also own a number of smaller units.
2.        The trucking industry in Senegal may be described as dualistic.
This is reflected not only in the size of firms but also in the technical
and commercial aspects of their operations:
-    The big modern firms frequently have their own maintenance and repair
facilities and generally run their businesses in a way that is not dif-
ferent from firms in industrialized countries. Senegalese ownership
has increased since a law was passed in 1971 restricting access of
foreigners in certain professions, among which was road transport. Many
of these modern firms have permanent business relationships with one
or several trading companies, forwarding agents or manufacturers. This
sector of the road transport business concerns commodities requiring
special vehicles (petroleum products, refrigerated products, logs, etc.)
but also the general merchandise of trading companies. Transport
services are provided at rates that generally cover the operating costs
of trucks if a firm is efficiently run (paragraph 3).
-    The large number of small firms (among which are many owner-drivers)
offer poor professional service. The average age of lighter trucks is
7.7 years (against only 4.2 years for the more robust large trucks) and
many vehicles are barely roadworthy. Only well-organized smaller firms



ANNEX 2
Page 2
have access to the profitable freight market of the modern industrial
and commercial sector. Most small firms take part in the groundnut
campaign (December - May) for which the smaller type of truck is well
suited. During this period, truckers must earn the bulk of their
annual income because for the rest of the year they rely on what the
general market (excluding the captive or semi-captive markets described
above) offers them: foodstuffs, cattle, building materials, and
general cargo in small lots. This market is fairly narrow, and the
small firms are severely hit by the seasonal variation in the over-l1
level of transport activity. Trucking rates are low which leads to
the neglect of maintenance and a decline in professional service which
further restricts the access to the more profitable freight markets of
the modern sector. This interaction of cause and effect preserves and
accentuates the dualistic structure of the road transport industry and
explains why simultaneously there is excess transport capacity on the
one hand and, on the other, a shortage of high quality transport serv-
ices, prompting some trading and manufacturing firms to build up their
own fleet of trucks.
3.        Road transport rates prevailing in 1974 and estimates of road
transport costs on paved and gravel roads are summarized in Tables 3a and 3b.
Competition in the industry is fierce and rates have risen much less than
costs over the last decade. Official rates are respected only in freight
hauling for public and semi-public agencies, of which ONCAD is the most
important. Rates paid in the modern sector appear to be adequate for big
trucks if a load factor of about 60% and a normal annual mileage is achieved.
On the other hand, some of the rates prevailing in the general market are
barely sufficient to cover the direct operating costs (fuel, tires, wages)
of the smaller trucks which are the representative vehicles in this sector.
Overloading of trucks and saving on certain cost items explain why such rates
can persist: many operators buy second- or third-hand vehicles and have
correspondingly low amortization costs (although high repair costs); some of
the vehicles are not insured; in the case of owner-drivers, no cash wages
have to be paid, etc. Also, owners of trucks are frequently traders who
partly make up for unremunerative transport rates by trading transactions on
their own account (food, cattle).



SENEGAL
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
The Priv-e   Owned Trucking Indust  in SenegLl 1975
Region          Number of  Number of  Aggregate           Size of Firms by Number of Vehicles
Firms      Vehicles   Capac ty         ) 50      26  50  16 - 25           I     I            3-5   61-2
Cap Vert          23          182        2,868                             1     1              5       3   ,           9
Casamance         52          IGO        1,093           -                       1             2        4               49
Diourbel          24          354        4,068           2 /l"                   2             3        9       3      4
Fleuve             2           15          189                       -           -             -        2
OrIontal          12           92          595           -           -           2             2        4       2      3
Sine Saloum       90          565        4,857           1           4           3             3       14      24      38
Thies             34          147        1,505           -                       1             1        6       9       16
Senegal          247        1,515       15,175           3           6          10            19       42      4      119
*/ Including one cooperative of small transporters (55 vehicles)
One cooperative of small transporters (46 vehicles)
Source: ONCAD



SENiGAL
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
The Privatel  Owned Truckirc industD, in   en- 1975
a) Vehicles _trith 12.5T___jpyoaL and ms1rr
Region          Number of  Number of  Aggregate    Average                   Size .-f Firms by Number of Heavy Vehicles
Firms  /   Vehicles   CapacityT)                       _       25-a50   16-25   11-15   6-10   3-5   1-2
Cap Vert          16           104        2,121         20.4,           -        I        -        1      2       5      7
Casamance          3             4!          32         20.5            -        -        -        -      -       _
Diourbel          15           113        2,262         20.C            -        1        1-   1-        3       4      5
Fleuve             1             6          110         18.3            -                 -        -       1
OIriental          -            -                         - -                    -.                -
Sine Salo2um      10            90        1,793         19.9            -        1        1        1      2       -      5
Thies             13            36          691         19.2      _-                      -        -              5      7
Senegal           58           353        7,059         19. 2           -        3        2        3      9      1('   27
b) Vehicles with less than 12.5T payload                                          Table
Region          Number of  Number of  Acgregate    Average                 Szi  -f Firms by Number of Li,;,h /Medium Vehicles
Firms +    Vehicles  _Capa c ty(TJC             L)     go      2t 50  2' -0   16-25   11-15   5-10   3-5   1-2
Cap Vert          17            7B         7?17          9.3            -        -                 2      2       5      7
Casamance         46           156        1,011          6., -                            1        2      3       5    35
Diourbel          23           241        1,806          7.5            -        3--'   2          -      7       5      5
Fleuve             2             9           79          8.8            -        -        -        -   1
Oriental          12            92          595          6.5            -        --       2        1              2      3
Sine Saloum       89           (75        3,064          5.5            -        2                 5     15      23    35
hTihs             29           111          61"          7.3            -        -        1        -      2      11    16
Seneual          218         1,162        B,116         7?.             -        5       10       1      35    i54   102    0,
*/  Cooperatives of small transpor;.ers (18 and 15 heavy trucks, respect-ively).
**/ Including two cooperatives of small transporters (37 and 31 small trucks, respectively).
+/ A number .3f fiIrms owns both heavy and light trucks and therefore appears in Table 2a and Tabl 2b. The
number of f1rms in Tables 2a and 2b therefore does not add up to  he    al number given in Table 1.
Source:  ONCAD



SENEGAL                   Table 3
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
3 a) Road Transport Cost per ton/km in Senexal 1973 and 1974 in CFAF
6 t/truck             10 t/truck            25.5 t/truck
PAVED ROAD          1973      1974        1973    1974           1973     1974
Fixed   Cost       24.2       -           41.0     -            72.3       -
Running Cost        43.0       -          36.0      -            52.0      -
Total          I/  67.2      74.7         77.0    96.0          124.0    142.8
Per ton/km (50X)   22.4      24.9         15.4    19.2            9.8     11.2
GRAV          1/
Per ton/km (50%)   26.8      29.6         X8.X    22.4           11.8     13.1
1/ Assuming a load factor of 50%
Source: Direction des Transports, Bureau d'Etudes
per t/km
3 b) Road Transport Rates/in Senegal. 1974 in CFAF
Paved       Gravel    Improved Track   Bad Track
Regulated Sector
Groundnuts:
- to collecting centres       17           22             28             50
- to oil mills                12           17             -              -
Petroleum Products:
- gasoil, fuel                18           22             29             45
- petrol (hl)                  1.75         2.10           2.80           4.40
Private Sector
Commerce & Industry               9          12
Traditional
(small operators)              3-5           7
Source: Official rates and enquiries



ANNEX 3
SENEGAL
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Technical Assistance to MPWUT
Job Descriptions
The program will be carried out by the Subdivision of Feeder Roads
(BPP) in the Division of Road Maintenance (DER). Of the four positions to
be created in the Subdivision, two can be filled by Senegalese personnel;
the remaining two positions (two road engineers) will be filled by foreign
experts to be financed under the proposed project for two years. The posi-
tions and required qualifications are as follows:
(1) A road engineer with at least five years' practical
experience in public administration, road planning, and design
and work organization. He should have some knowledge of trans-
port economics. He will collect the information required by the
Directorate of Studies and Programming for the preparation of
comprehensive annual work programs. He will prepare designs of
works to be carried out. He will assist Government in exploring
alternative techniques for feeder road improvement and maintenance.
(2) A road engineer with at least five years' practical experience
In road construction and maintenance. He will assist in
implementing the feeder roads program. His principal task will
be to organize and supervise the field units in charge of
improvement and maintenance works in liaison with the Regional
District engineers. He will also prepare estimates of works
to be carried out.
The Government will provide graduated Senegalese engineers to be trained by
these experts and to take over these positions after two years.



ANNEX 
Page 1
SENEGAL
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
The Rural Communities
1.        In 1972, Senegal started a broad administrative reform of the
rural areas. According to the Law 72-25 of April 19, 1972 the Rural Com-
munity (Communaute Rurale) will in the future be the basic administrative
unit in the countryside (i.e. excluding towns). A Rural Community will
normally group a number of villages comprising in total about 10,000 inhabit-
ants. It will elect a Rural Council and have budgetary autonomy. Several
Rural Communities can form a "Groupement Rural", in particular for the pur-
pose of creating or operating jointly certain infrastructure. All Rural
Communities are represented in councils at the departmental and regional
level and are under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Interior. The
reform has been completed in the region of Thies and is nearing completion
in the region of Sine Saloum.
2.        The budget of the Rural Community is financed by a special Rural Tax
created by the Law 72-59 of June 24, 1972. This tax is to be paid by every
economically active person residing in the Community. The Rural Council
fixes the amounts within the limits of CFAF 500 and CFAF 1,000 per taxable
person. In addition, the Rural Community receives the revenue from the
animal tax (presently suspended because of the drought), and a portion of
various taxes such as the real estate tax and the "impot du minimum fiscal",
as well as the proceeds from certain licenses and fines. Of the Rural Tax,
which constitutes the main source of revenue, one-quarter is paid into a
Solidarity Fund which is an Equalization Fund for the benefit of the poorer
regions of the country (Decree 74/821 of July 30, 1974). Additional
revenue can be derived from loans contracted by the Rural Community, donations,
and from Government participation in certain investments.
3.        The proposed budget is prepared by the Sous-Prefet, who represents
the supervising Ministry of the Interior, and discussed by the Rural Council.
The budget is to be spent on investments of local interest and on their sub-
sequent maintenance. The Rural Council can decide the type and amount of
investment provided that budgetary equilibrium is maintained and correct
appropriation for obligatory expenditures is made. Obligatory expenditures
are in particular (Art. 82):
-    maintenance costs of investments carried out by the Rural Community
(excluding costs of personnel);
-    maintenance costs of investments carried out by the State or other
public entities provided that the Rural Community has been consulted
before these investments were carried out; and



ANNEX 4
Page 2
-    investment costs of projects included in the national development plan
if the financing is explicitly by the Rural Communities.
4.        Experiences with the Rural Communities in the region of Thies
have shown that road development ranks second on the list of priorities, the
first priority being wells. The provisions of Article 82 make it possible
to envisage a participation of the Rural Communities (or of groupings of
Communities) in the financing either of the construction costs of feeder roads
In their territory (in which case they are automatically responsible for
part of the maintenance cost), or only of the maintenance costs of such roads.
5.        In 1973/74, the budgets of individual Rural Communities in the
Thies region ranged from CFAF 2.5 million to CFAF 9.3 million (US$11,100
- 41,300) with an average of CFAF 4.8 million (US$21,300). The supervising
authority of the Ministry of the Interior (Direction de la Tutelle et des
Collectivities Locales) believes that in view of the obligatory expenditure
and the competing claims of other objectives, Rural Communities will on
average be able to devote about 15 - 20% of their budget to feeder road con-
struction and maintenance. This would be equivalent to about CFAF 0.8 million
or US$3,600 annually per community. Once the Rural Communities have been
established throughout the country, their contributions could go a long way
towards meeting the maintenance costs of the feeder road network.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
SENEGAL
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Details of the Feeder Roads Improvement and
Maintenance Program
1.        The feeder road improvement program summatized in Tables 5-8 was
compiled on the basis of an analysis of about 100 roads by consultants BCEOM.
The mission made additions, in particular feeder roads in the IDA-financed
Second Terres Neuves Settlement Project (Credit 254-SE), and the Casamance
Rice Project (Credit 252-SE) for which an extension is under preparation.
2.        The volume of the program was determined by the work capacity of
the three improvement brigades. This capacity was derived from experiences
in the highway maintenance program financed under the Second Highway Project
(Credit 366-SE), which is being implemented with the assistance of consultants
Louis Berger. On the basis of a daily capacity of 300/400 m3 of regravelling
and 180 days work per year, the annual output per brigade can be 108 km of
roads of PAI standard with a gravel surface of 12 cm thickness. Roads of
POA and PA2 standards have been calculated as fractions or multiples of PAl
roads according to the volume of materials to be moved. (In addition, there
are PA2E roads, which are deteriorated roads of PA2 standard needing complete
rehabilitation. The amount of work involved for PA2E roads is similar to
that required for the construction of a PAl road since the road-bed remains
in adequate condition.)
3.        On the basis of road user costs and savings (discussed in Annex 9)
and the construction costs summarized in Table 9, the following average
thresholds (in tons per year) have been calculated for improvement works
(yielding a First-Year Benefit Ratio of 1.10):
POA      PAl       PA2          PA2E
Northern Groundnut Basin /1        -      8,500    14,500           -
Central Groundnut Basin /1        -       5,000    10,000           -
Northezn part of Eastern Senegal
and of Upper Casamance        3,500    5,000    10,000  )
Southern part of Eastern Senegal                            )
and of Upper Casamance        3,500    5,000    11,500  )   10-12,000
Sine Saloum and Lower                                       )
Casamance                     4,500    7,000    14,000  )
/1   In the northern and central Groundnut Basin, POA roads are not feasible
because of the deep sandy soil.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
However, the mere fact that a certain type of road improvement yields a
first-year benefit of 10% does not mean that a lower road standard may not
have a higher rate of return. In the absence of reliable functions describ-
ing the increase of maintenance costs (and of vehicle operating costs) as
traffic approaches the capacity limits of a certain type of road, the
capacity limits have been defined as follows:
POA road, 6,000 tons in general, 7,000 tons in easy
terrain; PAl road, 20,000 tons.
In consequence, the following minimum traffic levels (in tons) have been
stipulated for improvement works to be economically justified:
POA     PAl     PA2        PA2E
Northern Groundnut Basin                    -     8,500   20,000    10,000
Central Groundnut Basin                     -     5,000   20,000    10,000
Sine Saloum and Lower
Casamance                               4,500   7,000   20,000    10,000
Rest of the Country                       3,500   6,000   20,000    10,000
This applies only to economic justification based on road user benefits.
(For roads justified according to the value-added approach, see Annex 7,
Table 2.)
4.        A further element in programming the annual work tasks was the
necessity of avoiding excessive transfers of brigades within their regions.
A typical feeder road is only 15-25 km long and if individual subprojects of
a brigade's annual program are not located within the same subregion, too
much time of the short 180 day work year is lost in mobilization, setting up
of work camps, etc. This implies that implementation of improvement works
cannot strictly follow the descending order of profitability of individual
feeder roads as expressed, for instance, in first-year benefits but must
proceed by annual programs comprising subregional packages.
5.        Most of the annual and regional improvement programs are associated
with the agricultural development efforts outlined in Annex 1. The provisional
programs for the second and third years (Tables 6 and 7) are subject to change,
however, as new programs are launched or, more important, if programs in
certain areas are delayed and traffic, in consequence, falls short of the
levels projected. Also, the sequence of the improvement programs for the
second and third years is tentative and the order can also be reversed.
Complete programs for the second and third years have been elaborated mainly
with a view to providing the Directorate of Studies and Programming and the
Interministerial Consultative Committee with a standard of reference for
assessing the economic merits of new roads which may be proposed and which
could substitute for the lower priority roads in these provisional programs.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
SENEGAL
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Guidelines for the Selection of Feeder Roads to be Improved
in the Second and Third Years of the Project
Institutions
1.        The feeder roads to be improved in the second and third years of
the project period (beginning autumn 1977 and autumn 1978, respectively)
will be selected in the year preceding the execution of improvement works by
the Directorate of Studies and Programming (DSP) of the MPWUT.  The DSP will
be responsible for the screening and selection of proposals while the Bureau
des Pistes de Production (BPP) is responsible for the engineering and the
programming of feeder roads which have been selected. The DSP will work in
coordination with the Interministerial Consultative Committee (ICC) which will
have a coordinating function, gathering from participating agencies feeder
road proposals, and subsequently, after study by the DEP, the ICC will decide
on the selection of feeder roads. The Feeder Roads Section of MIWA in
Abidjan is available for methodological advice.
Procedures
2.        Provisional programs for the second and third years have been
established on the basis of the survey by consultants BCEOM and the appraisal
mission's findings (Tables 6 and 7). New proposals will be collected annually
from the agencies represented on the ICC and passed to the DSP for analysis.
Ir. assessing the merits of a proposed road, the feeder roads contained in
the provisional programs will serve as a benchmark. An annual work program
consisting of the roads to be improved will then be drawn up by the DSP, either
confirming or modifying the provisional programs. This program will be sub-
mitted to the ICC for approval and subsequently for approval by the Bank.
Programs will be submitted to R}IWA not later than four months before the
scheduled start of the year's program.
3.        The Bank may propose additional feeder roads not included in the
provisional programs if they are considered necessary for agricultural projects
that may eventually be financed by the Bank Group.
Criteria
4.        Roads to be included in the program will be selected according to
the criteria described below. Both a first-year benefit and an economic
rate of return of at least 10% would be required for a road section to qualify
for improvement. Two cases are distinguished:



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Case I:   This category would include roads in areas where ongoing
agricultural activity is already substantial, and therefore
road user savings for normal traffic alone suffice to give
the road at least the threshold rate of return. Because
cost savings are expected to be substantial in relation to
the investment cost of improving the road, and the methodology
is clearly established, justification of Case I roads would
present no special difficulties.
Case II:  This comprises roads with little or no existing traffic, but
which form part of an agricultural development project. In
this case, the economic analysis will be based on the
incremental value-added resulting from the combined road/
agricultural investment. An example is provided in Annex T
Table 2.
5.        Roads meeting the selection criteria should furthermore fit geo-
graphically in the work-program of one of the three brigades in order to
avoid long distance transfers of brigades which are bound to reduce the
annual output.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
SENEGAL
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Details of the Economic Evaluation
Approach
1.        In Annex 6, a complete road improvement program for the three-year
project period has been outlined on the basis of information available in
1975. The project allows for changes in the second and third year program
(para 3.16) as new agricultural projects are started or planned projects are
delayed, but will be evaluated on the basis of the program defined as in
Tables 5 - 6.
2.        Feeder roads can be evaluated on the basis of road user savings or
on the basis of their contribution to increased agricultural production in
the context of specific agricultural development projects. As a rule, feeder
roads have been Justified on the basis of road user savings wherever this
method was sufficient to provide an economic justification. However, in the
case of the planned vegetable growing projects in the Niayes area, the agri-
cultural value-added approach has been used for the justification of the two
roads (para. 15 below).
Traffic Density and Composition
3.        Agricultural commodities constitute the bulk of traffic flows
on feeder roads. Consultants BCEOM have assessed the commodity flows on some
100 feeder roads both for the present and medium-term future (1980/81) on
the basis of ONCAD's produce evacuation records and a survey of ongoing and
planned agricultural development projects (Annex 1). Traffic volumes are
summarized in Table 4 for the first year improvement program and in Tables
5 and 6 for the provisional second and third year programs. On the roads con-
tained in this program, commodity flows are between 3,500 and 7,000 tons on
roads of POA standard, between 5,000 and 20,000 tons on roads of PAI standard,
and more than 20,000 tons on the very few road sections of PA2 standard.
4.        Agricultural commodities are collected, and agricultural inputs
distribujted, by trucks varying in size between 5t and llt payload. The
lower the quality of a track, the larger is the proportion of small trucks.
5.        Passenger car traffic on feeder roads has not been evaluated by
consultants BCEOM. However, on the basis of recent traffic counts made by
DPW, it has been estimated that on average one vehicle out of three will be
a passenger car or pick-up.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
6.         Seasonally, traffic is heavily concentrated in the six months from
mid-November until mid-Nay which account for more than 80% of total annual
traffic.
7.         On the basis of trends established by past development and best
estimates for the future, traffic has been assumed to grow uniformly at 4%
annually. The actual growth rate may be higher on roads associated with
agricultural development projects.
Road User Savings
8.         Road user costs calculated by consultants BCEOM are based on
analysis done by consultants Louis Berger within the framework of the highway
maintenance program financed under the Second Highway Project (Credit 366-SE).
These estimates were supplemented by the appraisal mission in order to take
into account the use of small trucks in sandy terrain. The following road
user costs are estimated by the mission for average conditions on each cate-
gory of road:
(CFAF/Veh.km in April 1975 prices)
Unimproved       Improved   Improved Road
Representative                         Track             Track
10.5 ton truck                          167               134          103
7.5 ton truck                          134                87           67
5.0 ton truck                          103                67           52
Passenger car or Pickup
(Type Peugeot 404)                    67                44            34
9.         Road conditions vary considerably between regions.  The northern
half of the Groundnut Basin mainly has tracks in deep sand that can be
negotiated only with light overland trucks and make for very high costs per
vehicle km. The Sine Saloum region and the Lower Casamance region, on the
other hand, have relatively good natural soils and lower vehicle operating
costs on unimproved tracks. Taking into account local conditions and the
different mixes of small and medium-sized trucks associated with road quality,
the following transport costs per kn have been retained for different regions
(assuming a load factor of 55%):
(CFAF/Veh.k.m in April 1975 prices)
tJnimproved           Improved Roads
Regions                                        track             POA   PAI    PA2
Northern Groundnut Basin                         50                 -    17      15
Central Groundnut Basin                          40                 -    17      15
Northern half of Eastern Senegal &
of Upper Casamance                             34                21    17      15
Souther half of Eastern Senegal &
of Upper Casamance                             32               21    17       15
Sine Saloum and Lower Casamance                  29                21    17      15



ANNEX 7
Page 3
10.       To the road user benefits derived on the basis of these figures and
projected commodity flows, 25% have been added for passenger cars and pick-ups
assuming the operating cost of a passenger car to be half that of a repre-
sentative truck and the number of passenger cars half that of trucks.
11.       In order to evaluate the economic benefits derived from the main-
tenance of the 245 km of roads built by other agencies, a function has been
defined describing the prospective deterioration of these roads in the
absence of maintenance operations. These roads are expected to relapse into
the state of unimproved tracks over six years if no maintenance is carried
out. Deterioration would be progressive, according to the following pattern
(in % of the difference between operating costs on improved roads and un-
improved tracks): 5% in year 1; 10% in year 2; 25% in year 3; 45% in year 4;
70% in year 5, and 100% from the sixth year.
Project Cost
12.       The economic cost of the project is derived from Table 9.  Since
the execution of the project will take only three years, there will be a
substantial residual value of the road improvement equipment. Sufficient
maintenance equipment will be retained, however, to carry out routine main-
tenance. Regravelling is expected to become necessary after six years.
Since the residual value of equipment needed for this operation has been
credited to the project in year 4, the cost of the regravelling includes the
hiring of equipment.
13.       The assumed life of the roads is ten years.
Rate of Return
14.       Roads have been selected on the basis of First-Year Benefits (FYB)
which were to be not less than 10% but were in fact never lower than 11%.
FYB ratios for the three annual programs are summarized by region and by type
of road in Table 1 of this Annex.
15.       Two potential roads which could serve planned vegetable growing
projects in areas presently only accessible by four-wheel drive vehicles
have been selected on the basis of FYB ratios derived from the projected
value-added of these vegetable growing projects related to the combined cost
of road construction and agricultural investment. Details are given in
Table 2 of this Annex.
16.       Rate of return calculations are summarized in Table 3.  Since
details on road user costs, road construction and maintenance costs were
available in 1974 prices, the calculation has been made in prices of that
year.



SENEGAL
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
First-Year Benefits (Z and Economic Costs of the Improvement Program, By Region and Type of Road
--At  of Road        _         _1975/7-'           14977/78a                                        19'%/79_a
Sine     Thi6s      Casa-            Sine    Thies        Casa-        Sine     Senecal b) Casa-   Total
SelQlm, Diourbel  mance              Saloum  Diourbel  mance           Saloum  Orientol  mance   Prqram
FIRST YEAR BENEFIT RATIO
"QA                   *-          --      14.8              18 9       11 1       -           17 0    14,3         12.9      14.6
'.A1                   19 5      14 1    12.3               15 6       17.3       -           16.0     14.9        23.2      16.8
?'A2                   16.3       -          -              18.7         -        -           17.5        -          _       17.5
"A2E                   --                                     -          -       13.8         13.8        -        15.1      14.1
Total                19.0      li.l1    13.0              16.5       1700      13.8         16.3     14.5        20.7      16.2
Economic Costs (million CFAF) in 1974 prices
POA                    -           -       28.2              5.5        5,5       -            5.9    50.5          7.8   ;03.4
'A1                   7 1.7      93 5    71 4               61.7      11  3      -           41.9     35.6        61.8   554.9
PA2                    14- 5      -          -              16,0                  -           22.0        -          -       52.5
'A2E                   --                    --               -          -       60 7          6.5       -         17.4    84.6
Total                89 2      93 5    99 6               8312       119.8    60 7          76.3    86.1         87 0   795.4
Km  of  Roads
POA                    -          -      105 5              27.3        27,0      -           29.6   171.5         28.8    389.7
?A1                    'l.9      77.7    89.0               68.9        46.5      -           47,6    41.0         59.2   501.8
'A2                     7.2        -         -               8.0         -        -           11.0        -          -      26.2
?A2E                   -          -                           -          -       75.6          8.0       -         21.6   105.2
Totil                79 1.     77,7   194 5              104 2        73,5    75.6          96.2   212.5        109.6  1,022,9
5)  ontional  se  o
tj*ncl,,ding some roads i-n the East of Sine Saloum 



ANNEX 7_
SENEGAL                Table 2
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Summary Evaluation of Benefits of 2 Road Projects in the Niaves Area
(2 x 80beIrrigated Vegetable Growi.ng)
A.  Cost of development of 64 ha irri.gated vegetable growing on the basis
of 2 wells of 100 cbm/h.
(in CAFP
1.  2 bore holes                            20,000,000
2.  Pumping systems                          9,oo0,ooo
3.  Irrigation networks                      4,000,000
4.  Other installations (water storage
basin, building, sheds)                 5,000,000
5.  Land                                     4,000 000
6.  Unforeseen (10% of 2 - 4)                2,000,000
Cost per ha =  677,000 CFAF             4l oo,ooo
For 80 ha = 54 million CFAF
B.  Prod-ctione Costs,- and Valuie Added per ha
a) Rainy Season! 0.8 ha grouninuts   1,600 Kg x CFAF 41 5 = 66,400
Ool ha gombo           500 Kg x CFAF 27.0 = 13,500
0,1 ha pepper          200 Kg x CFAF 67.0 = 13,400
1.0 ha                                        93,300
labor                                       = 15, ooo
1 300 cbm water x CFAF 30/c.bm              - 39,000
fertili.zer                                   10, 000
seed                                           4 000
68. 000
value added                                   25, 300
b)  Dry Season:   0.2 ha tomatoes = 8,000 Kg x CFAF 35         =280,000
0,1 ha onions - 4,000 Kg x CFAF 18          = 64,000
0.1Pfocal veg. = 2,500 Kg x CFAF 30         = 75,000
419,000
labor                                        1 15 ,00 0
4,800  'bm water x CFAF 30/a!bm           - 144,000
fertilizer                                 =  40,000
seed                                       =  20,000
insecti.cides                              =  20,000
other                                      =  10,000
249,000
value added                                  170,000
Total annual value added per ha (a+b)  =  195,300
N.B-. (a) Amortization of irrigation infrastructure is included in the
water price;



ANNEX 7
Table 2
Page 2
C. Road Construction cost in the Niayes area:
1 Km PAl road - CFAF 2.9 million/Km
a) Mbayenne - Pekesse 15.7 x 2.9 million = 45.5 million
b)  Tiepp - Kebemer    20.6 x 2.9 million = 59.7 million
D.  Value added from integrated project (road   agriculture):
a)  Investment Mbayenne - Pekesse area = FCFA 54.0 + 45.5 e 99.5 million
Value added (rounded) = FCFA 195,000 x 80 ha = 15.6 million
FYB = 16%
b) Investment Tiepp - Kebemer area = FCFA 54.0 + 59.7 = 113.7 million
Value added (rounded) = FCFA 195,000 x 80 ha = 15.6 million
FYB = 14%
N.B.    In the first case, the rate of return would be above 10%
even if no further growth took place after the development of the
first 80 ha; in the second case, a growth of only 1% p.a. would
be required in order to remain above the limit of a 10% R.o.R.
The above calculation defines the order of magnitude of the minimum
agricultural investment required to justify improvement of these roads.
Source: Agricultural data are derived from an outline by the Direction
Agricole of the Ministry of Rural Development which is based on
work of the Centre National de Recherche Agricole in Bambey.



SENEGAL
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
(CFAF million in 1974 prices)
--------------------Cost---------------------         ------------------Benefits-----------------    -------------- Benefits Cost---------------
Project       Maintenance Cost       Total Cost   Improvement c)       Maintenance           Total       Improvement        Maintenance          Total
Year               Cost      1000 km       250 km                                    1000 km       250 km      _                           1000 km      250 km       _
1               651.1         -         5.8             -656.9          -             -           0.9           0.9       -651.1            -         -5.8        -656.0
2              -218.4        7.6        5.8             -231.8        47.9         6.8            1.7          56.4       -170.5           -0.8       -3.1        -175.4
3              -192.7       15.2        -5.8            -213.7        92.8        18.0            4.5         115.3        -99.9          +2.8        -1.3         -98.4
4              +209.6a)    22.8         5.8             +181.3       138.2        34.0            8.5         180.7       +347.8         +11.2       +2.7         +362.0
5                           22.8       *5.8              -28.6       123.9        55.2           13.8         192.9       +123.9         +32.4       +8.0         +164.3
6                           22.8       14.7              -37.5       104.7        81.6           20.4         206.7       +104.7         +58.8       +5.7         +169.2
7                           22.8       18.7              -41.5       108.9        84.8          21.2          214.9       +108.9         +62.0       +2.5        +172.4
8                           22.8       19.3              -42.1       113.0        88.4           22.1         223.5       +113.0         +65.6       +2.8         +181.4
9                           22.8       20.0              -42.8       117.9        91.6           22.9         232.4       +117.9         +68.8       +2.9         +189.6
10                           22.8         5.8             -28.6       122.3        95.6           23.9         241.8       +122.3         +72.8      +17.1         +213.2
11                           22.8        5.8              -28.6       127.4        99.2           24.8         251.4       +127.4         +76.4      +19.0         +222.8
12                    b)    22.8         5.8              -28.6       132.5       103.2           25.8         261.5       +132.5         +80.4      +20.0         +232.9
13               +17.0       22.8        *5.8             -11.6       137.6       107.2           26.8         271.6       +154.6         +84.4      +21.0         +260.0
Rate of Return =13.7%
a)  residual value of equipment
b)  residual value of DPW building
c)  benefits from Improvement on the assumption                                                                                                                             a,
that no subsequent maintenance takes place.                                                                                                                              X






SENEGAL
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS,
URBAN DEVELOPMENT AND TRANSPORT
MINISTFR OF PUBLIC WORKS
URBAN DEVELOPMENT AND                        CABINET
TRANSPORT
|  GENEA                              ADIITRTV
| SECRETARYAFIR
DIRECTOR OF                                               DIRECTOROFOR F
ADMINISTRATION                 OIRECTOR OF                  STUDIES AND                      OF           DIRECTOR OF
PERSONNEL AND              URBAN DEVELOPMENT               PROGRAMMING                                    PARKS AND
ACCOUNTING                                                                                                 GARDENS
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~
BUREAU OF          TRANSPORT AND
PLANNING           INFRASTRUCTURE          ARCHITECTURE          ADMINISTRAUON
:                                           DIRECTO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R OF
_ i.uI.u..mu...mmus m   BUILDING DIVISION  r        _        PUBLIC WORKS                   CENTRAL EQUIPMENT
Rsf eginnu| WokNEW WORKS                   eo  Workshop
S  _
=x  DI Si      B    Th,, 
| CAP VEFRT   l         LUETISDIOURBEL                                           |SINE SALOUM   ||CASAMANCE                     EAST SENEGAL
I  DAKAR             ST. LOUIS                                                   |    KAOLACK      |LZIGUINCHOR                TAMBACOUNt~-
|Subdivisions: l      Subdivisions:         S.bdiv,sion:         Subdivisions     |  Subdivis.ons   |     Sulbd.visionis    |    Subd'vis'Ons-
IDakar                St Louis              Thies                Diourbel             KaoMack          |Zigu.nchor       ||Tambamund.          
|Rufisque             Natam                                      Lgee|Fatick                        |         Bignona          B  takel      
l          l    ~~~~~~~Richard Toll                                           |Roungneul                K.Ida           iKed.ugo.
|          X                            ~~~                       ~~~I  I          I I                           I 
l   l  Northern~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ema Inspection ll Crta jetD                                 Southeml Inspelo 
Wodd flank  15278






SENEGAL                                                  T       e i                  A  U  l;t I T A  N   IA                                                           5poorOishS4ra    ' b .>, AlgerAa            Liby.
S E N E G A L                                                                                                                                                                                                     C. t   oooF  <   i \,
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT  0                                           \                                     d                                                       ,w                           iIoei*s i
FEEDER ROADS TO BE IMPROVED AND/OR MAINTAI                                                                                                               b                                       MrsiN
UNDER THE FPOJEC8T (FIRST YEAR)                                   Rchd Tol                                                                                                 SENfGAL ".----- J
FEEDER ROADS TO BE IMPROVED AND /OR MAINTF                     /ok  Gombi,                                                                                             Garr_b_  rp                 ___
UNDER THE PROJECT (OPTIONAL PROGRAMO Gthio                                                                                                                                                        Vou -.'
C_ ONSTRUCTION UNDER PREVIOUS                       /      N'gnGsmthe  )   
RANK/IDA PROJECTS                                                                                                                                                                                                          I 0  Ie>t
-10'     EXISTING PAVED ROADS                                    /S,., L...                                                                                                                        5       oa
--   PAVED ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCTION                            N                                                                                                                           tLbe,iN T)gn 
GRAVEL ROADS                                                                                                                                                          A )  t                            )  //Sbnf  __
-      EARTH ROADS                                             I                                                                                                                                                    Eq. GuineoL J   *
I I I - RAILROADS                                      j                                                                                                                                                                   /    0
RIVERS                               ielp    9   ou>to                                      feof4                                       Ourossoou       -                                   Ir       ,o1
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES T                            _                                                                                                                                                r
Tiol<Ngourone ~    ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    d   FRrunrJI~               /               ti 
Mboro-R-Mv t       bZ       M,>9yen                  /              ~             ~      _____/t   Ranero|
.... M-or                                                                    l(ornori                                       5'
M'baye.k  Kayar   O                 Raba-Goroge      N'di        Borou Bogo          
Dok                                                                                                                                                               B~~   Kon             CT SV
IA.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1d,                               D1g.                                       4fh,                                                                                     T. r4wv-B-a
I           I.g- ~    -         I      Ndeisi~'~ I01Toub~,e Solo
A  TZ ANT/C                      Joel          |             'aGth 5a    g//or-Oa IX                            olialo )
-,a  C  L A  tr                 NUnae                             5'  rs               orTioIoS',          /u Kororpe o o r
D/s )>>_ >  ~4eBom d,,yTormoa
RKorong KeurZ -d-Riz q>remne gv   3  C ~~~~fi/                Tambacosodo                           ,<
1               f             t''                                                 > ' doN'D tg.o.'F?I'd g-
14N OCEAN                                                                                                P-t-                          '                               b
g     >      /                      D4om&/soUNrn9ro 9,, -obMrcUd\               _   ___-engr                                       akl e        Q vKb
I~ ~  ~ I    I                                                               ,ro, a- Koou| /Avkn 
0   lo  20  30   40  50idi                                                                     id Bl n n ; o r K lenina  Oooso:WodOioo  ro                                 n -i - -.-
S 10 20   3 0 400  o 70 REo 90   IOtnce/r ioo                                            *          -   5~                                                                 i,i,rid
CapSkirrienoos,ooye r                                    G+  li- f7Ut  N9  E A  B  55A U                                                        __<_             ' <                                 
N                               Di~.  {g  1S  /  \G    U    I   N    E    A                                                                                                   -               On



