CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1221 T-SE
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Feeder Roads Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 31, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 31, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RE-
CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) The Bank has determined that the Borrower is eligible
to receive this Loan as an intermediat' term loan, as that term is
defined in Resolution No. 75-111 of the Executive Directors of the
Bank establishing an Interest Subsidy Fund for the Third Window
(hereinafter called the Fund) and upon the terms and conditions
set forth in such Resolution; and
(C) The Administrator of the Fund (hereinafter called the
Administrator), subject to the terms and conditions set forth in
the Resolution referred to in (B) above, is obligated to pay to
the Bank semi-annually from the resources of the Fund an amount
equal to four per cent (4%) per annum of the outstanding amounts
of principal on intermediate loans, of which this Loan is one;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MPWUT" means the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works,
Urban Development and Transport, organized pursuant to the Bor-
rower's Decree No. 75-829 of July 23, 1975;
(b) "DPW" means "Directorate of Public Works (Direction des
Travaux Publics)", a directorate operating within MPWUT;
(c) "BPP" means "Bureau des Pistes de Production", estab-
lished and operating within DPW pursuant to the Borrower's Arrete
Ministeriel No. 447 of January 16, 1976 as a subdivision of the
Division d'Entretien Routier; and


﻿(d) "DSP" means "Directorate of Studies and Programning
(Direction des Etudes et de la Programnation)", a directorate
operating within MPWUT pursuant to the Borrower's Arrete Ministeriel
No. 454 of January 16, 1976.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to six million six
hundred thousand dollars ($6,600,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Proj-
ect and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03, Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods, works and services (other than consultants' services) for
the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall
be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿-5-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of four and one-half per cent (4-1/2%) per annum on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time; provided, however, that if the Administrator shall at
any time determine that the resources of the Fund shall not be
sufficient to pay to the Bank at the next succeeding semi-annual
interest payment date of the Loan the amount scheduled to be paid
by the Administrator at that interest payment date as specified
in paragraph (C) of the Preamble to this Agreement, the Borrower
shall, upon notification by the Administrator of such determination
and the amount of the resulting shortfall, pay additional interest
on such principal amount of the Loan equal to such shortfall.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿- 6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project through
DPW with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with ap-
propriate engineering, administrative and financial practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation on the generality of the
provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
take all such measures as may be required to provide BPP with qual-
ified and competent personnel, at headquarters' level as well as
at the level of the regional, departmental and local divisions,
including, inter alia, foremen, operators and mechanics in adequate
numbers in order to enable BPP to carry out its responsibilities
with respect to the execution of the Project. Such measures shall
include adequate budget allocations to cover the Borrower's expen-
ditures with respect to the employment and the training of said
personnel, in order to allow to undertake recruitment of said
personnel prior to September 30, 1976.
(b) Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, the Borrower shall, in carrying out Part B(1) of the
Project, provide BPP or cause BPP to be provided at headquarters
in Dakar not later than September 30, 1976 or such other date as
the Bank may agree, with: (i) two road engineers and to be employed
with qualifications and experience and on terms and conditions


﻿- 7 -
satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) suitably qualified counterpart per-
sonnel to replace the two aforesaid engineers after two years; and
(iii) two administrative assistants with suitable qualifications
and experience.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain DSP with respon-
sibility, in respect of the Project, inter alia for the technical
and economic analysis of the Borrower's feeder road requirements
and for the coordination of the Borrower's feeder road improvement
programs.
(b) The Borrower shall cause DSP to evaluate the impact of
the feeder roads improvement and maintenance program on intervals
and in accordance with criteria which shall be agreed upon with
the Bank.
Section 3.04. (a) In order to ensure adequate overall coordi-
nation of Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall establish not
later than June 30, 1976, or such other date as the Bank may agree,
and maintain in operation, an Interministerial Consultative Commit-
tee, whose composition shall be satisfactory to the Bank and which
shall consist of, inter alia, high ranking representatives of its
ministries, and agencies, interested in the execution of the Proj-
ect. Such Interministerial Consultative Committee shall inter alia
be responsible for the annual review of feeder road requirements
submitted by the aforesaid ministries and agencies and the estab-
lishment in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank and
upon recommendation of DSP of the Borrower's annual proposed feeder
road improvement program.


﻿-8-
(b) Starting March 1, 1977 or such other date as the Bank
may agree, the Borrower's proposed annual feeder roads program
for the years 1977-1978 and 1978-1979, to be included under Part
A(1) of the Project after such program has been approved by the
Prime Minister, shall be defined by MPWUT in agreement with the
Bank not later than four months before the scheduled start of the
works to be undertaken under said annual feeder roads program.
Section 3.05. Notwithstanding the provisions set forth or
referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
study the feasibility of using methods of feeder roads construction
intermediate to equipment-intensive and labor-intensive methods
and submit its findings at the time of transmission to the Bank of
the proposed feeder roads program for the year 1977-1978 referred
to in Section 3.04(b) of this Agreement.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be used
exclusively for the Project until its completion.


﻿-9-
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii)
shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed
all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required
for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such
land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes re-
lated to the Project.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall maintain BPP in operation.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member.
To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public assets
(as hereinafter defined), as security for any external debt, which
will or might result in a priority for the benefit of the creditor
of such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall other-
wise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and
ratably secure the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the
creation of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect;
provided, however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal
reason such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien cre-
ated on assets of any of its political or administrative subdivi-
sions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank
secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory
to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿- 11 -
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such sub-
division, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained sound accounting practices the operations, re-
sources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the depart-
ments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. For the purpose of carrying out Part A of the
Project, the Borrower shall take all necessary measures in order
that BPP's three road-betterment brigades, initially assigned to
the Thias/Diourbel, Sinfe Saloum and Casamance regions, respectively,
be reassigned as and when required, to such other regions as shall
be included under the annual feeder road improvement and maintenance
program.
Section 4.04. Unless the.Bank shall otherwise agree, the Bor-
rower shall make: (i) at the end of the year during which the Proj-
ect has been completed, an allocation in its national annual budget


﻿- 12 -
of not less than CFAF125 million to meet the maintenance require-
ments of the feeder roads included under Part A of the Project
during the year immediately succeeding such year; and (ii) there-
after for each succeeding year an allocation in its budget for
maintenance of its rural road network, the amount of which shall
be (A) increased, as compared with the amount allocated for main-
tenance of said feeder roads network in its budget of the year
immediately preceding such succeeding year, to take into account
cost increases occurring during such preceding year, and (B) ad-
justed, from time to time, to reflect the maintenance requirements
of said feeder roads network.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause its roads and its road
maintenance equipment to be adequately maintained.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date July 29, 1976 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 14 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Ministre Charge des Finances of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances et des
Affaires Aconomiques
Rue Charles Lane
Dakar
Senegal
Cable address:
MINIFINANCES
Dakar
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 15 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the city of Dakar,
Republic of Senegal, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
By /s/ Babacar Ba
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures-for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Equipment, spare           5,000,000         100% of foreign
parts, materials                             expenditures or
and supplies                                91%
(2) Technical Assis-            400,000          100% of foreign
tance                                       expenditures
(3) Civil works by              400,000          64%
contract
(4) Unallocated                  800,000
TOTAL      6,600,000


﻿- 17 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the ter-
ritory of any country other than the Borrower; provided, however,
that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another coun-
try from the territory of which goods or services are supplied,
expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall be
deemed to be "foreign expenditures".
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall
be disbursed on account of-payments for taxes levied by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importa-
tion, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if
the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases or in-
creases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the
Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance
the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the


﻿- 18 -
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category,
to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds
of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category and which
in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures,
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated short-
fall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procure-
ment of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures for
such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the
Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the
Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to develop and maintain feeder roads
in regions with significant agricultural development programs and
consists of the following parts:
Part A.   Feeder Roads Improvement and Maintenance Program
1.   Improvement and subsequent maintenance of about
1,000 km of feeder roads.
2.   Maintenance of about 250 km of additional feeder
roads.
Such feeder roads shall be selected,-and the applicable
design standards shall be determined, by agreement be-
tween the Borrower and the Bank.
Part B.   Strengthening of BPP
1.   Technical assistance to BPP, consisting of experts'
services for a period of about two years for the
purpose of assisting BPP in carrying out Part A of
the Project and training counterparts, further
staffing of BPP, and the provision of an adminis-
trative building.


﻿- 20 -
2.   Procurement and utilization of equipment and mate-
rials for road improvement and maintenance.
*         *         * e                b  D
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
January 15, 1983                                    115,000
July 15, 1983                                       120,000
January 15, 1984                                    120,000
July 15, 1984                                       125,000
January 15, 1985                                    125,000
July 15, 1985                                       130,000
January 15, 1986                                    135,000
July 15, 1986                                       135,000
January 15, 1987                                    140,000
July 15, 1987                                       140,000
January 15, 1988                                    145,000
July 15, 1988                                       150,000
January 15, 1989                                    150,000
July 15, 1989                                       155,000
January 15, 1990                                    160,000
July 15, 1990                                       160,000
January 15, 1991                                    165,000
July 15, 1991                                       170,000
January 15, 1992                                    175,000
July 15, 1992                                       180,000
January 15, 1993                                    180,000
July 15, 1993                                       185,000
January 15, 1994                                    190,000
July 15, 1994                                       195,000
January 15, 1995                                    200,000
July 15, 1995                                       205,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 22 -
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
January 15, 1996                                    2109000
July 15, 1996                                       210,000
January 15, 1997                                    215,000
July 15, 1997                                       220,000
January 15, 1998                                    225,000
July 15, 1998                                       230,000
January 15, 1999                                    235,000
July 15, 1999                                       240,000
January 15, 2000                                    250,000
July 15, 2000                                       255,000
January 15, 2001                                    260,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 23 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                               1%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                          2-1/4%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                              4%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                    5-1/2%
More than sixteen years but
not more than twenty-one
years before maturity                    7-1/4%
More than twenty-one years but
not more than twenty-three
years before maturity                        8%
More than twenty-three years
before maturity                          8-1/2%


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding: Equipment, spare parts,
materials and supplies
Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts to be awarded in accordance with procedures consis-
tent with those set forth in Part A of the "Guidelines for Procure-
ment under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis
of international competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Equipment, Spare Parts, Materials and Supplies:
With respect to any contract for equipment, materials and
supplies estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent, and for
spare parts, the Borrower may award such contracts on the basis
of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with
local procedures acceptable to the Bank, but only to the extent
that the aggregate amount of contracts so awarded and to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan shall not exceed $400,000
equivalent.
2.   Civil Works:
Civil works may be carried out by force account or contract.
Contracts for civil works may be awarded on the basis of competitive


﻿- 25 -
bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods; (ii) cus-
toms duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other ex-
penditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent
of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.


﻿- 26 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its
review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the
bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such deter-
mination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and approval and prior
to the submission to the Bank of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution
and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.


