Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
u 29( 3 - PO
Report No. 6911,PO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PORTUGAL
LOAN TO BANCO DE FOMENTO NACIONAL
FOR A
THIRD INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
December 22, 1987
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department 1V
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
Ths document has a resticted dsibution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
thdr offlcial duties. its contents may ot othedwse be disclosed without World Bank authoization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency Unit - Escudo (Esc)
1981    1982    1983    1985    1986    December-1987
US$1.00 = Esc.    62       80     111      146     170        130
ABBREVIATIONS
BDO     Binder Dijker Otte Co. (International Accounting Firm)
BFN     Banco de Fomento Nacional
BOP     Bank of Portugal
BPI     Banco Portuguese de Investimento
BRI     Boletines Registro Importicas
BSD     Banking Supervision Department (Department of BOP)
EC      European Community
EIB     European Investment Bank
EDP     Electronic Data Processing
I'ERGF   Foreign Exchange Risk Guarantee Fund
FIS     Financial Information System
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GFCF    Gross Fixed Capital Formation
IAD     Internal Audit Department
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
IPE     Instituto de Participacoes do Estado
MIE     Ministry of Industry and Energy
MIS     Management Information System
MLT     Mediun- and Long-Term
OECD    Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
O & M   Organization and Management (Department of BFN)
PCEDED  Programa de Correccao Estrutural Do Defice Externo e do
Desemprego (Program to Correct Structural Deficits in
External Trade and Unemployment)
PCR     Project Completion Report
SACC    Servicios de Acompanhamento e Controle de Credito
(Follow-Up and Credit Control Department)
SMI     Small- and Medium-Scale Industries
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OmCUL USE ONLY
PORTUGAL
BFN I
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page
PROJECT SUMMARY ......................        ...*......................          (i)
I. INTROfUCTION ....................... .. . ... ..*.......  * * *.............  I
II. THE ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT    ....................... .........**.**.          2
A.  Overview .............................................               2
B.  The Industrial Sector ..... ........                                 3
C.  The Financial Sector ....... .      ...... *............****.*       5
D.  BFN in the Economy .................... ...                          8
E.  The Bank's Role   .*..*.........................                     8
III.  THE INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING EFFORT            ............................  9
A.  Policies and Need for Restructuring .....................            9
B.  Restructuring Studies Under the Project .................           10
C.  Institutional Arrangements ..............................           11
D.  Implementation of Restructuring Studies ..................          12
IV.  BFN:  INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS .......... . . ..  .................................... .  13
A. Ownership, Board and Supervision ........................            13
B.  Structure, Management and Organization ..................          13
C*.  Policies and Procedures . ...................... . . . . .. . . .  16
V.  BFN:  OPERATIONS, FINANCIAL POSITION AND PROSPECTS           .............  18
A.  Lending Operations ...............                ........... .    18
B.  Resource Mobilization . ..................................         20
C.  Financial Performance ................                   .0.       21
D.  Quality of Portfolio and Arrears Position ...............          21
E.  Operational and Financial Projections    ...................       24
This Report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission comprising
Messrs. R. Hunt (Mission Leader) K. Loos (Industrial Restructuring
Specialist), Andrev' Craig (Consultant Financial Analyst) and Alan Roe
(Consultant Economist), which visited Portugal from May 2 to May 16, 1987.
This document has a restricteii distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officW duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)                                             Pa&e
VI.THPROECT............ O..................... ******* *********** ****   27
A.  Objectives and Scope ..............*...........*...........    27
B.  Project Components  ***.................*...... ............    27
C.  Allocation of Loan Proceeds       .............................    29
D. Main Features of the Loan ....     ...........................  30
VII. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...................      32
ANNEXES
Annex 1       Indices of Industrial Production
Annex 2      Industrial Investment Incentives
Annex 3      Administered Interest Rates, 1981-1986
Annex 4      Restructuring Studies for Selected Industrial Subsectors - Terms
of Reference
Annex 5-1    Organization of Institutional Support for Implementation of
Industrial Subsector Studies
Annex 5-2    Implementation Secretariat: Role and Responsibilities
Annex 5-3    Subsector Work Groups: Role and Responsibilities
Annex 6      Implementation Schedule for Industrial Subsector Restructuring
Studies
Annex 7-1    BFN's Credit Operations
Annex 7-2    BFN Disbursements by Category (1982-1986)
Annex 7-3    BFN Structure of Resources (1983-1986)
Annex 7-4    BFN Balance Sheets (1982-1986)
Annex 7-5    BFN Income Statements (1982-1986)
Annex 7-6    BFN Projected Income Statements (1987-1991)
Annex 7-7    BFN Projected Balance Sheets (1987-1991)
Annex 8      Project Disbursement Schedule
Annex 9      Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
map:         IBRD 20314R - Portugal - Third Loan to Banco Fomento Nacional



PORTuJGAL
THIRD INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                   Banco de Fomento Nacional (BFN).
Guarantor:                  Republic of Portugal.
Beneficiaries:              Industrial enterprises in the manufacturing,
mining, fisheries, tourism, long distance transport
and agricultural storage si.bsectors.
Amount:                     US$60.0 million equivalent.
Terms:                      15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Onlending Terms to          BFN will charge a variable interest rate on
Final Beneficiaries         subloans, to be positive in real terms and not less
and for Technical           than the Bank's onlending rate plus the Treasury's
Assistance:                 foreign exchange risk guarantee premium and BFN's
market determined spread. Subloans would be for a
maximum of 12 years with a maximum of 2 years
grace. Loans for technical assistance, for which
government and BFN would be responsible, would be
fnr 15 years with 3 years grace.
Project Description:        The project would continue support to industrial
development in Portugal and contribute to building
capacity to promote industrial restructuring in the
context of Portugal's membership in the European
Community (EC). It would comprise: (i) a line of
credit to support BFN in its ongoing financing of
investment projects in mixed and private industries
in Portugal; ar.d (ii) technical assistance
consisting of: (a) support tc a Government/BFN
sponsored pilot program to promote industrial
restructuring of mixed and private industry through
market mechanisms; and (b) provide further
inst:.tutional development in BFN. The pilot
restrvotur.1ag program will cover two subsectors,
white clay ceramics and wood and wood furniture,
selected by the Ministry of Industry and Energy
(MIE) and BFN for their importance in the
industrial sector and BFN's portfolio, potential
for high pay-off from restructuring, and the
willingness of constituent enterprises to
participate in the program. The institutional
development of BFN involves a consultant study of
BFN's management information system (MIS) needs,
the implementation of the financial information
component of the study and the strengthening of
BFN's internal audit capability.



(ii)
Financing Plan:                         Local         F           Total
-----------(US$ million)
Subborrowers                            41.3             -         41.3
Government                               0.1             -          0.1
BFN (Borrower)                          42.1             -         42.1
Bank                                      -           60.0         60.0
Total                            83.5                      143,S



1. INTRODUCTION
1.01     This report is based on an appraisal of a third line of credit of
US$60.0 million to BFN. The main objectives of the project are: (i) to
continue to support the development of mixed '-' and private sector
industries in Portugal; (ii) to promote, on a pilot basis, the restructuring
of mixed and private sector industry through market mechanisms; and (iii) to
support BFN further in its institutional development. The first line of
credit to BFN, for US$50.0 million, was approved on May 26, 1977 (PCR dated
July 27, 1984). The second line of credit (BFN II), for US$100 million, was
approved on January 13, 1980. Although BFN II is now fully committed, its
implementation was delayed initially by a recession following the second
(1979-81) oil crisis. In its ten year relationship with the World Bank, BFN
has grown substantially, from a loan portfolio of Esc. 30 billion in 1977 to
Esc. 223 billion in 1986 (Esc. 144 billion in 1977 terms).
1.02     The project proposed under BFN III would comprise:  (i) a line of
credit to finance BFN's ongoing investments for industrial development and new
investments for corporate strategic restructuring which would be identified in
two pilot studies; (ii) two pilot studies for strategic restructuring in
selected subsectors; and (iii) further institutional development of BFN in MIS
and internal auditing. Investment financing would support mixed and private
sector enterprises in Portugal's industrial sector. The project would support
the Government's strategy of strengthening the efficiency and external
competitiveness of the mixed and private industrial sectors in the context of
the Government's ongoing liberalization program. It would also support BFN's
capacity to finance sound restructuring programs based on the specialized
subsector restructuring studies financed under the project as well as the
substantial body of industrial subsector analysis already developed by Bank
staff and Portuguese authorities.
1.03     Structural adjustment is the continuing prime need of Portuguese
industry, the more so because of Portugal's entry to the EC on
January 1, 1987. Long-standing policies have already been amended toward
liberalization in line with EC entry requirements, particularly in external
trade, pricing and domestic market policies. Orderly restructuring
of industry, particularly in the private sector, to adapt to this changed
environment and to enhance international competitiveness is an urgent and
priority objective.
1.04     During project identification and preparation, the Government and BFN
supported the use, on a pilot basis, of strategic restructuring studies for
individual industrial subsectors as a means of promoting a dynamic industry
response to the changing environment. The studies will map out strategies for
these subsectors as well as identify restructuring opportunities that
1/   Mixed enterprises are those which are organized under the private compan,'
law, but in which the Government has a minority or majority
shareholding. The shares of the Government are held by Instituto de
Participacoes do Estado (IPE).



-2-
enterprises can pursue to deal with t4e effects of trade liberalization and
the more competitive environment. These efforts are aimed at entire
subsectors as well as at enterprises therein. They are expected to result in
recommendations that strengthen the structure and policy/institutWonal
environment of the subsectors; the more direct benefit will be reflected at
the enterprise level through the identification of specific restructuring
opportunities.
1.05     The first two pilot studies will address the white clay ceramics and
wood and wood furniture subsector. Both subsectors are dominated by private
sector companies which suffer from some of the deficiencies common to
Portuguese industry: poor management, low-grade technology, and low labor
productivity. White clay ceramics is a small, structurally compact subsector
with excellent market prospects in several of its product lines and could
develop into high-technology refractory products. Wood and wood furniture is
a much larger and more widespread industry, with a variety of substitutable
product lines. There are wide variations in plant performance and the
underlying forest-products industry is highly fragmented. Pilot studies in
both subsectors are appropriate because enterprise managements have expressed
a highly positive attitude toward restructuring. The two studies should also
provide general insights for Portugal's other industrial subsectors and should
generate substantial momentum for the industrial restructuring process.
II. THE ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT
A. Overview
2.01     After a serious external payments crisis in 1983 and a severe
recession in 1983-85, Portugal's current account of the balance of payments
showed a surplus of more than US$1.1 billi4n in 1986 (4 percent of GDP),
making 1986 one of the best years for the Portuguese economy since the 1974
revolution. The rate of retail price inflation declined from 29.4 percent in
1984 to below 12 percent in 1986. While lower oil prices and interest rates
and a devalued dollar helped the economy, improved economic management, and an
act.ve exchange rate policy, has been an equally important factor. However,
domestic demand growth has recently risen sharply, and the rate of export
growth has declined. The current account surplus is under some pressure with
export growth expected to decline further and import growth to rise. The
present surplus should nevertheless permit one or two more years of investment
growth -- allowing the productive sectors to prepare, albeit somewhat
belatedly, to face their EC competition.
2.02     The issues facing the economy relate to monetary policy, inflation
and interes; rates and will have direct implications for industry,
particularly for the private sector. With a continuing large deficit in the
public administrative sector l/ due to poor performance, the public sector's
demand for credit is likely to grow fcr some time. The Government's policy is
to tighten credit supply further, and to resist further major interest rate
I/   Estimated at 8.5 percent of GDP for general Government in 1986.



- 3 -
reductions, even where such reductions may be justified by a decline in
inflation. This policy may squeeze the credit available to the private
sector, casting doubt on the official forecasts in the PCEDED  "' of an
average 11 percent growth in private industrial investment up to 1990. The
prospects for a continuing high rate of private investment and the success of
the project will be enhanced if the public sector deficit can be further
reduced thus freeing resources for private investment. '
B. The Industrial Sector
2.03     Structure and Performance.  Industry accounts for about 40 percent of
GDP in Portugal, more than 25 percent of employment, and the bulk f visible
exports. Industrial expansion has been dominated by the export-based
industries -- particularly textiles, machinery and transportation equipment,
-- which have benefited from Portugal's improved c)mpetitive position in
recent years 3' due to lower US$ denominated import costs, lower US$
interest rates, and realistic exchange rate management vis a vis export
markets - principally in the EC (Annex 1). Portugal's export success has in
turn depended on the country's wage rates, which are exceptionally low by
European standards. Since wage rates can be expected to rise gradually to EC
levels, a major task of industrial restructuring will be to increase
technological and productive efficiency and thereby to keep exports
competitive.
2.04     The structure of Portuguese industry has changed little in the past
few years, even though entry into the EC was clearly foreseen almost a decade
ago. The traits built up during decades of intense protectionism and
overreliance on captive colonial markets remain. Most subsectors still
comprise small- and medium-scale industries (SMI) - characterized by
conservative, family-style ownership, weak management, low-grade technology,
and a limited awareness of both the challenges and opportunities involved in
more active participation in the international economy. In addition, problems
of many firms have been exacerbated by the financial diffic'ilties caused by
uncertain conditions during the revolutionary period.
1/   The Government's recently published medium-term policy program,
Programa de Correccao Estrutural Do Defice Externo e do Desemprego
(PCEDED, or Program to Correct Structural Deficits in External Trade
and Unemployment), Vol. II, March 31, 1987. This is the source of
official Government forecasts cited in this report.
2/   The target for this is 5 percent of GDP by 1990-91.
3/   Industrial output recovered after the 1974 revolution over two to
five years, depending on the sector. Export sectors, such as
textiles and footwear, sustained a healthy rate of growth; equipment
manufacturers and conswner industries suffered sharp declines.



-4-
2.05     Manufacturing employment declined by about 4 percent from 1982 to
1986 or by 65,000 jobs. The sector now sustains about 1 million jobs. The
major subsectors are textiles (200,000 workers), metals and machinery
(100,000), food and industry (60,000) and shipbuilding (20,000). Official
forecasts project a decline in overall unemployment and increased industrial
employment up to 1990, but such an improvement requires serious efforts to
restructure industry. The mobility of labor is restricted by labor
legislation introduced in the aftermath of the 1974 revolution. Companies do
attempt to introduce some flexibility, e.g., by using fixed-term contracts
which now cover more than 70 percent of new hiring, but any major
restructuring must take into account the restrictions on reductions in force.
In the past, considerable flexibility in real wage rates enabled
competitiveness to be maintained and even increased despite labor immobility.
Labor costs have risen 28 percent over a two-year period compared with an
annual inflation rate of 12 percent. Moreover, a mid-1986 agreement to base
wage increases on expected inflation was limited by a subsequent March 1987
amendment permitting catch-up settlements. The flexibility of the real wage
rate is now thus correspondingly limited.
2.06     Trade, Exchange Rate, and Wage Policies. Government policy for
industrial investment has improved in the past two years, largely because of
conditions for EC membership.  Trade protection which was not very high prior
to EC entry, has been reduced further. Tariffs are generally lower; an
extensive system of quantitative restrictions has been replaced with a far
more transparent system, and tariff operations that used to involve dozens of
departments are now under MIE. The new system, involving three lists of
imports classified according to source, sharply reduces the protection
Portuguese industry receives, especially against Spain and the Far East. The
exchange rate system has been based on crawling peg since 1977, which has
usually provided adequate price competitiveness. The period from 1982 through
1985 saw a real depreciation of about 5 percent, substantial gains in
Portugal's export market shares in each of those four years, and gains in the
ratio of export prices to unit labor costs. But tne exchange rate appreciated
somewhat against a basket of currencies in 1986.'' As a correction, the
Government introduced a limited range of export incentives, including (in
April 1987) favorable investment tax credits for investments with a strong
potential for fo1eign exchange earnings and savings, further widening the
existing industrial incentives framework (Annex 2). Wages need careful
monitoring because labor cost increases are outpacing the rate at which
competitiveness can be preserved. Measures to eliminate other labor market
rigidities and boost productivity remain urgent to supplement an effective
exchange rate policy as a basis for enhancing competitiveness.
1/   The exchange rate was actively managed to devalue the Escudo against the
US$ upto 1986. There has been a change in policy since 1986, and the
Government has allowed the Escudo to upvalue against the dollar to reduce
inflation, and to realign the Escudo to the EMS in due course.



- 5 -
2.07     PricingPolicv.  The liberalization of trade will make Portuguese
prices rore sensitive to international price movements, though price controls
still prevail. Controlled prices are now adjusted more frequently and by
greater amounts so as to generate fewer serious distortions and implicit
subsidies than in the past. Prices of some goods (staple foods and such
agricultural and industrial inputs as fertilizer, electricity, water, and fuel
oil) are still subject to direct Government control. The directly controlled
items account for about one-fifth of the consl'uer price index, which increased
by 29 percent in 1984 because of long-overdue administered price increases for
water, electricity and certain food items in an effort to reduce subsidies for
major public sector enterprises. In recent years the Government has been
reluctant to allow implicit subsidies to develop to the extent prevailing in
the early 1980s. Except for gasoline, the final prices of most oil products
are in line with those in such neighboring EC countries as France. Portugal's
price control system will probably produce leads and lags as critical prices
are adjusted to underlying costs, but new competitive pressures of the
recently liberalized domestic market provide an additional check on excessive
distortions.
C. The Financial Sector
2.08     Capital Markets. The paucity of financial instruments available to
entrepreneurs, the near absence of bankruptcy instruments for nonviable
operations, and the limited options for capital reallocation in weak firms
have traditionally been the three main problem areas for the Portuguese
capital markets. Progress on the first of these problems has been
substantial. Since 1985, new financial institutions, instruments, and fiscal
incentives have been established that make issuing and owning bonds and shares
more attractive. However, the incentives apply for only a limited period, and
the long-term outlook for the taxation of capital market instruments is
uncertain. Stock market quotations are available for only a handful of
firms. Meanwhile, the rate of bankruptcy and the extent of exit from major
industries are low. The new bankruptcy legislation introduced in Decree Law
177 of July 1986 should streamline procedures to some extent. To provide
other alternatives to full bankruptcy, this law has also introduced .'he
procedure of "monitored management," which enables creditors representing
three-quarters of outstanding debts to introduce court-supervised management.
2.09     BankingSyste . There are nine publicly owned commercial banks, four
long-established and publicly owned savings and investment banks including
BFN; three long-established foreign banks; and 10 new banks (six of them
foreign) established after the liberalization of entry rules in 1984. Most
banking business is in the nationalized banking sector, with almost 1,400
braniches. The new private banks operate few branches, but they have made the
environment far more competitive and introduced new banking products. The
most serious problem in the banking system is the quality of the nationalized
banks' portfolios. Severe losses incurred by many clients after the
revolution together with the banks' relatively lax supervision and the
pressures to extend further loans resulted in many nonperforming loans and
heavy arrears. The situation became particularly serious during the 1983-85
recession, when recorded nonperforming loans rose to 13 percent of loans for
all banks and 16 percent for commercial banks. The picture, though since



improved, is confused by accounting weaknesses that conceal the underlying
problem. The restructuring of industry and agriculture for entry to EC will
inevitably exaqerbate the problems the nationalized banks face in rebuilding
sound portfolios.
2.10     Although entry is still restricted by fairly high minimum capital
requirements, the new banks are showing greater operating efficiency and are
changing banking standards in Portugal. Able to avoid surplus labor and
accepting only the better clients, they have higher profitability and generate
new competitive pressures on the publicly owned banks. Since they focus more
on corporate rather than retail banking, they do not yet compete directly for
resources with the old banks, but these competitive pressures could pose
severe difficulties for public sector banks in future.
2.11     Credit Controls.  The Bank of Portugal (BOP) regulates commercial bank
lending activity, market competitiveness, and profitability principally
through credit ceilings for individual banks, minimum capital requirements and
reserve requirement ratios. The burden of these is greatest on new banks,
while the long established public-sector banks benefit from protection from
competition.
2.12     Interest Rates.  Although the volumes and prices of credit are
controlled, steps have been taken since 1984 to decontrol interest rates and
leave their fine-tuning to the competitive process. In the past, BOP
determined a series of lending and deposit rates based on maturities. These
are now reduced to two rates only -- a maximum lending rate of 19.5 percent
p.a. (about 9 percent in real terms) and a minimum rate of 14.5 percent a year
(about 4 percent in real terms) for deposits of 180 days to one year
(Annex 3). All other rates are set by the market. In practice, the interbank
rate has become akin to a "base rate" (currently 14-15 percent), with prime
borrowers obtaining funds at 1-2 points above this rate and with poor risks
paying the maximum. The Government has confirmed during negotiations that it
intends to maintain the two rates which are still determined by BOP at real
positive levels.
2.13     Resource Mobiization and Allocation.  The financial system has
mobilized resources reasonably well in the last two years, because of a
positive real interest rate and the development of the capital market and new
bank products. The following table illustrates the movement in real deposit
rates in the past three years:
Deposit Interest Rate
(In percent per annum)
June 1984     Aug. 1984    June 1986
Interest rate on time deposits
(6 month - 1 year)
minimum - before tax                     28.0           24.0         15.5
minimum - after tax                      22.5           20.4         13.3
Inflation rate                                 29.4           18.1         12.0
Real interest rate before tax                  -1.4             5.9         3.5



2.14     BOP's policy has been to keep real interest rates high to dampen
domestic demand ana preserve a healthy current account of balance of
payments.  By conbrast, resource allocation is affected  by the continued high
public sector deficit.  As long as the deficit persists, the prospects for
ending credit supply restrictions and adopting less direct methods of monetary
control are constrained.  A second weakness in resource allocation is the
preponderance of short-term credit.  In recent years the proportion of credit
with maturities of less than a year has hovered around 80 percent of total
credit and 85 percent of credit to manufacturing. This high share increases
financial uncertainty for many enterprises.
2.15     Foreign Exchange Risk.  Portugal established a Foreign Exchange Risk
Guarantee Fund (FERGF) in 1977, shortly after adopting a crawling peg exchange
rate system. Forward exchange arrangements were introduced in Portugal in
January 1987, but remain limited, so FERGF is likely to remain important for
some time. It provides exchange risk coverage for: (i) import credit with
maturity of rt least six months; (ii) certain long-term borrowings, such as
those from the European Investment Bank (EIB) and the Bank; and (iii) export
credit with maturity over one year. With the introduction of short-term
forward markets, FERGF will focus more on covering medium- and long-term
loans. In some cases, a condition of BOP's approval of a financing facility
is that exchange rate coverage be arranged through FERGF.
2.16     FERGF calculates the exchange risk and the premium. it charges to
cover that risk in a clear and simple manner. Borrowers in foreign currency
pay a premium equal to the difference between the interest rate in foreign
currency and the administered maximum rate on Escudo loans of the same
maturity. When the borrower is a financial intermediary, the premium is
reduced by a BOP approved margin for the intermediary (now around 3.5
percent). The administered maximum interest rate (in Escudos) can be charged
to the ultimate borrower. This arrangement, which is acceptable, has the
effect of equalizing the costs of Escudo loans and foreign currency loans to
the ultimate borrower.
2.17     In the past, especially during the period of dollar strength in 1984
and 1985, FERGF's resources have proved inadequate to meet the full costs of
exchange rate movements against the Escudo, and the losses have been
substantial. The Government is legally liable for financing such losses, but
reimbursement has not always been prompt and substantial arrears had built up,
particularly to the major public enterprises responsible for commodity
imports. Arrangements to reduce these arrears have been mainly through BOP
payments to the creditors, which amounted to Esc. 131 billion between end 1984
and September 1986. A revision of the decree law governing FERGF is under
way. This revision is expected to streamline the FERGF's administrative
arrangements.
2.18     In the case of the proposed loan, foreign exchange risk on the onlent
proceeds would be borne directly by the Government (the Treasury). The
exchange risk guarantee premia will be fixed in the same manner as under the
FERGF. Confirmation to the above effect has been obtained luring negotiations
from the Government.



-8-
D. BFN in the Econom.
2.19     BFN is one of four publicly owned savings and investment banks in a
system of 26 banks, 10 of them newly established. Its loan commitments --
about Esc. 40 billion in 1985 -- represents about 10 percent of lending by all
savings and investment banks and slightly more than 1 percent of the credits
granted by the banking system as a whole. Since the bulk of this lending
until recently was for medium- and long-term (MLT) loans, BFN's market share
in this segment of the market is much higher -- about 25 percent of the MLT
loans by savings and investment banks in 1985 and 15 percent of MLT loans in
the banking system. Partly because its portfolio has traditionally emphasized
public enterprises, BFN's share in the financing of total gross fixed capital
formation has declined in recent years as seen from table below, reflecting
the relatively slow pace of investment growth in these enterprises.
BFN's Share of Gross Fixed Capital Formation, 1981-1986
(ESC. Million)
1981      1982       1983       1984      1985      1986
BFN MLT Disb.          28,975    25,751    36,425    28,861    32,148   29,175
Gross Fixed
Capital Formation   458,700   582,000   672,400   669,800   813,170  936,000
BFN Share (X)            6.32       4.42       5.42      4.31       3.95      3.12
2.20     BFN's strongest competitor among the new banks is Banco Portuguese
Investmento (BPI), which was formed with IFC assistance and in which IFC has a
shareholding, though BPI's portfolio is still small, amounting to less than 5
percent of BFN's total portfolio in 1985. Most other new banks have shown
little or no interest in long-term lending, preferring to concentrate on
short-term lending and trade financing.
E. The Bank's Role
2.21     The Bank began to support Portugal's industrial development in 1976.
Since then, it has made seven loans to the industrial sector. The two
previous Bank loans to BFN have been instrumental in improving BFN's appraisal
and other administrative capabilities as well as its control of arrears (see
PCR No. 5212 dated July 27, 1984). The Bank's two loans for development of
SMI, which were channelled through several commercial banks, provided funds
and technical assistance to such industries to upgrade facilities and to
increase exports and meet a larger part of domestic demand. In addition, the
Fertilizer Modernization Project and the Mechanical Industries Project were
designed to rehabilitate key areas of heavy industry that had been
nationalized after the revolution. More recently, the Industrial Energy
Conservation Project identified e.ergy-saving practices and investments in
industrial processes and evaluated the potential for developing renewable
energy resources. The Bank's program of economic and sector work in Portugal
has also kept it in close touch with developments in the industrial sector.



- 9 -
2.22     Substantial efforts have been made since the latest industrial
development project (in 1983) to use the Bank's knowledge of Portugal's
industrial sector to develop further lending operations. Successive
Governments have taken a cautious approach to industrial restructuring,
despite the example of a successful, high profile approach taken in
neighboring Spain. The restructuring effort in this project is a step in the
right direction; success therein would provide a reasonable basis for greater
commitment on part of the Government.
2.23     The present project is designed to take the exicting situation into
account. It would focus its restructuring effort on the private sector, in
two subsectors where the impact of restructuring actions is likely to be
substantial and subsector enterprises have shown keen interest in deteloping
and implementing restructuring strategies.
m. THE INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURIG EFFORT
A. Policies and Need for Restructurig
3.01     The main elements of Portugal's industrial policies are set out in
the recently published PCEDED document. The Government has taken a largely
hands-off position, and the main responsibility for industrial growth now
rests with the private sector. This approach largely avoids the bureaucratic
controls and sector specific features of past policies and emphasizes instead
such factors as technology, quality, export performance and energy efficiency.
One exception to this shift from a sectoral to an enterprise-oriented approach
is Decrec Law 251/86, which permits some ad hoc, discretionary support to
specific subsectors, undergoing sectoral restructuring programs. Otherwise
the Government has articulated only broad objectives for industry, a large
part of which is publicly owned with constitutional constraints to its
privatization.
3.02     Within the recently liberalized framework there is a strong need, but
almost no institutional base to support the independent restructuring efforts
of individual companies. Fifty years of active Government intervention in
industry have left Portugal with few of the support services for industry --
for example, consultants in strategic analysis -- that are common in most
market economies. MIE has conducted some useful studies,"' but these have
been put to little practical use, apparently because of MIE's literal
interpretation of the current hands-off policy toward industry. Disseminating
little market and other intelligence to industry, MIE seems mostly to react to
problems and to the special pleading of industrialists as they arise.
1/   MIE's Studies Department conducted an excellent analysis in the early
1980s of the sectoral consequences of entering the EC, based on a
comparative analysis of competitive positions. A more recent study by
the same department categorized both the potentials and difficulties
facing all major sectors with entry to the EC.



- 10 -
3.03     Portugal, unlike Spain, has not specificaily addressed the
restructuring of its traditional sectors in preparation for entering the EC.
Now an orderly response to the sector's problems is an urgent challenge. Many
aspects of the more liberal trade policies required by EC rules are now in
place, and intensified competition is already a reality. Also, under EC
regulations Government has only limited formal powers to intervene directly.
Evidence of the slow pace of change can be found in the minimal number of
company shut-downs, the low rate of direct foreign investment in the sector,
the low level (until recently) of new industrial investment, and the
proportionately high number of companies still facing serious financial
difficulties. Portuguese industry still suffers from weak management,
out-dated technology, surplus labor and inadequate economies of scale.
3.04     The needs of industry have been given official recognition in the
recent PCEDED document. The first of these is to increase the proportion of
enterprises that can compete successfully in the international market. This
will require better technology, management, marketing, and efficiency in the
use of labor and machines, and some re-scaling of production units. To the
extent that upgrading technology requires a scale of production most
individual enterprises cannot finance or manage, some official support and
monitoring of industrial restructuring could be justified, especially in such
large-scale industries as shipbuilding. To the extent that these conditions
can be achieved, the closure or absorption of the sector's weakest firms can
be viewed with equanimity. The second need is to prepare, even in firms that
are already fairly competitive, for the not-so-distant time when low wa&es
will no longer provide the main source of that competitiveness. In footwear,
for example, exports will have to be sustained Ly improved technology and
production methods rather than low wages alone in about five to eight years.
B. Restructuring Studies Under the Project
3.05     Portuguese industries have to face unfamiliar competitors and
problems entering the EC after a long period of isolation and protection. The
reorientation to a more competitive environment will recuire more than
conventional approaches to reduce costs and improve produ 'tivity. MIE and BFN
have selected the white clay ceramics and wood and wood furniture as the
subsectors for developing pilot restructuring strategies that could
subsequently serve as models for other subsectors. Natural supplies of basic
material, and low labor costs, provide both subsectors witt. a basis for
competitive advantage. Their success in an enlarged European setting depends
heavily on appropriate marketing strategies combined with a cost-effective
organization for exports and distribution. These subsectors, though not very
large, are seen as models which are committed, through their Industry
associations, to reform and thus offer the probability of a high payoff on
efforts expended on them.
3.06     The subsector studies proposed under this project will examine such
key parameters as costs of raw materials and other inputs, technological
alternatives, transformation costs, costs of capital and overhead and
proximity to markets (Annex 4). After the implications of each parameter have
been studied, a subsector-wide strategy can be develope&, and enterprise-
specific restructuring opportunities indicated outlining the actions to
overcome existing constraints.  In mtost cases, these strategies will involve a
combination of:



- 11 -
(a)           Government policy changes (e.g. of investment incentives,
bankruptcy law, or labor regulations);
(b)           Enterprise changes (such as those to eliminate
bottlenecks, improve quality, modernize equipment, or
consolidate capacity -- through mergers, acquisitions, or
plant shutdowns);
(c)           Software expenditures (for establishing quality standards
or quality control mechanisms, skill development,
training for supervisory personnel, and development of
management systems); and
(d)           Financial restructuring (such as debt consolidation and
rescheduling, debt-equity swaps, and capital
augmentation).
C. Institutional Arrangements
3.07     Given the absence of any serious attention to sectoral restructuring
in other Portuguese institutions, it is important tha. at least one capable,
well-established Portuguese institution develop the ability to support
industry's need for strategic restructuring. BFN is in a good position to
contribute to industrial restructuring especially at the enterprise level, and
many of its activities are closely connected with restructuring activity. Its
large industrial portfolio includes many companies that need restructuring.
BFN also has a more direct interest in individual enterprise restructuring
than MIE, whose hands-off policy leaves it less concerned with individual
enterprises. Obviously, BFN wou'd need support particularly at the sectoral
level, and participation and commitment of Government agencies and industry
associations are vital in promoting restructuring at the subsectoral level.
The subsector Work Group arrangement under the project provides for this
need. Depending on the results obtained under this initial effort,
establishment of restructuring capacity in other Portuguese institutions/banks
could be considered in future operations.
3.08     The project design explicitly gives MIE's operational arm an
opportunity to disseminate the findings and promote restructuring investments.
BFN will engage, on behalf of MIE and itself, international consulting firms
who, working with local consulting firms and private companies in the two
subsectors, will prepare subsector diagnoses of shortcomings, prospects,
needs, and strategies. The key forum for institutional arrangements will be
the Work Group, comprising two representatives each from the MIE, BFN, and the
relevant industry associations. Members of the Work Group will select the
consulting firm, review progress on the studies, and consider the consultants'
recommendations. A small Implementation Secretariat at BFN, reporting
directly to BFN's president, will coordinate logistics and tasks, prepare
bidding documents, and handle contract negotiations with the consultants
(Annex 5). The consultants will be selected from a short list of
international consulting firms, and the contracts will be awarded in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines on the Use of Consultants. The cost of



- 12 -
each subsector study, estimated at about US$500,ooo, will be shared equally by
MIE and BFN and financed from the technical assistance component of the
proposed loan. Institutional and cost-sharing arrangements now being
finalized between MIE and BFN for execution of the studies have been submitted
to the Bank for review, and are satisfactory. The contract for the white clay
ceramics study has been awarded, and the consultant firm is expected to start
work shortly after Board approval of the proposed loan. Field work is
expected to take about four months (Annex 6). Agreement has been reached
during negotiations that BFN will sign the contract for the second subsector
study within two months of the completion of the final draft of the first
subsector study. The second study is expected to be completed over 6 to 8
months.
D. Implementation of Restrueturing Studies
3.09     Since private sector companies dominate the two selected subsectors,
any restructuring activities will depend on the study's reception and the
willingness of entrepreneurs to take measures that will improve their
competitive position and export potential. Initially, it is expected that
most of the restructuring activities will take place in companies that face
financial constraints or have difficulty meeting their debt service
obligation. These companies are likely to be candidates for financial
workouts in conjunction with reassessments of companv-specific producc/market
strategies, focusing on changes such as technology, product development and
marketing mix.
3.10     The consultants' assignments will include follow-up programs of about
three staff months each specifically designed to help enterprises and groups
identify and prepare restructuring proposals, and to train BFN staff to
evaluate restructuring subprajects submitted for financing, on the basis of
economic and financial merit and strategic subsector objectives. The follow-up
programs are designed to strengthen BFN's in-house capacity to appraise and
formulate restructuring projects. They will also provide SM!s with
restructuring expertise at affordable costs i".  Consultants will prov,de
advice not only on technolcoy choices, product mix, and marketing and
distribution strategies, but also on joining forces to achieve better
economies cf scale in such functions aF purchasing, product quality and
design, quality control, and export marketing.   BFN will make one staff
member available to participate full-time in each of the subsector studies.
3.11     It has been agreed during project processing that not later than
three months after the completion of both studies, the Government (i.e. MIE)
will review with the Bank the flndings of both studies including those
specific to the subsectors as well as issues of industrial policy and
administrative structure changes which may appear necessary. This has been
reconfirmed during negotiations.
1/   It can be assumed that enterprise-specific restructuring advice will take
an average of about three staff days. Related costs will be borne by the
enterprise concerned but may be capitalized as part of additional
investment costs.



- 13 -
IV. BFN: INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS
A. Ownership, Board and Supervision
4.01     Ownership. BFN was founded as a development bank by decree law in
November 1958 and began operating in January 1960. The statutes were revised
in August 1972. From the outset, the Government was the majority shareholder,
and BFN was fully nationalized in 1975. Another decree law the same year
changed the management and organization and gave the legislature and the
Minister of Finance complete control over the allocation of earnings.
4.02     Board. BFN's statutory management comprises a Management Board (six
members plus a chairman) and a Commission of Control (three members plus a
chairman). Board members are proposed by the Minister of Finance and are
appointed by the Council of Ministers for a three-year renewable term. The
Board has all the powers to manage BFN and administer its assets. Besides
sharing overall management responsibility, each Board member is responsible
for one or more departments within BFN, either individually or jointly with
another ,amber. The Management Board must meet at least once a week and may
meet more often, as necessary. Decisions are by majority vote of members
present; abstentions are not permiitted. The Board may form standing or
temporary executive committees from its members as needed.
4.03     The three members of the Commission of Control serve non-renewable
three-year terms. The Chairman and one other member, who serves as official
auditor, are appointed by the Minister of Finance. The third member is
appointed by the employees.  The Commission is responsible for monitoring
operations and compliance with legislation and regulations and must give its
opinion on annual financial statements, accounts and other relevant matters.
Currently, it has retained the firm of Binder Dijker Otte and Company as the
external auditor. Under the revised Company's Law, the Ccmmission is now
legally liable for the opinion it gives on the annual accounts.
4.04     Supervsion. The supervision of BFN is conducted by BOP's Banking
Supervision Department (BSD), which is responsible for supervising all banking
sector institutions. BSD reviews selected periodic accounting data and
financial information, advises on accounting practices to be followed, reviews
draft financial statements and prepares commentaries thereon for the Minister
of Finance, carries out spot checks and prepares detailed statistical
information about the financial sector.   The focus of the review is on
liquidity, solvency, and compliance with credit ceilings as far as these apply
to BFN. The current supervision arrangements appear to be acceptable.
B. Structure, Management and Organization
4.05     Structure.  BFN's head office is in Lisbon; three regional offices
are situated in Lisbon, Oporto and Coimbra. The Bank has 21 branch offices in
mainland Portugal and the ..zores and Madeira islands. Investment appraisal is
restricted to headquarters and the regional offices. The latter are now
restricted to loans of Esc. 50 million (US$350,000) or less; in 1980, their
limit was Esc. 10 million. Both regional and branch offices help in
promoting, identifying and assessing clients and collecting arrears.



- 14 -
4.06     The branch offices collect deposits and sell BFN Bonds as well as
other bonds to the public, receive loan applications from clients in their
area, collect creditworthiness and other information about applicants,
disburse loan proceeds on behalf of the Development Department and regional
offices, and assist with credit supervision and collections. BFN plans to
gradually transfer responsibility for appraisal of small loans (up to about
Esc. 5 million) to the branches. This will be especially feasible after the
planned installation of computers connecting the branches, the head office and
the regional offices. The regional offices will oversee branch appraisals to
maintain BFN's standard of quality. BFN also has representative office in
Caracas, Madrid, and Brussels.
4.07     Management and Staff. BFN's president and five board members, three
of whom have served since 1980, have extensive banking experience. The
president, an economist, has served in the Government as the Minister of
Finance. Two newer members, experienced in both banking and Government,
joined in 1985 to replace two members hired away by foreign banks then
entering the newly liberalized Portuguese financial market. The 16 department
heads and their deputies are generally well trained, competent professionals
whose tenure averages 10 years, though BFN has had some difficulty in filling
positions requiring highly specialized expertise such as Electronic Data
Processing (ED?).
4.08     In view of its status as Portugal's premier investment bank, it is
not surprising that BFN loses staff resources to new foreign banks. While
BFN's salary structure and levels are restricted by the general financial
weakness of the 11 public sector banks, it has fared quite well so far,
because of its excellent pension plan, well-focused bonuses and generally good
compensation package. In 1986, the Ministry of Finance permitted BFN to
reinstate its profit-sharing plan, using participatory bonds. In 1986, the
plan amounted to 10 percent of profits. Nevertheless, staff losses have
included a few very senior managers and, significantly, good technically
skilled junior staff. BFN's staffing strategy is one of upgrading staff
skills while reducing numbers, so as to increase the average grace and
remuneration level without any major cost increase. BFN has a total staff of
about 860, including 145 professionals. About 600 work in the head office,
the rest in the regional and branch offices.
4.09     Organization. BFN's 16 separate departments each reDorts to the
Board through the Board member in charge. The Departments of Special Credit,
Follow-up and Credit Control, Finance, and Economic Studies are actively
concerned with lending, supervision, promotion and capital market operations.
The other departments provide support services. In late 1983 and 1984 the
operational departments were reorganized and somewhat decentralized to deal
with a serious problem of overload in some departments. Portfolio supervision
especially had become untenable, which contributed to BFN's serious arrears
problems. The departments are generally adequately staffed to handle BFN's
normal lending operations.



- 15 -
4.10     litemnal Audit. Compared with other Portuguese banks, BFN's Irternal
Audit Department (IAD) is substantially understaffed at all levels. IAD staff
presently includes the director, an accountant, a senior clerk and a junior
clerk. These staff are responsible for internal audit and control of
headquarters, all branches, and the regional offices.  Coverage is sparse and
focuses mainly on activity at the branches.  To upgrade this department, a new
director has been appointed whose first task was to report to the BFN Board on
the current state of the department.  Liaison between the internal and
external auditors is minimal reflecting the lack of technical expertise in
IAD.  Approval to increase IAD staff to 12 persons has been given by the BFN
board.
4.11     It is essential -- especially as applications of EDP expand  -- that
the technical expertise of IAD be strengthened by adding a qualified
accountant/auditor. The Board understands the importance of engaging
specialists in these areas, and recognizes that it will have to compete with
the commercial banks who pay high salaries for this expertise. Recruitment
may take some time since qualified auditors are still in short supply in
Portugal. During negotiations, BFN has confirmed that procedures have been
initiated for the recruitment of a qualified accountant/auditor as a full time
employee.
4.12     External Audit. The current external auditors are the international
accounting firm of Binder Dijker Otte Co. (BDO), which has significant
representation in Europe. BDO, which performs its audit in accordance with
generally accepted auditing standards, has given an unqualified audit opinion
in recent years. BDO's work includes review and testing of certain aspects of
BFN's internal control systems, direct confirmation with third parties, and
other standard audit tests and procedures. Although no significant internal
control weaknesses came to BDO's attention during the course of their audit
examination, the external auditors indicated problems with relying on the work
of the internal audit department because of the weaknesses stated above.
Under the loan, BFN would continue to retain an independent auditor,
acceptable to the Bank, to carry out an annual audit of its accounts.
4.13     Electronic Data Processing (EDP). EDP has been developed largely on an
ad-hoc basis at BFN, and users often developed support system independently of
the EDP department. The EDP department is staffed by 40 people who, together
with the Organization and Methods (O & M) department, are responsible for all
aspects of EDP, from design to maintenance. There seems to be enough staff
but not enough expertise in data base management, microcomputers, operating
systems and general accounting systems. There is no integrated MIS available
to support BFN's executive management and decision making. The department's
three-year rolling plan has not been achieved in recent years. For the last
three to four years it has been trying to computerize the deposits system
without success, probably due to lack of technical expertise.
4.14     There is currently no agreement on a strategic plan for developing
MIS/EDP at BEN, and whether the branch computer systems should use centralized
or distributed processing. An in-house task force has been established to set



- 16 -
out future development plans and identify essential applications and seek bids
for new systems. It is clear, however, that the in-house staff lack the
expertise to develop the MIS/EDP strategy and should hire expert consultants
before procuring further hardware or software.
4.15     BFN has agreed to develop a medium-term strategy for developing and
implementing an integrated MIS that will encompass all aspects of BFN
activities, including performance reporting and financial and nonfinancial
reporting. This system should contain a specific subsystem serving BFN's
financial information needs. This would be a mnajor undertaking with
significant hardware, software and implementation costs, over a three to five
year implementation period. BFN currently needs to decide about a computer
system to link the branch network with the head office, which should be
integrated with the overall MIS. BFN's Board supports the development of EDP
financial and nonfinancial information systems and is now initiating the
process necessary to formalize the MIS development plan. Agreement has been
reached during loan negotiations that BFN will retain professional. EDP
consultants to work with the EDP and O&M departments to identify BFN's MIS
needs, set out the information system architecture (hardware, software,
communications, organization of data, etc.), identify options, prepare a cost
benefit analysis and develop an implementation plan covering specifications,
procurement and implementation. Terms of reference for the study have been
reviewed by Bank staff. The study would be completed by December 31, 1988 and
reviewed with the Bank within six months of its completion. During
negotiations, agreement has been reached that BFN would also implement by
December 31, 1990 the Financial Information component of the MIS within the
project. The overall MIS study and its implementation would be eligible for
financing under the loan.
C. Policies and Procedures
4.16     Objectives. BFN's objectives were unchanged by nationalization
except as they were limited by decolonization. These are to carry out banking
and financial operations that promote development in the country, and to help
implement the Government's economic and financial policy. To this end, BFN is
empowered to make medium- and long-term loans; provide guarantees; carry out
development operations for the public sector using public funds; subscribe to
equity shares, bonds and securities; carry out capital market operations and
establish and operate investment funds. BFN is authorized to accept deposits,
issue domestic and foreign bonds, borrow domestically or abroad, and receive
loans and advances from the State. It may also carry out investment studies
of the type proposed for this project.
4.17     Policies.  BFN has no formal policy statement; its general policies
are covered in its statutes. BFN is authorized by its statutes to operate in
the areas of industry, agriculture, transport and communications and other
services, the public sector and real estate, including construction. The
statutes provide substantial policy direction in each of these areas,
especially in terms of operational coverage. The statutes limit BFN's
enterprise exposure in equity and bond investments, but not in its lending.



- 17 -
On this, BFN maintains a cautiously managed stance in the private sector, with
careful creditworthiness assessment of clients and a policy of adequate (70
percent) collateral.  In public sector enterprises, where BFN is heavily
exposed, it is fully covered by state guarantees. In addition to its prudent
collateral policy BFN has a highly conservative provisions policy.
4.18     BFN's statutes require that its investments be both technically and
economically viable. The amount of any loan is entirely a BFN decision, which
it bases on the economic importance of the investment, the size and
profitability of the enterprise, and the size of investors' contribution and
the collateral offered. BFN's practice is to require that the investment's
net cash flow be sufficient to service the debt and that equity should
constitute at least 33 percent of total assets at project completion.
4.19     Appraisal Procedures.  Direct credits are appraised by the
Development Department if over Esc. 50 million (US$350,000) and by the
regional offices if below this amount. A two-man team, a technical expert and
an economist/financial analyst (or one of these, if the person has long
experience and seniority) reviews the borrower's proposais on site and
prepares an appraisal report. On important projects the team may seek the
view of the Economic Studies Department. The section chief and the department
director review the appraisal report. A Credit Council of two Board members
reviews all loan proposals and may approve loans under Esc. 70 million (about
US$500,000); all other loans must be approved by the full Board.  In the cese
of large public sector projects which it may co-finance with other sources,
BFN relies to a great extent on the studies carried out by the sponsoring
agencies and technical ministries but maintains an independent judgment on the
projects' suitability for BFN financing. The Development Department
(including in the three regional offices) is adequately staffed with 67
persons including 29 economists and 15 engineers.
4.20     BFN applies standard internal rate of return analysis.   BFN takes 10
percent as the minimum acceptable ERR and the interest rate on the loan at the
time of approval as the minimum acceptable FRR. A well-prepared appraisal
manual is used by analysts and for ir-service training of new staff. Since
the first credit, BFN has benefited from three EDI training seminars in this
area and numerous short-term courses from OECD specialists. A core and
refresher training approach to project appraisal is in place. BFN is now
focusing on strengthening its major relative weakness, market analysis, by
using OECD-provided industry-specific consultants on a short-term repeater
basis.
4.21     Appraisal of working capital loans is done by the Special Credit
Department. Appraisal of these credits is generally limited to checking the
adequacy of the security offered and borrower creditworthiness. Two
guarantees and insurance for sovereign (country) risk are required.
4.22     Supervision Procedures.  ?roject supervision responsibility in BFN
follows the principle of maximizing continuity with each borrower. Each
department or regional office programs the follow-up of its own loans, which
is carried out by the staff involved in the appraisal. A supervision manual



- 18 -
is used for the guidance of those who visit the borrowers. If loans fall in
arrears, the borrower is approached without delay to establish the cause and
every effort is made to arrive at a solution, financial or nonfinancial. If a
solution cannot be found in a reasonable time and repayment regularized, the
loan is transferred to BFN's Follow-Up and Credit Control Department,
"Servicos de Acompanhamento e Controle de Credito" (SACC).
4.23     SACC was established at the end of 1983 specifically to manage the
troublesome arrears situation. It has a staff of 40 persons, including
economists, engineers, lawyers and technicians who are responsible for
developing the most appropriate solution for each case, and may engage outside
consultants as necessary, and has been developing certain business and
industry specialties. Methods new to BFN are being applied, such as control
of or participation in management (with or without new financing),
re-organization, conversion of credit into share capital, disposal of assets
or companies, and special credit rebates. If SACC is unable to come to an
agreement with the client, legal proceedings are commenced, although the
Portuguese legal system militates against such settlement of accounts. In
principle, if there is no prospect of recovery either through legal action or
guarantees, the account is written off. Until recently this was not comnmon.
Rescheduling of debt remains insignificant.
4.24     During its first year,of operation (1984), 60 percent of arrears were
transferred to SACC for evaluation and action. By the end of 1986, all
companies with arrears were under SACC's control and remedial action had been
determined for most cases. Priority is given to large accounts. Control and
management of these are simplified by their relatively small numbers. As of
March 31, 1987, 15 accounts comprised 96 percent of public sector arrears, and
53 companies comprised 62 percent of private sector arrears. SACC sets broad
resolution targets for a 5-year period and detailed targets for 2 years
including details on the status of the outstanding balance and the expected
resolution date. SACC's efforts are now bearing fruit. Some significant
settlements have been reached with public sector enterprises and a steady rate
of settlement is being achieved in the private sector.
4.25     SACC is currently developing, with the help of consultanzs, a
microcomputer-based credit and arrears information system. This system will
provide current information on aging of arrears, collections, variance
reporting, and so forth. The prime data for this system will be provided by
BFN's main accounts system. Taken together, the EDP mainframe and SACC
microsystems will provide adequate information at an appropriate level of
detail, reported in timely fashion and in desired format.
V. BFN: OPERATIONS, FINANCIAL POSITION AND PROSPECTS
A. Lending Operations
5.01     BFN's main areas of operation are medium-and long-term loans for
investment and export credit, though BFN is also authorized to provide
short-term loans and guarantees. Its credit operations are summarized in
terms of commitments in the table below (see Annex 7-1).



- 19 -
Loan Commitments (1982-1986)
(in millions)
1982          1983          1984          1985          1986
ESC.                  ESC.   ESC.  $
Investment
Loans         21,508  239   35,970 271   30,947 183   29,851 189   34,046 233
Export Credit
Loans          2,273   25    5,510  41    1,570   9    6,924  44    3,200  22
Short-term
Credit           -      -        -    -         -   -    3,058  19   15,370 105
Financial
Investment      803    9        85   1        340   2    8,818  56         -   -
Guarantees       1,774   20    2,843  21   Q3054  18    5,643  36    7,412  51
Total       26,358  293   44,408 334   35,911 212   54,294 344   60,027 411
Average value       50 0.56        80 0.61       64 0.38       68 0.43     84 0.57
Investment          47 0.52        72 0.55       62 0.37      57 0.36      82 0.56
Export credit      134 1.50       290 2.21      174 1.03      277 1.76     82 0.56
Short-term
credit            -     -         -    -        -    -      90 0.57      87 0.59
5.02     Medium- and Long-Term (MLT) Credit.  MLT loan maturities range from
four to ten years, the majority being from five to seven years. Export
credit loans are more typically for two to four years. Manufacturing
industry accounts for approximately 50 percent of loans; utilities,
construction and public works account for much of the balance. Credit
advanced to the public sector has remained fairly constant at about 65
percent of total credit. Within the manufacturing sector, priority has been
given to export-oriented projects. Advances to agriculture, livestock,
fishing, mining and other services remain insignificant.
5.03     The average value of commitments for investment was reasonably
stable (Esc. 50-60 million annually) through 1985. In 1986, these increased
to Esc. 84 million. The number of commitments has averaged 500 annually
since 1982 (710 in 1981). The number of export credit commitments ranging
from a low of 9 in 1984 to a high of 39 in 1986 remains low.
5.04     Short-term Credit.  1985 was the first year in which BFN was given
permission to make short-term loans, which are mostly renewable loans to
finance working capital. BFN has reacted rapidly to competitive pressures
from the foreign banks. This area of operation is becoming significant, at
Esc. 15.4 billion ($105 million) in 1',36 or 25 percent of total commitments.
Short-term credit is generally restricted to existing investment loan and
export credit customers. The introduction of this lending instrument accords
with BFN's concept of "total service" banking.



- 20 -
5.05     Guarantees. Total guarantees as of December 31, 1986, amounted to
Esc. 2.4 billion ($16 million), mainly for the execution of contractual
services, contractual payments and bills of exchange, letters of credit and
other "non lending services" for clients. This is a minor area, about 3
percent of total credit operations. Foreign currencies account for 60
percent of the guarantees, principally for import/export operations.
5.06     QnlendRgRates and Term Policies.  BFN follows the Government 's
interest rate policies, charging the maximum interest rate (19.5 percent) set
by the Bank of Portugal on medium- and long-term loans. The average term for
MLT loans has remained fairly steady at 7.3 years during the recent past.
BFN's general policy is to match repayment of the loan with the repayment
capacity of the investment. The statutory maximum term is 20 years.
5.07     Subsectoral Distribution.  Investment loans to the manufacturing
sector have remained reasonably constant since 1982, at about 50 percent of
disbursements (Annex 7-2). Investment loans to the public sector have also
remained constant, at about 65 percent of total loans. Manufacturing loans
tend to be near the average loan value; public sector utility loans tend to
be very large. Loans to the construction industry have increased
substantially since 1984, from Esc. 1,693 million to Esc. 9,658 in 1986 (Esc.
7,216 million in 1984 terms), or 16 percent of total disbursements.
Geographically, investment loans are heavily concentrated in the Lisbon,
Oporto and Coimbra areas.
B. Resource Mobilization
5.08     The structure of BFN's resources (Annex 7-3) has changed
significantly since 1983. Deposits (of companies and individuals, but not
other financial institutions) increased from Esc. 61,365 million in 1983 to
Esc. 115,976 million in 1986 (Esc. 67,215 million in 1983 terms). This now
amounts to 50 percent of total resources (including equity), compared with 34
percent in 1983. The increase in deposits has been partially offset by a
decrease in local borrowings from Esc. .54,690 million in 1983 to Esc. 28,694
million (Esc. 16,630 million in 1983 terms). Foreign borrowings, including
resources made available by the European Investment Bank (EIB), which
remained about the same percentage of total resources (18 percent - 20
percent), increased from Esc, 37,084 million in 1983 to Esc. 42,226 million
in 1986 (Esc. 24,475 million in 1983 terms). At 7 percent of resources in
1986, bonds represent a small but increasingly important financing
alternative, as it provides a less expensive and more easily managed source
o0 :inance.
5.09     BFN and its subborrowers are unaffected by the foreign exchange risk
on existing borrowings denominated in foreign exchange, as the risk is borne
by FERGF operated by the Bank of Portugal. BFN onlends in loca'L currency
only and currently pays BOP the lending rate less BFN's spread, regardless of
the actual interest rate for foreign loans.



- 21 -
5.10     BFN's balance sheets for 1982-1986 are presented in Annex 7-4.
BFN's long-term debt to equity ratio has declined steadily from its 1984 peak
of 11.6:1 to 8.5:1 in 1986. BFN has a generally satisfactory financial
structure. Based on current projections, the downward trend will continue.
The debt/equity limit of 10.:l agreed with the Bank under BFN II has been
reconfirmed during negotiations.
5.11     Demand and short-term deposits have tripled in nominal terms from
Esc. 17,915 million in 1982 to Esc. 74,327 million in 1986 (Esc. 34,429
million in 1982 terms). However, MLT loans remain adequately covered by
long-term borrowings (including deposits over 1 year). Long-term borrowings
represented 82 percent of MLT loans in 1982, falling to 71 percent by 1984
and to 63 percent in 1986, reflecting the rapidly increasing importance of
short-term deposits. This level is still acceptable. Resource shortfalls or
surpluses are borrowed/loaned at commercial rates on the interbank money
market. Such amounts represent an insignificant proportion of total
resources.
C. Financial Perfoimnance
5.12     BFN income statements for 1982-86 are summarized in Annex 7-5.
BFN's total income increased from Esc. 27,296 million in 1982 to Esc. 42,742
million in 1986 (Esc. 19,298 million in 1982 terms). The current spread is 4
percent (March 31, 1987), down from 4.65 percent in December 1986, due to a
decline in the maximum permissible interest rate. In the period 1981-1985,
BFN increased its yield on the portfolio from 20 percent to 30 percent, while
the average cost of funds increased from 16 percent to 25 percent.
5.13     Administrative and overhead expenses increased from Esc. 931 million
in 1982 to Eac. 2,493 million in 1986 (Ese. 1,155 million in 1982 terms) or
by 24 percent in real terms. Administrative and overhead expenses as a
percentage of the average portfolio increased from 0.9 percent to 1.02
percent during that period. BFN's administrative and overhead expense level
is reazonable in relation to the total portfolio.
5.14     BFN's net operating profits remain insignificant, largely because
the Ministry of Finance requires that the bulk of any operating surplus be
applied to the doubtful debts provision or to general provisions for sundry
risks, to protect nationalized banks against a generally weak industrial
portfolio. As a result, the provisions charged in recent years are well in
excess of the required provision level based on the underlying portfolio
performance. This accounts for the rapid build-up of provisions in the
period 1982-1985 from Esc. 10,152 million to Esc. 22,484 million with minimal
write-offs during the period.
D. QuaUty of Portfolio and Arrears Position
5.15     Arrears.  BFN's major problem in recent years has been an increased
level of arrears coupled with the State's reluctance to resolve significant
public sector arrears. These had climbed to 57 percent of total arrears as
of end-1985. Arrears increased from Esc. 252 million to Esc. 39,141 million
in the 10-year period to 1983 and had doubled (to Esc. 62,753 million) by
December 1985. Inadequate appraisal procedures, social service banking and
the poor economic climate all contributed to the deterioration in the arrears
position shown in the Table below.



- 22 -
Arrears Position 1983-1986
(millio.s of Escudos)
1983      1984       1985       1986     3/1987
Outstanding principal           143,267   158,892   164,240   184,693   189,340
Interest arrears                 24,377    39,357    42,784    28,408   29,627
Total                           167,644   198,249   207,024   213,101   218,967
Principal arrears                14,764    20,724    19,969    19,240    19,565
Interest arrears                 24,377    39,357    42,784    28,408    29,627
Total arrears                    39,141    60,081    62,753    47,648    49,192
Outstanding principal on
loans 4.n arrears             48,083    47,849    41,462    38,487    38,178
Public sector arrears            22,121    39,843    35,355    18,008    18,382
Private sector arrears            7,362      7,627    10,562      7,883      8,019
Litigated arrears                 4,735      7,510    10,735    15,084    15,881
Ex-colonies arrears               4,653     4,784      5,554      4,827      4,838
Export credit arrears               270        317       547      1,846      2,072
39,141    60,081    62,753    47,648    49,192
% arrears of principal
to total principal               10.3      13.0       12.3       10.4      10.3
% of arrears of interest
to total principal               17.0      24.8       26.0       15.3      15.7
% total arrears to total
balance                          23.3      30.3       30.3       22.3       22.5
5.16     PubBl Sector Arrears.  A number of individually significant public
sector loans were settled in the latter part of 1986, namely GAS I' (Esc.
7.175 million) and RNI'(Esc. 1,857 million), representing petrochemicals
and public transport, respectively. In addition, some methods new to BFN --
including equity participation, special credit rebates, and disposal of
assets - are being used to resolve other debts. Rescheduling of loans is
not significant. Public sector arrears to BFN have been reduced from a high
of Esc. 39,843 in 1984 to Esc. 18,008 million as of end-1986, when only 15
loans accounted for 95 percent of arrears in this sector. The largest of
these, EPSI3', amounting to Esc. 6,500 million, is at an advanced stage of
negotiation. Approximately Esc. 7,700 million has been targeted for
settlement in 1987, Esc. 13,000 in 1988 and Esc. 8,000 in 1989. At present,
only Eac. 2,300 million (two accounts) are judged to be uncollectable. Some
settlements may involve writing off part of the loan against provisions, so
all the doubtful loan provisions will not necessarily
1/   Gabinete de Area Sines - a regional development company dealing
principally in petrochemicals.
2/   Rodovsria Nacional - a public transport company, covering all areas but
Lisbon and Porto.
3/   Empresa de Polimeros Sines - a chemical fibre company in Sines.
'I



- 23 -
be credited back to income. During negotiations confirmation has been
obtained from Government on the continuation of the current policy of
settling outstanding arrears of public sector enterprises in a timely and
satisfactory manner, and that it will take all measures necessary to ensure
that the balance of all public sector arrears to BFN as of December 1986 be
paid over the period 1987-1991.
5.17     Private sector arrears. Out of the total number of accounts in
arrears in this sector, 53 or 12 percent accounted for 62 percent of arrears
as of December 31, 1986. SACC is optimistic that its 2-year recovery targets
will be achieved. A total of 726 arrears accounts are now in court of which
718 are private sector arrears. Sufficient collateral is held against
private sector arrears.
5.18     Provisions.  BFN has been highly conservative in establishing its
doubtful debt provisions, as the Ministry of Finance requires public banks
with surpluses to retain most operating income as provisions for doubtful
accounts. As a result, BFN's provisions have been building up rapidly.
Additional provisions have been established through a practice of not taking
the interest on certain non performing loans through the income statement.
But the interest receivable is debited to the asset account, while a
corresponding liability is established in a suspense account, referred to as
"interest in suspense". This practice does not accord with generally
accepted accounting principles, as it overstates both assets and liabilities,
although net worth remains unaffected.
5.19     As of December 31, 1986, when total arrears amounted to Esc. 47,648
million, the effective provision for doubtful accounts ;amounted to some
Esc. 47,843 million (Esc. 22,484 million in doubtful debt provisions and
Esc. 25,359 million interest in suspense). Further general provisions of
Esc. 3,910 million were established in 1986 from surplus operating income to
cover as yet unidentified risks (as required by the Ministry of Finance). The
1986 pr.visions could not be applied to the bad debt provision of
December 31, 1986, as this already covered total arrears and thus might be
considered to be overstated.
5.20     BFh's existing arrears (i.e. those existing on December 31, 1986)
can be eliminated in the medium term because (a) significant public sector
settlements are being achieved; (b) significant reductions will be achieved
by writing off interest in suspense against outstanding interest; and (c)
more frequent adjustments in administered prices should improve the financial
position of the producer enterprises. BFN is reluctant to write off loans
mainly because it is unwilling to face a significant portfolio reduction in
one year but also because under BOP rules, sundry provisions may be included
in reserve requirements. In addition, BFN believes that write-offs may
compromise their right of recovery. Under the project, BFN will be required,
through the normal process o' collection and write-off, to eliminate from the
financial statements by December 31, 1991 existing arrears as of December 31,
1986. To provide some flexibility to BFN, the arrears elimination program,
shown in the table below, calls for equal annual reductions in total arrears.
1t   Comprising actual provisions plus provisions for interest in suspense
in Sundry Adjustment Accounts.



- 24 -
Arrears Elimination Program (1987-1991)
(Millions of Escudos)
Old Arrears as of   12/31/86  12/31/87  12/31/88  12/31/89  12/31/89  12/31/90
Public sector         18,485    14,788      9,927     7,394      3,697        0
Private sector        22,490    17,992    12,078      8,996      4,498        0
Others                 6,673     5,338      3,584     2,669      1,335        0
Total                 47,648    38,118    25,589    19,059       9,S530       0
Annual decrcast.                (9,530)  (12,529)   (6,530)   (9,530)   (9,530)
Old Arrear3/
Portfol.o (2)         22.3      18.7       12.4       8.7        4.1       0.0
5.21     Agreement has been reached during negotiations that BFN would make
its best efforts to hold the level of private sector arrears below 6 percent
of the total loan portfolio. Confirmation has been obtained from the
Government that it would continue its policy of timely and satisfactory
settlement of public sector arrears. These two agreements would ensure that
the quality of BFN's loan portfolio remains acceptable. Although not
critical, at this time BFN should seriously consider establishing a policy to
suspend recognizing income on loans in arrears, together with new policies on
provision and write-off of bad debts. Such a po'icy will set out the .
criteria for making provisions, such as a fixed percentage provision for
accounts in arrears for a certain number of months. The doubtful accounts
and provisions will then be considered for write-off if no movement has taken
place after a certain time. Adopting this recommendation will improve the
monitoring and performance evaluation of arrears and arrears control and will
improve the quality of reported information.
E. Operational and Finaneial Projections
5.22     Operati  . BFN assumes inflation will decrease from an annual 8.5
percent in 1987 to 3 percent in 1991, which may be optimistic. Interest
rates are projected at levels significantly above the inflation rate,
reflecting Government's stated position of maintaining high real interest
rates. BFN projects an annual economic growth rate of 7 percent in real
terms for 1987-1989 and 6 percent for 1990-1991. The 6-8 percent growth
rate, supported by the OECD, is a reasonable basis for the forecast. BFN
disbursements for investment and export credits are projected at 3.1 percent
of GFCF for 1987 and 2.9 percent thereafter. This compares with 3.12 percent
achieved in 1986 and reflects BFN's estimate of the effects of competition,
particularly from the foreign banks. This appears reasonable. Short-term
credit is forecast to increase to Esc. 17,219 million in 1987 and increase at
a rate of 10 percent annually in nominal terms for later years. As seen from
the table below, over the period 1987-1991, disbursements for loans are
projected to increase by 45 percent in nominal terms, or 21 percent in real
terms.



- 25 -
Projected Disbursements, 1987-1991
(Millions of  Escudos)
1987     1988      1989     1990      1991
Investment loans                 33,686   36,079   40,535   44,686   48,788
Export credits                    5,895    6,314    7,094    7,820    8,538
Short-term credit                17,219   18,080   19,888   21,877   24,064
56,800   60,473   67,517   74,383   81,390
5.23     Resource Position.  Current projections assume continuation of the
longstanding policy of no significant distributions to shareholders. Demand
and time deposits are projected to grow annually at rates from 8 percent - 15
percent in nominal terms during 1987-1991, while medium-term deposits will
remain nominally constant, to be replaced by new bond issues, which will
become increasingly important as a source of finance. New capital, by way of
equity participation stock (fixed interest plus share of earnings), will be
issued.
Long Term Resource Position
Actual 1986 and Projected 1987 to 1991
(millions of Escudos)
1986     1987      1988     1989      1990     1991
Reserves net worth      15,233   20,198   24,115   28,451   31,645   33,637
Provs for sundry
risks                    3,910   11,675   19,121   21,489   24,983   29,317
MLT deposits            41,649   41,881   42,149   42,456   42,809   43,216
Local borrowings        38,473   40,425   34,969   34,552   33,390   33,114
Foreign borrowings      42,226   40,237   42,117   41,017   40,243   39,383
141,491  154,416  162,470  167,965  173,270  178,667
Long term loans        197,793  203,747  205,994  219,046  234,577  251,858
Plant & equip.             964       647      695       740      786       831
198,757  204,394  206,689  219,787  235,363  252,689
(Shortfall )/Available
for disbursement    (57,266) (49,977) (44,218) (51,822) (62,092) (74,022)
Short term deposits    86,318   86,753   92,325  101,809  110,656  119,305
Short term loans       (17,219) (17,219) (18,941) (20,835) (22,918) (25,210)
Dep. res. with BOP    (21,306) (19,868) (14,759)  (9,666)  (7,430)  (8,051)
47,793   49,665   58,623   71,308   80,308   86,044
(Shortfall )/Available
for disbursement      (9,473)    (312)  14,406   19,486   18,215   12,022



- 26 -
In summary, the resource requirement in 1991 will be Esc. 252,689 million,
financed 51 percent by deposits, 16 percent by foreign loans, 10 percent by
bonds and 23 percent from other sources. This compares with figures for
December 31, 1986 of 55 percent for deposits, 25 percent for foreign loans,
8 percent for bonds and 12 percent for other sources.
5.24     Liquidity.  In 1986, there was a significant realignment of term
deposits, with short-term deposits increasing from 43 percent of the total in
1985 to 64 percent of the total in 1986 or from Esc. 47,951 million to
Esc. 74,327 million. As a result, short-term deposits as a percentage of
medium- and long-term loans have increased from 23 percent in 1985 to 38
percent in 1986 and are projected to increase to 51 percent by 1991. While
this has clear implications for liquidity, the projected liquidity ratio for
1991 is reasonable at approximately 0.8:1. The rapid increase in short term
loans is being financed by short-term deposits, so the share of short-term
deposits applied to mediumi-term lending is not significantly out of line with
previous years. In addition, BFN has unlimited lines of credit (and
substantial deposits) with the Bank of Portugal to fill any long-term
resource gap. Demand and short-term deposits represent lower-cost finance to
BFN (at rates of 0 percent to 9 percent for deposits of less than 180 days).
Finally, the change in mix does not seem to arise from attempts to avoid
reserve requirements. This mix of resources needs to be carefully monitored,
because of the significant short-term element, but is not considered an issue.
5.25     Income and EXDenseS.  Projected income statements for 1987-1991 are
attached as Annex 7-6. All the key income ratios show satisfactorily
increasing trends. Net return (before general provisions) on interest
earning assets is projected to increase from 1.82 percent in 1986 to 2.45
percent by 1991, with the return on total assets increasing from 1.59 percent
to 2.14 percent over the same period. Expenses are projected to rise from
1.02 percent of average interest earning assets in 1986 to 1.38 percent by
1991. This reflects a real increase in expenses, particularly staff
expenses, together with a lesser increase in portfolio over the period. This
level of expenses is considered reasonable in relation to the total
portfolio. Future provision requirements will depend on a number of factors,
including Government policy for the public banks and public sector debt,
economic clioate, and appraisal procedures.  The forecast provides for
general provisions for sundry risks, which is akin to deferring income as the
bad debt provisions are considered to be at a reasonable level. Part of this
deferred income will probably be used to fund the establishment of a fully
funded pension scheme. Pension obligations are currently funded from current
revenue.
5.26     Leverage.  Projected balance sheets are attached as Annex 7-7.
BFN's long-term debt/equity ratio is expected to improve from 8.0 to under
4.0 by 1991. This is in part due to a swift change in the resource mix
toward short-term deposits. Adjusting the debt/equity ratio to include
short-term deposits, the total debt/equity ratio is 9.4 in 1987, decreasing
to 6.4 in 1991, which is within the 10:1 ratio agreed upon under BFN II which
will be reconfirmed during negotiations. Over the period 1987-1991, equity
as a percentage of average assets is forecast to increase from 7 percent to



- 27 -
10 percent, or from 9 percent to 13 percent of average advances and from 14
percent to 23 percent of average equity plus long-term borrowings and
deposits over 1 year. Average equity plus long-term borrowings as a
percentage of average total assets is forecast to decline from 49 percent to
45 percent.
VI. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Scope
6.01     This project is part of Portugal's overall effort to improve the
competitive position of its industry during the crucial transition phase of
its becoming a member of the EC. The specific objectives of the project are:
(a)    to continue supporting industrial development in Portugal;
(b)    to develop a market-oriented approach to enterprise-level
industrial restructuring, on a pilot basis, emphasizing private
investment based on strategic planning; and
(c)    to further strengthen BFN's internal management and operations,
by developing an integrated MIS, by implementing the MIS's
Financial Information System (FIS) component and by
strengthening BFN's internal audit function.
6.02     The loan would contribute about 7 percent of disbursements annually
in BFN's lending operations over a 3-year period, which are expected to
average about 3 percent of Portugal's annual gross fixed capital formation.
The project aims at establishing in BFN and MIE a capability for industrial
restructuring at the corporate and subsector levels utilizing market
mechanisms only (i.e. without direct Government intervention). This will
help give Portugal the capability to induce orderly market-based adjustment.
B. Project Components
6.03     In support of these objectives, the loan will provide financial
support covering the entire direct foreign exchange cost of imported goods
and services and the estimated foreign exchange cost of goods and services
provided locally (50 percent on average) for:
(i)    medium- to long-term investments in mixed and private sector
industry, financed as part of BFN's on-going industrial lending
operations, as well as for specific industrial restructuring
investments identified in the two pilot subsector studies
carried out under the project; and
(ii)    technical assistance in the form of:



- 28 -
(a) two pilot subsector studies (for the white clay ceramics and
wood and wood furniture subsectors) to identify corporate-level
restructuring strategies for those subsectors, plus a follow-up
program including on the job training of BFN staff to identify,
design and appraise corporate restructuring investments within
an overall follow-up service to the two selected subsectors
covering advice on design of restructuring packages for specific
enterprises; and
(b) a study to develop a management information system for BFN and
to implement its financial information component.
6.04     Subproject Ppeline. BFN's Investment Department has identified a
subproject pipeline, for financing under the project comprising 28
subprojects, each with independent investors. Of the total cosc of these
(about $145.0 million) 20 percent (the foreign exchange cost) is expected to
be financed from the Bank loan, 30 percent from BFN sources and 50 percent
from the investors' own resources. Excluding two very large investments, both
having a large proportion of local currency costs (averaging over 90 percent),
the average foreign exchange content of the remaining 22 subprojects amounts
to 73 percent. Under BFN II, the average foreign exchange content of
investment was about 40 percent, which has increased under this project due to
recent tariff reductions. The estimated total project cost is US$137.5
million, excluding technical assistance (about US$6.0 million). The total
foreign exchange content of the identified pipeline amounts to US$27 million,
which represents about one year of BFN's commitments under the project. The
individual investments are widely distributed in terms of subsectors, covering
food industries (6), textiles (8), electromechanical industries (4), footwear
and leather (2), pulp and paper (2), and others (6) including ceramics (1) and
wood products (1). Since BFN is expected to make some disbursements against
these projects before they become effective, these would be eligible for
retroactive financing under the project.
6.05     Traini andFolow-Up-Service.  To maximize the benefits from the
studies, BFN will include in the consultants contracts a component of adequate
scope to help BFN develop the practical ability to identify, formulate and
appraise restructuring investments. With this capability, BFN, aided by the
consultants, would be able to provide a follow-up service to enterprises in
the two selected subsectors, including the assistance necessary to identify
and appraise restructuring packages for specific enterprises. Since strategic
restructuring investments are a relatively new field of activity for BFN, to
ensure the adequacy of the follow-up service at least three man-months of
professional consultant time would be included for it in each consultant study
contract. To promote follow-up investment, the availability of the follow-up
service would be widely publicized throughout the subsector and made available
on request equally to all enterprises. The industry associations for the two
selected subsectors, white clay ceramics and wood and wood furniture, will
assist in this promotional effort.



- 29 -
6.06     To ensure cost recovery for the enterprise-specific portions of the
follow-up service, BFN would charge each enterprise in accordance with the
amount of BFN-consultant and staff time used by the enterprise. The fee rate
would reflect the full cost to BFN of making the follow-up service available
to the subsector. BFN would be under no obligation to provide investment
financing to an enterprise that has received a negative assessment as a
commercial client, however, a negative commercial assessment could not be used
to deny an enterprise access to the follow-up service. To promote business,
BFN may wish to provide loan financing for the use of the service or to
capitalize the cost of the service in any subsequent loan. Both of these
alternatives would be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
proposed Bank loan.
C. Alocation of Loan Proceeds
6.07     The proposed allocation of the proceeds of the loan is shown in the
following table. Although the subproject financing component of the project
(US$55 million) supports two distinct activities -- investment financing and
the financing of restructuring investments -- no specific allocation of the
line of credit among these is proposed. The second activity, being very much
a pilot activity, does not justify the reduced flexibility implicit in a
separate allocation. Moreover, the breakdown between hardware (fixed assets)
and software (services, human resource development) and the actual volume of
hardware investments that may be needed as a result of the studies is
uncertain. The technical assistance component would have an allocation of
US$5.0 million of which US$4.0 would be spent on institution - building T.A.
activities and the remaining on the two subsector studies. Expenditures by
BFN on these studies prior to effectiveness are likely to be small, up to
$100,000. These expenditures would be eligible for retroactive financing
under the project. Total retroactive financing would be limited to 5 percent
of the loan amount or US$3 million.
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Amount
Category                                                      (US$ amount)
Subproject financing                                              55.0
Technical Assistance:                                              5.0
(of which)
Subsector Consultant Studies (2)                                 1.0
MIS/FIS Consultant Study                                         1.3
Implementation of FIS                                           2.7
Total                                           60.0
6.08     The actual cost implementing the FIS study depends upon the options
selected from among the many approaches and levels available for such a
system.  The final estimate would be based on the recommendations of the
consultant study. The final date for submitting subprojects to the Bank for
financing under the project would be June 30, 1991 and the Closing Date for
disbursements would be June 30, 1994.



- 30 -
D. Main Features of the Loan
6.09     Subloan size and Free Limit.  Subloans would be limited to a maximum
of US$7.0 million per subproject with a free limit of US$2.5 million. This
would be adequate to meet BFN's expected loan size under the project. Based
on the subproject pipeline the average loan size would be just under $1
million and the range from $130 thousand to $5 million. Since restructuring
finance is a new activity, BFN would send to the Bank for its prior review the
appraisal reports for the first 5 subprojects identified from the two
subsector restructuring studies and financed from the proceeds of the loan.
6.10     Subloan and Loan Maturities.  The maximum subloan term would be 12
years, including 2 years grace. In practice, BFN will establish incividual
sukloan terms, based on the projected cash flow and payback period for each
nEVbproject. Loans to MIE and BFN for tecinical assistance would be repaidl
over 15 years, including 3 years grace.
6.11     Olendling Interest Rate.  For all Bank-financed subloans under the
project, BFN will continue to charge a variable interest rate that is positive
in real terms and not less than the Bank's onlending rate plus the foreign
exchange risk guarantee premium, plus BFN's spread.
6.12     Subloan Foreign Exchange Risks. The foreign exchange risk an all
subloans and loans would be borne by the Government. The fee for this
service, as for BFN II, would be the difference between the domestic onlending
rate and the cost of the foreign borrowing, less a 3.5 perceat spread for
BFN. Initially, in calculating this fee, the administered maximum rate will
be used, and eventually move to the average lending rate for MLT loans
prevailing on the domestic market, rather than the rate of any particular bank
or subloan. The premium structure is in line with Bank policy and the
arrangement has proven quite adequate under BFN II.
6.13     SubproiectAppraisd.  BFN will prepare acceptable appraisal reports
for all subprojects, which will include a description of the subproject,
including the goods and services to be procured and the procurement procedures
to be used; an analysis of the investors' financial statements for the past
three years; estimates of the internal economic and financial rates of return
on the subproject; the financing plan for the subproject; the cash flow,
estimated payback period and an amortization schedule based on these; and
justification of the revenue and operating cost cash flows, price movements,
input costs and sales, and the environmental impact of the subproject.
6.14     For subprojects with Bank-financed subloans other than free-limit
subloans, in addition to the above information, subproject appraisal reports
would also contain:
(i)    a description ci the sources of any increased internal
efficiencies, the identification process, the investment
strategy to be applied to capture them and its relationship to
any sectoral or subsectoral strategy, and the action plan to
implement the enterprise's strategy;



- 31 -
(ii)    detailed projections and analyses of thf investors' financial
statements, in current terms, showing ainual performance and
trends in production and sales and in the production efficiency,
financial efficiency and profitability ratios; and
(iii)    an assessment of the economic and financial viability for the
entire enterprise responsible for the subproject.
Appraisal of both the entire enterprise and the investment will guard against
restructuring investments in nonviable enterprises. BFN is fully capable of
meeting these subproject appraisal standards.
6.15     Subproject Acceptance Criteria. The minimum acceptable ERR for
subproject financing eligibility will be 12 percent. The minimum acceptable
FRR will be the rate of interest charged by BFN for such loans at the time of
subproject approval.
6.16     Procurement.  The procurement procedures employed for goods and
services financed from Bank funds will be in accordance with the World Bank
Guidelines for Procurement, and BFN will normally require three alternatives
quotations. In addition, if any subprojects should be financed on an
exception basis for the nationalized industries, BFN would require
international shopping for contract over US$2.0 million equivalent and ICB for
contracts over US$3.0 million equivalent.
6.17     Disbursement.  The projected disbursement schedule is attached as
Annex 8. Disbursements from the proceeds of the proposed loan would cover up
to 100 percent of foreign expenditures for consultants' services and
training. For goods and other services, 100 percent of direct foreign
expenditures, 100 percent of local ex-factory costs in respect of goods being
supplied under contract obtained in accordance with ICB proceeding and 50
percent of expenditures for other items procured locally. With the exception
of applications valued at less than the equivalent of US$250,000, all
applications for withdrawal will be fully documented. Disbursements in
respect of applications valued at less than US$250,000 will be made on the
basis of statements of expenditures. Documentation to support these
applications will be retained by BFN, audited by auditors acceptable to the
Bank and made available for review by the Bank upon request. The annual
audits of the project accounts, by auditors acceptable to the Bank, would
include a separate opinion on disbursements made under the SOE procedure. To
facilitate the borrower's access to the loan funds, and expedite
disbursements, BFN will establish a Special Account at financial institution
acceptable to the Bank, or at the Bank of Portugal, into which the Bank will
deposit US$5 million, representing about 4 month;l' expenditures. BFN will use
these funds to finance the Bank's share of eligible expenditures. Retroactive
financing of goods and services for subprojects up to a total of US$4.0
million and services for technical assistance up to a total amount of US$1.0
million procured, in accordance with Bank Guidelines, after June 1, 1987, will
be eligible for financing under the loan. Based on the actual disbursement
profile of similar Bank loans in Portugal for FY76-85, the loan is expected to
be fully disbursed by June 30, 1994. Because the pipeline is strong, and the
very early consultant input will assist the borrowers and enterprises with
designing and appraising restructuring subprojects, actual disbursements are
expected to be at a somewhat faster rate than the historical profile suggests.



- 32 -
6.18     Reporting. BFN will submit to the Bank semi-annual and annual
reports on the status and progress of the project. The reports will include,
among other things, a summary of lending operations (approvals, commitments
and disbursements), resource position, portfolio information, arrears data,
data to permit review of BFN's spread and commission, progress on the use of
the loan, a summary of procurement activities and copies of annual reports and
audits.
6.19     Audit.  BFN will submit to the Bank, not later than six months after
the end of the fir.ancial year, a report on the audit of its account carried
out by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
6.20     Envionment.  BFN will require each subborrower under the project
to design and operate each subproject in compliance with environmental
standards in keeping with the Bank's environmental guidelines. Compliance
with these undertakings will be closely monitored by BFN and Bank staff.
6.21     Project Benefits. The project's main direct benefit will be to
support further development of mixed and private sector industry leading to
higher output and employment levels. The restructuring segment of the project
would initiate a focused effort to prepare Portuguese industry for entering
the EC. Although it is a pilot effort, covering only two subsectors,
successful implementation will provide a valuable demonstration effect, and
should create additional demand for such studies and investments. The
technical assistance to BFN will strengthen both its internal audit operations
and the capacity of its industrial restructuring operations. Strengthening
the latter will improve the background capacity of its expanding capital
market services. Finally, development of an MIS will provide cohesion and
quality in BFN's overall work and maintain it in the forefront of the
Portuguese banking industry.
6.22     Project Risks.  The principal risk facing the project is the
possibility of a decline in private sector investment due to macroeconomic
factors, including a possibly deteriorating private sector competitiveness.
The Government is well aware of these issues and has so far dealt successfully
with them. Another risk is the possible lack of follow-up to the
restructuring studies and to promote industry restructuring investment. This
concern was the suibject of much discussion by Bank and BFN staff; careful
consideration was given to this in the design of the component, particularly
in terrs of ensuring a corporate focus from the outset and providing an
immediate follow-up service. A major factor in reducing the risk associated
with this aspect is the commitment and active involvement of the Ministry of
Industry and Commerce, BFN, and the concerned industry associationa.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMfIMENDATIONS
7.01     During negotiations, agreements has been reached on the following
points:
1. Subsector Studies
(a)      BFN would sign a consultant contract, acceptable to the Bank, for the
second subsector study, including an adequate follow-up program, within two
months of the contracted date for receipt of the draft final report of the
first study (para. 3.08); and



- 33 -
(b)      BFN would assign at least one staff member to participate on a
full-time basis in each of the two consultant subsector studies and the
follow-up programs (para. 3.10).
2. Subloan Features
(a)      Subloan amount would be limited to a maximum Bank financing of US$7.0
million per subproject (para. 6.09);
(b)      Subloan free limit would be US$2.5 million.  The first five
industrial restructuring projects, identified from the two subsector
restructuring projects, financed under the loan, would be submitted to the
Bank for review and approval prior to making commitments (para. 6.09);
(c)      Maturities for subloans under the project would be a maximum of 12
years, including 2 years grace. Within this, the individual subloan maturity
would be based on the subproject cash flow and investment payback period.
Maturities for MIC and BFN on technical assistance loans would be 15 years,
including 3 years grace (para. 6.10);
(d)      Interest Rate.  BFN would charge an interest rate on all
Bank-financed subloans which is real, positive and not less than the Bank's
lending rate plus the Treasury's foreign exchange risk guarantee premium plus
BFN's spread (para. 6.11);
(e)      Foreign Exchange Risk on all subloans and loan would be borne by the
Guarantor; and
(f)      Procurement would be in accordance with Bank Guidelines.  Contracts
over US$3.0 million would be procured through ICB; while contracts for smaller
amounts could be procured on the basis of existing international and local
shopping procedures (para. 6.16);
3. Subproject Appraisal
(a)      Acceptable appraisal reports would be prepared by BFN for all
subprojects (paras. 6.13 and 6.14);
(b)      Acceptable IRR levels for subprojects would be not less than 12
percent for the ERR and, for the FRR, not less than the rate of interest
charged by BFN for such subloans at the time of subproject approval (para.
6.15).
4. BFN
(a)      BFN would maintain fully staffed the position of Accountant/Auditor
in the Internal Audit Department (para. 4.11);
(b)      BFN would implement an FIS by December 31, 1990 along the lines of
that recommended in the overall MIS (para. 4.15);
(c)      BFN would review with the Bank the study for development of an MIS
within six months of its completion (para 4.15);



- 34 -
(d)      BFN would maintain a debt/equity ratio of less than or equal to 10:1
(para. 5.10);
(e)      BFN would eliminate all arrears of principal and interest in its loan
portfolio (outstanding as of end-1986) by December 31, 1991, in a series of
five equal annual amounts and thereafter apply a consistent provision and
write-off policy in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles
to hold the level of arrears on private sector loans to less than 6 percent of
the outstanding loan portfolio (paras 5.20 - 5.21);
(g)      Semi-annual and annual reports on the status and progress of the
project, in an agreed scope and format, would be submitted to the Bank by BFN
(para. 6.18);
(h)      BFN would submit its annual audit reports to the Bank not later than
six months after the end of each financial year (para 6.19).
(M)      Appropriate environmental protection measures would be required by
BFN of all subborrowers under the project (para. 6.20).
7.03     Confirmation has been obtained from the Guarantor that:
(a)      Government's current policy of maintaining real positive interest
rates would be continued (para 2.12);
(b)      The current basis for establishing for guarantee of foreign exchange
risk premia would be continued (para 2.17);
(c)      Government's current policy of timely and satisfactory settlement of
outstanding public enterprise arrears to BFN would be maintained (para 5.16);
and
(d)      Within 3 months of completion of both subsectzr studies, the
Government would review with the Bank the findings and policy implications of
each study with a view to implementing a follow-up program of specific policy
and administrative changes (para. 3.11)
7.04     Goods and services for subprojects up to a total of $4.0 million and
technical assistance up to a total of $1.0 million which are procured in
accordance with Bank Guidelines after June 1, 1987, would be eligible for
reimbursement (para. 6.17).
7.05     The proposed project is suitable for a Bank Loan to BFN of
US$60.Omillion on the terms and conditions outlined above.



LB
Indim  of Xnustrial Prn petton t ercentaae EhAnot I
1918                                    1986 (a)
Food, Drink and Tobacco           7.2     -7.0      -0.6      3.7           -9.2      2.7      6.3    -1.7             1.6      4.3       4.4      3.6
Textiles                          3.7      3.2      11.5      5.6           13.5     14.7     10.4      9.2            2.2       3.7     11.8      2.6
Wood and Cork                    14.3     -3.6       4.3      4.4            3.8      8.8      2.4      1.7          -11.6      -3.5     50.1      -1.9
Paper                             8.9      S.9      15.6      5.4           17.2     22.1      9.8    13.1             3.7      -0.8     14.8      5.0  _ 
Chemtcals                        -3.7      3.2       7.3      7.3            5.4     12.2      7.7      4.4            S.3      13.9      7.4      2.4
Non-metallic minerals             4.0      0.4       3.3      7.1           -1.9      0.8      S.8      9.1            6.3      9.3       0.8     11.4
ease Metals                      -9.4      5.2      -3.1      2.1           -6.0     -4.S     -7.3      5.S            2.7      -4.0      8.3      2.6
Metal Products                   -7.6     -6.0    -10.4      18.3           -2.S     -9.1    -11.8   -15.6            -1.0      21.9     3S.9     20.0
Non-electrical Machines          -9.2    -24.7      -5.0      2.8            0.4     -4.4    -19.1      1.1          -11.3       0.6     -0.3     22.8
Electrical Machines               3.2     -8.8       3.1    -15.3           -1.2     -3.0     13.5     6.3           -22.3    -16.1    -14.5      -7.0
Transport Equipment             -24.9    -20.2      -0.5      6.S           -6.6      3.6      0.2      0.8           -3.5      -1.7      8.7     24.3
TOTAL Manufacturing           0.6     -1.2      4.6       5.3           1.6       6.7      S.4     4.7            -0.2      5.8       9.0      7.1
Consumption Goods                                             7.9                                                      1.1       9.7     10.0      10.9
Intermediate Goods                                            4.8                                                      1.1       S.S      9.6      3.S    S
Capital Goods                                                 1.7                                                    -10.3      -1.7      3.0      17.8
Souree: Institute Macional Estatistica
(a) New Index
I!



- 36 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
PORTUGAL
BFN m
Industrial Investment Incentives
A. General and Selective Supports to Investmenj
1.  General Investment Tax Credit (D.L. 197/86)   -an across the board offset
to corporate profits tax
available to most
categories of industrial
investment.
2. Support to Regional Development (DL 283/86)   -essentially a system of
grant aid favoring
investments in the less
developed regions.
Selective only in an
exclusion sense (see
Section 4.3 above), and to
a degree to favor
employment creation.
3. Support to Export-Based Investment (DL 161/87) -an increase in the benefits
available under the
investment-tax credit to
favor export-related
investment
Specific Support to Restructuring
1.  Sectoral Program (DL 251/86)                    -a discretionary arrangement
to provide different forms
of aid to sectors in
difficulty and able to
formulate clear
restructuring proposals.
2.  Energy Saving (DL 250/86)                       -a program to subsidize
investments to save on and
diversify sources of energy.



- 37 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
C. Infrastructural and Institutional Support.
1.  Support to the Modernization of SMIs            -continued government
financing of a variety of
technical support services
provided through the agency
of IAPMEI.
2. Support for Quality Upgrading (Despacho 19/87) -a program to provide a
range of testing,
certification and other
quality control facilities
to industry.
3. Technology Centers                               -a program to construct a
series of sector-specific
centers to provide sector
enterprises with assistance
to upgrade technology.



AdiniiMtorm  neie Ratas. 1981-4916
lIn percont Mer atnnka
-  *                   _~~~~ ~~19"1  _I9;2      1983        1984      MS          198S      _12aS         1986         19S6          1227         1987 2
As of      As of       As of       As of      As.of        As of     As of        As of        As of         AS Of        AS Of
Yte                       JulY 16    Aar. 20    Aua. 8    June 20    Jan. 11          Au.. 3    Nov. 26      Apr. 9       June 2a       Jan- 6      Mar. 20
Discount rate                      11.0         19.0       25.0       25.0        25.0        23.0       19.0         17.5         16.0           MS.S
Deposit rates
Sight deposits                    1.0          1.0        1.0                                                                     4.0           4.0
Tine oeposits (miniman rates)
15-90 days                     10.0         11.0      17.5
90-180 days                    14.0         15.0       21.5
180 days-I year                19.S         21.S      28.0       28.0        27.0         24.0       20.0         18.S         15.S          18.0        14.5
Over 1 year                    21.0         23.0       30.0
Savings deposits
Ist year                       21.0         23.0      30.0
2nd year                       21.25        23.25      30.2S
3rd year                       21.5         23.5      30.5
4th year                       21.75        23.7S      30.73
Over 4 years                   22.0         24.0       31.0
Housing savings
deposits                      --           --          -                     -                                   19.S         16.5          IS.5
Standard lending rates
Uo to 90 days                 19-21         23.0       29.5      28.5        28.5
90-180 days               19.S-21.5         23.5       30.0      29.0        29.0         26.5       22.5         21.0         18.0          17.S
180 days-i year               20-22         24.0      30.5       29.5        29.5
1-2 years                20.5-22.5          24.S      31.0       31.0        31.0                                                            20.0
2-5 years                     21-23         25.0       31.5      31.5        31.5         29.0       2S.0         23.5         20.5          20.0        19.5
Over S years                  22-24         26.0       32.5      32.5        32.5         30.0       26.0         24.5         21.5          20.0       oox.
Housing savings
loans                                                      --          --                                        24.S         21.5          20.0
Reference interest rate
for bond market                                           --        --          --           2S.0       22.0         20.5         17.S          17.0
tVnwrmands 1 tems:
Tax rate on time deposits          18.0         19.8       19.8       19.8        19.8         14.95     14.95        15.0         1S.0          1S.0        15.0
After-tax rate of return
(6 month deposits)                15.99        17.24      22.46     22.46       21.65        20.41      17.01        15.72        13.17         13.17       12.3
Sources: Bank of Portugal. Annual Report; and Ouarterlv bullet1in



Annex 4
Page 1 of 5
PORTUGAL
BFN m
Restructuring Studies for Selected Industrial Subsectors
Terms of Reference
L        INTRODUCTION
With the support of the Government of Portugal (GOP) Banco de Fomento
National (BFN) will sponsor a series of strategy (sub)sector studies with the
purpose to develop the framework for (sub)sector restructuring programs to
improve efficiency, competitiveness and export potential of selected
itdustrial (sub)sectors. The work to be carried out under these TORs is
expected to build on existing material already available, supplementing it as
appropriate with additional research required to prepare comprehensive
subsector strategies. It is recommended to use local consultants for
gathering of enterprise information and other specific tasks as may be
necessary.
H.   OBJECTIVES OF THE RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
The objectives of the restructuring program include the development
of:
1. A subsector strategy to indicate general directions for the
development of selected industrial (sub)sectors in Portugal,
particularly to increase its competitiveness and export
potential; and to assess the potential impact of trade
liberalization through EEC and other Govenrment initiatives in
this direction.
2. To develop a restructuring program with the participation and
support of private sector enterprises, consistent with an
overall subsector strategy, which may ultimately result in
funding for private enterprise restructuring.
m.       ANALYSIS TO BE PERFORMED
1. Historical development of (sub)sectors concerned.
2. Current status of the subsector with regard to:
(i) Capacity, production and exports by segments of production
(in case of agro-industry, e.g., fruits and vegetables,
flowers, beverages -- alcoholic products -- such as beer,
wine ana spirits, proqessed foods, etc.);
(ii) Technology employed at various stages of production;



-40-                     Annex 4
Page 2 of 5
(iii) Availability of manpower, including skilled, technical and
management personnel and unskilled workers and related employment
and wage policies;
(iv) Sectoral (e.g., private and mixed sector) and geographical
distribution of plants and capacities;
(v) Financial structure of the industry (reflected in financial ratios
such as debt/equity, debt service coverage, etc.), sources of
investment and working capital finance;
(vi) Marketing and distribution arrangements and p-actices (direct
sales, sales representations, cooperative marketing, agencies,
international trading companies, etc.);
(vii) Institutional and policy framework including pricing, investment
incentives, taxation, etc.
3. Analysis of existing and potential availability of raw materials and
other inputs such as energy and their related costs for each of the
sector segments.
4. Analysis of existing domestic demand by market segments for different
products, projections for future demand taking into account
developments in: (i) consumer preferences; (ii) income elasticity of
demand for various product segments; and (iii) preference in
distribution channels.
5. Analysis of trends in key international markets, such as the EEC and
Eastern Block countries, as well as developoing country competitors
such as Turkey and other EEC-associated countries:
(i) Projected demand by product-group/segment baed on expected growth
rates;
(ii) Nature of competition in each segment and sources of competitive
advantage (importance of price, quality, packaging, impact of
technology and changing factor costs, etc.);
(iii) Change in trade policies (preferential market access, import
tariffs, quantitative restrictions, other non-tariff barriers such
as ensured quality standards, etc.).
6. Portugal's competitive position in terms of:
(i) Manufacturing costs by processing stages (present cost structure,
comparative advantage). This analysis should include labor costs
and assess the impact of existing legal labor agreements on the
industry's competitiveness.
(ii) Availability of required skills;



-41 -
Annex 4
Page 3 of 5
(iii) Market share in key export markets by product;
(iv) Reputation with buyers and distribution channels;
(v) Response time.
7. Scale requirements and choice of appropriate technology needed to
compete effectively in domestic and international markets by product
segment.
8.  Coroorate strategies followed by Portuguese firms who have
successfully competed:
(i) In domestic and international markets;
(ii) As high-volume producers and as small-scale producers;
(iii) As marketing companies and as contract manufacturers.
9.  Evaluation of outcomes under different strategies.  Economic outcomes
in terms of value-added, employment, exports, etc., should be
evaluated for different choices of segment and market strategies and
industry structure (comparison of alternative production and
distribution costs, sales volumes and price elasticities).
10.  How markets for intermediate and final products operate.  (In the
case of textile sector, e.g., how yarn, unfinished and finished
textiles and garments are traded and distributed.)
11.  Analyxint effects of policy environment on the subsector's
structure. In order to recommend the policies needed to induce these
structural changes, the relationship between policies and industry
should be studied.
12.  Evaluating effectiveness of existing skill-building efforts.  The
effectiveness of current institutions for training needs to be
evaluated.
13.  Identifying specific and aggregate requirements of private industry
- physical, managerial and financial restructuring - to respond to
identified stratregies and policies.
14.  Preposition of an environmental impact statement addressing existing
situation and proposed mitigative measures in compliance with
environmental protection laws and regulations.



- 42 -                      Annex 4
Page 4 of 5
IV. EXPECTED END-PRODUCTS TOWARDS RECOMMENDATION OF A
RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
1. A product and Market Strategy for the subsector, i.e., determination
of:
(i) Which product segment is attractive? For example, is it
appropriate for the industry to develop all segments or should
some product groups (such as vegetables, flowers, food processing
in case of agro-industry) take precedence over other subsector
segments? These opetions need to be tested, and attractive
product areas for Portuguese industrial (sub)sectors should be
identified, in the light of market trends, trade agreements,
non-tariff trade barriers and Portugal's competitive position and
prospects.
(ii)  Which markets are attractive?  If comparative advantage is
present, domestic industry should meet most domestic market needs,
increase penetration of the EEC market and enter new markets to be
determined. Relative attractiveness and feasibility of these
market goals should be evaluated and made specific, in order to
gain a clearer understanding of the industry's future prospects.
2. Description of an appropriate industry structure, taking into account
considerations of international competitiveness and long-term
viability, in terms of:
gi)  Degree of vertical integration:  Policies appear to have favored
development of osegmented industrial sectors with limited vertical
enterprise integration;
(ii)  Number of competitors and size of enterprises at each level or
segment of the industry: for example, it can be assumed that
certain economies of scale are necessary to create viable
industrial--with regard to their respective
(sub)sectors--companies which can compete successfully in world
markets;
(iii) Impact on government policies and credit policies of financial
institutions. It may be found, for example, that a fragmented
industry in certain segments is more cost competitive and better
able to respond quickly to technological changes. The role of
joint venture companies may be of vital importance.
(iv)  Marketing and distribution.  The effectiveness of present
arrangements for distributing and exporting intermediate or final
products on an independent basis versus cooperative export
promotion. Comparison of sales margins for alternative
distribution channels;



Annex 4
Page 5 of 5
(v) The potential for cooperation between companies such as
cooperative export ventures, setting up distribution oprations
overseas and opportunities for specialization and possible
diversification of product-mix.
3.   Determination of key resources required by industrial (sub)sector
such as:
(i) Overall investment and physical and financial restructuring needs
of the industry;
(ii)  Capital formation and allocation in the public and private sectors;
(iii)  Skills requirements such as general business management,
procurement, production, marketing and distribution.
4.   List of changes in government policies needed to support appropriate
changes in industry structure and private sector strategies.
Moreover, effects of existing labor regulations and investment
incentives should be assessed and necessary changes to make
industrial (sub)sectors more competitive should be noted.
5.   A private sector program stating major bottlenecks to be removed,
major restructuring operations to be undertaken and an action program
to stimulate changes, where needed, toward an appropriate industry
structure.



- 44 -
Annex 5-1
Page 1
PORTUGAL
BFN m
Organization of Institutional SuDpot for
nplDementation of Industrial Subsector Studies
BFN
SENIOR
MANAGEMENT
IMPLEMENTATION
SECRETARIAT
WORK GROUPJ                         WORK GROUP
IMPLEMENTATION -SECRETARIAT: This would be headed by a senior
management staff person from BFN's Economics Department and contain at least
one experienced project officer for each Work Group. Responsibilities here
concern the processes of selecting subsectors and selecting and contracting
the consultants as well as general liason and coordination of the entire
task. Details of these are appended (Appendix 1).
WORK GROUPS:  One would be formed for each subsector to be studied.  Each
group would consist of three to five persons, including senior representatives
of BFN (the Economics Department), the MIE (Studies and Planning Department
and Industry Department), other government ministries or agencies as needed
and also influential representatives of the relevant industry associations.
All members would be from the ranks of experienced management personnel in
their respective institutions and have strong backgrounds in business or
economics, management and industry. To permit the Work Groups to be effective
in their oversight role, any overlap of members among groups would be
minimal. Details of the roles and responsibilities for each Work Group are
appended (Appendix 2).



- 45 -
Annex 5-2
Page 1
Implementation Secretariat: Role and Responsibilities
1.       General Responsibilities
-Liaison on restructuring studies between BFN management and
subsector Work Groups;        I
-Coordination of activities between BFN management, the Work Groups,
the consultants and World Bank staff; for example, establish key
appointments and meeting dates, distribute copies of terms of
reference and reports, attend and record the minutes of all key
meetings, etc.;
-Preparation and dissemination of all documentation to concerned
parties, including BFN management and/or Working Groups, Government
agencies, industry associaticns, World Bank staff, etc., such as
agendas, minutes of meetings, findings and recommendations of BFN
management or Working Groups, Notes of Record, etc.;
- Provision and '-ordination of support within Portugal for
consultants, . ing both the initiation and implementation phases
of the work.
2.       SpecUie ResponDsbilities
- Prepare the basis for and initiate the subsector selection process
(start list of potential subsectors)
-Prepare and issue terms of reference (TORs) and invitations to bid
to the consultant firms.
-Receive and distribute consultant proposals and technical bids;
-Receive and hold the financial bids, until technical bid
evaluations are completed and recommendations on technical grounds
are made by the Subsector Working Groups. Thereafter, the
Secretariat will arrange for opening of the financial bids, carry
out finalization of ranking of overall bids according to a
predetermined system and lead negotiations of contracts with the
selected consultant firms;
- Obtain acceptance by BFN management and the World Bank of the
negotiated consultant contracts prior to these being signed;



- 46 -
Annex 5-2
Page 2
- Finalize all arrangements for financing the contract8 and drawing
down and disbursing payments to consultants.
- Establish meetings, dates and times for progress and development
reviews of the consultant's work, as set forth in the invitations
to bid and the TORs;
- Assist in the provision of working permits for consultants and
other business matters, as needed to facilitate timely and
effective execution of the project.
- Transmit as appropriate comments from the BFN management, the Work
Groups and World Bank staff to the consultants concerning the
direction, progress and quality of the work;
- Liase with the World Bank project team as to the status and
progress of the various steps as outlined above;
- Obtain BFN Senior Managemente and World Bank's acceptance or
clearance, as appropriate, for various documents, proposed actions
and or processes when and as needed and in a timely manner;
- Obtain acceptance by BFN management, the Working Groups and World
Bank staff of the consultant's draft final reports;



- 47 -
Annex 5-3
Page 1
Subsector Work Groups: Role and ResPR%ibi_Ities
1.  ~ Objectives
-Guide implementation of subsector studies and ensure that subsector
res:ructuring proposals are responsive to the specifically
identified need and shortcomings of the Portuguese industry, so as
to increase its competitiveness and export potential;
-Ensure submitted consultant studies contain adequate and
appropriate subsector policy recommendations;
-Ensure the formation of strategically appropriate restructuring
programs and specific investments and business strategies for the
subsectors concerned.
2.       Role and ResponsibihLties
-Carry out the technical evaluation of the proposals of the various
consulting firms as submitted, in accordance with the criteria set
out in the invitations to bid and terms of reference for each
subsector study;
-Based on a technical evaluation, recommend the acceptance of a
specific consultant proposal for each study to senior management of
BFn;
- Meet with concerned industry representatives, trade associations,
enterprises, etc., to obtain support and commitment for the
implementation of studies;
- Monitor progress of the studies via regular review meetings, as
defined in invitations to bid and terms of reference;
-Provide timely feedback to the consultants on the findings of the
review meetings;
-Prepare summaries of Work Group findings, to inform the management
of EFN and other concerned parties (industry and World Bank Staff)
on progress of studies;
-Review and comment on draft reports, in order to ensure that
recommendations and findings of the consultants focus explicitly on
feasible subsector restructuring programs and provide the basis for
the development of viable individual enterprise restructuring
investments and long-term business strategies:



QRUGALL
Imulementation Schedule for Industrtal Subsector Restructurtin  Studies
Primary/Sec.            Tarset/Completion
KeY Steps                                                  Ressonsibilitv 1/            Dates
1. Agreement on priority list of subsectors to be reviewed                      MOZ/BFN/WB                    May 16
2. Agreement on hiring concept of management consultants
(international consultant firms in cooperation with
local subcontracted firms)                                                   MOI/8FN/WB                    "ay 16
3. Agreement on consultant selection criteria and process
(short list, two envelope ,pproach, criteria for "tech-
nical* evaluation, selection of most competent bidder
irrespective of price, timeframe for bid-award, compo-
sition of evaluation team).                                                  MDI/BFN/WB                    May 16
4. Preparation of the following draft documents: (i) In-
vitation to bid (including evaluation criteria). (ii)
Terms of Reference. (tii) Consultant Contract.                                 W8/BFN                      May 22
5. BFN forms a full time task force to coordinate imple-
mentation of subsector studies with other Government
agencies with World Bank team.                                                  BFN                        May 29
6. Finalization and issue of bidding documents 2/.                              BFN/t01                       June S
7. Informal and optional discussions of TOR with consult-
ing firms interested to bid.                                                   8FN/WB                      June 11-17
S. Formation of sectoral Work Group (participation of
other government agencies concerned and private sector
enterprise representatives).                                                     8FN                       June 30
9. Preparation and submission of consultant's proposals.                            CONS                      July 13
10. Presentation of consultant proposals to evaluation team.                     CONS/BFM                      July 20-23
lt. Bid evaluation.                                                              BFN/WG/IB                     July 7
llA. Communication of bid awards                                                  BFN/WGIWB                     July 31
12. Negotiations of Consultant Contracts                                             BFN                       Oct. 6-17
13. Inform all agencies concerned, producer associations
and public and private enterprises about the planned
studies and request full cooperation with selected con-
sultants.                                                                     MOI/BFN                      Oct. 3
14, Beginning of consultant's field work.                                            CONS                      Nov. 16'
IS. First Progress Review meeting.                                                 CONS/WG                     Jan. 4
16. Second Progress Review meeting.                                                CONS/WG                     Mar. 21
17. Issue and review of draft reports.                                               CONS                      April 29
* Actual Date about 1 month following Boari approval of the Loan.
lJ Key: MOX:    Ministry of Industry
urn:   Baneo de Fomento Nacional
IW:    World Dank
CONS:   Consultants
WG:   Work Groups
2J  Dates for steps 6 through la r:fer to the first (ceramics) subsector study.  Second (wood furniture)
subsector study (from step 12 onwards) to begin one month after completion of step 17 of first study.



IEUII tI
SBF's Credit , araUas
1982              198                       1984                1985                     1986
Esc        t       Est.                     Esc.               Esc.         SEsc.g
mill    mill       mill    mill             Mill      mill      mill      mill           mill      mill
APPLICATIONS
Loans                               65,392   727        76,084   573             95,552    564       94,407      598          106,163    710
APPROVALS
Loans                                38,116   423       45,23S   340             55,237    326      61,629       390           78,017    522
CoUIIThENTS                          263.38   Zfl       ML408 !                  35,911               S 4.294    34_               -       -
Investment loans                    21,508   239        35,970    271            30,947    183        29,851    189            34,046    233
Export Credit loans                   2,273    25        S.S10      41            1,570       9        6,924      44            3,200      22
Financial investments                   803     9           85       1              340       2        8,818      56                -       -
Guarantees                            1,774    20        2,843      21            3,054      18        5,643      36            7,412      S1
Renewable short term                     -     -            -       -                                  3,058      19           15.370    lOS
DISBURSEMENTS                        31.844             41.99S    l6             3S.4S9 l             54.280    l                  -I
Investment loans                     25,751   286       36,425    274            28,861    170        32,148    204            29.175    19S
Export Credit loans                   3,516    39        2,642      20            3,204      19        4,525      29            4,156      28
Financial investments                   803     9           as       1              340       2        8,818      56            3,502      23
Guarantees                            1,774    20        2.843      21            3,054      18        S,643      36            2,383      16
Renewable short ternm                    -     -                         -       -                     3,146      20           16,124    108
BALANCES
Investments                      141,983 1,577          179,373  1,350       205,095  1,210       220,572   1,397             223,248  1,528
Guarantee operations                  4,837    54        6,459      48            8,SS5      S0       8,779       56                -       -
Financing in course                 11,986   133        14,209    107             8,154      48       6,175       39           15,048    103
It
34



-u 50 -Annex 7-2
PORTUGAL
BFN HI
BFN Disbursements by Category 1982-1986
(Including Financial investments excluding guarantees)
(millions of Escudos)
1982     1983      1984    1985    1986
AGRICULTURE                          323       123        73      93      115
FISHING                               52        14      109      124      170
MINING AND QUARRYING                 153       395      150       89      185
MANUFACTURING                     14,716   14,766   19,046  20,415  32,352
Food & beverage                    939    1,564       953   1,469   2,729
Texts, clothing, footware        1,027       503    1,486   1,660   2,846
Timber, cork, furniture            354       551      958      858   1,291
Pulp, paper, printing            1,734    3,059    4,250   1,577   3,206
Rubber, chems, petro             3,397    2,919    3,996   2,687  10,498
Non-metallic minerals            1,093    1,261    1,878   4,263   2,035
Metallurgical, elect             3,151    2,754    3,173   3,797   5,018
Transport equipment              3,118    2,089    2,390   3,988   4,529
Sundry manufacturing                 3        67       72      116     200
BUILDING                           1,756    1,147    1,693   4,747  10s715
ELECTRICITY, WATER, GAS            7,609   16,759    6,693  10,520   9,658
TRANSPORT AND COMMS                3,777    3,736    2,538   9,250   1,935
OTHER                              1         2
TOTAL                         30,168   39,153   32,405  48,637  60,796



- 51 -                     Anne-x 7-3
PORTUGAL
BFN m
BFN Structure of Resources 1983-lIM36
(Millions of Escudos)
1983             1984              1985                1986
Amount    S      Amount      2     Amount      2      Amount =
Borrowed Funds
Deposits (a)                61,365  34.1    78,307   39.1    96,603   43.9   115,976   49.4
Bonds (b)                    5,671   3.2    10,524    5.2    13,497    6.1    16,323    7.0
Portugese State              7,100   4.0      7,276    3.6      8,128    3.7       8,266    3.5
Credit Institutions
Local (c)                 54,690  30.4    49,217   24.6    38,386   17.5    28,694   12.2
Foreign                   37,084  20.6    38,917   19.5    44*788   20.3    42,226   18.0
Other Loans                  1,135   0.6      2,759    1.4       3,973    1.8      4,555    1.9
167,045  92.9   187,000   93.4   205,375   93.3   216,040   92.0
Quasi Capital
Special Account                603   0.3        623    0.3        644    0.3         665    0.3
Surrlus Account                197   0.1        197    0.1         197    0.1        197    0.1
i5   0i.4        82'0    0.4       841    0.4         861    0.4
Capital & Reserves          11,649   6.5    12,165    6.1    13,422    6.2    13,898    5.9
Sundry Provisions              421   0.2        436    0.1        396    0.1       3,950    1.7
12,070   6.7    12,601    6.2    13,818    6.3    17,848    7.6
TOTAL                      179,915 100.0   200,421  100.0   220,034  100.0   234,749  100.0
(a) does not include deposits of credit institutions
(b) does not include bonds subscribed by credit institutions
(c) includes deposits and bonds of credit institutions



-, 52-                      Annex 7-4
PORTUGAL
BFN m
BFN Balance Sheets 1982-1986
(millions of Escudos)
1982      1983      1984       1985      1986
Assets
Cash and deposits with
central banks                   13,531     9,731    9,182    22,908    28,489
Other current assets              15,843    12,440   17,788    28,191    32,088
Short term loans                       -          -         -         -    17.219
29,374    22,171   26,970    55,883    77,796
Medium and long term loans       138,808   176,133  202,003   202,774   206,029
Provisions                       (10,152)  (13,792) (18,648)  (22,484)  (22,484)
128,656   162,341  183,355   180,290   183,545
Sundry Accounts                   10,648    25,535   33,817    30,377    12,874
Financial participations             478        478      819      1,180      1,328
Fixed assets                     _ 1,971      3,080    4,037      4,283      5,249
Total assets                     ILLZZ               20.Q 4L    272,0l3 1L28
Liabilities
Demand and short term
time deposits                   1',915    24,123   37,429    47,951    74,327
Other short term and
other liabilities                7,128     6,805    9,142    11,266    16,314
25,043    30,928   46,571   -59,217    90,641
Long term foreign
borrowings                      31,914    37,083   38,916    44,788    46,781
Long term local
borrowings/bonds/debentures   42,154    44,778   58,953    55,470    46,475
Long term deposits                37,162    42,183   48,920    59,106    41,649
113,854   138,219  143,306   150,369   130,584
Sundry Accounts                   20,347    32,657   46,785    48,551    44,244
Equity
Capital                           9,400     9,400    9,400       10,500    10,500
Reserves                          2,483    2,401    2,936         3,376     4,823
11,883   V11,801   12,336       13,876    15,323
Total liabilities and
equity                      lZLl212     2,    LQ,7



- 53 -                      Annex 7-5
PORTUGAL
BFN m
BFN Income Statements 1982-1986
(milons of Escudos)
1982      1983       1984      1985       1986
INCOME
Active operations             26,157    34,313    46,793    51,674    40,179
Bank services                      74        90        105       158        190
Other banking ops.                903     1,833      1,667       789        436
Securities etc.                   159       191        200       317      1,913
Other bank income                   3         5         11        15         22
Non-operating income                -         -          -          2         2
TOTAL INCOME                27,296    36,432    48,776    52,955    42,742
EXPENSES
Cost of passive ops.          22,544    31,355    41,803    46,331    35,785
Personnel expenses
Management and I/A's              9        10         13        20      1,409
Staff salaries                 441        597       738        902      1,409
Social security                 99        149       199        255      1,409
Other staff exps.               14         17         27        24      1,409
Office and other exps.            37         50        115       128         43
Professional services            216        276        366       455        545
Other bank expenses               37         36         48       140         91
Taxes                               1         4          3         4          8
Non-operating expenses            10         21          8        22         42
Amortizations                     67         81        235       227        255
Provisions                     3,150      3.647     5,020      4,130      3,585
TOTAL EXPENSES              26,625    36,243    48,575    52.638    41,863
OPERATING PROFIT               z}         la         Q                    au



- 54             ~         Annex 7-6
PORTUGAL
BFN m
BFN Projected Income Statements (1987-1991)
(Mfllions of Escudos)
1987      1988     1989        1990      1991
INCOME
Interest Income                39,480    36,256   32,396      31,330    30,048
Income in Suspense              3,000      5,000        0           0         0
Income from Securities
Participations s                             -        -           -
Income from Bank Services         219        248      276        304        333
Other Banking Operations          501        570      632         699       765
Other Banking Income               25         29       32          35        39
Nonoperating Income                 2          3        3           3         4
Interbank Interest                  0        389    1.453      1,593        840
Total Income                   439227    42,494   34,792      33,964    32,028
EXPENSES
Interest Expense               29,337    27,855   24,521      23,209    21,709
Interbank Interest              1,265          0        0          0          61
Commitment Fees                    32         66       28          (0)       (d)
Staff Expenses                  1,677      1,928    2,179      2,440      2,709
Office Expenses                   597        645      683        717        746
Services                          157        169      179        188        196
Other Banking Expenses            100        108      114        120        125
Taxes                               9          9       10          11        113
Nonoperating Expenses              46         50       53          55        5
Amortization                      279        302      320        336        349
Total Expenses                 33,498    31,131   28,087      27,077    25,902
INCOME BEFORE
PROVISIONS                   9,730    11,363    6,704       6,888      6,127
Provisions-sundry              (7,765)   (7,446)  (2,368)    (3,494)   (4,334)
Provisions-doubt/debts              0          0        0          0          0
Net Income                      1,965      3,917    4,336      3,394      1,793
DISTRIBUTIONS
CORPORATE TAXATION                                            _
NET INCOME AFTER                                                1?4
DISTRIBUTIONS AND TAXES



-Aimex 7-7
Page 1 of 2
PORTUGAL
BFN m
BFN Projected Balance Sheets (1987-1991)
(millions of Escudos)
1987     1988      1989      1990       1991
ASSETS
CURRENT ASSETS
Interbank (surplus)                    0    9,004   13,345    11,168       4,110
Deposits BOP                      19,868   14,759    9,666      7,430      8,051
Deposits Local Institution            76       83        89         94        99
Deposits Abroad                    1,303    1,420    1,519      1,611      1,691
Cash                                 360      393       420       445        468
21,608   25,659   25,040    20,748    14,419
Short Term Loans                  17,219   18,941   20,835    22,918    25,210
Current Mats. + Arrears          67,898   62,351   64,402    66,843    69,558
Less; Doubtful Accts.            (22,484) (22,484) (22,484)  (22,484)  (22,484)
62,633   58,808   62,753    67,277    72,284
A,cured Interest                   9,870    9,064    8,099      7,832      7,512
Other Accts. Receivable            7,432    8,026    8,508      8,933      9,291
Others                            6.142    6,633    7,031       7,383      7.678
86,076   82,531   86,391    91,425    96,765
101,684  108,190  111,431   112,173   111,184
INVESTMENTS
E(fective Loans                 203,747  205,994  219,046   234,577   251,858
Current Mats. + Arrears          (67,898) (62,351) (64,402)  (66,843)  (69,558)
135,849  143,643  154,644   167,734   182,299
Withdrawal Notices                   423      453       475       494        509
Shares and Bonds                 13,642   13,642   13,642    13,642    13,642
Treasury Bills                    2,501    2,501    2,501       2,501      2,501
Other bills                            0        0         0         0          0
Local Credit Institutions        11,996   11,996   11,996    11,996    11,996
Committed Funds                   8,236    8,236    8,236       8,236      8,236
172,648  180,471  191,495   204,604   219,184
FIXED ASSETS
Financial Participations          1,481    1,680    1,680       1,680      1,680
Building & Equipment              5,616    6,010    6,430       6,880      7,362
7,097    7,690    8,110      8,560      9,042
TOTAL ASSETS                   28742                         i    I 322U2



- 56 -                      Annex 7-7
Page 2 of 2
PORTUGAL
BFN m
BFN Projected Balance Sheets (1987-1991)
(millions of Escudos)
1987       1988      1989       1990       1991
LIABILITIES
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Short Term Deposits          82,929      92,325   101,809   110,656   119,305
Interbank Market              3,823          0          0          0         0
Current Portion of
Medium Term Borrowers    25,550       16,040    13,297    14,804    16,897
Creditors                     3,593       3,880     4,113     4,319      4,491
Accrued Interest              7,334       6,964     6,130      5,802     5,427
Other Accounts Payable        4,738       5,117     5,424      5,695     5,923
127,968    124,326   130,773   141,276   152,044
TIME DEPOSITS                41,881     42,149    42,456    42,809    43,216
MEDIUM TERM LOANS            80,662      77,086    75,569    73,633    72,497
Less; Current Portion       (25,550)   (16,040)  (13,297)  (14,804)  (16,897)
55,112     61,046    62,272    58,829    55,600
COMMITED FUNDS                8,236      8,236      8,236     8,236      8,236
INTEREST IN SUSPENSE         22,359     17,359    17,359    17,359    17,359
SUNDRY PROVISIONS            11,675     19,121    21,489    24,983    29,317
EQUITY
Capital                    10,500     10,500    10,500    10,500    10,500
Reserves                    4,733      6,698    10,615    14,951    18,345
Profit                      1,965      3,917      4,336     3,394      1,793
Participation
Certificates              3,000      3,000      3,000     3,000      3,000
20,198     24,115    28,451    31,845    33,637
TOTAL LIABILITIES           87a42    29S31 M                2



- 57 -An     8
Annez. 8
PORTUGAL
BFN m
Project Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
Total
Year                                            Semi Annual    Cumulative         2
1988         1st Half                              0.6             0.6             1
2nd Half                              2.4             3.0             5
1989         1st Half                              3.0             6.0            10
2nd Half                              4.2            10.2            17
1990        s1t Half                               5.4            15.2            26
2nd Half                              6.0            21.6            36
1991        s1t Half                               6.6            28.2            47
2nd Half                              7.8            36.0           60
1992         1st Half                              6.6            42.6            71
2nd Half                              6.6            49.2           82
1993         1st Half                              5.0            54.2         90.3
2nd Half                              3.8            58.0         96.7
1994         1st Half                              1.5            59.5         99.2
2nd Half                              0.5            60.0           100



-58 -                       Annex 9
Paae 1 of 2
Portuzal
BFN m
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Proiect File
A. SECTOR AND SUBSECTOR MATERIAL
A-1    Portugal's Industrial Structure.
Confederation of Portuguese Industry.  March 1985 - Doc. # H04661
A-2    Facts about Portuguese Industry.  Ministry of Industry and Commerce
(MIC)
(i)  April 1985 &nd (ii) December 1986 - Doc. # H04662
A-3    Statistics on Industrial Activity.  MIC, 1982 - Doc. # 1104663
A-4    Indices of Industrial Production 1979-1985
Instituto Nacional de Estatistica - Doc. # H04664
A-5    Program Especifico De Desenvolvimento Da Industria Portuguesa 1986-1992
M.IIC Feveiro 1986 - Doc. # H04665
A-6    Program for Structural Correction of the External Deficit and
Unemployment. 2nd Draft Ministry of Finance. December 1986
- Doc. #H04666
A-7    Sintese de Legislacao do Trabalho (Summary of Labor Legislation)
- Doc. #H04667
A-8    Sistema Fisca Portuguese (Portuguese Fiscal System) - Doc. # H044668
A-9    Portugal - Industrial Statistics 1973-1982.  IBRD Data Bank
- Doc. # B044669
A-10   Taxes in Portugal - Portuguese Industrial Association Newsletter 3/85
- Doc. # H04670
A-11   Summary of Terms of Agreement with EC.  "Grande Repertagem"
April 14-11, 1985 - Doc. # H04671
A-12   System of Incentives on a Regional Basis (DL 283-A/86 & Order 495-A/86)
BFN, 1986 - Doc. # H04672
A-13   Portuguese Banking System - Financial Statements 1981-85 - Doc. # H04673
A-14   BFN Incentivos Fiscais ao Investimento
(Fiscal Investment Incentives - a BFN bulletin, including text of
DL 197-C-/86-CFI) - Doc. # H04699
EL SELECTED REPORTS AND STUDIES
B-1    Structural Transformation of Processing Industry in Portugal (draft).
MIC May 1984 - Doc. # H04674
5-2    Portugal Manufacturing Industry:  Multi-Criterion Ranking of Sectors.
MIC, Jan. 1987 - Doc. 004675
5-3    Aids and Incentives to SMI Undertakings in Portugal.  Confederation of
Portuguese Industries - Doc. H04676
NOTE: Document Numbers - refer to EMENA Files Filing/Retrieval System.



- 59 -                Annex 9
Page 2 of 2
B.     SELECTED REPORTS AND STUDIES (continued)
B-4    Comparison Chart of Investment Conditions.  Foreign investment
Institute. Nov. 1986 - Doc. H04677
B-5    Investimento Estrangeiro (Summary of Foreign Investment Conditions)
- Doc. # H04697
B-6    Foreign Investment Legislation.  Foreign Investment Institute.
April 1987 - Doc. # H04678
B-8    Estudo Da Industria Ceramica 4 vols. SOGE-AUDI - Doc. # H04679
B-9    BFN List of Sectors identified as in need of Restructuring,
Offensive-Defensive,  BFN, 1986 - Doc. H04680
B-10   BFN Subsector/Industry Reviews - Doc. # H04681
(i)   Tomato Industry
(ii) Automative Components Industry
(iii) Mechanical and Electrical Industries
(iv) White Clay Ceramics
C. BFN RELATED MATERIAL
C-1    BFN Statutes.  August1982 - Doc. # H04682
C-2    Management of Public Credit Institutions.  Decree Law No. 729-Fl75.
Dec. 22, 1976 - Doc. H04683
C-3    BFN Training and Development Program.  1986-87 - Doc. # H04684
C-4    BFN Gamas de Produtos e Servicos (Actuais e Futuros) (Handbook of BFN's
Products and Services). Oct. 31, 1986 - Doc. # H04685
c-5    BFN the Creation of a Marketing Organization - Report and
Recommendations. P.A. Consultants. Jan. 23, 1986 - Doc. # H04686
C-6    BFN/EIB V Loan Appraisal Report.  Oct. 16, 1986 - Doc. # H04687
C-7    BFN Functions and Structure of the Investment Department.
Feb. 13, 1985 - Doc. # H04688
C-8    BFN Investment Department - Summary of Long-Term Loan Appraisal
Requirements. May, 1987 - Doc. # B04689
C-9    BFN Investment Department - Investment Appraisal Report, Format and
Content. May 1987 - Doc. H f04690
C-10   BFN Credit Control and Follow-up Department - Arrears Situation and
Work Program. 1985-1987 - Doc. $ H04691
C-Il   Portugal Banking and Finance, Financial Times.  March 12, 1987
- Doc. # 104692
C-12   0 Credito Em Portugal (Credit in Portugal) - Doc. # H04693
C-13   Official Chart of Accounts - Doc. # H04694
I



*tH eA
-~~~~  I  g 45



MANA CK, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~MRAD   0 OR 
flGUWTA XA JAG
'4< VA                                                                        !
s iX < ( Z~~~~~~~R
t- R~OPMS 
FILe} A Do 5FOr._
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T                                       L    B R A N CO   S



Main Higway Systm    ~ Io Ce~                                 BEJMar Ftota
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                           Th. g* 
'4 D .':~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~**9 - * 
do Sol                            s(Vidiro                       _ *              9|
PORTUGAL                                                                           M  h>>  \D
THIRD  HIGHWAY PROJECT S                                              AtJ.
Main Highway System          do5r. de F.cald.
W~~                          0X  10   0                                                          r0                 I
-FOUR LANiE NttAY        _ 
_____ -F-Ft   LANE HKK-AY     .  /                       I                                               -          -
;0     10   _O       30 e 
TWO LANE PRIMAtRY H   K    PM"AY                                    '. ra_te !
--TWO LANE SECONDAFtY HtH8WAY      =                                ~       (        '?          ;-                          FAC
FW   HIGHWAY P-ROJECT.    ,      O        .   .1_ 
HI4HWAYS t^4ROVED ;/.t*   sdw     
*-----NEW MWGHWAYSJ' \ )<_
SECN tElGltAY tPROlEMt  ) \lZ2 }gj 
--  -HtGHAYS IUPAOVED,                                              
THIR ItlGWAY PROJECT-   ,-                                                                                            Madrt )   X
MAIN 8YPASSES H       }9Mdl
$  MAIN PORTPS                                           _    _                 Cost M   i              < 
Z       *      -*  tqlERATIONAL SOUNDARY gV3-f>;  
m  i olo 0  JoTioLso   S P A I N
<                           V1 do Biwa                                                                         _        '                --S
_ ~    ~~                   ~ ~~~~ .  10    20      30                                                   ..
|} _   .   .. .                  ..                        _.   .. _                            9 6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tbrait*r Ult_



