Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15236
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PORTUGAL
THIRD INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2903-PO)
December 29, 1995
Industry, Trade and Finance Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.SA
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 29. 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Note on Portugal - Third Industrial Development Project
(Loan 2903-PO)
Attached is the Project Completion Note (PCN) on the Portugal Third Industrial Development
project (Ln. 2903-PO, approved in FY88). prepared by the Europe and Central Asia Regional Office, with
Part II contributed by the Borrower.
The project's goal was to enhance Portugal's industrial competitiveness following entry into the
European Community in 1986. Its specific objectives were to: (a) support industrial restructuring; (b)
promote a more market-oriented approach by mixed and private enterprises; (c) expand the capacity of the
state-owned development bank. Banco de Fomento Nacional (BFN), to rehabilitate industrial enterprises;
and (d) strengthen BFN's management and operations. Like its two predecessors, the loan provided a line
of credit for investments in mixed and private sector industries and technical assistance for BEN, as well as
funds for subsector studies.
Effectiveness was delayed 18 months by disagreements between the Government and BFN about
arrangements for taking the foreign exchange risk. Once this issue was settled. 90 percent of the loan was
disbursed within a year, and the project was fully disbursed two years ahead of schedule. The loan finnnced
about 80 subprojects, mostly for restructuring and expansion, and largely export oriented. The ex ante
financial and economic rates of return on the subprojects are satisfactory. Thle technical assistance xvas
effectively implemented. The Bank's contribution to implementation was minimal, due to internal
reorganization and staff turnover, but this did not result in any major deviations from the original project
objectives. This PCN was prepared in lieu of a PCR because of the quick disbursement, the absence of
significant implementation issues, and the fact that the project has already been audited, along with the First
and Second Banco de Fomento Nacional projects (Lns. 1432 and 1942).
The project outcome is rated as highly satisfactory, the institutional development impact as
substantial and sustainability as likely. The PCN is of satisfactory quality. The major lesson from this
project is the critical need to ensure th Borrower's commitment to key conditioniality, in this case
Government assumption of the foreign exchange risk, before Board presentationi.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bat authorization.



?%



PART I
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
PORTUGA
THIRD INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROTECT
(LOAN 2903-PO)
Project Identity
Project Name      :     Third Industrial Development Project
Loan Number              2903-PO
RVP Unit                 Europe & Central Asia
Country                 Portugal
Sector            :     Industry
Background
1.    This Project Completion Note (PCN) is for the Third Industrial Development Project
TIDP) for which a loan (Ln. 2903-PO) in the amount of US$60.0 million equivalent was made
to the Government of Portugal, with Banco de Fomento Nacionall', as the Executing Agency.
The loan was approved by the Board on January 26, 1988, signed on April 10, 1989 and made
effective on July 6, 1989. The loan was fully disbursed by June 30, 1991, three years before
the closing date of June 30, 1994.
2.    The PCN has been prepared in lieu of aProject Completion Report, because: firstly, the
loan was disbursed very fast (three years ahead of schedule) and that no significant
implementation issues were encountered; and secondly, this project was basically similar to the
first and second IDPs for which a full PCR was prepared. It is based on a review of the Staff
Appraisal Report, internal Bank memoranda, minutes of the Board discussions, supervision
reports and interview with Bank staff who were associated with the project.
3.    This project is a continuation of the first and second lines of credit that were approved
by the Bank to provide the Gove-nment of Portugal with continued support in the development
of mixed and private sector industries in Portugal and in the promotion of restructuring and
institutional development.
Objective and Description
Banco de Fomento Nacional (BFN) became a "public limited company with state
majority ownership " on December 7, 1989, and its name was changed to Banco de
Fomento e Exterior (BFE).



- 2 -
4.    The project was part of an overall effort by Portugal to improve the competitive position
of its industry during the crucial phase of transition as a member of the EC. The specific
objectives of the project were to continue supporting the Govemment's policies and programs
to restructure industry; help develop a more market-oriented approach at the enterprise-level,
encourage private investment based on strategic planning; expand capacity of Banco de Fomento
Nacional (BFN) to rehabilitate industrial enterprises; and strengthen further BFN's internal
management and operational capability, by developing an integrated Management Information
System (MIS) and by building up BFN's internal audit functions. The loan was to support
investments in the private and mixed sector industry, including industrial restructuring activities
to be identified by pilot studies of the white clay ceramics and wood furniture industries to be
undertaken by BFN. BFN's appraisals would include an assessment of the environmental impact
of the projects financed. An amount of US$5.0 million of the loan was earmarked for the
financing of the studies and the design and implementation of the MIS. Furthermore, to deal
with the lingering arrears problem, the government would maintain its policy of timely and
satisfactory settlement of outstanding public enterprise arrears to BFN, while BFN undertook
to eliminate by December 31, 1991, all arrears in principal and interest outstanding as of
December 31, 1986, in its loan portfolio, and to ensure that arrears in the future operations
would not exceed 6% of its outstanding loan portfolio.
Implementation
5.    The loan became effective 18 months after approval, following protracted discussions on
arrangements regarding the assumption of the foreign exchange risk. Specifically, while the
Guarantee Agreement provided that the Government would bear the foreign exchange risk with
the sub-borrowers paying a fee for the risk coverage, unexpectedly the Government decided to
reconsider its commitment. As the Government would not sign the Guarantee Agreement, BFN
could not sign the Loan Agreement because, in the absence of a scheme covering foreign
exchange risk, signature of the Loan Agreement and utilization of the loan proceeds not only
would have forced BFN to incur an imprudent business risk, but would also place it in violation
of the terms of the Agreement, which stipulated that BFN should protect itself against foreign
exchange risks in its operations. However, in anticipation of an early signing of the loan and
to save time, BFN kept forwarding subprojects for the Bank's review, with formal authorization
to take place when the Loan Agreement would become effective.
6.    After protracted delays, the Government finally reached a decision to assume the risk
as was originally envisaged. But in view of the unduly long delay in signing the Agreement,
BFN faced the dilemma that a considerable portion of the expenditures for many of these
subprojects that were to be financed out of the loan proceeds fell in the period prior to the date
of signature. BFN therefore requested that the amount of retroactive financing be increased
from the normal 10% to 34% of the loan to enable it to finance otherwise eligible expenditures.
In light of the progress already achieved in implementing the project (BFN had also proceeded
to implementing other aspects of the project, including the industrial sector restructuring studies
and institutional development components), and appreciating the reasonableness of BFN's
request, the Bank acceded on an exceptional basis. Once it became effective, 90% of the loan
was disbursed within a year -- well ahead of forecast levels.



-3 -
7.    The loan has financed some 80 subprojects, virtually all for restructuring/expansion and
almost 90% export-oriented, which augurs well for their competitiveness and longer term
sustainability.  The size, sectoral and regional distribution of the subprojects financed is
satisfactory, as are their ex ante financial and economic rates of return and prospective return
on equity. BFN's appraisals included an environmental impact assessment of the projects
financed. The management information system (MIS) and the automated banking operations
system were implemented. Electronic (on-line) link between the headquarters and branches as
well as the bank and clearing system has been fully established. Training of Operational staff
was carried out. The number of new jobs created is limited in view of the nature of the
subprojects. An interesting feature in most of BFN's loans is the substantial contribution of the
borrower's own funds to the project cost and consequent stake in the success of the venture.
The Bank misjudged slightly the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on the amounts committed,
which resulted in an over-commitment (US$36,000) of the loan, for which the Bank was
reimbursed later.
Findings and Lessons Learned
8.      The loan was fully committed and disbursed two years ahead of schedule. After the
initial problems with the foreign exchange risk coverage were overcome, no other
implementation issues arose. However, it must be noted that as a result of the various internal
reorganizations within the Bank, staff that were initially involved in the preparation and appraisal
of the project were repeatedly replaced by other staff who were less familiar with the project and
there has been no continuity in the supervision effort. As a result, it is difficult to trace a
complete history of the project from the scanty paper trail on project implementation, and it
appears that the Bank's involvement in project implementation, other than in the review of
subprojects, has been marginal. The main lessons to be learned from the project are, therefore,
that: (a) it is critical to ascertain the full commitment of the Borrower and the guarantor to key
conditionalities before plojects are presented to the Board; and (b) that staff continuity during
implementation is essential to ensuring Bank control over the achievement of project objectives.
Fortunately, in this case, there appear to have been no major deviations from the objectives
presented in the SAR.



-4-
PORTUGAL
THIRD INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LN. 2903-PO)
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
A.    Key Project Data
Total Project Cost  (US$ million)             143.50
Total Project Cost  (Portuguese ESc. Mill.)    18,655.00
Loan Amount       (US$ million)                60.00
B.    Staffweek Input
FY86 FY87 FY88 FY829 EX2Q EXD     I1 t1i
Identification/Preparation           31.6                           31.6
Appraisal                             3.3  10.7                     14.0
Negotiation                            -   12.3                     12.3
Supervision                            -    1.4  11.6  9.7   0.3   23.0
Others                          0.1  4-5 4.5    -   _         _     1.
Total                     0.1  39.4  28.9  11.6  9.7   0.3   90.9
C.   Mission Data
Month/Yr.  No.of Wks. No.ersons  Staffweeks
Appraisal                  05/87          3.0          4        12.0
Supervision I              05/88          1.0           1        1.0
Supervision II             08/89          1.5          2         3.0
Supervision III            01/90          3.5           1        3.0
D.   Other Project
Borrower          :      Government of Portugal
Executing Agency        Banco de Fomento Nacional (BFN)



PART II



Banco de Fomento e Exterior
GRUPO
,51BFi
THE WORLD BANK
INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORPORATION
Att. Mr. F. Batzella. ECIIT
Washinmton. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
S [CfrreCOL.,        S comunicaa 3o de                   N: Refermncia                  Data
DEPT..DIV.NO. 273.'30                                    DAC (CFE) n° 10/95            28-04-95
SUB.IECT:   Third Industrial Development Project (Ln. 2903-PO)
I)ear Sirs.
Referring to your fax transmission dated March 31, 1995 concerning the above mentioned subject
and asking us our view  on the Project Completion Note for the Third Industrial Development
Pro'ject we agree. in global terms, with the analysis made.
v  N; 5 '*  ' 'r- r    -:,-\;    \Yours sincerely,
- 1Jorg  GafvdoVideira
.;t~TE 
t3AN(C) Gt FOMfENTO E EX71FRIOR. S A                       A, C-I~ Ribelro 59- *000 LISBOA * Tetef .356 tO 71 * Faa 353 4925
(-mb,t,,ne n' 500 727 830 . C.p,tal S,c..l 8050I1000 Coroor
arcuaaa   nertoidRe,t   o rcadLbosob- a N.  .0






IMAGING
Report No:       15236
Type: PCN



