Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2903 PO
                        (Third BFN Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                     BANCO DE FOMENTO NACIONAL
                       Dated April 10, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2903 PO
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated April  10,  1989, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and BANCO DE FOMENTO
NACIONAL (the Borrower).
     WHEREAS (A) the Republic of  Portugal (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described  in  Schedule  2  to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
     (B)  by an agreement (the  Guarantee  Agreement) of even date
herewith between the  Guarantor  and  the  Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations  of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake  such  other obligations as set forth in
the Guarantee Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set  forth  in  Schedule  4  to  this Agreement (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings  therein  set  forth,  and  the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Sub-loan" means a loan made  or  proposed to be made by
the Borrower out of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan to an Investment
Enterprise for an Investment Project;
     (b)  "free-limit Sub-loan" means  a  Sub-loan, as so defined,
which qualifies as a  free-limit  Sub-loan  pursuant to the provi-
sions of paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
     (c)  "eligible   industrial   enterprise"   means:   (i)  any
enterprise operating within  the  industrial  sector and organized
under the Guarantor's Law  No.  262/86  of  September 2, 1986; and
(ii) any Nationalized Enterprise selected by agreement between the
Bank and the Borrower;
     (d)  "Nationalized Enterprise" means any enterprise operating
within the industrial sector other  than an enterprise referred to
in Section 1.02 (c) (i) of this Agreement of which the outstanding
proprietary interest is  owned  or  effectively  controlled by the
Guarantor;
     (e)  "Investment  Enterprise"  means  an  eligible industrial
enterprise to which the Borrower  proposes  to  make or has made a
Sub-loan;
     (f)  "Investment Project" means  a  specific development pro-
ject to be carried out  by  an Investment Enterprise utilizing the
proceeds of a Sub-loan;
     (g)  "Statutes" means the statutes  of the Borrower, approved
by Decree-Law No. 323/72 dated August  19, 1972, as amended to the
date of this Agreement;
     (h)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (i)  "Subsidiary Arrangements" means the arrangements for the
implementation of  Part  A  (1)  of  the  Project  to be concluded
between the Borrower and  the  Guarantor pursuant to paragraph A.6
of Schedule 8 to this Agreement; and
     (j)  "Category" means any  withdrawal  category  set forth in
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  the Loan
Agreement, an amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent to sixty
million dollars ($60,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in  accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the Bank
Page  3
shall so agree, to be made)  in  respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project, including the Invest-
ment Projects, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and  maintain  in  the  Guarantor's  Treasury  or a financial
institution acceptable to the  Bank  a special account, in dollars
on terms and conditions  satisfactory  to the Bank. Deposits into,
and  payments  out  of,  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994 or such
later date as the  Bank  shall  establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half of one percent per annum  above the Cost of Qualified Borrow-
ings for the last  Semester  ending  prior  to the commencement of
such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the  Guarantor  and the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means  the  six-month period com-
               mencing on each date  specified  in Section 2.06 of
               this Agreement,  including  the  Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the Amortization Schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project;
             Management and Operations of the Borrower
     Section 3.01. The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall  carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and  in conformity with appropriate tech-
nical, administrative  and  economic  practices,  and  conduct its
operations  and  affairs   in   accordance  with  sound  financial
standards and practices, with  qualified management and personnel,
and in accordance  with  the  Statutes,  and  provide, promptly as
needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other  resources
required for the purpose.
     Section  3.02.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions of
Section 3.01 of this  Agreement,  and  except  as the Bank and the
Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:
Page  4
     (a)  carry out Part A of  the  Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 8 to this Agreement;
     (b)  make Sub-loans under Part B of the Project in accordance
with the procedures and on  the  terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  exercise  its  rights  in  relation  to  each Investment
Project in such manner  as  to:  (i)  protect the interests of the
Bank and the Borrower; (ii) comply with its obligations under this
Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
     Section 3.03. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and  consultants' services required for Part
A of the Project and for  Investment Projects to be carried out by
Nationalized Enterprises, and to  be  financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, shall be governed  by the provisions of Schedule 6 to
this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                          Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. The  Borrower  shall:  (a)  maintain procedures
and records adequate to  monitor  and  record  the progress of the
Project and of each Investment Project (including its cost and the
benefits to be derived from it)  and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound  accounting practices the operations
and financial condition  of  the  Borrower;  and  (b) to this end,
ensure  that  an   accountant/auditor   and   an  electronic  data
processing auditor, duly qualified  and experienced, are appointed
to  and  maintained  in   its  Internal  Auditing  Department,  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Part  D  of Schedule 8 to this
Agreement.
     Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of
               this Agreement, its  accounts  and financial state-
               ments (balance  sheets,  statements  of  income and
               expenses and  related  statements)  and records and
               accounts for the  Special  Account  for each fiscal
               year  audited  in  accordance  with  sound auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank,  as  soon  as available but in
               any case not later  than  six  (6) months after the
               end of each such year, (A) certified copies of said
               financial statements for  such  year  as so audited
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing the said records, accounts and financial state-
               ments and the audit thereof  as the Bank shall from
               time to time reasonably request.
     (b)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain, in accordance  with  Section  4.01 (a) of
               this  Agreement,  records  and  accounts reflecting
               such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
Page  5
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (a) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
     Section 4.03. (a) The  Borrower  shall  maintain a policy for
the settlement and the writing-off of arrears on loans made by the
Borrower which the Bank  agrees  is in accordance with appropriate
accounting practices.
     (b)  Without  limitation  on  the  foregoing  paragraph,  the
Borrower shall: (i) carry out  a  program  for the reduction by at
least 20% each year of arrears  on  loans made by the Borrower and
outstanding as of December 31, 1986, so as to ensure that all such
arrears are settled or written-off  by December 31, 1991; and (ii)
with respect to loans not now  in arrears and those extended after
December 31, 1986, use its  best  endeavors to ensure that arrears
on such loans shall, at no time, exceed 6% of the outstanding loan
amount.
     Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Bank as shall  be  necessary to protect itself against risk
of loss resulting from  changes  in  the rates of exchange between
the currencies (including the  currency  of the Guarantor) used in
its operations.
     Section 4.05. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any  debt, if after the incurrence of
such debt the ratio of  debt  to  equity  shall be greater than 10
to 1.
     (b)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The  term  "debt"  means  any  indebtedness  of the
               Borrower maturing by its  terms  more than one year
               after the date on which it is originally incurred.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a
               loan  contract  or  agreement  or  other instrument
               providing for such debt  or for the modification of
               its terms  of  payment,  on  the  date,  and to the
               extent, the amount  of  such  debt  has become out-
               standing pursuant  to  such  contract, agreement or
               instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on
               the date the agreement providing for such guarantee
               has been entered into   but only to the extent that
               the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
        (iii)  The term "equity" means  the  sum  of the total un-
               impaired  paid-up  capital,  retained  earnings and
               reserves of  the  Borrower  not  allocated to cover
               specific liabilities.
         (iv)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Guarantor,  debt  payable  in another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
Page  6
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event  is specified, namely
that the Statutes shall  have  been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so  as  to  affect materially and adversely the
operations or  the  financial  condition  of  the  Borrower or its
ability to carry out the Project  or to perform any of its obliga-
tions under this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.O1 shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                            Termination
     Section 6.01. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Chief Executive  Officer of the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                  Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                              64145 (WUI)
     For the Borrower:
          Banco de Fomento Nacional
          Avenida Casal Ribeiro, 59
          1000 Lisboa
          Portugal
          Cable address:                  Telex:
               BANCOFOMENTO LISBOA           12381 Fobanc P
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF the  parties  hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
Page  7
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Eugenio Lari
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                        BANCO DE FOMENTO NACIONAL
                        By /s/ J. E. Pereira Bastos
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
    Category             Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Consultants'             5,000,000         100%
     services for
     Part A of
     the Project
(2)  Goods for               50,000,000         100% of foreign
     Part B of                                  expenditures,
     the Project                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost);
                                                and 50% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(3)  Consultants'             5,000,000         100%
     services for
     Part B of the
     Project
                             __________
     TOTAL                   60,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that  withdrawals,  in  an  aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $5,000,000,  may be made on account of
Page  8
payments made for expenditures before  that date but after June 1,
1987; and
     (b)  for  expenditures  under  Category  (1)  until  evidence
satisfactory to the Bank  shall  have  been  furnished to the Bank
that the Subsidiary Arrangements have  been executed on behalf of,
and are legally binding upon, the Borrower and the Guarantor.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of  the  Project  are  to  strengthen the Bor-
rower's management and operations and  to assist in financing such
productive facilities and resources in the Republic of Portugal as
will contribute to  the  economic  and  social  development of the
country.
     The Project consists of the  following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank  and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
1.   The carrying out of (a)  a  study  of the white clay ceramics
industrial subsector,  and  (b)  a  study  of  the  wood  and wood
furniture or  such  other  industrial  subsector  as  the Bank may
agree, all to  develop  suitable  strategies for the restructuring
and improvement of  the  management  and operations of enterprises
operating therein.
2.   The carrying out  of  a  program,  based  on  the results and
recommendations of the studies provided  under Part A.1 hereof, to
(a) strengthen staff  capabilities  in  identifying and appraising
enterprise restructuring programs through the provision of on-the-
job training,  and  (b)  provide  advice  to  specific enterprises
operating  within  the    industrial  subsectors  referred  to  in
Part A.1. hereof on the design of restructuring programs.
3.   The carrying out of a  study to develop an integrated manage-
ment information system and  an  appropriate internal audit system
and  based  on  the   results  and  recommendations  thereof,  the
development and application  of  a  suitable financial information
system.
4.   The strengthening of the staff  of the Internal Audit Depart-
ment.
Part B:
     The financing, through the provision of loans, including Sub-
loans, to eligible industrial enterprises, of specific development
projects, including those  for  the  carrying out of restructuring
programs designed under Part A (2) (b) hereof.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
     beginning September 1, 1991
     through   March 1, 2003                      $2,500,000
Page  9
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalent deter-
     mined as of the  respective  dates of withdrawal. See General
     Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
     Premiums on Prepayment
     The following premiums are specified for the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
     Time of Prepayment                         Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than 3 years                              0.20
     before maturity
More than 3 years but                              0.40
     not more than 6 years
     before maturity
More than 6 years but                              0.73
not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                         0.87
     more than 13 years
     before maturity
More than 13 years before                          1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
              Modifications of the General Conditions
     For the purposes  of  this  Agreement,  the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:
     (1)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     (2)  The words "the Bank may,  by  notice to the Borrower and
the Guarantor, terminate the right  of  the Borrower to make with-
drawals with respect  to  such  amount.  Upon  the  giving of such
notice, such amount of the  Loan  shall be cancelled" set forth at
the end of Section 6.03  are  deleted and the following is substi-
tuted therefor:
               "or (f) by the date specified in subparagraph 3 (c)
          of Schedule 5 to the  Loan Agreement, the Bank shall, in
          respect of any portion  of  Portion  B  of the Loan; (i)
          have  received   no   applications   or  requests  under
          subparagraphs (a) or (b) of said paragraph; or (ii) have
          denied any such applications  or requests. The Bank may,
          by notice to the  Borrower  and the Guarantor, terminate
          the right of the Borrower to submit such applications or
          requests or to make  withdrawals  from the Loan Account,
          as the case  may  be,  with  respect  to  such amount or
          portion of the  Loan.  Upon  the  giving of such notice,
          such amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."
                            SCHEDULE 5
              Procedures for and Terms and Conditions
                           of Sub-loans
Page  10
     The provisions of this Schedule  shall apply for the purposes
of Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement.
1.   Sub-loans shall be  made  on  the  following terms and condi-
tions:
     (a)  The principal  amount  of  each  Sub-loan  shall  be the
equivalent in the currency of  the Guarantor (determined as of the
date or respective dates  of  withdrawal  from the Loan Account or
payment out of the Special  Account)  of the value of the currency
or currencies so withdrawn or paid  out  on account of the cost of
the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated
from time to time  to  Categories  (2) and (3); provided, however,
that the principal amount  of  the  Sub-loan or Sub-loans made for
any one Investment  Project  shall  not  exceed  the equivalent of
$7,000,000.
     (b)  Sub-loans shall each: (i)  have  a  maturity of not more
than 12 years, inclusive  of  a  grace  period  of not more than 2
years; and (ii) be made  on  other terms, including those relating
to interest and other  charges,  which  are in accordance with the
Borrower's  applicable  policies  and  practices  pursuant  to the
Statutes; provided, however, that the  interest rate to be charged
on the principal  amount  thereof  withdrawn  and outstanding from
time to time shall be positive in real terms and be equal at least
to (A) the interest rate applicable  from time to time to the Loan
pursuant to Section 2.05 of this Agreement, and (B) any additional
charge, to be paid on the Sub-loan to the Guarantor, calculated on
the basis of  guidelines  satisfactory  to  the  Bank, designed to
cover the foreign exchange risk  on the Sub-Loan. For the purposes
hereof, the interest rates  shall  be  considered positive in real
terms if such rates are higher than the rate of domestic inflation
of  the  Guarantor  as  indicated  in  the  Consumer  Price  Index
published  by  the  National   Institute   of  Statistics  of  the
Guarantor.
     (c)  Sub-loans shall  be  made  only  for Investment Projects
which are technically  feasible  and  designed  in accordance with
appropriate   safety,   health    and   environmental   standards,
satisfactory to the Bank, and which  are each calculated to have a
financial rate of  return  equal  at  least  to  the  real rate of
interest applicable to  the  Sub-loan  under which such Investment
Project is to be carried out  on the date upon which such Sub-loan
is to be made, and an economic rate of return of at least 12%, all
as shall be established on the  basis of appraisals carried out in
accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   No  expenditures  for  goods  or  services  required  for  an
Investment Project shall  be  eligible  for  financing  out of the
proceeds of the Loan unless:
     (a)  the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
approved by the Bank  and  such  expenditures shall have been made
not earlier than ninety days prior  to  the date on which the Bank
shall have received the application and information required under
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule in respect of such Sub-loan; or
     (b)  the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
a free-limit Sub-loan  for  which  the  Bank  has authorized with-
drawals from the  Loan  Account  and  such expenditures shall have
been made not earlier than ninety  days prior to the date on which
the Bank shall have received  the request and information required
under paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule  in respect of such free-
limit Sub-loan. For the  purposes  of this Agreement, a free-limit
Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan (other  than: (i) the first five Sub-
loans for  the  carrying  out  of  restructuring programs designed
under Part  A  (2)  (b)  of  the  Project;  and  (ii) Sub-Loans to
Nationalized Enterprises) for an  Investment  Project in an amount
to be financed out of  the  proceeds  of  the Loan which shall not
exceed the sum of $2,500,000  equivalent,  when added to any other
outstanding amounts financed or proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan or  of  any  other  loan, provided for in any
Page  11
outstanding loan  agreement  between  the  Bank  and  the Borrower
entered into before the  date  of  this Agreement, the proceeds of
which have been or are being used for financing goods and services
directly and materially related to such Investment Project.
3.   (a)  When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-
loan) to the Bank for approval,  the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank an application, in  form  satisfactory  to the Bank, together
with  (i)  a  description  of  the  Investment  Enterprise  and an
appraisal of the  Investment  Project,  including a description of
the expenditures proposed to  be  financed  out of the proceeds of
the Loan; (ii) the proposed  terms and conditions of the Sub-loan,
including the schedule  of  amortization  therefor; and (iii) such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
     (b)  Each request by the  Borrower  for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account  in respect of a free-limit Sub-
loan shall contain  (i)  a  summary  description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment  Project, including a description of
the expenditures proposed to  be  financed  out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and  (ii)  the  terms  and  conditions  of the Sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization therefor.
     (c)  Applications and requests  made  pursuant  to the provi-
sions of sub-paragraphs (a)  and  (b)  of  this paragraph shall be
presented to the Bank on or before June 30, 1991.
4.   Sub-loans shall be made  on  terms whereby the Borrower shall
obtain, by written contract  with  the Investment Enterprise or by
other appropriate  legal  means,  rights  adequate  to protect the
interests of the Bank and the Borrower, including the right to:
     (a)  require  the  Investment  Enterprise  to  carry  out and
operate the Investment Project  with  due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with safety, health and environmental standards,
satisfactory to  the  Bank,  and  sound  technical,  financial and
managerial standards  and  to  provide,  promptly  as  needed, the
funds, facilities and other resources required for the purpose;
     (b)  require:  (i)  (A)  Investment  Enterprises  other  than
Nationalized Enterprises to ensure that  the goods and services to
be financed out of the proceeds  of the Loan shall be purchased at
a reasonable price  (in  the  case  of  goods,  on  the basis of a
comparison of quotations obtained  from at least three suppliers),
account being taken also of other relevant factors such as time of
delivery  and  efficiency  and   reliability   of  the  goods  and
availability of maintenance  facilities  and spare parts therefor,
and, in the case of services,  of their quality and the competence
of the parties rendering them; and (B) Nationalized Enterprises to
ensure that the  goods  and  services  to  be  financed out of the
proceeds of the  Loan  shall  be  procured  in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 6  to  this  Agreement; and (ii) such goods
and services shall be used exclusively  in the carrying out of the
Investment Project;
     (c)  inspect, by itself  or  jointly  with representatives of
the Bank, if the Bank shall  so request, such goods and the sites,
works, plants and construction included in the Investment Project,
the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
     (d)  require that: (i)  the  Investment Enterprise shall take
out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against
such risks and in such amounts,  as shall be consistent with sound
business practice; and (ii) without  any limitation upon the fore-
going, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisi-
tion, transportation and  delivery  of  goods  financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan  to  the  place  of  use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder  to  be  made  payable  in  a currency freely
usable by the  Investment  Enterprise  to  replace  or repair such
goods;
     (e)  obtain all such information as  the Bank or the Borrower
Page  12
shall reasonably request  relating  to  the  foregoing  and to the
administration, operations and financial  condition of the Invest-
ment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the Invest-
ment Project; and
     (f)  suspend or terminate the  right of the Investment Enter-
prise to the use of the proceeds  of the Loan upon failure by such
Investment Enterprise to  perform  its  obligations under its con-
tract with the Borrower.
                            SCHEDULE 6
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part  C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the  extent  practicable,  contracts  for  goods  shall be
grouped in  bid  packages  estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent of
$3,000,000 or more each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1  hereof,  goods manufactured in the Republic
of Portugal may be  granted  a  margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the  provisions  of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56
of the  Guidelines  and  paragraphs  1  through  4  of  Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Goods which the  Bank  agrees  cannot  be grouped pursuant to
paragraph  A.2  hereof  and  which   are  estimated  to  cost  the
equivalent of  $2,000,000  or  more  contract  but  less  than the
equivalent  of  $3,000,000  per  contract  may  be  procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis  of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of  at  least  three suppliers from at least
three  different  countries  eligible  under  the  Guidelines,  in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
2.   Goods which the  Bank  agrees  cannot  be grouped pursuant to
paragraph A.2 hereof and which are estimated to cost less than the
equivalent  of  $2,000,000  per  contract  may  be  procured under
contracts awarded on the basis  of price quotations solicited from
a list of at least  three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines,
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to  each  contract  for  goods estimated to
cost the equivalent  of  $3,000,000  or  more,  the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4  of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract  are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall  be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of  the contract required to be furnished
to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Bank prior to  the  making  of  the  first  payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the  following  procedures  shall apply: (i) the
Page  13
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Bank, promptly after its execution
and prior to delivery  to  the  Bank  of the first application for
withdrawal of funds  from  the  Loan  Account  in  respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of  such contract together with the
analysis of the comparison of  the respective price quotations and
such other, information as the  Bank shall reasonably request. The
Bank shall, if it determines  that  the  award of the contract, or
the contract itself, is not  consistent with this Agreement or the
Guidelines, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination; and (ii) the procedures set forth in paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished  to  the  Bank pursuant to this paragraph
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.02 (b) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
     Consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts
awarded to consultants:  (A)  whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of  employment  shall  be satisfactory to the
Bank; and (B) who shall  be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  on  the  basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by The World Bank as  Executing  Agency"  published by the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 7
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in  the  table  in  paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project, including the Investment Projects, and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the
eligible Categories in  accordance  with  the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this  Agreement,  provided, however, that notwithstanding
the provisions of paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement,
payments for expenditures to  be  financed  out of the proceeds of
the Loan under free-limit Sub-loans may be made out of the Special
Account before the Bank shall have authorized withdrawals from the
Loan Account in respect thereof. Such expenditures, however, shall
qualify  as  eligible   expenditures   only   if  the  Bank  shall
subsequently authorize such withdrawals; and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant  to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special Account shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible expendi-
tures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
Page  14
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized  Allocation,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the
Borrower, withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the Bank shall with-
draw from the Loan  Account  and  deposit into the Special Account
such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
with amounts not exceeding the amount  of payments made out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall
be withdrawn by the Bank  from  the Loan Account under the respec-
tive  eligible  Categories,  and   in  the  respective  equivalent
amounts, as shall have  been  justified by the evidence supporting
the request for such deposit  furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at  the time of such request, such documents
and other evidence as  the  Bank shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Bank  when  either  of  the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
               from the Loan Account in accordance with the provi-
               sions of Article  V  of  the General Conditions and
               paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount  of the Loan allocated
               to the eligible Categories, minus the amount of any
               outstanding special commitment  entered into by the
               Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Condi-
               tions with respect to  the  Project, shall be equal
               to  the  equivalent  of  twice  the  amount  of the
               Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from the  Loan Account of the re-
maining unwithdrawn amount of  the  Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures  as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be madeonly after and to 
the extent  that the Bank shall have been satis-
fied that all such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of  such  notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special  Account  (i) was made for any expendi-
ture or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule, or (ii)  was  not  justified  by  the evidence furnished
pursuant to paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall,
promptly upon  notice  from  the  Bank,  deposit  into the Special
Account (or, if the Bank shall  so request, refund to the Bank) an
amount equal to the amount of  such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. No  further deposit by the Bank into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such
deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
Page  15
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
                            SCHEDULE 8
                      Implementation Program
                     for Part A of the Project
     The provisions of this Schedule  shall apply for the purposes
of Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement.
A.   Part A.1 of the Project
1.   Part A.1 of  the  Project  will  be  jointly  financed by the
Borrower and the Guarantor and will be carried out by the Borrower
with the cooperation and  assistance  of the Guarantor through its
Ministry of  Industry  and  Energy  (MIE)  in  accordance with the
arrangements referred to in paragraph 6 hereof.
2.   In order to assist the  Borrower  in carrying out the studies
under Part A.1  of  the  Project,  the  Borrower shall: (a) employ
consultants whose selection shall  have  been approved by the work
group referred to in paragraph  3 hereof and whose qualifications,
experience  and  terms   of   reference   shall  have  been  found
satisfactory  by  the  Bank;  and  (b)  assign  suitably qualified
members of its staff to  participate  on  a full time basis in the
work of the  consultants  to  be  so  employed and subsequently to
participate on the  same  basis  in  the  work  of the consultants
referred in Part B.1 hereof. The  consultants who are to assist in
carrying out the first study referred to under Part A.1 (a) of the
Project have already been  employed  and  are expected to complete
said study by July 31, 1988. The Borrower undertakes to employ the
consultants to assist in carrying out the second study referred to
under Part A.1 (b) of the Project not later than sixty days of the
expected date of completion of the draft of said first study.
3.   For the purpose of  selecting  the consultants to be employed
as  indicated  in  paragraph   2   hereof,  and,  thereafter,  for
supervising the progress  of  their  work  and reviewing, together
with the Bank as set  forth  in paragraph 4 hereof, and finalizing
their conclusions and recommendations  at  the completion of their
work, a work group,  comprising  representatives of the Guarantor,
the  Borrower  and  enterprises  operating  within  the industrial
subsector concerned, shall be  maintained  for each of the studies
referred  to  under  Part  A.1  of  the  Project,  under  terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank.
4.   Not later than three months  after the preparation of the two
studies under Part A.1 of  the Project, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank copies  of  said  studies,  and  the Guarantor and the
Borrower shall afford the  Bank  a  reasonable opportunity to meet
and review with the  working  group  concerned the conclusions and
recommendations  of  said  studies  and  to  develop  programs  of
objectives,  policies  and   actions   designed   to  achieve  the
structural adjustment of the  industrial subsectors referred to in
said Part A.1.
5.   The costs of the consultants associated with the carrying out
of the studies under Part  A.1  of  the  Project will be shared in
equal proportions by the Guarantor and the Borrower.
6.   For the purpose of carrying  out the provisions of this Part,
the Borrower  shall  conclude  with  the  Guarantor and thereafter
maintain arrangements, satisfactory to  the  Bank, for the sharing
of the costs of the consultants' services and for the carrying out
of the studies and  the  development of the restructuring programs
as outlined above.
B.   Part A.2 of the Project
Page  16
1.   In order to assist the  Borrower  in carrying out Part A.2 of
the Project,  the  Borrower  shall:  (a)  employ consultants whose
qualifications,  experience  and  terms   of  reference  shall  be
satisfactory to the Bank,  or,  in the alternative, shall continue
the employment of the  consultants  referred  to in paragraph 2 of
Part A of this Schedule;  and  (b)  maintain the assignment of its
staff member referred to in Part  A.2 (b) of this Schedule for the
purposes indicated therein.
2.   Part A.2  (b)  of  the  Project  shall  be  carried out under
arrangements pursuant to  which  the  enterprises benefitting from
the  provision  of  advice  by  the  Borrower  in  the  design  of
restructuring programs shall compensate the Borrower for all costs
incurred by the Borrower in providing such advice.
C.   Part A.3 of the Project
1.   In order to assist the  Borrower  in carrying out Part A.3 of
the  Project,  the   Borrower   shall   employ  consultants  whose
qualifications,  experience,  and  terms  of  reference  shall  be
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   The Borrower shall take all necessary measures on its part to
ensure that the study referred  to  in  Part A.3 of the Project to
develop  an  integrated  management  information  system  and  the
internal audit system is completed and a copy thereof is furnished
to the Bank by  December  31,  1988  and,  thereafter, the Bank is
afforded a reasonable opportunity to  review with the Borrower the
conclusions and recommendations thereof. On the basis of the above
review and the conclusions  and  recommendations of the study, the
Borrower shall develop and adopt, in consultation with the Bank, a
program for the introduction  of  a suitable integrated management
information   system,    including,    without   limitation,   the
introduction  by  December  31,  1990,  of  a  suitable  financial
information system.
D.   Part A.4 of the Project
     The Borrower shall employ: (i)  not later than June 30, 1988,
consultants  whose   qualifications,   experience   and  terms  of
reference shall be satisfactory to  the Bank, to continue to carry
out the functions of the accountant/auditor referred to in Section
4.01 (b) of this Agreement;  and (ii) promptly upon the completion
of the study referred in Part C.2  hereof, and on the basis of the
exchange  of  views  with  the  Bank  thereon,  consultants  whose
qualifications,  experience  and  terms   of  reference  shall  be
satisfactory to  the  Bank,  to  carry  out  the  functions of the
electronic data processing auditor referred to in Section 4.01 (b)
of this Agreement; in both  cases  until such time as the Borrower
shall have appointed duly qualified and experienced members of its
staff to undertake  such  functions  within  its Internal Auditing
Department.
