Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3779-1 BOS 
 
Agreement Amending 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Forest Development and Conservation Project) 
 
between 
 
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated August 31, 2007 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3779-1 BOS 
 
AGREEMENT AMENDING 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated August 31, 2007, between BOSNIA AND 
HERZEGOVINA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS 
(A) 
the Borrower and the Association have entered into a 
Development Credit Agreement (Forest Development and Conservation Project) dated 
July 7, 2003 (the Development Credit Agreement) for the purpose of assisting in the 
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement 
(the Project); 
 
(B) 
the Borrower has made available a portion of the proceeds to the 
Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Federation) and to Republika Srpska 
respectively and entered into Subsidiary Financing Agreements with the Federation and 
Republika Srpska respectively for that purpose; 
 
(C) 
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional 
assistance towards the financing of the Project in an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to two million and three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights  
(SDR 2,300,000); and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Amending Agreement. 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Amendments to the Development Credit Agreement 
 
Section 1.01.  Section 1.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 1.01.(a). 
  The “General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
October 6, 1999), with the modification set forth in paragraph 1.01(b) (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Development Credit Agreement. 
Page  3
-
2
-
Section 1.01.(b). Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by 
replacing the words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive 
or coercive”. 
 
Section 1.02.  Section 1.02. of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by 
adding new paragraphs (aa) through (ee) to read as follows:  
 
“(aa) 
“Agreement Amending the Project Agreement” means either the 
Agreement Amending the Federation Project Agreement or the Agreement Amending the 
RS Project Agreement (defined hereafter), as the case may be, and the term “Agreements 
Amending the Project Agreements” means said agreements collectively; 
 
(bb) 
 
“Agreement Amending the Federation Project Agreement” 
means the agreement between the Association and the Federation of even date herewith; 
 
(cc) 
 
“Agreement Amending the RS Project Agreement” means the 
agreement between the Association and Republika Srpska of even date herewith; 
 
(dd) 
 
“Amending Agreement” means this Agreement amending the 
Development Credit Agreement (Forest Development and Conservation Project) between 
the Borrower and the Association, dated July 7, 2003; and 
 
(ee)  
 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, 
dated March 28, 2007, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement.” 
 
Section 1.03.  Section 2.01. of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.01.  The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to  five million and one hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 5,100,000) (the Credit), consisting of: (i) an original amount in various 
currencies equivalent to two million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 2,800,000) (the Initial Financing); and (ii) an additional amount in various 
currencies equivalent to two million and three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 2,300,000) (the Additional Financing).” 
 
Section 1.04.  The following new paragraph (c) is added to Section 2.02 of the 
Development Credit Agreement: 
 
“(c) 
 
Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, all amounts withdrawn from the Credit Account or made subject to a special 
commitment pursuant to Section 5.02. of the General Conditions shall be withdrawn from 
Page  4
-
3
-
the Initial Financing until such Financing has been exhausted, and thereafter shall be 
from the Additional Financi
ng.” 
 
Section 1.05.  The Closing Date set forth in Section 2.03 of the Development 
Credit Agreement shall be extended to November 30, 2010. 
 
Section 1.06.  A provision is added at the end of Section 2.04 (b) (i) of the 
Development Credit Agreement to read as follows: 
 
“; provided, however, that the commitment charge on the Additional Financing 
shall accrue from a date sixty (60) days after the date of the Amending Agreement.” 
 
Section 1.07.  The word “Credit” referred to in Section 2.07 of the Development 
Credit Agreement is deleted and replaced with the words “Initial Financing”. 
 
Section 1.08.  Section 2.08 of the Development Credit Agreement is renumbered 
as Section 2.09, and a new Section 2.08 is added, to read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.08.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Additional 
Financing in semiannual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15, 
commencing July 15, 2017 and ending January 15, 2027. Each installment shall be five 
percent (5%) of such principal amount.  
 
Section 1.09. Section 3.01.(b) (i) of the Development Credit Agreement is 
amended to read as follows: 
 
“(i) 
the Borrower shall relend to the Federation an amount in Euro equivalent 
to: (i.1) the amount of the Initial Financing allocated from time to time to Categories (1) 
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement; and (i.2) the amount of the Additional Financing allocated from time to time 
to Category (1) set forth in the Annex to this Amending Agreement;” 
 
Section 1.10. Section 3.01.(c) (i) of the Development Credit Agreement is 
amended to read as follows: 
 
“(i) 
the Borrower shall relend to the Republika Srpska an amount in Euro 
equivalent to: (i.1) the amount of the Initial Financing allocated from time to time to 
Categories (5) through (8) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the 
Development Credit Agreement; and  (i.2) amount of the Additional Financing allocated 
from time to time to Category 2 set forth in the Annex to this Amending Agreement;” 
 
Section 1.11. The word “Credit” referred to in the title and paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 (Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit) of the Development Credit 
Agreement is deleted and replaced with the words “Initial Financing”. 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 1.12. A new Schedule 1.A. is added to the Development Credit 
Agreement as set forth in the Annex to this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.13.  The last sentence of Schedule 2 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“The Project is expected to be completed by October 31, 2010”. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until 
evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that: 
 
(a) 
the execution and delivery of this Amending Agreement and of an 
Agreement Amending the Project Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Association and an Entity; and 
 
(b) 
for the Entity referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 2.01, the 
Subsidiary Credit Agreement between the Entity and the Borrower has been amended to 
make available the portion of Additional Financing to said Entity as provided in this 
Amending Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02.  As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 of 
this Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or opinions 
satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association showing: 
 
(a) 
on behalf of the Borrower, that this Amending Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is 
legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms; 
 
(b) 
that an Agreement Amending the Project Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by the Entity concerned, and is legally binding upon the said Entity 
in accordance with its terms; and 
 
(c) 
that the Amendment to the Subsidiary Credit Agreement referred to in 
Section 2.01 (b) of this Amending Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by and 
is legally binding upon the Borrower and said Entity in accordance with its terms. 
 
Section 2.03.  This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the 
date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its acceptance 
of the evidence required pursuant to Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement. 
 
Section 2.04.  If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and 
effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending Agreement, this 
Page  6
-
5
-
Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless 
the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section.  If this Amending 
Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the Development Credit 
Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this Amending Agreement had not 
been executed. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the City of Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 
 
By /s/ Dragan Vrankic                 
 
 
 
Authorized 
Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Marco Mantovanelli                  
 
Authorized 
Representative 
Page  7
-
6
-
ANNEX  
 
SCHEDULE 1.A.
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Additional Financing 
 
“1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Additional Financing, the allocation of the amounts of the Additional 
Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of Additional 
  Percentage of 
 Category
Financing allocated   
  Expenditures 
 
(Expressed in SDR)
to be Financed
A.  Part A.1, A.2 and A.4 of the Project
(the Federation
)
(1) 
Goods, works, Consultants’ Services,  
 including 
audit, 
Training 
and 
 
1,340,000    
70% 
 
Incremental Operating Costs 
 
B.  Part B.1, B.2 and B.3 of the Project
(Republika Srpska)
(2) 
Goods, works, Consultants’ Services,  
 Including 
Audit, 
Training, 
 
 
960,000    
70% 
 
Incremental Operating Costs 
 
TOTAL  
2, 300,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule 1.A: 
 
(a) 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses 
incurred by the Federation PIU or the RS PIU on account of Project implementation, 
management and monitoring, including the cost of transport and travel, fuel and repairs 
made on account of maintenance and operation of vehicles, office supplies, and 
communication; and 
Page  8
-
7
-
(b) 
the term “Training” means training activities (other than consultants’ 
services) to be carried out under the Project, including the cost of workshops and the 
travel costs and per diem of the trainees. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
 
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Amending 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 220,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after February 28, 2007, provided that the Entity, responsible for 
implementing either Part A or Part B of the Project from which the withdrawals may be 
made under this paragraph, shall have fulfilled the conditions Section 2.01 of this 
Amending Agreement; and 
 
(b) payments made for expenditures relating to Part A.3 and Part B.3 of the 
Project. 
 
