                                        CONFORMED COPY



                                  CREDIT NUMBER 3779 BOS




Development Credit Agreement


    (Forest Development and Conservation Project)




                      between




           BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA




                        and




  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                  Dated July 7, 2003

                                                             CREDIT NUMBER 3779 BOS

                      DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT

        AGREEMENT, dated July 7, 2003, between BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).

        WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;

        (B)     Part A of the Project will be carried out by the Federation of Bosnia and
Herzegovina (the Federation) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Federation a part of the proceeds of
the Credit as provided in this Agreement;

        (C)     Part B of the Project will be carried out by Republika Srpska (RS) with
the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to RS a part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;

        (D)     the Government of the Italian Republic (Italy) intends to provide a grant
in an amount of six hundred thousand Euro ( 600,000) (the Italian Grant) to assist in
financing Part A. 3 (a), (b) and (c) and Part B. 3 (a), (b) and (c) of the Project; and

        WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement and in the Project Agreements of even date herewith between the Association
and the Federation and the Association and Republika Srpska;

        NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


                                        ARTICLE I

                           General Conditions; Definitions

        Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6,
1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

        Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:

                                            -2-


        (a)      "Entity" means either the Federation (defined hereafter) or Republika
Srpska (defined hereafter), as the case may be, and "Entities" means the Federation and
Republika Srpska, collectively;

        (b)      "Euro" or sign " " means the lawful currency of the member states of the
European Union that adopt the single currency in accordance with the Treaty establishing
the European Community, as amended by the Treaty on European Union;

        (c)      "Federation" means the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a
political subdivision of the Borrower, and includes any successor or successors thereto;

        (d)      "Federation PIU" means the project implementation unit within the
Ministry of Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry of the Federation;

        (e)      "Federation Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and the Federation of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Federation Project Agreement;

        (f)      "Financial Monitoring Report" or "FMR" means each report prepared in
accordance with Section 3.02 of the Federation Project Agreement and the RS Project
Agreement;

        (g)      "Konvertible Marka" or "KM" means the lawful currency of the
Borrower;

        (h)      "Project Account" means the account referred to in paragraph 2 of
Schedule 1 to each Project Agreement for deposit of counterpart funds for the Project;

        (i)      "Project Agreement" means either the Federation Project Agreement or
the RS Project Agreement, as the case may be, and the term "Project Agreements" means
said project agreements collectively;

        (j)      "Republika Srpska" or "RS" means Republika Srpska, a political
subdivision of the Borrower, and includes any successor or successors thereto;

        (k)      "RS PIU" means the project implementation unit within the Ministry of
Agriculture, Forestry and Water Resources of Republika Srpska;

        (l)      "RS Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and Republika Srpska of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the RS Project
Agreement;

                                           -3-


        (m)     "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02(b) of
this Agreement; and

        (n)     "Subsidiary Credit Agreement" means either agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and each Entity pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) or (c) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to each Subsidiary Credit Agreement, the term "Subsidiary Credit
Agreements" means said agreements collectively, and "Subsidiary Credit" means a credit
to be made out of the proceeds of the Credit provided to each Entity under a Subsidiary
Credit Agreement.

                                      ARTICLE II

                                       The Credit

        Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to two million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
2,800,000).

        Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.

        (b)     The Borrower may, for the purposes of each of Parts A and B of the
Project, open and maintain in Euro two separate special deposit accounts, namely the
Federation Special Account and the Republika Srpska Special Account in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate
protection against set­off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of,
each respective Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

        Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be February 28, 2007, or such later date as
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of
such later date.

        Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.

        (b)     The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts

                                              -4-


shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.

         (c)      The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the
provisions of that Section.

         Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.

         Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.

         Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15, commencing July 15,
2013 and ending January 15, 2023. Each installment shall be five percent (5%) of such
principal amount.

         Section 2.08. Euro is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.

                                      ARTICLE III

                                 Execution of the Project

         Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause the Federation and Republika Srpska to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Federation Project Agreement and the RS Project Agreement,
respectively, all of the obligations of the Federation and Republika Srpska therein set
forth, shall take and cause to be taken all actions, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources necessary or appropriate to enable the Federation
and Republika Srpska to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.

         (b)      For the purposes of Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall enter into a
subsidiary credit agreement with the Federation (the Subsidiary Credit Agreement) under

                                           -5-


terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association. Except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, such terms and conditions shall include the following:

                (i)     the Borrower shall relend to the Federation an amount in Euro
                        equivalent to the amount of the Credit allocated from time to
                        time to Categories (1) through (4) set forth in the table in
                        paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

                (ii)    the term of the Subsidiary Credit shall be 20 years, including a
                        10-year grace period;

                (iii)   the Borrower shall charge the Federation a commitment charge
                        at a rate equal to the rate payable under Section 2.04 of this
                        Agreement, on the principal amount of the Subsidiary Credit not
                        withdrawn from time to time;

                (iv)    the Borrower shall charge the Federation a service charge on the
                        principal amount of the Subsidiary Credit withdrawn and
                        outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate payable
                        under Section 2.05 of this Agreement; and

                (v)     the principal amount of the Subsidiary Credit shall be repayable
                        in KM and shall be the equivalent in Euro (determined as of the
                        date or respective dates of repayment) of the value of currency or
                        currencies withdrawn from the Credit Account on account of
                        expenditures for the Project.

       (c)      For the purposes of Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall enter into a
subsidiary credit agreement with Republika Srpska (the Subsidiary Credit Agreement)
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association. Except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, such terms and conditions shall include the
following:

                (i)     the Borrower shall relend to the Republika Srpska an amount in
                        Euro equivalent to the amount of the Credit allocated from time
                        to time to Categories (5) through (8) set forth in the table in
                        paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

                (ii)    the term of the RS Subsidiary Credit shall be 20 years, including
                        a 10-year grace period;

                (iii)   the Borrower shall charge the Republika Srpska a commitment
                        charge at a rate equal to the rate payable under Section 2.04 of
                        this Agreement, on the principal amount of the RS Subsidiary
                        Credit not withdrawn from time to time;

                                           -6-




                (iv)    the Borrower shall charge the Republika Srpska a service charge
                        on the principal amount of the Subsidiary Credit withdrawn and
                        outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate payable
                        under Section 2.05 of this Agreement; and

                (v)     the principal amount of the Subsidiary Credit shall be repayable
                        in KM and shall be the equivalent in Euro (determined as of the
                        date or respective dates of repayment) of the value of currency or
                        currencies withdrawn from the Credit Account on account of
                        expenditures for the Project.

        (d)     The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Credit
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Credit Agreements or any provision thereof.

        Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the
goods and consultants' services required for Part A of the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to the
Federation Project Agreement, and procurement of the goods and consultants' services
required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to the RS Project Agreement.

        Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part A of the Project
shall be carried out by the Federation pursuant to Section 2.05 (a) of the Federation
Project Agreement and in respect of Part B of the Project shall be carried out by RS
pursuant to Section 2.05 (a) of the RS Project Agreement.

                                     ARTICLE IV

                                  Financial Covenants

        Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower
shall:

                 (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound
                        accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting
                        such expenditures;

                                            -7-


                (ii)    ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                        and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained
                        until at least one year after the Association has received the audit
                        report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
                        Credit Account was made; and

                (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to examine such
                        records.

        (b)     The Borrower shall:

                (i)     have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of
                        this Section including and those for the Special Accounts for
                        each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                        principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
                        acceptable to the Association;

                (ii)    furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
                        not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year the
                        report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                        detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested,
                        including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                        statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                        together with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                        their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
                        withdrawals; and

                (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information concerning
                        said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
                        Association shall from time to time reasonably request.

                                       ARTICLE V

                              Remedies of the Association

        Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the
following additional events are specified:

        (a)     Either Entity shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under its
respective Project Agreement or Subsidiary Credit Agreement.

        (b)     As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable
that either Entity shall be able to perform its obligations under its respective Project
Agreement or Subsidiary Credit Agreement.

                                              -8-




        Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the
following additional event is specified, namely, that, the event specified in paragraph (a)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60)
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.

                                       ARTICLE VI

                               Effective Date; Termination

        Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:

        (a)      a Project Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Association and
an Entity; and

        (b)      for the Entity referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 6.01:

                 (i)      a Subsidiary Credit Agreement has been executed on behalf of
                          the Borrower and said Entity; and



                 (ii)     the Project Account has been opened by said Entity and an initial
                          amount of    20,000 equivalent has been deposited into such
                          account.



        Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or
opinions to be furnished to the Association:

        (a)      that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the
Entity concerned, and is legally binding upon the said Entity in accordance with its terms;
and

        (b)      that the Subsidiary Credit Agreement referred to in Section 6.01 (b) (i) of
this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and said Entity in accordance with its terms.

        Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

        Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article III of this Agreement
shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall

                                           -9-


terminate or on the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.

                                     ARTICLE VII

                      Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

        Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Treasury of Bosnia and Herzegovina
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.

        Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:

        For the Borrower:

                 Ministry of Finance and Treasury
                 Trg Bih 1
                 71000 Sarajevo
                 Bosnia and Herzegovina

                                                                        Facsimile:

                                                                        387 33 471 822



        For the Association:

                 International Development Association
                 1818 H Street, N.W.
                 Washington, D.C. 20433
                 United States of America

                 Cable address:                 Telex:                  Facsimile:

                 INDEVAS                        248423 (MCI) or         (202) 477-6391
                 Washington, D.C.               64145 (MCI)

                                          -10-


        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the city of Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as of the day and year first above
written.




                        BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA




                        By /s/ Ljerka Maric
                                                              Authorized Representative




                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                        By /s/ Joseph Ingram
                                                              Authorized Representative

                                           -11-


                                     SCHEDULE 1

                       Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit



1.      The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                                              Amount of the

                                                         Credit Allocated
                                                  % of
                                               (Expressed in        Expenditures
       Category                              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed

A. Part A of the Project (the Federation)

(1)    Goods                                        320,000        100% of foreign
                                                                   expenditures,
                                                                   100% of local
                                                                   expenditures
                                                                   (ex-factory costs)
                                                                   and 85% of local
                                                                   expenditures for
                                                                   other items
                                                                   procured locally

(2)     Consultants' services,                                     100% of foreign
        audit and training                                         consulting firms
                                                                   and foreign
        (a) under Parts A.1, 2 (b),                 950,000        individual
           3 and 4 of the Project                                  consultants, and
                                                                   80% of local
        (b) hardware and software                   300,000        consulting firms
            for the forest management                              and local individual
            information system                                     consultants
            under Part A.2 (a)
            of the Project

(3)     Incremental Operating                       150,000        70%
        Costs

(4)     Unallocated                                 150,000

                                         -12-




       SUBTOTAL                               1,870,000



                                           Amount of the

                                                     Credit Allocated
                                              % of
                                            (Expressed in    Expenditures
       Category                            SDR Equivalent)  to be Financed

B. Part B of the Project (Republika Srpska)

(5)     Goods                                    15,000     100% of foreign
                                                            expenditures,
                                                            100% of local
                                                            expenditures
                                                            (ex-factory costs)
                                                            and 85% of local
                                                            expenditures for
                                                            other items
                                                            procured locally

(6)    Consultants' services,                               100% of foreign
       audit and training                                   consulting firms
                                                            and foreign
       (a) under Parts B.1, 2 (b),              400,000     individual
           3 and 4 of the Project                           consultants, and
                                                            84% of local
       (b) hardware and software                300,000     consulting firms
           for the forest management                        and local
           information system                               individual
           under Part B.2 (a)                               consultants
           of the Project

(7)    Incremental Operating                    130,000     70%
       Costs

(8)     Unallocated                              85,000

       SUBTOTAL                                 930,000

       TOTAL                                  2,800,000

-13-

                                             -14-


2.       For the purposes of this Schedule:

         (a)      the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;

         (b)      the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; provided,
however, that, if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from the
territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such
goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures";

         (c)      the term "foreign consulting firm" means a consulting firm which is
registered or incorporated in the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;

         (d)      the term "foreign individual consultant" means an individual consultant
who is not a citizen of the territory of the Borrower;

         (e)      the term "local consulting firm" means a consulting firm which is
registered or incorporated in the territory of the Borrower;

         (f)     the term "local individual consultant" means an individual consultant who
is a citizen of the territory of the Borrower;

         (g)      the term "incremental operating costs" means the incremental expenses
incurred by the Federation PIU or the RS PIU on account of Project implementation,
management and monitoring, including the cost of transport and travel, fuel and repairs
made on account of maintenance and operation of vehicles, office supplies, and
communication; and

         (h)      the term "training" means training activities (other than consultants'
services) to be carried out under the Project, including the cost of workshops and the
travel costs and per diem of the trainees.

3.       Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of:

         (a)      payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR
60,000 may be made in respect of Categories A(2), (3) and B(7) on account of payments
made for expenditures before that date but after March 31, 2003, provided that the Entity,
responsible for implementing either Part A or Part B of the Project from which the
withdrawals may be made under this paragraph, shall have fulfilled the conditions set
forth in Section 6.01 of this Agreement; and

                                          -15-


        (b)    under the Categories allocated to Part A or Part B of the Project unless:

               (i)      a Project Agreement between the Association and the Entity
                        responsible for implementing Part A or Part B of the Project, as
                        the case may be, has been executed;

               (ii)     a Subsidiary Credit Agreement between the Borrower and such
                        Entity has been executed with terms and conditions satisfactory
                        to the Association; and

               (iii)    the Project Account has been opened by said Entity and an initial
                        amount of    20,000 equivalent has been deposited into such
                        account.

4.      The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure for: (i) contracts for goods costing less than
$100,000 equivalent each; (ii) contracts for consulting firms costing less than $100,000
equivalent each; (iii) contracts for individual consultants costing less than $25,000
equivalent each; and (iv) incremental operating costs and contracts for training, all under
such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.

                                             -16-




                                        SCHEDULE 2

                                 Description of the Project

         The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in the implementation of
reforms in forest organization and management, both at the Entity and canton level.

         The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:

Part A: The Federation

1.       Accelerating the implementation of the legal, institutional and economic
framework

         (a)     Support in the establishment and capacity building of the forest
administrations, forest enterprises, forest guards and forest inspectors, through the
provision of goods, consultants' services and training.

         (b)     Strengthening the capacity of the working groups responsible for the
forest sector reform to facilitate consensus building among different institutions, assist in
preparation of an action plan for the transition period and develop business plans for
forest management, through the provision of goods, consultants' services and training.

         (c)     Support to improve the economic and financing framework of the forest
sector, including: (i) reviewing accounting procedures and financial management
practices; (ii) identifying alternative options for financing of the activities of the forest
institutions and enterprises; and (iii) developing options for improving timber pricing and
grading, and effective use of non-timber forest products, through the provision of goods,
consultants' services and training.

2.       Strengthening of Technical Capacity for Sustainable Forest Management

         (a)     Development and implementation of a forest management information
system for the forest sector, through the provision of goods, consultants' services and
training.

         (b)     Support in the implementation of a national forest inventory, and
development of forest management standards, through the provision of goods and
consultants' services.

                                             -17-


3.       Promoting Biodiversity and Forest Conservation

         (a)     Development of a national biodiversity strategy, including formulation
and adoption of actions for the protection and sustainable use of biodiversity by involving
public and private sector, and civil society, through the provision of consultants' services
and training.

         (b)     Identification of areas for biodiversity conservation to create foundation
for national forest and environment land-use planning, through the provision of goods,
consultants' services and training.

         (c)     Carrying out of socio-economic assessments and setting up procedures
for a comprehensive consultation process which will include all stakeholders in the
decision-making on establishing of any new protected area, through the provision of
goods, consultants' services and training.

4.       Project Management

         Strengthening the institutional capacity of the Federation PIU through the
provision of consultants' services, goods and training for Project implementation,
monitoring and evaluation.

Part B: Republika Srpska

1.       Accelerating the implementation of the legal, institutional and economic
framework

         (a)     Strengthening the institutional capacity of the forest guards and forest
inspectors, through the provision of goods, consultants' services and training.

         (b)     Strengthening the capacity of the working groups responsible for the
forest sector reform to develop business plans for forest management, through the
provision of goods, consultants' services and training.

         (c)     Support to improve the economic and financing framework of the forest
sector, including: (i) reviewing accounting procedures and financial management
practices; (ii) identifying alternative options for financing of the activities of forest
institutions and enterprises; and (iii) developing options for improving timber pricing and
grading, and effective use of non-timber forest products, through the provision of goods,
consultants' services and training.

                                            -18-


2.      Strengthening of Technical Capacity for Sustainable Forest Management

        (a)     Development and implementation of a forest management information
system for the forest sector, through the provision of goods, consultants' services and
training.

        (b)     Support in the implementation of a national forest inventory, and
development of forest management standards, through the provision of goods and
consultants' services.

3.      Promoting Biodiversity and Forest Conservation

        (a)     Development of a national biodiversity strategy, including formulation
and adoption of actions for the protection and sustainable use of biodiversity by involving
public and private sector, and civil society, through the provision of consultants' services
and training.

        (b)      Identification of areas for biodiversity conservation to create foundation
for national forest and environment land-use planning, through the provision of goods,
consultants' services and training.

        (c)     Carrying out of socio-economic assessments and setting up procedures
for a comprehensive consultation process which will include all stakeholders in the
decision-making on establishing of any new protected area, through the provision of
goods, consultants' services and training.

4.      Project Management

        Strengthening the institutional capacity of the RS PIU, through the provision of
consultants' services, goods and training for Project implementation, monitoring and
evaluation.




                                                * * *

                   The Project is expected to be completed by August 31, 2006.

                                            -19-


                                      SCHEDULE 3

                                     Special Accounts

1.       For the purposes of this Schedule:

         (a)     the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3) in case
of the Federation Special Account, and Categories (5) through (7) in case of the RS
Special Account set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

         (b)     the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

         (c)     the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
 270,000 in respect of the Federation Special Account and an amount equivalent to
 130,000 in respect of the RS Special Account, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to          185,000 in respect of the
Federation Special Account and an amount equivalent to 65,000 in respect of the RS
Special Account, until (i) in respect of the Federation Special Account, the aggregate
amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account allocated to Part A of the Project plus
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Part A of the Project shall be equal
to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 300,000; and (ii) in respect of the RS Special
Account, the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account allocated to Part
B of the Project plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Part B of the
Project shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 150,000.

2.       Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

3.       After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as
follows:

         (a)     For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of
an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of

                                            -20-


the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the respective Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

        (b)     (i)      For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the
                         Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits
                         into the respective Special Account at such intervals as the
                         Association shall specify.

                (ii)     Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall
                         furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence
                         required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                         payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                         requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association
                         shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
                         Account and deposit into the respective Special Account such
                         amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have
                         been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been
                         paid out of the respective Special Account for eligible
                         expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
                         Association from the Credit Account under the respective
                         eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as
                         shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.

4.      For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.

5.      Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:

        (a)     if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a)
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;

        (b)     if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit
of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;

        (c)     if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or

                                            -21-




        (d)      once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.

Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.      (a)      If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment
out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further
deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

        (b)      If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.

        (c)      The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.

        (d)      Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.

