Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3779-1 BOS 
 
Agreement Amending 
RS Project Agreement 
 
(Forest Development and Conservation Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
REPUBLIKA SRPSKA 
 
Dated August 31, 2007 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3779-1 BOS 
 
AGREEMENT AMENDING  
RS PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated August 31, 2007, between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and Agreement Amending 
Republika Srpska Project Agreement (the Republika Srpska).  
 
WHEREAS (A) BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA (the Borrower) and the 
Association have entered into a Development Credit Agreement (Forest and 
Development and Conservation Project) dated July 7, 2003 (the Development Credit 
Agreement) for the purpose of assisting in the financing of the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement (the Project); 
 
(B) 
the Borrower has made available a portion of the proceeds to the 
Republika Srpska and entered into a Subsidiary Credit Agreement (the Subsidiary Credit 
Agreement) for that purpose; 
 
(C) 
the Association and the Republika Srpska entered into a Project 
Agreement dated July 7, 2003 (the Project Agreement) for the purpose of carrying out 
Part B  of the Project; 
 
(D) 
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional 
assistance in support of the Project by increasing the amount made available under the 
Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent to two 
million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,300,000);  
 
(E) 
by the Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement dated 
July 7, 2003, between Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Borrower) and the Association, the 
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an additional amount in 
various currencies equivalent to two million three hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 2,300,000) (the Additional Financing), on the terms and conditions set forth 
in the aforementioned Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Republika Srpska in consideration of the Ass
ociation’s entering 
into the Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, 
has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement. 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Amendments to the Project Agreement 
 
Section 1.01.  Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement is amended to read as 
follows: 
 
“Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for Part B of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.” 
 
Section 1.02.    A new paragraph 4 is added to Schedule 1 (Implementation 
Program) to read as follows: 
 
“4. 
The Republika Srpska shall ensure that its Ministry of Agriculture, 
Forestry and Water Resource Management, no later than February 28, 2008: (i) initiates 
the process of hiring at least two members of staff to be responsible for maintaining the 
state forestry inventory and forest management information systems; and (ii) promptly 
provides the necessary financial resources required to maintain the staff.” 
 
Section 1.03.  Section 1 of Schedule 2 (Procurement) of the Project Agreement is 
amended as follows: 
 
“Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
1. 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
(a) Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for office equipment shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. International 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
2. National 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
3. 
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 per contract may be procured in 
accordance National Competitive Bidding, subject to the following additional provisions: 
(a) Registration 
 
(i) 
Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms; 
 
(ii) 
Where registration is required, bidders: (1) shall be allowed a 
reasonable time to complete the registration process; and (2) 
shall not be denied registration for reasons unrelated to their 
capability and resources to successfully perform the contract, 
which shall be verified through post-qualification; and 
 
(iii) 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding.  If a 
registration process is required, a foreign bidder declared the 
lowest evaluated bidder shall be given a reasonable opportunity 
to register. 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
(b) Advertising 
 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one (1) widely circulated 
national daily newspaper allowing a minimum of twenty one (21) days for the 
preparation and submission of bids. 
 
(c) Pre-qualification 
 
When pre-qualification shall be required for large or complex works, 
invitations to pre-qualify for bidding shall be advertised in at least one (1) widely 
circulated national daily newspaper a minimum of thirty (30) days prior to the 
deadline for the submission of pre-qualification applications.  Minimum 
experience, and technical and financial requirements, shall be explicitly stated in 
the pre-qualification documents. 
 
(d) 
Participation by Government-owned enterprises 
 
Government-owned enterprises in Bosnia and Herzegovina, including 
those in the Federation and Republika Srpska, shall be eligible to participate in 
bidding only if they can establish that they are legally and financially 
autonomous, operate under commercial law and are not a dependent agency of 
the contracting authority.  Furthermore, they will be subject to the same bid and 
performance security requirements as other bidders. 
 
(e) Bidding 
Documents 
 
Procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard bidding documents 
for the procurement of goods, works or services, acceptable to the Association. 
 
(f) 
Bid Opening and Bid Evaluation 
 
(i) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline 
for submission of bids. 
 
(ii) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the 
monetarily quantifiable criteria declared in the bidding 
documents. 
 
(iii) 
Contracts shall be awarded to the qualified bidder having 
submitted the lowest-evaluated, substantially responsive bid and 
no negotiation shall take place. 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
(g) Price 
Adjustment 
 
Civil works contracts of long duration (more than eighteen (18) months) shall 
contain an appropriate price adjustment clause. 
 
(h) 
Rejection of Bids 
 
(i) 
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the 
Association’s prior concurrence. 
 
(ii) 
When the number of bids received is less than three, re-bidding 
shall not be carried out without the Association’s prior 
concurrence. 
 
The Association’s Europe and Central Asia Regional Sample Bidding Documents, 
modified as acceptable to the Association, shall be used. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract to be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Part B of Section I of this Schedule estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to: (i) each contract to be procured in accordance with the 
provision of Part C.1 of Section I of this Schedule estimated to cost less than $100,000; 
and (ii) the first three contracts to be procured in accordance with the procedures referred 
in Part C.3 of Section I of this Schedule, the following procedures shall apply: 
 
(i) 
prior to the execution of any contract, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Association a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations/bids received; 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured, the Borrower 
shall provide to the Association a copy of the specifications and 
the draft contract; and 
 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
”
ARTICLE II 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 2.01.  This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the later of:  
the date upon which the Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement 
becomes effective or the date when this Agreement Amending the Project Agreement has 
been executed by the parties hereto. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement Amending RS Project Agreement 
to be signed in their respective names in the City of Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, 
as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Marco Mantovanelli      
Authorized Representative 
 
REPUBLIKA SRPSKA  
 
By /s/ Aleksandar Dzombic      
Authorized Representative
 
