PID
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                                    AWorld rree ol i'iwcrky
U                   .-
lnfoShop
Report No AB20
Updated Project Information Document (PID)
Project Name                BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA-FOREST DEVELOPMENT AND
CONSERVATION PROJECT
Region                      Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                      Central governmenit administiation (73%); Forestry (27%)
Project ID                  P079161
Supplemental Project
Borrower(s)                 GOV'T OF BOSNIA (RBH)
Implementing Agency         ENTITY MINISTIRIES FOR AGRICULTURE, WATER MGMT &
Address                     FORESTRY
Address
Contact Person
Tel      Fax       Email
Project Implementation Unit (RS)
Address Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Banja Luka,
Republika Srpska, Bosnia and Herzegovina
Contact Person Mr Zeljko Stojanovic, Director, Project Implementation Unit
Tel 387 51 319675     Fax 387 51 319675      Email
piussume@inecco net
Project Implementation Unit (Federation)
Address Ministry of Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry, Sarajevo,
Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina
Contact Person Mr Alojz Dundjer, Director, Project Implementation Unit
Tel 387 33 213 098    Fax 387 33 213 098      Email
Piusum@Bih Net Ba
Environment.Category        C
Date PID Prepared           April 4, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date         March 13, 2003
Bank Approval Date          Junle 10, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Background
Thie Forests of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Forest resources in Bosnia-Herzegovina (BiH) are amongst the
richest in Europe in terms of the extent and variety of stock relative to the size of the counitry, covering
almost 50% of the land area. This compares with 24% for pasture land, Imiuch of it close to forest areas,
and only 10% for arable land 57% of BiH's population of 3.9 million live in rural areas, and for them
forests are an important source of employment (in forest industr-ies), energy (fuellwood for heating,



2
PID
largely from forest residues) and recreation. They are also a source of noni-timber forest products
including muslhrooms, berries and herbs. Fluniting, mostly quite xvell organized, has provided additional
revenues, while the beauty of Bosnia's forest and mountain landscapes has, and can again, provide
substanitial job opportuLnities for local people from tourism. The forests also have importanit watershed
protection values for much of the middle and lower Danube. Forests are one of Bosmia's main natural
resources. Furthermore since Bosnia has quite a low rural populationi density, only 43 persons per square
kin, lower than any of the other Balkan counltries, with sound management its forests "use" values (from
timber and other products) can provide income for local people while at the same time its "noni-use"
values (from watershed protection and global ecosystem values) can also be protected
About half the growing stock of forests is coniferous, notably fir, spruce and pine species The maini
broadleaved species are oak and beech. About 80% of forest and other wooded land is State-owned. The
remainder is owned by a large number of individual private owners. Many of the latter forests are in a
degraded condition In state owned production forest the growing stock per hectare is estimated at 220
m3, the average annual volume increase is about 4.6 m3/hectare (ha) (6.2 m3/ha in high forest and about
I m3/ha in low forest), while the average harvested volume per hectare reaches 4 2 m3 (5 m3/ha in high
forest and 0.7 m3/ha in low forest). Nearly three-fifths of the forests can be characterized as production
forests, about 40% - a high proportion by European standards - are not available for wood supply Areas
under the latter category are either classified as "ulincovered and barren lands", are economically
inaccessible or fulfill other functions such as the protection of watersheds and other critical ecosystems.
Additionally the accessibility of forests is aggravated due to a low forest road density (about 7-8
km/1,000 ha). BiH's forests are rich in biodiversity terms, althoughl only 0 55% of the territory is formally
protected. There are 31 protected areas (IUCN Categories 11 to V), and the National Park of Sutjeska
includes one of the last remnants of primary forests in southerin Europe. Most forests are classified as
semi-natural.
Forests represent a valuable resource to the nation as a whole and through proper utilization can supply
valuable inputs, SuCh as employment and export income and assist in the reconstructioll of BiH,
especially in rural areas. Exports of BiH constructionl materials and high-quality furniture generated an
export value of about US$250 million prior to the war, an important source of employmenit However,
the war, betweeni 1992 and 1995, as well as subsequenit unregLIlated development, resulted in heavy
damage at all levels (according to current estimates, direct war damage to the forest sector amounts to
some US$2 billion).
Recently finalized reports clearly note the importance of forests and the wood processing sector The
draft PRSP identifies Issues addressed by the current, and envisaged, project, as pre-requisites to increase
the economic capacity for sustainable forest management, enhancing the contributioni that that forest
make to local livelihoods, and maintaining, and increasing forest biodiversity. Ultimately, this would
lead to increased employment in this sector and the development of rural areas, which would in turn
result in measurable economic advantages. The recently completed National Environmental Action Plan
(NEAP) identifies the sustainiable development of rural areas together with the improvement of
environmental managemnent and the protection of biological landscape diversity as priorities, whichi are in
line with the new project.
Closed Forestry Project. Through an emergency investillenit operation, the BiH Forestry Project, the
World Bank has contributed successfully to the rehabilitation and stabilization of the BiH forest sector,
including completion of important legal and policy reformis, whichi, at the end of project implemenltationi,
will have given the forest sector a completely new direction, in line with the provisions of the Dayton
Peace Accords and the recently ratified Conventioni on Biological Diversity (CBD). The Project's



3
PID
Implemenitationl Progress and Achievement of Development Objectives were both rated Satisfactory. The
project was closed on March 31, 2003 The purpose of the project was to suipport the recovery of the
forestry sector and its economic and environmental sustainability in three key areas (a) support to forest
ianiagemilenit, (b) protection and rehabilitation of forests; and (c) rehabilitationi of forestry service's
operational capacity The project helped resume sustainable forest managemlienit planilng, and provided
equipment to implement and monitor policy and management improvements. Forest inspectioni services
in both entities are now operational and are visibly more effective in tighteninig control over illegal forest
activities. Forest quality was enhianiced througil pest and insect control, reforestation of areas affected by
erosion, and the development of protected areas. Forest accessibility was improved and resulted in
improved maniagemilenit and a more balanced production of wood, which partially helped revive economic
activity in rural areas. Althouglh the project achieved its objective, the enabling legal, institutional and
policy framework, whichl would make the BiH forest sector competitive at European levels, is not yet
complete, and the achievemenits reached under the Forestry Project have to be consolidated and
sustainied. Since the EC - until September 2001 co-financing agency - has disengaged fiom the sector
and the activities of a GTZ project are narrowly focused on Geographical Information Systems (GIS) and
renmote sensinig, the authorities are looking increaslingly to the Bank for continiued support. In particular it
is importanlt to define rules for the implementation of the new legislative structures in both entities and
access to external guidance and support to complete this process.
Forest Sector InstitutionalArrangements and Recenit Reforms. Overall responsibility for forestry in the
Federation lies withi the Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and Forestry (MAWF); in the RS with
the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Resources (MAFW) The Forestry Department witlhin
these Ministries is hcaded by a Assistant Minister and is funded through the budget The departmenlt has
a small technical staff, includinig the Forest Inspectioni Service (FIS) As part of the Dayton Agreement,
10 Cantons have been set up in the Federation for regional adminiistration. These Cantons have a shimilar
administrative structure as the Federal adminiistr-ationi, and each canton includes a Minister In charge of a
Cantonal-level MAWF.
Prior to the approval of the new forest laws, State forest enterprises (SFEs) were in charge of managing
State-owned forests, and - prior to the war - typically managed both the forest industries and the
surrounding forest areas, which provided raw material to those industries. In most cases, the SFEs were
divided into separate industrial enterprises (sawmillls, furniture, factories, etc.), and forest management
enterprises. There are still strong linkages between the forest managemenit enterprises and the wood
processing industries Forest holding companies, called Bosanskolher-zegovacke Sume (BH SUlme) and
Sume Herceg-Bosne (Sume HB) in the Federation, anid Srpske Sume in RS, were formed to be
responsible for all state-owned forests withinl the different parts of the counltry, and to bring SFEs under
more integrated managemenit In the Bosniak part of the Federation, the SFEs were fairly indepenident.
They had to cover expenses from their owIn revenues and mainitain indepenidenit accounting systems. In
the Croat part of the Federation, the forests were maniaged by one enterprise (Sume Herceg-Bosne),
through smaller district offices Income here was redistributed amongst the district offices, uSling a
centralized accountinig system  In RS, the SFEs were an integrated part of the forest holdinig company.
With the approval of the new Federation forest law in May 2002, a numliber of chaniges were introduced
related to (a) the delegation of the responsibility of forest managemenit to the cantonal level; (b) the
creation of new forest institutiolns at Federation and cantonal level ("forest institutes"); (c) the
abolishmilenit of the existing Sumes (BH and HB); (d) the obligation to establish one single forest
company at cantonial level; and (e) the strengthieniilng of the forest inspectioni service
Changes in the forest institutionial arrangemenits were introduced in RS through amendments to the forest



4
PID
law, also adopted in May 2002. These chaniges are mainly related to, inter alia: (i) strengtheninig and
consolidation of forest inspection at ministerial level (i e abolisiment of municipality responsibility for
forest inspection), (ii) clarification of responsibilities in forest managemenlt and administration; and (iii)
use of the "extended reproductionl fund" Despite these changes, forest management remains centralized
in RS, uLider the Public Forest Enterprise Srpske Suime.
Organizaition of ForestManagement The forest enterprises/companies (FEs) are in charge of forest
management based on aniual plans. They are performing. (a) most of the forest operations (harvesting,
transport, regeneration), (b) management of Non-Timber Forest Products (collection of NTFPs,
organization of huniting), (c) monitoring and managemenit of forest pest infestations and fires throLigh
so-called forest guards (which are (currently still) employees of the FEs); and (d) the advisory of private
forest owners FEs used to operate as autonomilous Ullits, and are largely finaniced by their own revenues,
FE contributions to the national budget are made through taxes. Forest invenitory and the developmenit of
forest management plans is task of Forest Planning Units which are integrated units within the FEs in the
Federation, while in RS inventory and planninig is done by one centralized Forest Planninig Center.
The approval of forest managemenit plans (for the period of 10 years) as well as aniual plans is task of
the Forest Departments in the Entity Ministries of Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry, the
implementation of those plans is supervised by the Forest Inspectioni Services (FIS). The FIS report
directly to the Ministeri-al Forest Departments and is in charge of monitorinig and inspectinig forest-related
activities regularly to ensure compliance witih the Forest Law and relevant regulations. The FIS operate
under the overall control of a Chief Inspector at the central level and field imspectorates.
In the currenit organizationi, the FEs are responsible for some private as well as some public good
functions of forest managemenit. This set up - common in many parts of Europe - requires that the
provision of the public goods functions are guaraniteed sustainably. This means that there has to be a
mechianism in place, which ensures compensationl from governmenit funds for the provision of public
services (management restrictions, conservation activities, etc)
To varying degrees in the different parts of the coulitry, economic and administrative/control functions
have been separated as part of recent reform processes in the sector as a necessary step towards a more
transparent arrangemenit for forest management. Consolidation of the currenit achievemiients througil
implementation of the new legal frameworks has yet to begin. In addition, there are issues related to (i)
economic distortions which keep the forest sector's contribution to the overall economy lower than its
potential; (ii) sustainable fundinig for the forest departimienits; (iii) transparent accounting of FEs; (iv) the
lack of a reliable forest informationi system; as well as (v) the need for greater participatory processes in
forest managemenit and landscape planninig. The Borrower would be enabled to impleimient the legal and
policy changes aiming at human and institutionial capacity building and strengthenling. This in turn will
keep the current momentum and guarantee the long-term sustainability of already achieved results.
Deficiencies in the sector's economiocframework. While the new forests laws put emphasis on the
institutional set up, the economic framework has not to-date received adequate attention. Preliminiary
analysis suggests a signilficant disconinect between the potential and actual contribution of the sector to
overall economic development. There is a need to bettcr understand finanicial flows in the sector and
improve public expenditure efficiency, as well as the allocation of public resotirces. In addition, currenit
arrangements for pricing of timber lack transparency, and are not strongly market-based. Finally, the
present tax structure of timber for FEs does not provide incenitives for efficient resource utilization, and
therefore does not generate as muchi revenue for the state as potentially could be obtained.



5
PID
Forest and Biodliversity Conservation. Bil-l's biodiversity asset is currently insufficielntly protected arid
under-valued. At present there are 21 protected areas covering only about 0 55% of the territory The
categories of these protected areas range from Bird Reserves to Strict Nature Reserves with two National
Parks in RS (Kozara arid Sutjeska). The receiitly Finalized NEAP recognizes the importance of
brodiversity, natural and cultural heritage, the threats arid the need for expansion the area for
conservationi and protection based on a National Strategy and Action Plan. In this context the ratification
of the Convention of Biological Diversity can be seen as one step in this direction, since it will facilitate
access to GEF grant funids. Local benefits from an expanded system of protected areas would include
recreation, employnient opportuLlities from tourism, watershed protection as well as the mainteniance of
gene pools for forests products harvested and used by the local populatioln (berries, mushrooms, snails,
etc.).
Where protected areas are part of state owined forests, their management is responsibility of the SFEs
The two NPs are managed as specialized "enterprises" ulider Srpske Sume The directors of the NPs are
appointed by aiid report to three Ministries (Forestry, Education as well as Environment arid Cultural
Heritage), the managemilent is being based oil annual plans. Since the protection status of miost of the
areas allows for sustainable utilization of natural resources, the protected areas are used for econoniic
activities such as tourism, grazing, gathering of NTFPs and limited timber harvestiiig. In case of the
Sutjeska NP, forest management contributes to more thani half of the currenlt park revenues
A feasibility study, developed uiider the sooii-to-be-completed Forestry Project, idenitified good prospects
for the creation of a National Park Igmari-Bjelasnica with a proposed coverage of 120,000 ha This park
in its proposed boundaries would be one of the largest protected areas in South Eastern Europe Besides
its very high biological value, the area proposed for the NP serves as aii important recreatioii area for
Sarajevo, arid prior to the wvar, was a popular venue for winter sports. The desigiiationi of this National
Park should also be considered as a pilot site if Bil-I is to develop a successful tourismin uldustry as part of
its economic renewal, since the Park aiid the City of Sarajevo together would offer, in international
termis, an exciting and diverse tourism product. The designation of the NP is expected to provide
employment opportullities (both directly and indirectly) for the approximately 9,000 people who live in
the area, through tourism activities, provision of services, etc. The establishment could also provide a
catalyst for the greater economic growth of the region as a whole, and therefore increased job
opportunities across a inumber of developmenit spheres Spanniniig across both RS and the Federation, the
park would have the potential to strengthen national unlity arid contribute to the country's political and
econlolmic recovery.
The forest sector's current primary development problem is the need to impleriielit two different
types of institutionial reform - centralized organization arid manageienit ii RS, versus decentralized in the
Federation and the cantonls - both of which, if they are to succeed in improving the contributioll of forests
to BiH's social and economic development, will require a behavioral chanige by stakeholders in the
sector, in both entities, towvards a participatory, landscape approach to forest managemenit and planning
as well as biodiversity conservation, whicih incorporates miiulti-purpose forest values.
Other critical issues facing the sector include the following
The importance of forests for the country, is rioted above. Forests represent one of the only natural
resource assets for the country There is some potential for bottled water, and perhaps some possibility
for aluminum productioni, but other than this, forests are the iiiost iniportant source of natural
resource-based revenue.



6
PID
Complex environment for sector reform. Though it is five years since the Dayton accords, the country
is still operating under a 'post-conflict' climate, withi some residual political instability. This context
complicates decision-making processes for legal and HistitUtional re-organization  It can be seen, at least
in the forest sector, that techniical and/or economic factors are less important thani political and ethnic
considerations in government decision-makinig (such as apportionmenit of forest management units,
cadastre, staffing decisions, etc.)
Risk/threats to forest ecosystems There are a number of threats to Bosnian forest ecosystems.
*   There are approximately 200,000 ha of forest whichi cannot be entered, even for sanitary work,
because of the presence of mines These areas are subject currently to a number of problems,
including pest infestation and fires. Activities to clear those areas of mines are undertakeni by the
International Community but advancing only slowly.
*   Although forest accessibility was improved with the help of the current Forestry Project through the
rehabilitation of existing roads and the construction of forest roads in critical areas, road density in
BiH is still very low (7 to 8 km per 1,000 ha) compared to European standards This leads to
over-harvesting in accessible areas, while in other areas harvesting is being done with very low
intensity. Inaccessible areas are in addition more often prone to forest fires and insect infestations
since over the last decade drougilts have been more frequent.
Government Strategy. No national forest policy exists at state level in BiH, because the forest strategy
and its implementation are defined by the individual Entity Laws on Forests and related regulations
arising from Entity Laws. New laws were a result of recommendations of a Forest Policy Study -
elaborated in the framework of the Bank's soon-to-be-completed Forestry Project - to modernize and
reform the BiH forest sector. With the new Law on Forests in the Federation, the foulidationis of strategy
and planninlg are based on three tiers: a forest program for the Federation, forest development plans at the
cantonal level, and forest managemlient areas In RS, following similar objectives, the centralized
management approach was maintainied, witlh Srpske Sume and its forest managemenit units as manager of
the forest, overseen by the Ministry and the Forest Inspection Service This arrangement -- of FEs
overseen by a Ministry -- is commonl througlhout Europe (France, Latvia, Austria, parts of Germany,
Croatia)
The reforms introduced with the laws are targeted at developing a modern forest management system,
capable of moniitoring and ensurinig the management forest ecosystems sustainably and effectively Over
the past three years the Ministries of Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry in both entities have
employed a participatory approach (round-tables, workshops, etc.) engaginig a multitude of stakeholders
relevant to the sector to increase the understanding of decision-makinig processes and the commitment to
a reforn of the sector Economic and administrative/control functions were separated as a necessary step
towards a more transparent arrangement for forest maniagement.
Biorliversity At present, a strategic approach towards biodiversity protection is missing, at both the
national, and entity, levels. The areas Llider protection, mostly declared between 1954 and 1969, are not
designated for particular biodiversity protection. A new legal framework has been set up with a new Law
on the Protection of Nature for RS which was adopted in July 2002. It stipulates the revitalization,
protection, preservation and sustainable developmenit of landscapes, units of natures, plants, animiials and
tiheir habitats as well as other componlents of nature that are part of the environiment. A similar law is
currenitly in legal procedure to be passed in the Federation. Hlowever, the preservation and protection of
forest biodiversity is partly regulated by the applicable Law on Forests, as well as by the Hunting and
Fishing Laws. The RS Constitution and the Lawv on Forests stipulate that forests and forestland are a
public good which enjoys the special care and protection of the state The lands, improvements, use and



7
PID
management of forests and forestland, and other potentials are defined unider the conditions and as
outlined by the Law on Forests.
2. Objectives
The objective of the project is to assist with the implemenitationi of mandated reforms in forest
organization and managemenit, which are expected to lead to better forest managemenit, increased
revenues from forest resources, and participatory approachies in forest land use plannilng through pilot
learning activities
In addition, the project is expected to improve ownership of the reforn process at the canton level
Although the two entities (Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (Federation), and Republika Srpska
(RS)) are at different stages of readiness to implement the reforins, the project will be active in both of
them, to ensure that the reforn momentim developed under the closed Forest Project is maintained.
Importantly, the lessons of institutionial reform developed under the project could also be relevant for
other sectors.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
There are a number of important areas in which the Bank can add value in the further development of
Bosnia's forest sector.
*   In the Bosniani forest sector the Bank is seen as a trusted broker, and can help achieve consensus
between varying stakeholder interests, as well as between sub-sectors.
*   Since BiH is a highily divided country, the Bank's involvement and commitmenit to coordinate with
other international institutions and donors, together with a participatory approach towards
decision-milakinig processes, can help to ease political tensions This can be especially witnessed in
the development of the Federation Law on Forests, where conveying multi-stakeholder working
groups, in addition to stLdies, has led to a legal framework based on broad consensus.
*   Bank involvement in the forest sector can help consolidate the unity of the coulitry The Bank is in a
good position to ensure consistency betveen legal and institLtional reforms, as well as contribute to a
national protected areas approach, state-level inventories, and information systems.
*   Given widespread resistance and inertia to change, reforms are expected to take years and facilitators
need to stay involved to sustain processes after they are initiated A clear need to sustain the reform
process through contiluous involvement has been identified, wilicih was launched witil support from
the first project
*   The Bank is supporting policy and institLtional reform in the forest sector il several European
colintries and there is mucIh to be gained in building on this cross-coulitry experience
Of the above, the role of the Bank as "an honest broker" cannot be overstated. The Bank's contilnued
engagement in the sector will signal to the various interest groups that the interilational community is
committed to making the reforms work Without sucih engagement, implementation of the reformis will
be quite uneven, and it will be very difficult to generate consensus on the nationial level to ulidertake
further reformis to remove sectoral distortions.
4. Description
Component 1.    Accelerating the implementation of new    leital, institutional and economic
frameworks



8
PID
The objective of this componenit is to sustain BiH's ambitious reforn of the forest sector. The legal,
institutional and economic reform process is at different stages in both entities; and legal and economic
reforms are placed under the responsibility of entities' governmienits. Activities will be conducted in both
entities, independently but concurrently.
A.     Supporting the sector's institutional reforms to assist both entities In the implementation of
new legal and institutional frameworks, which will SLipport setting up of a modern forest management
regime Implementationi of these new frameworks will help to ensure the sustainable use and protection
of forest resources, while at the same time paving the way to an autonomous and self-financing forest
sector competitive at European levels.
In the Fedleration, the project will work at the Federation and cantonal levels with the Ministries In
charge of forestry to support the establishmenit of the newly created Forest Offices. Techinical assistance
and training for these offices will be focused on establishing a financial monitoring system. The project
would provide basic office equipmelnt for all forest offices, to enable efficient communicationl and
coordination between the offices. Additional support would be provided to operationalize of forest
management at cantonal level The project would assist in the consolidationi of existing forest enterprises
into one single forest enterprise (Cantonal Forest Company - CFC) in each canton. Support will be
targeted at working groups to facilitate consensus buIlding and an elaboration of a detailed, phased and
costed action plan for the transition period and support a study tour for decision makers. Technical
assistance and training will be provided to CFCs for the development of business plans Considering the
ongoing privatization of forest equipment and operations withiin most forest companies, additional
training would be targeted to staff deciding to become private entrepreneurs. In addition the project
would support the finalization of contractual agreements betweeni the cantonal miniistries for forestry and
the CFCs. In addition to assisting the newly created institutionls and enterprises, the project will provide
operational support to the forest guards and forest inspectors at Federation and cantonial level, as well as
procurement of and traininig in the use of limited field equipmelnt to ensure compliance with the new
forest law, and improve transparency and forest governance. This training together, withi that provided to
CFCs during the introduction of a new Forest Managemiienit Information System, would strengthen the
capacity of the forest guards and inspection services to tackle ongoing illegal logging and corruption
In Republika Srpska the project assist (a) the facilitation of workinig groups to built consensus for the
decision to reduce the number of forest enterprises withiln Srpske Sume from 40 to 24; (b)a technical and
economic analysis to identify enterprises, whicil would suitable for consolidation, and (c) the elaboration
of a detailed and phased action plan for implemenltationi. In addition and similar to the trainilg provided
to CFCs in the Federation, Srpske Sume would receive tailored training packages . Like In the
Federation the Forest Inspection Service will be supported by the project throughi operational suppor-t and
training in the use of field to ensure an efficient forest inspectioln.
B.     Improving the economic and financing framework  Forests in Bosnia are very importaiit
given the relative scarcity of other resources. The coulitry is covered with 24% of pastire lands and has
only 10% of arable land. There is some potential for aluminum production, but other than this, forests are
the most important source of natural resource-based revenue for the State, Entity and Cantonal
governments
The new laws in FBiH and RS improve the institutional setup of the forest sector. Ther-e are opportuLilties
however, for improvements In finanlcial managemenit and generation of revenues from the forest sector,
while assuring sustainable forest management practices The project has identified opportunities for
targeted support, which can be grouped in five broad categories:
(a) Financial flows. Support would be provided to the CFCs and Srpske Sume in reviewinlg accounting



9
PID
procedures and comparing themii with good practices, together with training in improved practice. Support
would also be provided in consolidating inforniationi from field level at entity level, and review of
financial maniagemilent practices by CFOs and at entity level
(b) Revenues from Forest Activitics and Financinm Cantonal Forest Offices Support would be provided
Hi reviewing and developing alternative options for financinig the activities of the CFOs, includinig
funding directly from the budget, or from a dedicated forest fund finanlced out of timber sales.
(c) Pricilg of Timber: The project would assist in the development of an approach to timber pricing and
grading which reflects interniationial best practices, and training would be provided to CFCs, Srpske Sume
and timber processing enterprises in implemenitationi of such an approach
(d) Non-Timber Forest Products (NTFPs): Th1e project would support activities targeted at increasing
forest revenues, through managemenit and marketing of these products as well through designation of
forest areas for NTFP use.
(e) Timber Processing. Support would be provided for improved assortment of tihber products and
improved market informlation.
The sub-component would be developed in two stages, including detailed design, and implementation
The project would finance technilcal assistance, trainig, study tours and workshops, as well as
appropriate software for provision of updated infornmationi on timber pricing.
Component 2. Stren2thenin2 of Technical Capacitv for Sustainable Forest Management
This component will facilitate the implenientation of economically and environmenitally sound forest
management at the level of Forest Managemenit Units (FMU) in both entities It will set tip techniical
instruments that are critical to ensure monitoring and sustainiable use of BiH's forest endowmenit The
component will also help BiH to develop National Standards that would be the basis for sustainable
forest management and Forest Certification These standards will be applicable for the whole country and
should take into accounlt the total value of all forest functions.
This component include two sets of activities, each of thenm covering both entities .
A.     Development of a GIS-based Forest Management Information System (FMIS) The project
will provide technical assistance, software, hardware and training for the settimg up and maintenance of a
comprehensive forest maniagement inforimiation system. This GIS-based system would be used as a tool
for managers in the field and in head offices for planning, management, monitoring and supervision of
forest operations The FMIS will cover all public forests, and private forests where ownerslip is formally
registered. It will comprise of three inter-related modules. (a) the technical module: covering data from
forest invenitory, silvicultural and regeneration operations, records and forecast on harvesting volume, (b)
the economical module covering finanlcial information suchi as results from timber sales, collection of
fiscal revenues, and accounlting of forest enterprises and (c) the geographical module. each FMU will be
mapped and digitalized, with identification of conservationl areas, road network and harvesting
operations This GIS-mapping module will be developed in synergy with the protected area GIS-planninig
effort linder component C Based on the consideration that forest enterprises within BiH are unequally
advanced in the setting up of informationi systems, the FMIS component will be preceded by an overall
feasibility study that will assess the information systems cLIrrenitly in place and under development, and
the potential for harmonization.
B. Implementation of a Bosnia-wide forest inventory. To improve the quality of the forest resource
data at the national level it is proposed to carry out a permanent indepenidenit NFI, which should be
established to serve as a basis for: (a) forest monitoring; (b) forest strategy and long-term planninilg
development as well as (c) priority setting for forest research and development. A comprehensive
methodology for a nationial forest inventory, tinder considerationi of a special focus to biodiversity and
forest protection, is currenitly being developed by GTZ, in both entities. The project will sLIpport



10
PID
implemenltationi of the inventory over a two-year period, as well as supporting collection of data in the
field and computerized processing of data. The invenitory will provide updated and integrated data on
forest stand and healthi, quality of management, biodiversity potential, and cadastre. The project would
ensure that in addition to a typical forest inventory, informationl on critical forest ecosystems would be
supplied, to provide a base line for forest and biodiversity conservation. In addition, it would assist in
the development of Forest Managemenit Standards in both entities. The Bosnia-wide forest inventory will
be carried out in both entities simultaneously and in synergy with the development of the FMIS
Component 3. Promoting Biodiversity and Forest Conservation in both entities
This componlelnt will address the fact that only 0.55% of BiH's territory is formally protected. It will
respond to political determination in both entities to take better advantage of the country's position in the
middle of Europe, and its ullique landscape and biodiversity endowvmelt Bosnia's natural habitats and
game resources have the potential to support a significanit tourism industry and provide employment in
rural areas This component will be carried out withi SUppOrt from the Italian Governmeit. Importanitly,
this componient will pave the way for a GEF project on biodiversity conservation/protected areas in
CY2004.
This componenit will be conducted jointly in both entities under the leadership of the Environmental
Steering Committee comprised of both Ministries of Environmelit
The project will develop three complementary sets of activities:
A.     Development of a National Biodiversity Strategy (NBS). This follows naturally from the
finalization of the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP), as well as the recent ratification of the
Conventioni on Biological Diversity (CBD). A participatory framevwork required for the preparation of a
National Biodiversity Strategy has been successfully employed to prepare the NEAP. Furthier, the
institutional framework at the State level is in place, including a Biodiversity Committee tinder the
Ministry of Physical Planning and Environmenlt for FBI-l, which reports to the Environment and
Sustainable Development Steering Committee, under the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic
Relations. The institutional arrangements planied for the carrying out of the NBS build on the
successful model of the NEAP. Participatory processes and the use of local expertise will be emphasized
in the methiodology adopted in preparing the NBS To guide the techinical process, a number of themilatic
groups, comprising experts in biodiversity, biology, land use planning, forestry, park managemenit, and
other fields to be determined, as well as communiity groups and representatives of civil society, will also
be formed The project will support (i) national level workshops in wvhich all relevant parties will
participate. Project funidinig will include provision of workshop space facilitation services, and local
travel and per diems for participants as well as dissemination of workshop results; (ii) field consultatiolis
in each of the ten Federation Cantonis, each of the RS Regions, numilerous municipalities in each Entity
and District Brcko; (iii) target round table discussions on specific themiies, and lectures (for
representatives of businesses, NGOs, scientific institutions, etc.), as well as media appearances and
iiterviews. In addition to guidance provided by the Goals and Measures of the NEAP, the "First Draft"
maps of proposed protected areas prepared inder sub-componenit B below will be help to gulde the work
of the NBS teams Thle final outpLit of this process will be a National Biodiversity Strategy, which
incorporates the goals and measures of the NEAP.
B.     Drawing up of preliminary proposals for a country-wide protected area network, covering
Lip to 5% of the territory in both entities. As noted, only 0.55% of BiH's territory is formally protected.
The GIS-based mapping effort and ground-trtith operations to be carried out in the National Forest
Invenitory (NFI) tinder Componenlt B will provide the complete detail and scientific rigor for longer-term
protected area planiing throtighotit the cotintry However, this will take at least 18 months to complete



11
PID
In the meantime, it is desirable to quickly identify areas whiich might be suitable for protected status It is
expected that 2 to 3 workshops, over the first 3 months of the project, would be held, followed by a
concluding session which will agree on the "first draft". The workshops would take place in appropriate
locations In RS and the FBiH  The project would provide workshop space, facilitation services, and local
travel and per diems for participants. The project would also provide for dissemination of workshop
results, including printinig of maps. It should be noted that while the workshiop process will be broadly
participatory, any formal recommendationis to the governmenit for delineation of any area for protected
status could not go forward until affected communiLties have been fully involved. Sub-component C will
be targeted to this effort. It should also be stressed again that the goal of this project is not to create any
protected area, but rather to establish the detailed infor-mation and participation framework that would be
needed for establishment under a later project.
C.     Setting up the standard procedures for a comprehensive consultation process. With the
various initiatives becoming available to BiH for protected area establishment, including those planied
under this project, involvemenit of a mucih broader stakeholder community In the decision-makinig process
towards establishment of new protected areas will be essential The broad stakeholder community would
include local populationi, municipalities, government institutions at the local and State level, forest
enterprises, civil society, and the private sector. Importantly, decisions on new protected areas must take
into account the importance of these areas to community livelihoods In keeping with the 'landscape
approach', protected areas must serve multiple purposes, and should not curtail local population access to
traditional use of resources. The project will assist BiH to develop a comprelhelisive methodology for
this purpose. The methodology will be based on available 'best practices', which include transparelicy,
presence of robust technical information, and consultation procedures which include affected
communities. The proposed methodology will be developed by taking into consideration expertise
available in BiH  Field-testing will be ulidertakeni in the lgman-Bjelasinica area, which has been proposed
as a National Park by a feasibility study funded by the Forestry Emergency Project The project would
support field surveys aiid consultation, as well as stakeholder workshops, includinig local travel and per
diems.
Component 4. Project implementation. Monitorin2 and Evaluation
A.     Project Management: The project will be managed by two small Project lImplementation Units
(PlUs) withinl the two entity Ministries responsible for forestry with the overall responsibility for the
implementation of the project including procurement, disbursement, accouLitinig and coordmination.
Permanent staffing would include two PIU directors each supported by an administrative assistant. This
component will also aim to strengtheni donors coordination aroulid the nationial forest agenda and will
look at the feasibility to harimlonize doiiors procedures with a view to prefigure a future multi-donors
national program
B.     Project Monitoring: The PlUs will be responsible for monitorinig the progress of the project
based on a comprehensive system of indicators to be developed durinlg project preparation, and provide
quarterly implemenitation reports and activity plans in a format acceptable to the Bank. Both PlUs in
charge of the implemenitation of the Forestry Project will be assigned the same mandate for the
implementationi of the project. At the begininig of the project, an interinational consultanit would be
hired to assist the PlUs in the developmenit of a comprehenisive system of indicators for effective and
appropriate project monit6ring and evaluationi. This system would be designed to allow for relevant
information from past and ongoing activities to be extracted, in order for subsequent project fine-tuning,
reorientation and planining.
Componienit 1. Accelerating the implementationi of new legal, institutional and economic frameworks
Component 2. Strengtheninig of Techinical Capacity for Sustainable Forest Management



12
PID
Component 3. Promoting Biodiversity and Forest Conservation in both entities
Component 4 Project implementation, Monitorinig and Evaluation
5. Financing
Total (US$m)
BORROWER                   $0.75
IBRD
IDA                        $3.74
ITALY: DEV. COOP DEPARTMENT (MOFA)              $0.60
Total Project Cost         $5 09
6. Implementation
Periods of Implementation: The project would be implemented over a 36-months period from FY2004
to 2007 Project effectiveness is expected to be by September 2003 and the mid-term review would be by
the end of the second quarter of FY05 The project is expected to be completed by August 31, 2006 and
the closing date would be February 28, 2007.
Institutional and Implementation Arrangemcnts: The State Ministry of Finance and Treasury, on
behalf of the BiH State government, would be the borrower of IDA funds and would onlend the proceeds
to the FBiH and RS govermilents. It would also establish special accounts and make arrangemilenits for
auditing The Ministries of Finance of both entities would be responsible for chaninelinig the IDA credit
proceeds to the Milistries of Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry (MAWF) from both entities,
providing counterpart funding, and later repaying the credit.
The Entity MAWFs would oversee project implementationi For this puripose, they have streamlinied
project management withini their existing units. The RS government has a Project Coordinationl Unit
(PCU) which oversee all externally financed, agriculture/NRM-related projects. The Forest Development
and Conservation Project (FDCP) would be managed by a small Project Implemilentationi Unit (PIU),
using the same arrangements as for the closed Forestry Project The FBiH Minister of Agriculture, Water
Management and Forestry has confirimied the project management team of the existing Forestry PIU for
the project. The FDCP would share the director, financial manager and procurement officer withi the
ipcomlling Small-Scale Commercial Agricultural Development (SSCAD) Project. The Entity
Governments would maintain PCU/PIU with qualified staff acceptable to IDA
In addition to being responsible for the implementationi of the new forest operation, the FBiH PIU will
also assumlie responsibility for the SSCAD Project.
Since in the Federation the new Law on Forests introduces a new institutional setup for the responsibility
for forest adminlistration and management at cantonal level, the project will be implemented in close
coordinationi wvith the cantonal governments.
Activities related to biodiversity conservationi will be carried out in close collaboration with the two
entity Ministries in charge of Environilent, since they are focal points for the Conventioni on Biological
Diversity (CBD).
In addition, the project would draw on the existing capacity and experience of forest faculties of the
Universities of Sarajevo and Banja Luka, both for techilical support to the introduction of new forest
management approaches, and development of traininig and capacity building programs



13
PID
7. Sustainability
Sustainability of project benefits is addressed in a number of ways. In general, it can be said that all
project interventionis are designed to work together, so that the overall klnowledge base of forest
resources is better understood. With this understanidinlg, forest sector operators and relevant communities
will be in a much better position to work out management plans which are sustainable from an economic,
environmental, and social point of view.
*   From a fiscal perspective, the incremental recurrent costs of the project are small, and government
contribution is limited primarily to taxes; the fiscal impact on the government's budget is therefore
short-term, and manageable
*   The project is economically sustainable Improved understandinig of the revenue potential of the
sector will lead to action plans for increasing the revenue accruing to the natiolial budget
Reorganizationi of forest management organizationis, and the introduction of modern information
systems, will improve the efficiency and plannilng of forest sector operations, leading to reduced
costs and increased revenues.
*   Institutional sustainability is addressed in a number of ways. First, training will be provided to the
new cantonal forest offices, and cantonal forest enterprises (in the Federation) Thlese new
institutional structures will have well-trained professional staff, but will need some help in
understanding and implementing new methods in forest management planning. Second,
institutionalized iriechaniisimis for financing the public good service of forest will be developed the
new institutions are in critical need of assistance to determine how they will finance their operations,
and this will be developed as part of the economiiic analysis action plans Third, new information
technology will help institutional decision-iriakinig to be as informed as possible, which should lead
to management planninig which maximizes revenues, and hence, ensure that the institutions will have
the money iieeded for their operations.
*   The project is environimientally sustainable. The project itself has only limited impact on forest
resources. However, the the FMIS, the nationial forest inventory, and the methodologies for
participatory planning, will help to ensure that future managemilent planning has a stronger focus on
environmental aspects, rather than on purely economic ones
*   The project is socially sustainable As noted in various sections above, the project is not expected to
have significant negative social impacts. To the extent that social impacts are revealed during
implementation, the FMIS and the participatory planning methodologies will be powerful tools to
assist forest offices to work with communlities to mitigate these impacts. Communities whose
members might be adversely affected by forest operations (either at present or under the new
institutionial ar-angemilenits) would have the opportunity in participating of developing forest
managemilenit plans. The methods for garnering participation, and incorporating communiLty needs
into management plans, will be constanitly evolving, and will be tailored to individual communities'
specific needs. This process will likely continue after the project is over, and broad participation is
expected to become the status quo within the medium-term (withinl 3 years after project completion)
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The implementation of the closed Forest Project has offered a nulimber of 'lessons learned', which are
specifically relevant to the unusual situation in BilH. These lessons are presented in the Section 5. below,
as indications of the Bank's added value to the sector In addition, project design incorporates other
lessons from recent Bank work in the forest sector in Europe.
*   Forest sector projects that address a simiall number of clearly identified, understanldable priority
objectives have a greater probability of success than do projects attemptinlg to address all sector
issues, e.g., the Poland Forestry Development Program that addressed six clear issues and was



14
PID
implemented withilin budget and on time
*   Two other lessons learned in the Poland project are particularly relevant to the design of the project
a  First, in a country with strong traditions of forestry production, well-trained personnel, and soulid
back-tip, and where there is both a clear development program and implemenltation capacity, the
main benefits of a development project lie more in the introduction of modern techtnologies and
institution strengthening than In simply expanding forest production activities. The support
under the project is explicitly designed with this principle in miid.
b  Second, the introductioll of forest managmeenit inovationis that would replace traditional
procedures must be supported by hard evidence of their technical, financial, environmental, and
economic advantage In-depthi technical and economic analysis of the comparative advantage of
options is an essential factor in promoting innovations. Again, the TA is designed to accounlt for
this lesson
*   The rationale, benefits and objectives of a project should be made known to all stakeholders, if not
throughi active participation in project preparation, then through effective public awareness programs.
An important outcome of the project is precisely to develop the models by which stakeholders can
participate in preparation, particularly with regard to future protected areas in a potential GEF
project.
*   Where multiple options for addressing problems exist, project implementation should assist clients
and beneficiaries to select the most appropriate solutions for local conditions, thereby bulilding the
awareness, capacity and skills necessary for success.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues  : Because of its emphasis on capacity building, training, and planining and testing new
regulatory and institutional instrumenits, the project as currently designed is likely to have no adverse
environmental impacts As such, no EMP will be prepared There are no works to be implemented (I e.
no visitor centers or similar park facilities, or roads) and neither any logging nor any extractive activity
will be finanlced by the project. The project is expected to have an overall positive environmental
outcome in both the short- and the long-term  The legal and institutionial framework will be strengthelled
and clarified; forest administrations will be given the opportunity to elaborate a national FMIS which
will improve their managemilenit capacity; and innovative multipurpose forest inventory and local
consultation procedures will help structure an open dialogue on national land-use planning with a
positive Impact on environmenit. The project will pave the way for sustainable managemenit of forest and
biodiversity resources in BiH's complex political and institutional environment.
10. List of factual technical documents:
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Christian Albert Peter
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433



15
PID
Telephone (202) 458-4771
Fax: (202) 522-1142
12 For information on other project related documents contact
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D C 20433
Telephone (202) 458-5454
Fax    (202) 522-1500
Web http /I www worldbank org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily
included in the final project.
Tables, Charts, Graphs:
Processed by the InfoShop week ending  04/04/2003
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
,.AARCH            CT. E._nP ,A



