                                           Documentof
                                        The World Bank

                               FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                            ReportNo: 39952-BA




                             PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                              ONA

                               PROPOSED GRANT FROMTHE
                   GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND

                           INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$3.4MILLION

                                               TO

                               BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA

                                              FOR A

                FORESTAND MOUNTAIN PROTECTEDAREAS PROJECT

                                           May 8,2008




SustainableDevelopmentDepartment
SouthEast EuropeCountry Management Unit
Europeand Central Asia Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout World
Bank authorization.

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective February 8,2008

                     Currency Unit = Konvertible Marka(KM)
                               KM1=US$0.6803
                               US$1 =KM 1.4699
                                 FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1    - December31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BiH    Bosnia and Herzegovina
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
CBD    Convention on Biological Diversity
CBO    Community BasedOrganization
CFAA   Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CPS    Country Partnership Strategy
CRIGG  Conservation and Rural Income Generating Grant
EA     Environmental Assessment
ECSSD  Sustainable Development Sector Department,Europe and Central Asia Region,
       World Bank
EMP    Environmental ManagementPlan
EU     EuropeanUnion
FBiH   Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
FDCP   Forest Development and Conservation Project
F M    Financial Management
FMPAP  Forest andMountain ProtectedAreas Projects
FMIS   Forest Management InformationSystem
FMR    Financial Management Report
FMS    Financial Management Specialist
FMU    Forest Management Unit
GEF    Global Environmental Facility
GIS    Geographic InformationSystem
HCVF   High Conservation Value Forest
IBTV   Igman-Bjelasnica-Treskavica-Visocica mountain complex
ICB    International Competitive Bidding
IPARD  Instrumentfor Pre-Accession Assistance for RuralDevelopment
IPA    Instrumentof Pre-Accession
IUCN   The International Unionfor Conservation ofNature
JICA   Japanese International Cooperation Agency
M&E    Monitoring and Evaluation
MAFW   RS Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Resources
MAWF   FBiH Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resourcesand Forestry
MET    FBiHMinistry ofEnvironment and Tourism
MoFTER State Ministry of Foreign Trade andEconomic Relations

                                                                     FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

      MSPCEE         RS Ministry of Spatial Planning, Civil Engineering and Ecology
      MPPE           FBiHMinistry of Physical Planning and Environment
      MTDS           Medium-TermDevelopment Strategy
      NBC            NationalBiodiversity Committee
      NBSAP          NationalBiodiversity Strategy and Action Plan
      NCB            NationalCompetitive Bidding
      NEAP           NationalEnvironmental Action Plan
      NGO            Non-Governmental Organization
      NP             National Park
      NSCESD         National Steering Committee for Environment and Sustainable Development
      NTFP           Non-Timber Forest Product
      O M            Operational Manual
      PA             ProtectedArea
      PDO            Project Development Objective
      PGC            Project Guidance Committee
      PMU            Project Management Unit
      PMR            Project Management Report
      PRSP           Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
      RS             RepublikaSrpska
      SA             Social Assessment
      SFI            State Forest Inventory
      SGP            Small Grant Program
      SSCADP         Small-Scale Commercial Agricultural Development Project
      SWMP           Solid Waste Management Project
      TA             Technical Assistance
      TORS           Terms of References
      USAID          United States Agency for International Development
      UNDP           UnitedNations Development Program
      WWF            World Wide Fund for Nature




                                      Vice President:       Shigeo Katsu
                                    Country Director:      Jane Armitage
                                     Sector Manager:        John Kellenberg
                                  Task Team Leaders:       David A. Bontempo and Jessica Mott


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                                            BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA
             FOREST AND MOUNTAINPROTECTED AREAS PROJECT

                                                         CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                 Page

A.  STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                            ..................................................................   1
  1. Country and sector issues              ....................................................................................................    1
 2.  Rationale for Bank involvement..........................................................................................                      3
 3.  Higher level objectives to which the project contributes ....................................................                                 4

B.  PROJECT DESCRIPTION                       ..................................................................................................   5
  1. Financing instrument ........................................................................................................... 5
 2.  Project development objective and key indicators ..............................................................                                5
 3.  Project components          ..............................................................................................................    6
 4.  Lessons learned and reflected inProject design..................................................................                               8
 5.  Alternatives consideredand reasons for rejection..............................................................                                -8

C.  IMPLEMENTATION                  ...........................................................................................................    9
  1
  .  Partnership arrangements(ifapplicable)                         .............................................................................  9
 2.  Institutional and implementation arrangements                             ..................................................................  9
 3.  Monitoring and evaluation of outcomeshesults ................................................................                                10
 4.  Sustainability and Replicability .........................................................................................                   11
 5.  Critical risks and possible controversial aspects ...............................................................                            12
 6.  Loadcredit conditions and covenants ...............................................................................                          13

D.  APPRAISAL SUMMARY                       ..................................................................................................    14
 1.  Economic and financial analyses.......................................................................................                       14
 2.  Technical ...........................................................................................................................        15
 3.  Fiduciary   ............................................................................................................................     15
 4.  Social .................................................................................................................................     16
 5.  Environment ......................................................................................................................           17
 6.  Safeguard policies..............................................................................................................             18
 7.  Policy Exceptions and Readiness ...................................................................................... 18

Annex 1: Country and Sector or ProgramBackground                               ..........................................................     19

Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank and/or other Agencies                                                      ..................25
Annex 3: Results Frameworkand Monitoring                      .........................................................................       26

Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription             ......................................................................................        30

Annex 5: Project Costs................................................................................................................        39

Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements                  ..................................................................................       40

Annex 7: FinancialManagement and DisbursementArrangements                                              .....................................  43

Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements               .......................................................................................        51

Annex 9: Economic and FinancialAnalysis                  ..............................................................................       59

Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues        ............................................................................................        $63

Annex 11:ProjectPreparationand Supervision                        ......................................................................      65

Annex 12: Documents in the ProjectFile               ..................................................................................       66

Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits                ...............................................................................       67

Annex 14: Country at a Glance       ..................................................................................................        69

Annex 15: IncrementalCost Analysis            ........................................................................................        71

Annex 16: STAP RosterReview          .................................................................................................        77

Map IBRD 36061

                              BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA

                FOREST AND MOUNTAINPROTECTED AREAS PROJECT

                            PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                              EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA

                                         ECSSD

Date: May 8,2008                              Team Leader: Jessica Mott
Country Director: Jane Armitage               Sectors: Forestry (5O'Xo);Central government
Sector ManagerDirector : John Kellenberg      administration (50%)
Project ID: PO79161                           Themes: Landadministration and
Environmental Assessment: Not Required        management(P);Other environment and
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance      natural resources management
Loan                                          (P);Environmental policies and institutions
                                              (S);Rural non-farm income generation
                                              (S);Other public sector governance (S)

Global Supplemental ID: PO87094               Team Leader: Jessica Mott
LendingInstrument: Specific Investment Loan Sectors: Forestry (50%);Sub-national
Focal Area: B-Biodiversity                    government administration (25%);Central
Environmental Assessment: Partial             government administration (25%)
Assessment                                    Themes: Biodiversity(P);Other environment
SupplementFully Blended?: No                  and natural resourcesmanagement
                                              (P);Environmental policies and institutions
                                              (S);Participation and civic engagement (S)
                                 Project Financing Data
[ 3 Loan    [ ] Credit  [XI Grant  [ ] Guarantee   [ 3 Other:

For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$m.): US$3.4 million
ProDosed terms: Grant


BORROWEIURECIPIENT
Global Environment Facilitv (GEF)                2.90              0.50               3.40
Local Communities                                0.10              0.00               0.10
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT - Associated                  1.so              0.70               2.50
IDA Fund
Total:                                           7.30               1.20              8.50

Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Treasury
Sarajevo

  Bosnia and Herzegovina

  ResponsibleAgency:
  FBiH Ministryof Environment and Tourism
 Bosnia and Herzegovina
I RS Ministry  of Civil Engineering, Physical Planning, and Ecology
  Bosnia andHerzegovina




  Project implementation period: Start November 1,2008 End: October 31,2012
  Expected effectiveness date: October 31,2008
  Expected closing date: April 30, 2013
 Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?
 Re$ PAD I.C.                                                                      [ ]Yes [XINO
 Does the project requireany exceptions from Bank policies?                        [ ]Yes [X]No
 Re$ PAD IKG.
 Have these been approved by Bank management?                                      [ ]Yes [XINO
 I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                      [ ]Yes [XINO
 Does the project include any critical risks rated"substantial" or "high"?
 Re$ PAD III.E.                                                                    [ ]Yes [XINO

 Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?
 Re$ PAD IKG.                                                                      [        [ No
 Project development objective Re$ PAD II.C., TechnicalAnnex 3
  The project development objective (PDO) is to strengthenthe institutional andtechnical capacity
 for sustainable PA and natural resourcemanagement, and expand the BiHnetwork of forest and
 mountain PAS.

  Global Environment objective Re$ PAD II.C., TechnicalAnnex 3
 Becausethe PDO i s consideredboth local and global innature, it i s also is also consideredto be
 the global environmental objective for purposes of GEF consideration.

 Project description [one-sentence summary of each component] Re$ PAD II.D., Technical
 Annex 4

 Component 1: Protected Area Development (will support PA managementplans, operations,
 assessments, and facilities development inexisting and new PAS.
   Sub-component 1a): PA ManagementPlanning. The project will finance development and
 implementation of new PA plans for the two existing National Parks, for two existing forest
 reserves and for the new NPs inUna River and IBTV. Inaddition, the project will undertake new
 feasibility studies to examine the options for expansion of existing andpossible new protected
 areas.
   Sub-component 1b: Ecological and PA Management Assessment. The project will support for

the ecological assessments and periodic assessment of PA managementeffectiveness.
  Sub-component 1c): PA Facilities. The project will support new infrastructure, and limited
small-scale building rehabilitation, necessaryfor improvingthe operations of existing PAS,and
for establishing the newly createdprotected areas, e.g. trail improvements, new trail creation,
signage, resting places, park boundary markings, visitor entry booths, etc.

 Component 2: Capacity and Support for Biodiversity Conservation will focus on strengthening
the institutions responsiblefor planning, establishment, and managementof PAS.
  Sub-component 2a): Institutional Capacity Development. At the PA-level training and technical
assistance will focus on building competencies inkey areas including: ecosystem-based
management focusing on adaptive management: integration of ecological, economic and social
aspects, and sustainability; businessplanning emphasizing financial sustainability and marketing
of PAs as quality destinations; and field-level skills inareas such as patrolling, community
engagement, visitor managementand interpretation.       ,
 Sub-component2b): Public Awareness Programs. The project will support the development and
implementation of an outreachprogram to raise public awareness for biodiversity conservation
and PAS.
 Sub-component 2c): Project Management-andProject Monitoring, Limitedfinancing will be
provided for project managementand associatedoperating costs, meetings of the Project
Guidance Committee, andproject monitoring.

 Component 3: Local Initiatives inBiodiversity Conservation will support selected grants for
biodiversity conservation efforts by local stakeholders which promote improved naturalresource
management and generate economic benefits to local communities involved inprotected areas
management.

Which safeguardpolicies are triggered, ifany? Re$ PAD I K F., TechnicalAnnex 10
OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment; OP 4.04 Natural Habitats; OP 4.12 Involuntary
Resettlement; OP 4.36 Forests; OP 4.04 Natural Habitats.

Significant, non-standardconditions, ifany, for:
Re$ PAD III.F.
Board presentation:
None

Loadcredit effectiveness:
       The GEF Grant Agreement betweenthe World Bank and the Recipient, a Project
Agreement betweenthe World Bank and an Entity, and a Subsidiary Agreement betweenthe
same Entity and the Recipient (as satisfactory to the World Bank) have been executed, and there
is evidence that the GEF Grant Agreement, the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Agreement
%reduly authorized or ratified and legally binding on the parties inaccordancewith their terms.

Covenants applicable to project implementation:

Disbursement Conditions
       For each Entity, a Project Agreement betweenthe Entityandthe World Bank has been

 executed, a SubsidiaryAgreement betweenthe Recipientand the same Entity has beenexecuted,
 and an opinionhas been furnishedto the World Bank statingthat the ProjectAgreement and
 SubsidiaryAgreementhave beenduly authorizedor ratifiedby the Entity andthe Recipient,as
 the case maybe, andare legallybindinguponthem inaccordance with their respectiveterms.
        There will be no withdrawals for paymentsmade prior to the date ofthe Grant
 Agreement, except for withdrawals for expendituresmade on or after March 15,2008 up to an
 aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent for Categories 1 and 3 ofthe Project.
I
  FinancialManagementand ReportingCovenants
        The State Ministry of Finance shall appoint an independentauditor by January 31 of each
 year and provide an audit to the World Bank by June 30 of each year.
        The Entity PMUs shall prepareand submit to the World Bank quarterly interim financial
 reportswithin 45 days after the endof each quarter.
        The Entity PMUs shall prepare and submit to the World Bank semiannualproject
 progressreports by August 15 and February 15 of each year, and a draft mid-termreport by
 September 30,2010 inaccordance with guidelinesacceptableby the World Bank.

  ImplementationCovenants
        The Recipientshall cause the Entitiesto implementthe project inaccordancewith the
 provisions ofthe FinancialManagementManual, the Guidelines for Local Initiativesin
 BiodiversityConservation, the Access RestrictionProcess Framework, and the Environmental
 ManagementPlan, and shall not amend or waive or permit to be amended or waivedthese except
 with prior written approval ofthe World Bank.
        The Recipientshall cause the Entitiesto maintainPMUs with terms of reference and
 resources satisfactory to the World Bank, and with competent staff inadequate numbers.
        The RS shall appoint financial management andprocurementstaff for the MCEPPE
 PMUwithin one monthofprojecteffectivenessto carry out fiduciary servicesfor FMPAP.
        The Entities shall providedomestic budgetfinancingfor the projectPASandPMUs at
 levels satisfactoryto the World Bank.
        No less than one monthafter the effectivedate, the Recipient shall cause the Entitiesto
 appoint representativesfrom local government,the private sector and non-government
 organizationsto the Project Guidance Committeeas satisfactoryto the World Bank.
        The Entity environment ministriesshall designate an M&E focal point within three
 months ofproject effectivenessto coordinateM&E activitiesacross PASand with other
 governmentagencies.
        The Recipientshall apply inaccordance with arrangementsagreed with the World Bank
 the ProtectedArea ManagementEffectivenessTrackingTool for project-supportedPAS.

A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE
1. Countryand sector issues
1.      Land Use. Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH), with a landarea of 51,000 km2and an
estimatedpopulation of 4.1 million, is endowed with internationally recognized richbiodiversity
assets. About 50% of the country i s covered by forests and 25% by pastures. It i s mostly hilly
and mountainous, with only 5% of territory classified as plains, 24% as hills, 29% as Karst
(irregular limestone terrain) and 42% as mountains.
2.      Economic Role of Natural Resources. About 2 million people (54% of BiH's
population) live inrural areas, and for them forest and mountain ecosystems serve as an
important source of subsistence, employment, energy and recreation. Furthermore, since BiH
has a rural population density (43 persons per square km) which i s lower than any of the other
Balkan countries, sound management of its "production landscape" values (forest and grassland
management) can provide income for local people while also maximizingenvironmental
services.
3.      BiodiversitySignificance. BiH i s at a geographical cross-road and includes5 types of
climate, 3 agro-climatic regions, and multipleprovinces, landscape types, and biotopes. BiH
covers three globally significant ecosystems and several smaller-scale globally important sites.
The country's richbiodiversity includes over 5,000 confirmed taxa of vascular flora, including
450 of which are endemic to BiHonly. For several taxonomic groups (e.g., lichens, mosses,
algae, fungi, and bacteria) comprehensive surveys do not exist, but available data indicate these
groups are also highly diverse. BiH's forest resources are among the richest inEurope with a
wide variety of coniferous and deciduous species. The country's large blocks of forests maintain
ecological integrity, river dynamics, and large carnivore dispersion between Central and South-
East Europe. At least thirty-two species of animals and plants found inBiHare on the 2002
IUCNRedList of threatened species. Keystone species include bear, wolf and river otter.
Interesting flagship species are bats, of which several are considered invulnerable status.
4.      ProtectedArea Coverage. It is estimated that at 19%, BiHhas the highest proportion of
threatened plant species of any Europeancountry, and yet less than 1% of its land i s set aside as
PAS. Currently only 0.55% of the territory i s formally protected -the lowest level inEurope -
comparedto the regional average of 7%. Broad consensus to expand the network ofprotected
areas (PAS)exists among stakeholders at all levels inboth Entities. Key ministerial officials, as
well as local governments, and numerous civil society organizations, are committed to
developing a system of PASwhich would protect key biodiversity and cultural assets, as well as
providingnew income opportunities for local residents. However, civil society organizations
working on environmental issues are relatively weak. Furthermore, there is little experience with
participatory approaches to sustainable landscape management.
5.     Post-Conflict Context. The conflict associatedwith the breakup of the former
Yugoslavia, between 1992 and 1995 caused heavy damage to natural resources-the direct
damage to forests and associated sectors is estimated at US$2 billion. A minimumof 200,000
hectares became contaminated by landmines, resulting inoverexploitation of some rural areas
and abandonment of others. Subsequentto the conflict, poverty, inadequate land-useplanning, as
well as limitedcapacity of local institutions and lack of awarenessof conservation issues, have
contributed to unsustainablelanduse practices and habitat change. Inthis context, the



                                                 1

conservation of globally significant natural resources has to take into account economic
development considerations.
6.        GovernmentStructure. As a result of the DaytonPeace Accords (1995), inaddition to
central government authority at the `state'level, Bosnia-Herzegovina (BiH) consists of two
Entities - the Federation of Bosnia andHerzegovina (FBiH), and the Republika Srpska (RS), and
a separate territory of Brcko District of BiH.The Entitieshave separate administrative and
legislative bodies. Inmost areas of natural resources management, the Entities have
responsibility for creating and implementing all relevant laws. FBiHdelegates some authority
and responsibilities to the cantonal level.
7.       Allocation of Responsibilitiesfor ProtectedAreas. Responsibilities for PA planning and
muchof their oversight rests with the Entityministriesincharge of environment - the Ministry of
Environment and Tourism (MET) inFBiH, and the Ministryof Spatial Planning, Civil
Engineering and Ecology (MSPCEE) inRS. Inthe FBiH the Ministry of Physical Planning is
responsible for preparing spatial development plans. Four types of PAs are defined:(a) nature
protection areas, (b) national parks, (c) natural monuments and (d) landscapeprotection areas.
Entityenvironmental ministriesprovide oversight for the first two PA categories (nature
protection areas and national parks), with the right to delegate specific responsibilities to other
institutions. Management ofthese two types of PAS, however, i s primarily carried out by
specialized public enterprises. Incontrast, for natural monuments and landscape protection areas
oversight and managementresponsibilities rest with a variety of other institutions (including
Cantonal Ministries incharge of Water Management and Forestry; Municipalities; NGOs; and
others). Where such PASare located within public forests, public forest enterprises (inthe RS,
the enterprise associatedwith Entity Ministriesof Agriculture, Forests, and Water Resources,
and inFBIH, enterprises associatedwith cantonal forest offices) are responsible for maintaining
conservation status.
8.       PA Financing. ExistingPAShave beenunder-fundedand largely self-financed, relying
on the generation of revenues from various activities. Historically, the largest portionof funding
(between 60-90%) has come from sales associatedwith selective thinning of forests. While
existing national parks have progressively reducedthe total volume of forest thinning, inthe
absence of significant revenues from non-consumptive sources, this is likely to remain an
important revenue source for the mediumterm'. Other revenue sources from forest products
include fees for grazing, gathering of non-timber forest products (NTFPs) and hunting (generally
less than 10%). National parks do obtain some budget support from government authorities, and
the level of funding is likely to increaseinthe future. InRS, it is expectedthat Entity budgets
will provide for nearly 100% ofpark operating and investment costs. InFBiH,the Ministry of
Finance i s committed to long-term financing o f new PA operationsand investments, but final
levels will only be determinedafter formal PASestablishment. The establishment of Una as a
national park i s included inthe FBiHbudget for 2008. Tourism i s also an important revenue
source (between3-25%) for existing national parks. That said, tourism revenueswill continue to
be insufficient to cover all operational expenditures, muchless new investments. World-wide
experience demonstrates that PASrequire government budget support to operate.

I        Inthe RS, new laws are nearly completed which will change the incentivestructure by convertingthe
managementbodiesfor nationalparks from public enterprisesto "public institutions". This new status will channel
revenue from thinning directlyto the Entity-level (thus restrictingthis as a source of financingPA operations). The
status also provides a revisedgovernance structurethat will represent a wider rangeof stakeholder interests.


                                                         2

9.       GovernmentStrategy and Plans. BiHratifiedthe UnitedNations Convention on
Biodiversity Conservation in2002. With support of the UnitedNations Environment Program -
Global Environment Facility (UNEP-GEF), Bosnia-Herzegovina i s developing its National
Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (NBSAP), which includes a national plan for PAS,and is
expectedto be completed in2008. A government-sponsoredSub-committee for Biodiversity,
through a Working Group composed of technical professionals from government ministries,
universities and the private sector has guided the NBSAP preparation. The involvement of
NBSAP committee members inthis preparation work has ensuredconsistencybetweenthe
proposedproject design and the PA plan. Collaboration betweenthe project and the NBSAP
would continue during project implementation, especially through capacity building of Entity
ministerial staff and involvement of the Sub-committee for Biodiversity inproject guidance.
 10.     Selection ofproject Areas, The selection of areas for inclusion inthe Forest and
Mountain ProtectedAreas Project (FMPAP) was made through a comprehensive and
participatory consultation process and reflects a strong technical consensus on priorities. Four
areas are already official PAS. Another two areas, Igman-Bjelasnic-Treskavica-Visocica (IBTV)
mountain complex, and the UnaRiver, have completed feasibility studies and are expectedto be
legally proclaimed as national parksin2008 and early 2009 respectively. The proposedproject
also includesa feasibility study for Prenj-Cvrsnica-Cabulja-Vranan important site inthe Dinaric
Alps, which may subsequently be funded under the project.
2. Rationale for Bank involvement
 11.     WorldBank Involvement in BiH ForestAreas. The Bank has beencontinuously
involvedinthe natural resources/environmentsector since 1998. From 1998 to 2003, a Forestry
Project, financed by the International Development Association (IDA), the EU, and Italian and
Norwegian governments, focused on recovery of the forest sector, but also helpedto improve the
protection of forest ecosystems. A follow-up project, the Forest Development and Conservation
Project (FDCP) supports implementationof reforms inforest organization and management. It
includessupport for landscape approachesto forest planning and managementthat incorporate
improved information systems, conservation values and stakeholderengagement. It has four
components:
     (i)    acceleratingthe implementation of new legal, institutional and economic frameworks,
     (ii)   development of a Forest Management InformationSystem and a State Forest
            Inventory
    (iii)   promoting biodiversity and forest conservation
    (iv)    project management.
12.     A US$3.74 million equivalent IDA Credit for FDCP approved in2003 and extended with
an additional IDA Credit of US$3.35 million equivalent in 2007 until late 2010, i s financing the
first, second and fourth components. An US$780,000 equivalent Italian Grant (2003-2007) for
FDCP financed the third (biodiversity) component, includingmost of the preparation studies for
the Forest and MountainProtectedAreas Project (FMPAP), as well as other inputs for the
NBSAP. The FMPAP preparation studies, which are listed inAnnex 12, included generic
frameworks (for environmental managementplans, social assessments including participation
plans, feasibility studies, and PA managementplans) which can be applied to any proposedPA
investments, as well as site analysis specific to FMPAP. Other biodiversity studies supported




                                                  3

under FDCP which were not a specific part of FMPAP preparation (e.g., status of specific
species, impacts of hunting on resource use) are also relevant to FMPAP.
13.     Other RelevantBank and DonorActivities. The World Bank/GEF-supported Neretva
and Trebisnjinica Management Project, will complement activities inforest and mountain
ecosystems. Inaddition, the World Bank has wide regional experience inGEF biodiversity
projects and forestry operations, includingthe Croatian Karst Ecosystem Conservation Project,
which includes similar andnearby landscapes,Other donors active inforest development and
biodiversity conservation include the UnitedState Agency for International Development
(USAID) the UnitedNationDevelopment Program (UNDP), Japanese International
Development Agency (JICA), the EU, the World Wildlife Fund(WWF), and the International
Union for Conservation ofNature (IUCN). Through its lead role inthe forestry sector, the Bank
has and will continue to mobilize donor support for biodiversity conservation inBiH.On the
broader rural agenda, the local initiatives grants under the project will build technical skills for
activities eligible for EU funds under the Instrument for Pre-accessionAssistance for Rural
Development (IPARD) program, and thus complement the IDA-financedAgriculture and Rural
Development Project.
3. Higher level objectivesto which the projectcontributes
14.     Recipient'sObjectives. The proposedproject will support Government efforts to
address threats to biodiversity, promote ecosystem management, and expandthe PA system to a
level commensurate with local needs and regional averages. The Project will directly support
implementation of the proposedNationalBiodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (NBSAP)
describedabove. Project activities also support the Government's MediumTerm Development
Strategy by: (a) creating conditions for sustainable and balancedeconomic development and
promoting poverty alleviation through improved use ofPAs for local livelihoods and tourism;,
and (b) supporting the acceleration of EUintegration through support to the Government in
meeting the EUnature and biodiversity policy (Natura 2000) requirements.Preparationand
implementation of community-based initiatives will also buildtechnical skills for activities
eligible for funding by EUaccessioninstruments.
15.     Bank Country PartnershipStrategy. The proposedproject will directly address the
2008-2011 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) objective to "improve the environment for
private-sector led growth and convergence to Europe" with support for expandedbusiness
opportunities and strengthenedregional cooperation to manage public goods. The CPS
specifically mentions FMPAP as one of the "projects on environmental protection, both to
improve governance and transparency and to support tourism". The project is included as one of
the CPS deliverables.
16.     Relevanceto GlobalEnvironmentFacility Priorities.The project is fully consistent
with the provisions of the GEF Operational Strategy, and specifically with the Operational
Program (OP) for Forest Ecosystems (OP3) with additional relevance to the OP for Mountain
Ecosystems(OP4) and linkages to the program for Conservation And SustainableUse of
Biological Diversity important to Agriculture (OP13). Within the biodiversity focal area the
project primarily supports the first strategic objective: Catalyzing Sustainability of Protected
Area Systems.




                                                  4

B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1. Financinginstrument
17.     The project will be financed by a US$3.4 million Global Environment Facility (GEF)
grant.
2. Projectdevelopment objectiveand key indicators
18.     ProgramContext. The GEF-financed Project is part of an integrated responseto
requests of the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina for assistance with improved natural
resources management.
19.     Link to IDA-financedProject. Although administratively separate, the Forest
Development and Conservation Project (FDCP) and the GEF-financed Forest and Mountain
ProtectedAreas Project (FMPAP) are integrated at the conceptual level. The FMPAP will build
on the work of the FDCP. Beyond the direct work on the FDCP biodiversity component which
was financed by the Italian Grant and has beenmentioned above, the FMPAP also leverages
many of the technical outputs from the IDA-financedFDCP activities: For example, the ongoing
state forest inventory (SFI) will provide critical baseline data for PASincludingland use and
managementplans and trends inforest status. The Forest Management InformationSystem
(FMIS) being developedwill provide the longer-term capabilityfor monitoring andplanning
forest resources within and around PAS. FMPAP will also benefit from the increasedofficial
international endorsement of the National Standards for Forest Certification, and the associated
training intheir application which is being supported by the IDA portion of FDCP. The toolkit
on High Conservation Value Forests (HCVFs), which was developed as part of the National
Standards will be particularly relevant -- pilot testing of this toolkit has already informed the
feasibility study for the proposedUnaRiver PA, by assistingwith zoning recommendations. In
addition, the FDCP work on strategic forest planning, expansion of revenue options, and
capacity building intransparent and effective communications will contribute to improved PA
management. For this reason, a portionof the IDA financing under the FDCP i s considered
direct parallel cofinancing for this Project.
20.     The ProjectDevelopmentObjective.The project development objective (PDO) is to
strengthenthe institutional and technical capacity for sustainablePA and natural resource
management, and expand the BiHnetwork of forest and mountain PAS. Because the PDO is
consideredboth local and global innature, it is also consideredto be the global environmental
objectivefor purposesof GEF consideration. The project focuses on improving the management
effectiveness of four existing PAS,bringingtwo additional sites under protected status, assessing
feasibility for another site andpromoting sustainable natural resource management and
biodiversity conservation activities inor around PAS.
21.     Outcomes. Indicators for outcomes associatedwith this objective include:
    Area under formal protection (of various types of PA managementcategories, mostly
    multipleuse) increasesfrom approximately 0.6% to 3.0% (i.e., an addition of approximately
    120,000 ha);
    Key threats to biodiversity at each PA (as measuredthrough a composite indicator) decrease
    or remainunchanged;




                                                  5

    Portionofrecurrent managementcosts financedby at least 20% from sustainabletourism
    (includingentrance anduse payments), non-timberharvestinganddonations, as well as at
    least 15% from governmentbudget.
    ImprovedPA managementeffectivenessas assessedinthe ProtectedAreas Management
    Effectiveness(PAME) TrackingTool2
    Publicsupport for PASmaintainedat a minimumof 80% of respondentsas assessedthrough
    public opinionsurveys.
3. Projectcomponents
22.     TotalCosts. The FMPAPcosts total US$6.00 millionover four years, includinga GEF
grant of US $3.40 million, contributionsfrom Entity governmentsof US$2.51million (US$1.255
millionfrom FBiHandUS$1.255 million from RS), beneficiarycontributions(fromthe
communityinitiativescomponent)of US$0.09 million. Inaddition, the additionalfinancing
phase of the IDA Project(FDCP), which is considered"associated" with FMPAP, provides
US$2.5 millioninparallelfinancing, althoughthese expendituresare administeredseparately
from FMPAP. The leveragedfinancingfrom FDCP comprisesUS$1.7 million for forest
inventory; US$0.5 million for FMIS; andUS$0.3 millionfor strategic forestry planning,
planningfor alternativerevenuesource generation,certification, andcommunicationskills.
23.     Component 1: ProtectedArea Development(total US $3.66 million, ofwhich US$2.00
million GEF financed). This componentwill supportPA managementplans, operations,
assessments, and facilities developmentinexistingand newPAS.
24.     Sub-component 1a): PA ManagementPlanning. The projectwill finance development
andimplementationof newPA plans for the two existingNational Parks(NPs) Sutjeskaand
Kozara, for the existingJanj and Lom Forestreservesand for the newNPs inUna River and
IBTV. Inaddition,the projectwill undertakenew feasibility studiesto examine the optionsfor
expansionof existingandpossiblenewprotectedareas, includinga newPA inandaroundthe
karsticmountainranges of Prenj-Cvrsnica-Cabulja-Vran. The projectwill involvestakeholders
to developandimplement differentmodelsof PA expansionand management(e.g., PA zoning,
joint managementof adjacent areas, etc.). It will also address the policy developmentand
implementationregardingsources andproportionsofPA financing. These efforts will helpthe
PASto at leastmeet, andpreferablyexceedthe resulttargets on expansionandfinancing.
25.     Sub-component 1b): EcologicalandPA ManagementAssessment. The projectwill
establisha MonitoringandEvaluation(M&E) systemfor boththe PASand the project. This will
includesupport for the ecologicalassessments to be usedas inputsto the PA management
planninganddecision-makingas well as for subsequent monitoringof biodiversitystatus
includingtracking of key habitatsand species. It will also includeperiodic assessment of PA
managementeffectiveness, basedon applicationofthe GEF-mandatedProtectedAreas
ManagementEffectiveness(PAME) TrackingTool.
26.     Sub-component IC): Facilities.The projectwill support new infrastructure,and
                                PA
limitedsmall-scalebuildingrehabilitation,necessaryfor improvingthe operations of existing
PAS,andfor establishingthe newly createdprotectedareas. The infrastructure is generally
"soft", e.g., trail improvements,new trail creation, signage, restingplaces, park boundary


2 World Bank / World Wildlife FundAlliance for Forest Conservation and Sustainable Use: ReDortingProgress in
ProtectedAreas - A Site Level Management EffectivenessTracking Tool, 2003


                                                     6

markings, visitor entry booths, etc. Inaddition, the project will finance goods for park
operations. It is expectedthat these investmentswill improve the products and services offered
by PAS,and increasethe captureof keyrevenues suchas entry fees.
27.      Component2: Capacity and Supportfor BiodiversityConservation(total US$1.84
million, of which US$0.99 million is GEF-financed). This component will focus on
strengtheningthe institutions responsiblefor planning, establishment, and managementof PAS.
28.      Sub-component2a): Institutional Capacity Development. At the PA-level, training and
technical assistance will focus on building competencies inkey areas including: ecosystem-based
management focusing on adaptive management, integration of ecological, economic and social
aspects, and sustainability; businessplanning emphasizing financial sustainability and marketing
of PASas quality destinations; and field-level skills inareas such as patrolling, community
engagement, visitor managementand interpretation. Giventhe critical roles of the forest and
tourism sectors the training will also be targeted towards professionals inthese sectors. At Entity
level, the project will finance capacity building for the environmental ministriesand other
concerned agencies incharge of protected area management, so that these institutions are able to
provide enhanced leadership as they prepare for EUconvergence and strengthen regional
cooperation. This component will also support case studies on selectedPA management issues.
29.      Sub-component2b): Public Awareness Programs. The project will support the
development and implementation of an outreach program to raise public awareness for
biodiversity conservation and PAS.
30.      Sub-component2c): Proiect Managementand Proiect Monitoring. Limited financing will
be provided for project managementand associated operating costs, meetings of the Project
Guidance Committee, and project monitoring.
31.      Component3: Local Initiativesin BiodiversityConservation(total US $0.50 million,
of which US $0.41 million is GEF-financed). The Project will support biodiversity conservation
efforts by local stakeholders which promote improved natural resource managementand
generate economic benefits to local communities involved inprotected areas management. To
be eligible, subprojects must be able to demonstratethat they will mitigate the significant threats
to global biodiversity or contribute to monitoring of suchbiodiversity, and include arrangements
to assess their impacts. I t is expectedthat eligible subprojectswill fall under three categories: (i)
PA compatible income-generation, e.g., ecotourism activities (home-based accommodation,
guide training, trail development), sustainableNTFP extraction, agri-environmental enterprises,
environmental certification assistance for ecotourism and agriculture; (ii) habitat and landscape
conservation, e.g., site and landscape restoration, participatory pasture management; and (iii)
sustainable environmental management, e.g., waste management schemes, alternative energy
promotion. To ensure sustainability, the project will provide technical assistance to facilitate the
design and screeningof subproject proposals, and to helpmonitor their implementation.
Beneficiaries will be requiredto contribute at least 20% of the overall sub-project budget.
Suitable initiatives to be developed into subprojects will be identified and selected through
public consultations involving local stakeholders, taking into account opportunities to address
restrictions resulting from PA management. Eligible sub-projects can range invalue from
$20,000 to $100,000. At least one grant will be awarded per project PA, and the total value of
grants is estimated at US$360,000.




                                                  7

4. Lessons learned and reflected in Project design
32.     From the experience o f comparable projects in Central and Eastern Europe and
elsewhere, the following lessons have beenlearned:
    Projects should have broad support inthe government, civil society, and local communities
    where the protected areas are proposed, or to be expanded;
    Early involvement o f stakeholders inproject preparationthrough a participatory planning
    process, including local communities and influential decision makers, i s essential to ensure
    ownership and successful project implementation;
    Resource users should be involved inthe design and development o f the management system
    to ensure the sustainable use o fthe resource concerned, and o f the control measures which
    needto be developed and applied;
    Effective public awareness campaigns should be built into the P A planning and management
    processes inorder to ensure that all stakeholders are well informed and can provide support;
    Management strategies for PAS,buffer zones, biological corridors, etc. should establish a
    link betweenthe conservation objectives and tangible benefitsfrom sustainable natural
    resource use; and
    PA projects should maintain close co-operation with other types o fprojects and initiatives
    working inthe same broad technical / geographical areas.
33.     Project preparation and designhas incorporated these lessons through: (i)addressing the
links between sustainable natural resource use, natural resource management and socio-
economic issues; (ii)buildingregional, Entity and local capacity for conservation management;
and (iii)ensuring a participatory and transparent approach to project preparation and
implementation.
5. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
34.     Four alternatives were considered and rejected during the development o f the project
concept:
    Focus theproject mainly on the PA expansion. This approach was rejected as improving
    management capacity was seen as critical to ensure sustainability in existing protected areas.
    Work only in one Entity. This proposal was rejected because a main goal o f the project i s
    country-wide capacity enhancement and representative ecosystem coverage, as well as
    promotion o f synergies among P A management authorities.
    Focus theproject only on direct PA management and not include buffer zone activities. This
    option was rejected because global good practice has shown that support o f local people i s
    critical to sustainability.
    Implementation through FDCP Project Implementation Units and Entityforestry ministries.
    Although these agencies played a major role inproject preparation, this option was rejected
    because inBiHenvironmental ministrieshave the lead responsibilities for national parks,
    and therefore their leadership inproject implementation will strengthenthe sustainability o f
    institutional development impacts.




                                                8

C. IMPLEMENTATION
1. Partnershiparrangements
35.      DonorProjects. As notedabove, FMPAP is integratedwith FDCP at the conceptual
level. The recentlycompletedItalian grant ofFDCP supportedthe direct preparationofFMPAP
as well as a number of other relevantstudies and training, while the ongoing IDA financingi s
supportingthe state forest inventory, ForestManagementInformationSystem, and other
initiativeswhich are consideredpart ofFMPAPco-financing. To further ensure consistencyand
collaboration,one Bank task team will supervisebothFDCPand FMPAP. FMPAPwill also
continueto collaboratewith the other donor projects listedinAnnex 2. Inparticular, it will
continuethe existingdonor partnershipsestablishedduringFDCP implementationwith (i)
USAID's Cluster CompetitivenessActivity (to be completedinJune 2008, but with likely
follow-up activities) and (ii)UNDP's new "Forestry for EmploymentProject inthe Srebrenica
Region". FMPAPcomplementsthe GEF-supported"Neretva and TrebisjnicaManagement
Project", providingupstreamimpactsbenefitingthis transboundaryinitiative.
36.      GovernmentAgencies. The project designtakes into accountexistingallocationof
governmentresponsibilities,which assignthe Entity environmentalministriesleadroles.
However, the implementationarrangementsalso provide for linkages with other agencies at
various levels o f governmentwhich have a key stake, includingthe Ministries ofAgriculture,
Water Managementand Forestry (MAWMF)in bothEntities, Ministry of ForeignTrade and
Economic Relations(MFTER) as GEF FocalPoint, as well as cantonal and municipal
institutions. At the local level, importantworking relations have been establishedbetweenon-
the-groundpersonnelmanagingprotectedareas and forest enterprises, to help avoidpotential
conflicts on landuse rights and access to natural resources.
37.     Non-governmentorganizationsand the privatesector. Civil society andprivate sector
participationinthe country's PA systemwill help ensure its long-termviability. The project
designprovides opportunitiesto buildand strengthenpartnershipswith NGOs ina range ofPA
management activities includingcommunity mobilization, awareness raising, livelihood
developmentand environmentalmanagement. With the continuedgrowth oftourism inthe
country, the project will also support private sector partnershipswith a focus on creatingdemand
for sustainabletourism.
2. Institutionaland implementationarrangements
38.     Timing. ProjectEffectiveness is expectedby September 30,2008, and the Mid-Term
Review is scheduledfor October 2010. The projectis expectedto be completedby October31,
2012, with a closingdate for the GEF grant ofApril 30,2013.
39.     MinisterialResponsibilities. BiH, representedby the Ministry of Financeand Treasury,
would be the recipient ofthe GEF grant and would transfer the proceedsto the FBiH and RS
Governmentsby openingtwo special accounts. The Sector for Project Implementationwithin
the FBiHMET and the Sector for Project Coordinationand Developmentwithin the RS
MSPCEE(inorder to simplify terminology,bothare calledProjectManagementUnits (PMUs)
hereafter inthis document) have specializedteams who will undertakecore implementation
functions includingoversight, procurement, financial management, annual planning, supervision,
monitoringofrepayments, reportingandevaluation. Where appropriate(for example inthe Janj
and Lom ForestReserves inRS) implementationwill be closely coordinatedwith the relevant



                                                 9

Entity MinistriesofAgriculture, Water ManagementandForestry(MAWMF). The MET and
MSPCEEwould also leadthe process ofprotectedarea declaration, establishment and
expansion. A ProjectGuidanceCommitteecomprisingthe existing Sub-committeefor
Biodiversityalong with the GEF FocalPoint from MFTER, PMUManagers, and representatives
from local government, private sector and non-governmentorganizationswill provide project
and policy guidance and a forum for exchangingexperience.
40.      PMU Capacity. The MET PMU is a well-established unit, already staffedby
governmentemployeeswith longexperienceimplementingBank projectsand funded under the
FBiH domestic budget. It has appointeda new financial management specialist (FMS) to work
on FMPAP, and with trainingby the PMU's experiencedFMS who is responsiblefor the
ongoing Bank-financedSolid Waste ManagementProject, this PMUwill be fully capable to
undertakeall necessary functions. The MSPCEEhas establisheda PMU office with RS
domesticbudgetand appointeda ProjectManagerto headthis unit This PMUplansto appoint
                                                                   .
an financial management andprocurement staff shortly. The RS PMU has signedmemoranda
of understanding(MOU) with local financial management and localprocurementspecialistswho
already have experiencewith a Bank-financedproject. These experiencedspecialistswill (a)
establishthe financial management and procurementsystems inthe MSPCEEPMU (b) provide
financial management and procurement services and hands-ontraining to PMU staff duringthe
first three months after projecteffectiveness, and (c) provideadvice on a retainerbasis to PMU
staff for at least three months.
41.      Site Specific ManagementResponsibilities. Inthe RS, the two existingNationalParks
(Kozara and Sutjeska) are under the authority of MSPCEE. For each PA a NP Authority,
currently operatingas a public enterprise, manages day-to-day operations. EachPark has
Government-appointedSteeringand Supervisory Boards. ForestReserves, such as Janj and Lom,
are generallyunderthe supervisionofForestEnterprisesthat report to their respectiveMAWMF.
NationalParks inFBiH will be under the authority of MET and are expectedto operate as public
institutions.
3. Monitoring and evaluation of outcomeshesults
42.      Most ofthe monitoringand evaluation(M&E) will be inthe form of activitiesunder the
Ecologicaland PA ManagementAssessment Subcomponent,with the exceptionofmore
narrowlyfocusedprojectmonitoringwhich will be handledunderthe Project Management
Subcomponent. This overall M&E system will provideparametersto support policy formulation
and planningfor boththe existingand new protectedareas, andto monitor their ecologicalstatus
thereafter. M&Ewill makeuse of existingdata sources (suchas the NationalBiodiversity
Strategy and Action Plan) supplementedby data collectionwithin the project and special survey
and assessment updates, plus case studies to be undertakenby contractedspecialists.PA
managers will also adapt the ProtectedAreas ManagementEffectiveness(PAME) TrackingTool
to assess PA managementprogress. The M&E system will take into account informationfrom
the SFIand FMIS beingdevelopedunderFDCPon key forests, forest status and other attributes.
Project monitoringand evaluationwill be guidedby the ResultsFrameworkgiveninAnnex 3.
Project actions, expenditures andprogresstowards identifiedobjectives will be monitoredby the
implementingagencies and reportedina semi-annualprogressreport to members ofthe Project
GuidanceCommittee and other concernedofficials so that appropriateaction can be taken.
Technical assistance will be providedto more fully establishthe entire M&E framework and
train managers inassociatedprinciplesand methodology. EachEntity environmentministrywill


                                                10

appoint a M&E focal point to coordinate M&E activities across PASand with other government
agencies (including counterparts working on the SFI and FMIS). The total project costs for all
forms of M&E is estimatedat US$600,000, of which US$340,000 is financedby GEF. As
mentioned earlier, parallel IDA financing under FDCP for the SFI and FMISprovides additional
M&E support. Relevant subcomponent descriptions inAnnex 4 provide further details on M&E.
4. Sustainability and Replicability
43.     FinancialSustainability. The project is designedto buildfinancial sustainability and
diminishthe reliance on revenuefrom forest thinning. As noted above, under a new legal
definition inthe RS, (with PASnow establishedas "public institutions") PASwill be able to
access additional government budget revenues, inparticular for protection functions and capital
improvements, improvingtheir financial sustainability inthe near and long-term. The Project
will also assist PA authorities inthe development of managementplansthat will include the most
appropriate and feasible options for diversified revenue generation given the conservation
objectives of PAS. As part of EUpre-accessioncapacity building, the EC will complete a
preliminary assessment (including an investment and action plan) covering biodiversity and
nature protection inJuly 2008, which FMPAP will take into account. Not all financing options
will be appropriate inall places. For example, the Janj and Lom forest preserves will rely largely
on government budget support. As strict preserves, options such as entry fees or other tourist fees
are not available. On the other hand, bothof the proposed new NationalParks (Una River and
the IBTV) offer outstanding tourism opportunities, and are infact already widely visited,
particularly IBTV. It i s reasonable to assume that demand for services inthese parks will be
sufficient to provide critical financial contributions to their long-term operations.
44.     Institutionaland social sustainability. Institutional sustainability will be addressed by
training and increasedhands-onexperience inPA management, project management, and
associatedpolicy analysis. The project is makinguse of existing administrative and
organizational structures. Social sustainability will be achievedby including relevant
stakeholders indeveloping a country-wide approachtowards the expansion of the network of
protected areas, by incorporating community perspectivesand needs into PA management,by
building awareness of the benefits of mainstreaming biodiversity, and by building experience in
participatory approachesto sustainablenatural resource management.
45.     Environmentalsustainability. Environmental sustainability will be addressedby the
introduction of environmentally sound PA management plans anddetailedmonitoring, and by
applying the Bank's environmental safeguards.
46.     Replicationthrough successful models. FMPAP will establisha numberof models that
can be replicated outside the scope ofthe project. Implementation under the environmental
ministries andthe linkage to FDCP will also facilitate and reinforce replication, as will continued
collaboration with and support of the NBSAP. The implementation of improved policies for
domestic budget financing of PASwill help to fund replication, and where desirable, additional
donor financing will be sought. Models for replication include:
    Standards and precedents for improved PA management inexisting PASwill be applicable to
    other existing PASwhich are not includedinthe project as well as new PAS(both under
    FMPAP and for other future efforts).




                                                   11

     Criteria and processes associated with the establishment o f new PAS,especially those related
    to site selection, PA management plans and consultation with local stakeholders should help
     guide establishment o f additional future PAS.
    Public communications campaign, and related marketing o f BiH's protected areas should not
     only establish capacity within the country related to PAS,but also be relevant for other
     sectors with tourism potential, and develop international linkages that will facilitate ongoing
     learning and commercial alliances across countries.
    Local initiatives inconservation under component 3, will serve as a model for accessing EU
    pre-accession assistance instruments such as Financial Instrument for the Environment
     (LIFE)-Nature and Instrumentfor Pre-Accession Assistance for Rural Development
     (IPARD), and Entity-basedFunds for Environmental Protection (Eco-Funds) for similar
    activities inthe country.
47.      ReplicationthroughDisseminationand Learning. Replicability will also be addressed
by the project's emphasis on disseminationand learning. Public consultation associated withPA
management planning and implementationwill build communication channels. Project support
for M&E will not only identify lessons learned, but also cultivate a learning culture within the
agencies responsible for P A management, so that they adjust their operations to take into account
these lessons, consistent with modern "ecosystem management approaches" (Le., adaptation,
integration, precaution (avoidance o f negative impacts) and sustainability). The institutional
capacity development subcomponent will also support exchange o f experiences across PASand
build awareness o f good practices inother countries (through study tours to neighboring
countries, participation in international conferences, and more robust access to the Internet). The
public awareness program will also promote dissemination and interactive learning.
Approximately one-third o f the direct project costs o f subcomponents 2a and 2b (US$0.4million
o f a total o f US$1.2million) will contribute to replication.
5. Critical risks and possiblecontroversialaspects
Risk                                                   Risk Mitigation Measure                      Risk Rating with
                                                                                                    Mitigation
To project outcome
Insufficientgovernment commitment     Projectdesign is grounded in government environmental        M
to adopt and implement requiredPA     policiesand strategies, and addresses priorities set forth in
regulations as well as providethe     the MDTSas well as the NEAP. Counterpart funding
necessary budget allocation           levels agreed with Entity governments. ProjectTA for
                                      managementplans will stress value o ftransparency and
                                      public disclosureo fPA budgetsand government
                                      commitments.
Pre-selected PASdo not materialize    Project legal agreement specifies benchmarksfor              M
due to delays in legislativeprocesses legislativeproposalson new PAS.Alternativeprotected
and/or other obstacles.               area feasibility study (Prenj) is funded, and budget can be
                                      reallocatedto that site in the event that one of the other
                                      areas takes longer to be established
Inadequate local commitment to PA     Projectincludes local incentivesto support sustainable       M
managementthat includes specific      managementpractices.Outreachcampaigns will increase
ecosystem-based tools and             awareness of PA values. New PA institutional
approaches                            arrangementsprovideopportunities for local participation.




                                                      12

                                                                                                 Mitigation
Influential stakeholdersat the Entity Projectpreparationused participatoryapproaches to          M
and cantonal levels resist the        achieve broad stakeholder agreementand political buy-in;
establishmentof protectedareas and    establishment of new PASand expansion of existing sites
adoption of key reforms in            will also incorporateparticipatory approaches, especially
management o f sites                  through use of new tools (ParticipationPlan, Access
                                      RestrictionProcessFramework, and Operational
                                      Sourcebook)developed during preparation
To outcome results
Inadequatecapacity to implement       Project design includestraining and technical assistance in M
activities and implementingagencies   initial years. Strengthenedand growing PA system will
may be unableto attract and retain    provideopportunities for career development and
qualifiedstaff.                       recognitionof PA managementdiscipline. ImprovedPA
                                      financing will provide improvedincentives for good
                                      staffing.
Inadequatecapacity and corruptionin   Control and transparency measureswill address              M
financial management and              corruptionrisk. For capacity, where required, PMUs will
procurement                           acquire additionalfiduciary staff and providethem with
                                      trainingand advice by experienced specialists.
Overall Risk Rating                                                                              M




                                                     13

    The EntityPMUs shall prepare and submit to the World Bank quarterly interimfinancial
    reports within45 days after the end o f each quarter, and maintain a satisfactory financial
    management system throughout the project life.
    The Entity PMUs shall prepare and submit to the World Bank semiannual project progress
    reports by August 15 and February 15 o f each year, and a draft mid-termreport by
    September30,2010 inaccordance with guidelines acceptable by the World Bank.
52.     Implementation Covenants
    The Recipient shall cause the Entitiesto implementthe project inaccordance with the
    provisions o fthe Financial Management Manual, the Guidelines for Local Initiatives in
    Biodiversity Conservation, the Access Restriction Process Framework, and the
    Environmental Management Plan, and shall not amend or waive or permit to be amended or
    waived these except with prior written approval o f the World Bank.
    The Recipient shall causethe Entitiesto maintain PMUs with terms ofreference and
    resources satisfactory to the World Bank, and with competent staff in adequate numbers.
    The RS shall appoint financial management and procurement staff for the MSPCEE PMU
    within one month o fproject effectiveness to carry out fiduciary services for FMPAP.
    The Entities shall provide domestic budgetfinancing for the project PASand PMUs at levels
    satisfactory to the World Bank.
    No less than one month after the effective date, the Recipient shall cause the Entitiesto
    appoint representatives from local government, the private sector and non-government
    organizations to the Project Guidance Committee as satisfactory to the World Bank.
    The Entityenvironment ministriesshall designate a M&E focal point within three months of
    project effectiveness to coordinate M&E activities across PASand with other government
    agencies.
    The Recipient shall apply inaccordance with arrangements agreed with the World Bank the
    Protected Area Management Effectiveness Tracking Tool for project-supportedPAS.
D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY
1. Economic and financial analyses
53.     Economic. The project will primarily produce local, national, and global environmental
benefits whose value cannot be readily quantified. A formal quantified economic analysis is
therefore not provided -- this section evaluates benefits inqualitative terms and, consistent with
GEF requirements,summarizes the estimated incremental costs. Through the expansion of
protected areas covered and stakeholder capacity enhancement, the project will generate
significant mutual economic and environmental benefits by: (i)      generating opportunities for job
creation from better utilization o f non-timber values o f these forests, including tourism and
recreation, collection o f berries, mushrooms and herbs, and sustainable commercial game
management; (ii)   increasingPA coverage and public expenditurestoward levels more consistent
with neighboring countries and therebybeginningto address EUaccession requirements,(iii)
securing conservation o f biodiversity ininternationally important critical forest habitats
including high conservation value forests; and (iv) conservation and improved management o f
globally significant endemic biodiversity and landscape values o f sensitive ecosystems. The
incremental costs are for those activities that achieve country and regional benefits by (i)
supporting protected areas planning; (ii)  enhancing P A management and buildingpublic
awareness o f biodiversity conservation and associated international standards; and (iii)  increased


                                                  14

national capacityto manage the protectedareas' natural resources sustainabilityand conserve
their globally important biodiversity.GEF assistance will also helpto mainstreambiodiversity
conservationinlandscapeswhere the primaryemphasisis on economic uses.
54.     Fiscal.Dueto government budget constraints, the proposedbiodiversity conservation
activities couldnot be implementedwithout GEF support. Nevertheless,gross public
expenditureson PASare expectedto increase, especiallyinthe post project period. These will be
very small proportions ofthe Entities' respectivetotal public expenditures,and will not placean
unduefiscal burdenon the Entities. It is also expectedthat, particularly inthe newPAS,positive
social and economic benefitsrealizedthrough new employmentopportunitieswill also help
increase tax revenues.
2. Technical
55.     Staffworking inPA managementhave good skills inrelateddisciplines suchas forestry,
economicsand natural sciences, but have hadlittle or no experiencewith appliedapproaches
suchas ecosystem-basedmanagement. SutjeskaNPhas an integratedmanagementplan(2004-
2012) which serves as a goodmodel.However, eventhis planneeds updatingto incorporate
decreaseddependence on forestry and other consumptiveuses, newrevenuestreams and
improvedenvironmentalstandards intourism. Tourism is growinginthe PAS,and while some
PAShavehiredtourism specialists, generallythere is limitedcapacity to planand manage for
sustainabletourism, and ecotourism inparticular.Languagebarriers limit access to new ideas, as
does a primary emphasis on resource extractionstrategies. Some forestry enterprises are,
however, diversifying their skill set inanticipationof increasedPA managementopportunities.
Additionally, under the FDCP, efforts to build spatialanalysis andplanning skills inthe forestry
sector have started.The projectwill provide technical and training assistance to prepareand
updatePA management plans to address issues of adaptive management,diversifiedrevenue
streams, stakeholderengagement,and sustainability. The projectwill support businessplanning
for PASand implementingsustainabletourism inthe larger PAS.With the decreased emphasis
on forestry, improvedtourism operationsand revenueswill be critical to the financial
sustainabilityofthe existingand proposedNPs. PA staffwill benefit from targetedassistance to
improvePA operations, includingmonitoring, habitat and species conservationand visitor
management. Assistancewill also be providedto mainstreambiodiversity conservationamong
forestry and tourismprofessionals. The capacity for improvedPA managementandpolicy
development will also benefit from regional study tours to establishedPA systems. The project
will assist PA staffto implement andadapt a widely usedtracking tool, PAME, to assess their
management effectiveness. Initial field testing ofPAME will beginby May 2008.
3. Fiduciary
56.     Financialmanagement. The financial managementfunctions of the projectwill be
handledby MET inthe FBiH and MSPCEEinthe RS, which will be responsiblefor the flow of
funds, accounting,budgeting,reporting, and auditing.The FMarrangements ofFBiHPMUhave
beenreviewedperiodically as part ofthe on-goingSolidWaste ManagementProject(SWMP)
supervisionsand found satisfactory. The MET recently appointedan additional financial
management specialist (FMS) to work on FMPAP. This individualwill require some training,
which will be providedby the experiencedFMS for SWMP. Inthe RS, because financial
managementcapacity is not yet establishedinthe MSPCEEPMU, the PMU has signeda MOU
with a specialist experiencedwith Bank-financedprojectsto establish, initially operate, and



                                                15

develop MSPCEE P M U capacity infinancial management. This specialist will also helpthe
P M U to adapt an FMoperational manual from an existing project to the FMPAP design. With
these steps the FM arrangements meet the minimum WB requirements.
57.     Procurement. Responsibility for carrying out procurement will rest withthe PMU
within MET and MSPCEE. As noted above, inFBiHthe MET unit has long experience with
Bank procurement and is fully capable o fundertakingBank procurement. Inthe RS, an
experienced local procurement specialist will initially carry out procurement for FMPAP and
develop MSPCEE P M U capacity inprocurement. Procurement will be applied based on the
threshold by Procurement Method as determinedfor BiH. Both the FBiH and RS have submitted
updated procurement plans acceptable to IDA, taking into account the latest cost estimates and
project timeframe, covering the initial 18 months o f project implementation. The procurement
and consultant selection process plans can be updated every six months, and should reflect the
actual need for implementation o f project activities and improvement ininstitutional capacity.
Updated procurement plans for each calendar year should be submitted to the Bank no later than
January 30 o f the respective year.
58.     CorruptionRisk. According to the recent BEEPSreport and also inthe Transparency
International (TI) report, the corruption inboth Entities (FBiHand RS) remains a serious and
widespread problem, and the corruption risk i s considered substantial. Adequate mitigation
measures are incorporated inthe project, and Bank staff will closely monitor performance during
implementation. These mitigation actions can be summarized as follows: (a) the project has
established a tight internal control framework (see annex 7);(b) the size o f procurement
packages and the frequency o f the Bank's prior review will be determined in a way that it allows
an appropriate level o f control while attempting to avoid unnecessary reviews which could cause
delays; (c) enhanced disclosure and transparency o f project-related information, including
through a project website; and (d) appropriate complaints handling mechanism. All complaints
from bidders, observers, or other parties should be promptly forwarded to the Government and
the Bank for consideration and follow-up action.
4. Social
59.     SocialAssessment. The six PASfor which a social assessment has beenconducted (the
Prenj site has not yet beenassessed) vary significantly interms o f population- from about 1,500
to 101,000. The primary sources o f income for these populations are pensions, remittances and
salaries. Many households are engaged in agriculture and livestock production, but derive
relatively little income from commercial sales o f produce. The population around the Lom FR
works primarily inthe forestry sector. The Social Assessment (SA) determinedthat, ingeneral,
the majority ofpeople living directly adjacent to the six proposed areas and depending on these
areas for their livelihoods, support the concept o f biodiversity conservation through the
protection o f land and the objective to change management practices, expand the area under
protection, and promote tourism. Local stakeholders living inor around the proposed areas
anticipate that they would benefit from an improvementsinthe quality o f natural resources, due
to more sustainable natural resource management, including increased control over illegal
resource extraction. Benefits are also anticipated from tourism-related income and employment
opportunities. Inaddition, respondents expect that activities to expand the protected area
network would actively promote the revival o f local communities, through improved
infrastructure (roads, water, etc.), eco-tourism, and better opportunities for marketing agricultural
and non-timber forest products. Less than 5% o f those surveyed expressedopposition to changes


                                                  16

inPA managementandestablishment.Their concerns focused on additional or new restrictions
on hunting, fishing, forestry, non-timber forest product collection and agricultural production.
Findings on the views about possible restrictions show that the majority were insupport of
controlling construction, and considered that restrictions on natural resource use would not have
significant economic impact. Additional assessments have, however, also shown that local
communities needmore information about the process and impacts of establishing national parks
and that this will have to be actively remediedinorder to prevent potential conflicts.
60.      StakeholderParticipation. As part of project preparation, substantialefforts have been
made to engage stakeholdersat all levels. The project has the full support of high-level policy-
makersinthe relevant ministriesand PA authorities, inbothEntities;the areas proposedfor
inclusion were identifiedthrough extensive meetings ofthe Working Group. To ensure effective
stakeholder input inproject design and future implementation, numerouspublic consultations
were heldinthe Spring and Summer of 2005, inconjunction with formal meetings of the
Working Group. These consultations were critical inthe Working Group's decision-making, and
the broad public support for the Project, as discerned from the Social Assessment, is a positive
sign for the future success of the PAS. Additional consultations were held in2006 specifically to
explore mechanisms and activities to foster local support and mitigate any negative impacts of
PA management. With its social development objective of engagingwith local communities and
individuals inimprovingprotection and sustainable use of biodiversity, the project supports
participatory planning for protected areas and management approachesthat incorporate multiple-
use which can address the interests and expectations of affected stakeholders.
61.      Access RestrictionProcess Framework. To mitigate any potential impacts of the
project, a Stakeholder ImpactAnalysis, a Participation Plan, and a Process Framework (PF),
have beenprepared. The Process Framework3was discussedinpublic meetings inSarajevo on
June 6,2007, and inBanja Luka on June 13,2007. Followingthe public meetings, the PF was
endorsedby the respective ministries inbothEntities. Within the Project, Component 3 is
designedto help mitigate the potential impact of project activities that could result ininvoluntary
restriction of access to resources and livelihood for inhabitants of some of the areas covered by
the project, as well as to create alternative income generation opportunities (as noted above and
detailedinAnnexes 4 and 10). Funding of local sub-projects will provide direct incentives for
stakeholders to engage innew practices for sustainable natural resourcemanagement, which will
aid biodiversity conservation.
5. Environment
62.      EnvironmentalImpacts. The project is classified as Category Bywhose potential
adverse environmental impacts are few and site specific. The project i s expectedto have an
overall positive environmental impact by conserving biodiversity and improvingnatural resource
use.
63.      EnvironmentalManagementPlan. Issues covered inthe environmental management
planare: (i)   the small scale construction, and/or renovatiodrehabilitationof protected area


3The Projecttriggers the Bank's SafeguardPolicy on Involuntary Resettlement(OP 4.12). Although no actual
resettlement is foreseen, there is the possibilitythat local communities might be subject to some restrictionson their
access to traditional use of resources inthe PAS. To mitigatethese potentialrestrictions, a Process Framework has
been prepared. The Framework describesthe methodology by which government and PA authoritiescan work
together with local communities to ensure that their livelihoodsare not negativelyimpactedby any such restrictions.


                                                            17

infrastructure (including administrative buildings, checkpoints, trails andtourism infrastructure
with minor direct impacts on the environment; (ii)                the increase inrecreational use ofthe
proposedPASunder the project will result inan increaseinnoise and disturbance to wildlife and
could make the collection of waste necessary; and (iii)                close links with the FDCP which will
positively influence the managementof forest resources inthe Balkans, and provide
recommendationsto better integrate biodiversity conservation into forest managementplanning
as well as landscape level prioritizationfor protected andproduction areas. The EMP was
subjected to numerous informal public discussions prior to preparation of the final draft. The
final draft, incorporating all comments, was formally disclosed inpublic meetings inSarajevo on
June 7,2007, and Banja Luka, on June 13,2007.
6. Safeguard policies
  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                             Yes                     No
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                                 [XI                     11
  Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                           [X 1                     [I
  Pest Management(OP 4.09)                                                                 [I                     [XI
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)                                  [I                     [XI
  Involuntary Resettlement(OP/BP 4.12)                                                     [XI                     [I
  Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)                                   [I   *                 [XI
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                                     [XI                     [I
  Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                              [I                     [XI
  Projects inDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                                [I                     [XI
  Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                      [I                     [XI

64.       Environmental Assessment is triggered as explained above inparagraphs 62-63.
Consistentwith OP 4.12, the Involuntary ResettlementPolicy is triggered, as explained in
paragraph61, footnote 3. Consistent with OP 4.36, the project aims to harnessthe potential of
forest ecosystemsto reduce poverty ina sustainable way integrate forest conservation effectively
into sustainable development andprotect vital local and global environmental services and
values of forests. Consistent with OP 4.04, the project will help to conserve natural habitats, and
ensure that specific project activities avoid habitat degradation.
7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness
65.      The proposedproject does not require any exception from Bank policies.




* By supporting theproposedproject, the Bank does not intend to prejudice thefinal determination of theparties' claims on the
disputed areas


                                                            18

                      Annex 1: Country and Sector or ProgramBackground
                                      BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA:
                FOREST AND MOUNTAIN PROTECTED AREAS PROJECT

1. Biodiversityin Bosnia and Herzegovina4

Landscapesand ecosystems. BiH anchors muchof the biological diversity and broader natural
resources of the Balkans. Located atop the continental divide at the headwaters of the Danube,
BiHoccupies apivotal role inthe environmental healthofthe entire region. The four main
biogeographical regions inBiHandtheir approximate area inhectares(ha) are as follows: (a)
mountains and river valleys (1.28 million ha); (b) lowlands inthe Pannonian region (2.25 million
ha); (c) Mediterranean region (0.5 million ha); and (d) karstic region (1.OS million ha).
Considering their geographical, geological, climatic, and historical differences, these regions
naturally display significant horizontal andvertical ecosystemdifferences. BiHis thus
distinguished by very diverse ecosystems, distributedfrom sea level near the Adriatic to the
alpine mountain peak of Mt. Maglic at 2,386 meters. The Dinaric Alps traverse the country from
its western border with Croatia to the southeast creating two major watersheds, the Black Sea
(75.7% of the territory) and the Adriatic Sea (24.3%). Over halfthe country i s higher than 700 m
above sea level. Whilst many of the landscapeshave beenmodified, and insome instances
degradedby anthropogenic actions, inmany instanceslarge portions of the natural ecosystems
remaininpristinenatural or semi-natural forms. It is worth notingthat all major watersheds and
biogeographical regions inthe country are sharedwith its neighbors; thus the natural resources
and biodiversity conservation challenges of BiHare transboundary not only innaturebut also in
importance.
Forests. Almost halfthe country (47%) of 51,000 km2is covered with forests, distributed
throughout the central portions of the country. However, more than halfthe forest is classified as
low forest or shrub land. Government ownership of forest land i s 81.3% whilst 18.7% i s in
private hands. Most of the low forests are inthe lower oak region. The low forest and shrub land
i s also more prevalent inthe karstic and sub-Mediterraneanregions and whilst its production
value i s low, it is important for biodiversity since it shelters a wide range of endemic species.
Ecologicalprocesses. BiHis important for ecological processes: karstic processes are extensive
and amongthe best examples worldwide; blocks of forests, large enough to maintainecological
integrity; river dynamics; large carnivore dispersion betweenCentral and South-East Europe.
Among the important ecological functions i s C02 sequestration by forests and the presence of
keystone species (e.g., bear) which support distinct species assemblages.
Flora. BiHhas a very rich inflora; it has an estimated3,572 plant species, subspecies, and
varieties; some 3,000 species of algae; and 3,000 to 5,000 species of fungi and lichens.
Considering the number o f species and the relatively small land area, BiHi s amongthe five
richest countries inEurope interms of species density and diversity. The country has a
significant number of endemic plant species, an estimated 500. On average, 74 percent of fungi
species from the International Union for the Conservation ofNature (IUCN) Red List for Europe
can be found in BiH forest ecosystems. The broad ecosystemdiversity inthe country suggests
that a large number of fungi may well be endangered, particularly species from the sub-alpine

4 Mucho fthe informationin this section comes from the Bosnia-Herzegovina:Biodiversity Assessment, USAID, 2003.


                                                      19

and alpine beltsthat are very sensitiveto any disturbance. A certainnumberofpotentially
endangeredfungi species are collectedas wild growingspecies. FlorainBiH has yet to be fully
inventoried.BiHhas significantpercentages of endangeredplants (19 percent) comparedwith
other Europeancountries. The country's forest resourcesare amongthe richest inEuropewith a
wide variety of coniferous and deciduousspecies, correspondingto the different eco-
geographicalregionsand an exceptionallyhigh level of intra-speciesgenetic biodiversity.The
country also housesvarious centers where new subspecies originate and areas where relict
species can still be found. Additionally, the country contains a great diversity of landraces, in
particularhorticulturalproductsand h i t trees (e.g., cherry and walnut).

Fauna. Inthe central andthe southernparts of BiHand the northernand northeastern
Herzegovinaarea, dense stands o f coniferous and broad-leafedforests, meadows, pastures, and
mountainturf are habitat for a richdiversity of fauna. Numerousspecies originatinginthe Alps,
central, south, and southeasternEurope, and Eurasiaare found inthese areas, including such rare
endemic animals as the spalax and snow vole, as well as chamois, brownbear, and an endemic
race of marten. Importantand rare bird species include grouse, vultures, andUralowls. Alpine
salamander and viper are two other important species. Muchless is knownabout fauna than
flora: inventorieshave beenconductedonly for some groups and are not comprehensive
(uniquely for Europe,BiHdoes not yet have official RedLists). Thirty-two species ofanimals
and plants found inBiH are on the 2002 IUCNRedList ofthreatenedspecies (62 including
extinct species). The ichthyofaunaof BiHrepresent a uniqueEuropeanbiologicalresource in
terms of bothtotal richness andpresence ofnumerousinterestingendemic forms.

Regional Significance. At the regional scale, BiH covers three globally significant ecosystems
identifiedby WWF's Global200 programand adoptedby the Biodiversity Strategyfor the
Bank's ECA Region:(i)the European-MediterraneanMontane Mixed Forests; (ii)
MediterraneanForests, Woodlands and Scrubs; as well as (iii)   BalkanRiversand Streams.
These also includethe MediterraneanSea and the Karst ecosystem.At a smaller scale, BiHhosts
globally important sites identifiedunder different programs:Ramsar sites (e.g., Hutovo Blato
which i s also an important birdarea); and relativelyundisturbed(`virgin') forests like PeruCica(a
UNESCOsite), Janj and Lom.

Natural Resources Utifization. About 2 millionpeople(58% of BiH's population) live inrural
areas, and for them forest and mountainecosystems are an important (and sometimes the only)
source of subsistence,employment, energy and recreation. They are also a source of non-timber
forest products (NTFP) includingmushrooms, berriesand herbs. Hunting,well organizedinthe
past, has providedadditionalrevenues, while BiH's forest and mountainlandscapes have, and
can again, providesubstantialjob opportunitiesfor localpeople from tourism. Forestand
mountainecosystems also have importantwatershedprotectionvalues for muchof the middle
and lower Danube.

2. Challengesin forest and mountainecosystem conservation

Post-conflict issues. The overarchingchallengeto BiH's biodiversityis to balance economic
development of a post-conflictcountry with conservationof globally significantnatural
resources. The war, between 1992 and 1995, as well as subsequent unregulateddevelopment,
have resultedinheavydamage at all levels (accordingto current estimates,direct war damage to



                                                20

forests and associated sectors amounts to approx. US $2 billion). Efforts to pushincome growth
included subsidiesthat discounted natural resource assets: low prices for industrial water and
energy that encouraged waste; below-cost logs to wood manufacturers discouraged sustainable
management; and low prices for agricultural land that favored conversion to commercial and
residential use. Inaddition it i s estimated that a minimumo f 200,000 hectares o f rural
production areas (agriculture, forests, etc.) are still contaminated by landmines.

Economic conditions. Accelerated economic development, including that o f the forest and wood
processing industry, inthe absence o f a strong national and local level capacity to protect natural
resources could damage BiH'sability to preserve its biodiversity inthe long term. Poverty and a
generally depressed economy as well as landmines have ledto overexploitation o f natural
resources insome areas, and to abandonment o f semi-natural landscapes and loss o f associated
conservation values inothers.

Institutional and other issues. Additionally, inprotecting forest and mountainous ecosystems
the government faces the following challenges: (i)complex governance structures and competing
interests for forest and mountain resources; (ii)  insufficient capacity within institutions incharge
o f biodiversity protection at state, Entity and local levels; (iii)
                                                                   lack o f collaboration between
various institutions to sufficiently incorporate biodiversity conservation into traditional forestry
activities as well as physical planning; (iv) lack o f awareness regarding biodiversity
conservation; and (v) a tradition o f limited public participation in decision-making processes.

3. Legal framework for biodiversity conservation

Environmental Protection. The government has established an environmental legal framework
to align with relevant EuropeanUnion (EU) directives and international conventions. There i s a
Framework Law on Environmental Protectionat the state level, plus laws at the Entity level on:
(a) the protection o f water, air, as well as nature; and (b) the management o f solid waste. The
Entity-levelLaws on the Protection o fNature stipulate the revitalization, protection, preservation
and sustainable development o f landscapes, ecosystems, plants, animals as well as environmental
service functions. Entities also regulate protection o f forest biodiversity by applicable Laws on
Forests, as well as by laws on huntingand fishing. The FBiHand RS Constitutions specify that
forests and forestland are public goods which enjoy the special care and protection o f the
Entities.A National Environment Action Plan (NEAP) was completed in2002, but as with the
overall laws regarding nature protection and related concerns, has had limitedimpact to date due
to a lack o f financial resources, and technical and human capacity.

ProtectedArea Responsibilities. At the state-level, the Ministryo f Foreign Trade and Economic
Relations (MFTER), i s responsible for definition o f policies, implementationo f environmental
protection programs related to treaties and coordination betweendifferent sectors. MFTER also
serves as the GEF focal point for BiH.. Four primary types o f PAS are defined which loosely
correspond to IUCN categories I,11, I11and V respectively: (a) nature protection areas; (b)
national parks; (c) natural monuments; and (d) landscape protection areas. InFBiH, MET i s able
to propose the declaration o f the first two types o f PA, while proposals and declaration o f the
latter are the responsibility o f the cantons. InRS, MSPCEE oversees proposals for the
declaration o f all types o f PAS. Entity environmental ministriesprovide oversight o f nature
protection areas and national parks, with the right to delegate responsibilities to other
institutions. Generally, management for natural monuments and landscape protection units i s


                                                   21

PA Types                                               Number
Nature Protection Areadstrict Nature Preserve          3
National Parks                                         2
Managed Nature Preserves                               2
Special Preserves                                      9 -2 geological, 1 ornithological,
                                                       5 botanical
Landscape Protection AreasNatural Landscape Preserve 9
Natural Monuments                                      91 - 3 geologic, 65
                                                       geomorphologic, 1
                                                       paleontologic, 21 individual
                                                       trees, 1 tree group

The NEAP Thematic Annex on Biodiversity and Protection ofNatural and Cultural Heritage
suggests a total of approximately 1520% of BiH's territory to be placed into some level of
protected status. This is an ambitious goal, but perhapsa more realistic one inthe medium-term
i s the regional average o f 7% coverageto which this project will make a significant contribution.

Governance issues and recent initiatives in theforestry sector. Governance challenges inthe
environment sector include; complex institutional arrangements; weak enforcement, planning


                                                22

and management practices; and limitedpublic participation. The resultingrisks include
corruption (considered substantial for the country), opportunities to impede reform and lengthy,
and often delayed, legislative processes. Inaddition to internal project management measures to
mitigate corruption risks, the project will also draw upon experience inthe forestry sector,
especially through World Bank supported initiatives, to address relevant governance issues inP A
development. Inpartnership with other international agencies, FDCP has been particularly
successful inaddressing problems with timber pricing, public enterprise financial management,
and public perceptions o f illegal logging. Communications and transparency initiatives
comprising public opinion surveys, public workshops and Entity-based outreach plans helped
correct misconceptions about the extent and impact o f illegal logging. The project has also
shown that adoption o f certificatiordgreenlabel incentives can create strong incentives to
improve forest management practices on both public and private lands.

4. Civil Society and the Private Sector

Civil society and NGOs, Untilthe 1990s, the NGO sector was not well developed nor
financially stable, and NGOs did not have a significant voice inBiH. By February 2002, the
Regional Environmental Center (REC) estimated there were more than 150 environment-related
NGOs operating inBiHcompared to 20just after the war. A 2006 REC survey indicates a
general growth inthe activities o f environmental NGOs, but a relatively highturnover. As such
this is typical ofa young sector o fcivil society, and a still nascent force innature protection in
BiH. Most NGOshave tendedto focus on environmental education, public awareness andwaste
management. The project Social Assessment identified a variety o f civil society groups with
interests innature protection at the project sites. These include traditional village-based
institutions, recreational and sports associations and service-oriented NGOs. Project design
includes opportunities to buildrelationships and networks with these and other organizations in
PA management and biodiversity conservation.

Private sectorparticipation. As noted earlier, the post-conflict economic policies did not
provide economic or regulatory incentives for the private sector, particularly forestry and
agriculture, to address environmental performance. However, since about 2000 there have been
initiatives inthese sectors to address governance, competitiveness and sustainable resource
management. As increasingnumbers o f agriculture and forest enterprises are stimulated and the
legal and economic frameworks are reformed, there are opportunities to harness the power o f the
private sector to foster sustainable stewardship o f land. The broad private supply chain initiatives
that now use auditable standards o f environmental, health and safety, and social performance in
the food and wood products industriesare seen as effective tools to promote incorporation of
conservation and biodiversity values. The tourism sector has yet to receive a similar level o f
investment, although there have beeninitiatives to improve its competitiveness (e.g., USAID
Cluster Competitiveness) but mainstreaming conservation values has had a low priority.
Tourism inBiHi s rebounding; tourist numbers in2007 reached record levels with the country's
natural and cultural heritage cited as the primary attraction. The country i s well positionedto
capitalize on growing market segments based on these tourism assets which include PAS. The
project will support improvements inthe environmental performance of tourism and forestry
through P A management planning, training and local initiatives inbiodiversity conservationthat
will also include opportunities to address small-scale agriculture. It also expected that



                                                  23

partnershipswill be developedwith private sector tourism enterprises focusing on creating
demand for sustainabletourism products inPAS.

5.      EUaccession requirements for nature protectionand biodiversity

Nature Conservation Directives. EUnature conservation policy i s based on two mainpieces of
legislation, the Birds Directive (1979) and the Habitats Directive (1992). The latter legislation i s
directed at ensuring biodiversity through the conservation of natural habitats and species of wild
fauna and flora. The cornerstone of the Directive i s the requirement of the creation of Natura
2000, a network of PAS known as Special Areas of Conservation including Special Protected
Areas designatedunder the Birds Directive. Basedon the experience of new Member States,
alignment and the degree of implementation of EUlegislation inthe field of biodiversity and
nature protection have proven to be a major stumbling block with regards to readinessfor
accession. Expansionof the country's PA network through this project, and thus preparation for
Natura 2000 representsa major accessioncommitment.

EU-supported activities. Inboth Entities,the EUcontinues to support efforts to harmonize
legislation for environmental protection, Direct EUassistance innature protection and
biodiversity has not beensubstantial with some Community Assistance for Reconstruction
Development and Stabilization (CARDS) and Financial Instrumentfor the Environment (LIFE)
programs supported to date. However, preparation of an Instrumentof Pre-Accession Nature
and Biodiversity Program and Action Plan for BiHis due to be completed by July 2008. This
planwill outline investment options for further Instrument for Pre-Accession (IPA) financing in
nature protection and biodiversity.




                                                24

        Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank and/or other Agencies
                                    BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA:
              FOREST AND MOUNTAINPROTECTED AREAS PROJECT

Sector Issue      Project                                              Latest Suuervision (PSR) Ratings
                                                                        (Bank fin'ancedp jects only)
IDA-financed                                                            Implementation    Development
                                                                        Progress(IP)      Objective(DO)

Forestry          Forest Developmentand ConservationProject             S                 S

Agriculture       Small-ScaleCommercial Agricultural Development        S                 S
                  Project

                  Agriculture and RuralDevelopment                      S                 S
GEF financed      Neretvaand Trebisnjica ManagementProject                Legalagreements negotiated.

Other develoument
agencies
USAID             LAMP (Linking Agricultural Marketsto Producers)                    ongoing

USAID             Cluster CompetitivenessActivity (Wood & Tourism)                   ongoing

UNEP (GEF)        Support for the NationalBiodiversity Strategy                      ongoing

UNDP              Regeneration of the Forestry and Wood-Processing                   ongoing
                  Cluster in the SrebrenicaRegion

UNDP              MainstreamingKarst PeatlandsConservation into Key                  ongoing
                  Economic Concerns

UNDP              MainstreamingEnvironmentalGovernance: Linking                      ongoing
                  Local and NationalAction in BiH

UNDP              Support for BuildingNationalCapacity in Sustainable                ongoing
                  EnvironmentalManagement

UNDP              Financial Sustainabilityof PA system                               planned

JICA              EcotourismDevelopment                                              ongoing

WWF/IUCN          Dinaric Arc Eco-Regional Initiative                                planned

EU                Rural EconomicDevelopment                                         on-going

EU               Assessment of Preparationof IPA in Areas ofNature,                 on-going
                 Biodiversity and ClimateChange

SIDA              Supporting EnvironmentalCivil Society Organizations                ongoing
                  in South East Europe (SECTOR)

SIDA             Program for Supporting Local Initiativesin South East               ongoing
                 Europe




                                                   25

                             Annex 3: Results Frameworkand Monitoring
                                     BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA:
                 FOREST AND MOUNTAINPROTECTED AREAS PROJECT

                                            Results Framework

               PDO                           Outcome Indicators              Use of Outcome Information
To strengthenthe institutionaland    Increase in area under formal        Verify expansionof PA network
technical capacity for sustainable   protection(using all IUCN
protectedarea and natural resource   categories)
managementand expandthe BiH
networko f forest and mountain
protectedareas.                      Key threats to biodiversity for each Assess effectiveness of
                                     PA as measured through a composite   interventions, and adjust based on
This PDO is also the global          indicatordecrease or remain          findings
environmental objective, since it is unchanged.
both local and global in nature.
                                     Increase in portionof recurrent      Encouragemore appropriatemix of
                                     management costs covered by          PA revenueand/or determine
                                     sustainabletourism (including        revisions in PA financing strategies
                                     entranceand use payments) and non-
                                     timber harvesting, donationsand by
                                     government budget


                                     ImprovedPA management                Assess PA management
                                     effectiveness as assessedby tracking effectiveness and/or adjust project
                                     tool                                 interventions based on experience
                                                                          with implementation

                                     Public support for PASmaintained     Verify that participationand
                                                                          awareness activitiesmaintainthe
                                                                          public support neededto ensure
                                                                          sustainabilityand manage conflict.




                                                      26

       Intermediate Results              Results Indicatorsfor Each              Use of ResultsMonitoring
       One per Component                        Subcomponent
Component One:
ExistingPA operations and           Proposalon legal establishmentof 2     YO1 and YO2 evaluateprogress in
facilities improved, new PAS        new PASsubmitted for decisions and     establishment of new PAS;re-evaluate
(IBTV and Una River)                feasibility study for one PA completed site selection ifformal declaration is
established with initial                                                   not achieved
investments implemented, and        Number of PASwith management           Verify that new approachesand tools
feasibility of Prenj-Cvrsnica-      plans implementedthat include          can be and have been appropriately
Cabulja-VranPA assessed             ecosystem-basedmanagement              adaptedto the local context.
                                    approaches and tools

                                    M&E System, includingtracking o f      Verify that relevant M&E system is
                                    key habitats and species and the       establishedand used, and key
                                    PAME tracking tool establishedand      parametersare monitored
                                    used for decision making

                                    Facilitiesdeveloped in accordance      Verify that plans are realistic and
                                    with PA managementplans                obtain required resources
Component Two:
Planning,management,                Number of participants completing      YO2 revise training program and
communicationand leadership         trainingprograms and positive          methodology and make necessary
skillsof institutionsresponsiblefor participantfeedback                    adjustments
biodiversityconservation and
sustainable land use increased      Number of public awareness initiatives YO2 number may flag problems in
                                    for biodiversityconservation           design and implementation, revise
                                                                           activitiesifneeded.

                                    Project management timely and well     Delays and/or coordinationproblems
                                    coordinated                            may flag shortcomings in capacity
                                                                           and/or high-levelsupport that needto
                                                                           be addressed
Component Three:
Sustainableinitiativesthat          Number o feligible subprojectgrants    YO1 and YO2 numbers and sub-project
contributeto mitigating             awarded and satisfactorily             design may indicateproblems in
significantthreats to global        implemented, with impacts on threat    consultation and training activitiesor
biodiversityor to monitoring        mitigation or ecologicalmonitoring     sub-project preparation guidelinesthat
such biodiversityare                assessed.                              needto be addressed.
implemented,with impacts
assessed.




                                                          27

1
e


:ee
CI
e
:
i



E




     0
     0
    82




               2
               *
I
3
E
2
                  2
                  0
                  E 0




      (r
       0




          z

     I




            3
            N




            3
            3




            3
            3   d



          d


                 N




                 3
3

                              Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription
                                  BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA:
                FOREST AND MOUNTAINPROTECTED AREAS PROJECT

The project will helpdevelop newoperational approachesfor biodiversity conservation and
sustainable landmanagementinsix priority sites. The Project will strengthen institutional and
technical capacity and foster public support at all government levels to conserve biodiversity in
critical forest and mountain ecosystems
Component 1: ProtectedArea Development(total US $3.66 million, of which US $2.00
million i s GEF; also an additional US$2.20 parallel IDA financing under FDCP)
Summary. This component supports improvement of four existing PAS(inRS, Sutjeskaand
Kozara NationalParks, and Janj and Lom ForestPreserves), establishment and
operationalization oftwo critical newPAS,(inFBiH, new national parks inIBTV andthe Una
River), and assessment of the feasibility of aproposedPA covering Prenj-Cvrsnica-Cabulja-Vran
inFBiH. Ifat the time of the Mid-TermReview, progressinestablishing the newPASis not
proceeding as planned, the inclusion of the Prenj site can be consideredas a substitute basedon
the findings of the FeasibilityStudy.
Sub-component 1a): PA Management Planning.
Overview. The project will finance development and implementation of managementplans
emphasizing ecosystem-basedapproaches and businessplanning for PAS. The aim is to restore
and maintain the healthof ecosystems while supporting economies and communities. Planning
and managing unitswill be definedby ecological boundaries, andmanagement strategieswill: a)
integrate ecological, economic, and social factors, and b) focus on adaptive management and
sustainability. The project will emphasize methods to improve and increase stakeholder
engagement by the multiple government agencies involved, as well as local communities and
civil society. Managementplanning will address policy development and implementation
regarding sources andproportions of PA financing. While recognizing the importance of
increased government support, the project will also strengthenand highlight the value of
mechanisms that allow PASto retain anduse a portion ofthe revenue stream from the generation
of income, e.g., entrance fees. Building on the experience of FDCP, the importance of
transparency and public disclosure on PA operations will also be stressed as a tool for improved
management. Preparation of managementplans will begin inYear 1 for the two existing
NationalParks (NPs) Sutjeska and Kozara, as well as for the Janj and Lom Forest reserves, and
the UnaRiverNP. Preparation of a managementpianfor a new NP inIBTV will likely begin
near the end of Project Year 1. At the same time the project will undertake feasibility studies for
potential expansion of the existing PAS,and the proposedPA at the Prenj site. IDA-financed
support for the State Forest Inventory and the Forest ManagementInformation System will also
provide valuable inputs for PA managementplanning.
New Approaches in Existing PAS.The project will support the preparation of newmanagement
plans, and where appropriate revisions to existing plans. All PASwill assess the potential for
expansionand work with all stakeholders concerned to identify suitable models o f PA
enlargement (zoning, joint management of adjacent areas, etc.).




                                                30

   SutjeskaNP -The current management plan (2003-2012) will be extendedand revised to
   better reflect ecosystem-basedapproaches, changes and opportunities inrevenue streams and
   PA governance, and sustainable tourism development.
   Kozara NP -A new PA management plan with a clear focus on nature conservation, new
   arrangementsfor PA governancesand sustainability will be preparedto replace the current
   forestry and hunting managementplans that are being followed.
  Janj and Lom FRs - Management planning improvements include cadastral surveys and
  opportunities for scientific researchand limited tourism development.
Statusoflvew PAS. Approximately an additional 120,000 ha (including existing PA expansion)
are to enter formal PA status. Under the IUCN system, new PASwill contain areas managedas
national parks (category II),  protected landscapes(V) and strict nature reserves (I).
    The Government-funded Feasibility Study for the Una River (2005) confirms the ecological
    and landscape uniqueness of the area, and the very strong public demandfor formal
    protection. Public support was also confirmed inthe social assessment undertakenduring
    project preparation. Legislation governing the PA is currently inthe Parliament and is
    expected to be approved by mid-2008, and enter into force by Autumn 2008.
    IBTV, which was the site of the 1984 Winter Olympics, has tremendous potential as a
    demonstration of PA managementwith strong ecological, cultural and recreational values. A
    new Feasibility Study for the site was completed inMay 2007. Although there is broad
    consensus for establishing this area as a national park, attention needs to be paidto building
    good working relationships betweenlocal stakeholders and PA authorities. Draft legislation
    for this site has beenprepared, and will be presentedto Parliament by end-2008. Project
    funds have beenallocated for public consultation anddissemination activities to facilitate the
    process.
0   The Prenj-Cvrsnica-Cabulja-Vranarea is included as a new PA basedon the site's
    biodiversity value, tourism potential and contribution to strengthening the country's PA
    network. Already highlighted inthe Dinaric Arc Ecoregion conservation initiative (WWF)
    for its ecosystemvalues, the site also offers considerable potential for mine-safe tourism
    development unlikeportions of IBTV. There is broad government and private sector support
    for establishing the site as a PA.
Sub-component 1b): Ecological and PA ManagementAssessment.
Overview. Technical assistancewill be provided to improve the monitoring system for key
issues such as wildlife, habitats and visitors (existing and potential). The system would then be
implementedon a sustainable basis as part of regular PA operations by PA staff, with additional
technical assistance to the extent required. A focal point for M&E will be identifiedineach
Entity environment ministryto co-ordinate activities across PASand with other ministries.
0   For all areas the project will support baseline ecological surveys to assess biodiversity and
    resourceuse (timber harvesting, livestock carrying capacity, hunting, NTFP collection) and
    put inplace abiodiversity monitoringsystem at site, Entity and State level.
    The project will also support the adaptation and use of the "Protected Areas Management
    Effectiveness (PAME) Tracking Tool". This tool, developed by the World Bank/WWF
    Alliance for Forest Conservation and Sustainable Use and now mandatedby GEF*,will assist
    inthe tracking andmonitoringof managementeffectivenessinindividual PAS,and aggregate

8World Bank/ World Wildlife Fund Alliance for ForestConservationand SustainableUse, Reporting Progress in
ProtectedAreas - A Site Level Management Effectiveness' Tracking Tool, 2003

                                                    31

     key data for the country. Preliminary site specific adaptations o fthe PAME tool for the 4
     existing PASwill be tested and refined during Year 1. Progress inmanagement effectiveness
     would be measured through annual PA scorecards.
     Relevant findings from the State Forest Inventory and the Forest Management Information
     Systemwhich is financed by IDA under the FDCP will also be taken into account under this
     subcomponent.
     This subcomponent will also be the major source o ftechnical information to be compiled in
     the semi-annual project progress reports andthe mid-termreviewreport. Monitoring
     procedures will be devised, principally, as a PA management tool but they will also record
     the progress ofproject activities by providing key data for the results framework.
The information compiled under this subcomponent will assist inthe process of decisionmaking
by providing the parameters to support policy formulation and planning for both the existing and
new protectedareas. This will facilitate better selection, planning and management o f areas for
future protection. The feedback will be givento management and all involved ministries.
Increased accountability should help foster public support for sustainable land use management
approaches inhighconservation value forest and mountain ecosystems.
Sub-component 1c): P A Facilities.
Overview. _Theproject will also finance new infrastructure and limited small-scale building
rehabilitation, necessary for improving the operations o f existing PAS,and for capitalizing the
newly created protected areas. Infrastructure investmentswill be undertaken inaccordance with
revisedand new management plans. Infrastructure is generally "soft", e.g., trail improvements,
newtrail creation, signage, restingplaces, park boundary markings, visitor entry posts. In
addition, the project will finance some limited goods for park operations. These small-scale
facilities investmentswill improve the products and services offered by PAS,and enable
management to increase the capture o f key revenuessuch as entry fees.
Component2: Capacitv and Support for BiodiversitvConservation(total US $1.84 million,
o f which US $0.99 million i s GEF)
Summary. This component will focus on strengtheninginstitutions responsible for planning,
establishment, and management o f PAs to ensure the sustainability o f the expanded P A network,
through: (i)training and technical assistance for environmental capacity-building at the PA,
Entity and State levels; (ii); awareness programs; and (iii)
                              public                               Project management.
Sub-component 2a): Institutional Capacity Development.
Overview. The project will finance capacity building, learning and skill development inorder to
strengthen the institutions responsible for PA management throughout BiH. While some
capacity exists (especially inthe existing PAS),technical management skills needto be enhanced
and built up for these and new management authorities as they are formed. This subcomponent
will also benefit from IDA-financed support under FDCP for capacity buildingrelatedto
National Standards for Forest Certification, the HighConservation Value Forests toolkit,
strategic forest planning, and expansion o f revenueoptions. Training impacts are expected in
terms of positive participant feedback, improved knowledge and attitudes about biodiversity, P A
management and objectives, and increased and better practice o f P A management approaches
and tools. The periodic reviews o fPA management effectiveness will further capture
information about knowledge, attitudes and practice, and pull in information captured through
self-assessment exercises and visitor feedback.


                                                 32

Existing and Proposed PAS.Training and technical assistancewill focus on key areas including:
   Ecosystem-based management and building skills intools such as adaptive management,
   conservation and restoration site selection, stakeholder engagement and communication, and
   forest and pasture management, ecotourism development;
   Businessplanning covering issues such as marketing, financial management and sustainability
   and including strategies to increase customer appeal through eco-labeling or certification,
   improve capture from existing revenue sources (e.g., tourism operations, resource user fees)
   and diversify revenue streams and increase abilities to access external sources such as EU
   assistance;
   Fieldskills, especially for staff such as rangers intopics including patrolling and enforcement,
   community engagement, conflict management, communications, visitor management and
   interpretation.
Giventhe critical role of the forest sector inBiH, an important aspect ofthe training will be with
forest professionals, to give them new skills to incorporate biodiversity into forest management
both inside PAS(including buffer zones) and outside inthe broader production landscape.
Similarly, with the increased emphasis on tourism development throughout the country and PAS
inparticular, assistanceneeds to focus developing and supporting tourism that is better able to
meetenvironmental standards while beingeconomically profitable.
Entity and State. The project will finance capacity buildingfor the Ministries incharge o f PA
management and land use planning (MET inFBiH; MSPCEE inRS) as well as the National
Biodiversity Committee, so that they are capable o f providing leadership for biodiversity
conservation and EU convergence. This will include assistance with: (i)operationalizing parts o f
the NBSAP includingthe policy, legal and financial aspects of establishing an effective system
o f biodiversity protection; and (ii)strengtheningcross-border initiatives to conserve high
conservation value ecosystems inthe Balkans, through targeted exchanges with neighboring P A
authorities. This will complement capacity buildingbeing supported with IDA financing under
FDCP to implementthe National Standards for Forest Certification and the HighConservation
Value Forests toolkit. It will also involve close coordination with IDA-financed efforts under
FDCP to build capacity relatedto the alternative forest revenues including the use o f forest areas
for tourism as well as non-timber forest products and hunting, inorder to maximize both learning
and regional approaches affecting areas that include boththe FMPAP PASand other forest areas.
EUAccession. Additional support would be aimed at buildingthe institutional capacity to
deepenthe understanding for the use o f different EUfunding programs and instrumentsto
finance biodiversity and nature protection (including the Natura 2000 network) once BiHwill
become eligible to take advantage o f these funds. This support i s particularly timely given the
current EU"Assessment o f Programme Preparation inAreas o f Nature, Biodiversity and Climate
Change" which forms part o f the EU's assistance strategy for preparation o f the future
Instrumento f Pre-Accession. The study is due to be completedby July 2008. As noted by the
EU, experience to date shows that alignment with EUlegislationon biodiversity and nature
protectionhas been a substantial stumblingblock for accession.
Studies. This component will also support case studies on selected P A management issues, e.g.,
grazing impacts and strategies, sustainable tourism development.
Sub-component 2b): Public Awareness Programs.
Overview. The project will support the implementation o f an outreach program to raise public
awareness and support for biodiversity conservation and the PA network. Inaddition to

                                                 33

 providing technical assistance inpublic outreach at the PA and entity level, the project will
 support public awareness initiatives with activities such as development o f promotional
 materials, establishing andor improving P A websites, environmental education, media
 advertising and public consultations on PA operations and management. Where relevant, it will
 build on the IDA-financed FDCP efforts to strengthen communication skills and transparency.
 Sub-component 2c): Proiect Management.
 Overview. This sub-component contains limited financing for project management and operating
 costs, including coordination and administrative staff, procurement, disbursement and financial
 management, and monitoring and evaluation activities at the Entity level. Support i s also
 provided for Project Guidance Committee meetings. For further details, see Annexes 6, 7, and 8.
 ComDonent 3: LocalInitiativesin BiodiversityConservation(total US $0.50 million, of
 which US $0.41 million is GEF)
Summay. The project will support conservation efforts by local stakeholders inand around PAS
 which generate global biodiversity conservation benefitsand improve economic returnsto local
 communities involved inprotected areas management. As such these initiatives will be expected
to enhance the objectives and activities o f FMPAP through contributing positively to mitigating
and/or reducing significant threats to the biodiversity o f the P A and to the monitoring o f
biodiversity resources. .Underlyingconcepts o f this component include: a) the generation o f
economic and other incentives for stakeholders to adopt or change land use practices that have an
adverse impact on globally significant biodiversity inor adjacent to PAS; and b) improving
relationships betweenlocal stakeholders and PA authorities at a time when a significant
expansion o f the PA network i s underway.
 Threats to PAS. Although there are differences inthe types and extent o f threats at the project
sites, all PASexperience varying levels o f unregulated, and to some extent illegal, resource
extraction (e.g., of timber, fuel wood, non-timber forest products, grazing), unregulated tourism
development and poor management o f waste. Additionally, some sites are losing landscape
values as cultivation and grazing practices change or cease. Others are facing threats from land-
minesand mineral extraction           -- threats  that are clearly difficult for local communities to address
under this component.
EligibleActivities. Giventhat it will not be possible to address all threats, it i s expected that
eligibleactivities that contribute to biodiversity conservation will fall underthree broad
categories suitable for local stakeholders to design and manage:
   i.PAcompatibleincome-generation,e.g., ecotourismactivities, sustainableNTFPextraction,
      agri-environmental enterprises, environmental certification';
   ii.habitatandlandscapeconservation, e.g.,siteandlandscaperestoration,participatory
      pasture management; and
   iii.sustainableenvironmentalmanagement,e.g.,wastemanagementschemes,alternative
      energypromotion.
Proponents will not have to confine themselves to working within one category. Proponents will
also be encouraged where possible to look for synergies with Local Environmental Action Plans


9 Certification of state forest enterprise operations is being supported under FDCP and would not be eligible for
GEF financing. However, the subproject grants might include, for example support for certification efforts that
improve market access for small scale enterprisesinvolved in sustainableNTFP harvestingor ex-situ production of
threatened species.

                                                            34

 (LEAP) that have beenprepared for several municipalities. Proposals for biodiversity
 conservation-related activities inthe six project sites would be eligible for support, except for
 activities which are adequately supported by other environmental and social grant programs.
Eligible applicants. Eligible applicants would include the following:
  a) non-governmental sector - non-government organizations, village councils, traditional
     associations, trade associations, community-basedorganizations and groups;
  b)private sector -companies and businesses; and
  c) government sector   - authorities  such as municipalities or smaller, local schools.
Applications from consortia o f organizations and individuals across sectors, and partnerships will
be encouraged.
Sub-projectgrants and duration. The respective PMUs will oversee sub-project administration
and evaluation. The grants can range in size from US$20,000 to US$lOO,OOO. The maximum
amount will only be given to sub-projects with a highlikelihood o f having major positive impact
on significant biodiversity resources inthe PASand the participants. At least one grant will be
awarded per project supported PA. It is anticipatedthat between6-10 proposals will be funded in
total. The total value o f grants will not exceed US$360,000, with each entity able to award up to
US$180,000. The minimum duration for an initiative will be six months and the maximum 24
months. It i s anticipated that agreements will be signedfor all grants by the end o f year 2..
Beneficiary Contribution. Co-financing by beneficiaries will be requiredbecause it
demonstrates real interest from the grant recipient and a stronger stake insub-projects success.
Beneficiaries may co-finance inkind and/or incash, with the amount o f co-financing requiredto
be no less than 20% o fthe total value o fthe sub-project, i.e., beneficiaries must provide a
contribution that i s 25% o f the value o f the grant beingrequested".
Sub-projectDesign and Review. A contracted organization will facilitate public consultations
involving PA management staff, P M U and local stakeholders including affected populations.
Participants inthe consultations will identify and agree on key biodiversity and PA resources,
threats to biodiversity, and priorities in biodiversity conservation to be addressed. Participants
will be familiarized with and agree on criteria for eligible activities and recipients, and based on
the PA and biodiversity discussions and inaccordance with the Access RestrictionProcess
Framework mutually agree on sub-projects to be prepared, collaborations and partnerships and
procedures for specific activities and their phasing for particular PAS. To help ensure
sustainability, the contracted facilitating organization will, inaddition to facilitating the above
process, a) hold training sessions for proponents on proposal preparation; b) facilitate the review
o f sub-project proposals; and c) assist inmonitoring and evaluation o f sub-projects as agreed
with the PMUs.Through this participatory process, PA authorities will be able to engage with
stakeholders and foster innovative and site-specific responses.
Evaluation of Proposals. Each P M Uworking with working with the PA staff and the contracted
TA, would review sub-project proposals based on agreed criteria. Proposals may undergo
detailed expert technical reviewand revisions requested from proponents as needed. The
recommendations o f the reviewteam (including the expert technical review) would be compiled
and presented to the respective P M U Managers for approval for funding, and submittedto the
World Bank for no-objection.


loIn-kind contributionsmay includethe value to the sub-project o fthe use of land, operatingcosts o f premises,
equipment, supplyof materials, and wages of participants.

                                                       35

Proposal Requirements. Successfulproposals will be able to demonstrate:
           Relevance of the sub-project to the FMPAP objectives, PA plans and priorities;
           Beneficial impacts on significant biodiversity resources and status and rural livelihoods;
           Effectiveness with realistic activities designedto achieve the desiredobjectives;
           Efficiency of resourceuse, and beneficiary contribution of at least 25% of grant funds;
           Sustainability of results and potential for replication.
"Guidelines for Implementing Local Initiatives for Biodiversity Conservation" have been
preparedand agreed.
Capacity-building aspects. The experience gained by participants would be useful for accessing
additional funding at a later stage whether from international sources such as the EUor internally
through the Entity-based Eco-Funds. Grant-awarding schemes are a common EUpractice, e.g.,
as Financial Instrument for the Environment (LIFE)-Nature or the Special Action Program for
Instrument for Pre-AccessionAssistance for RuralDevelopment (IPARD, which include support
for "agri-environmental" activities whichpromote agricultural production practices which are
compatible with environmental protection and landscape conservation.
ProjectArea Description
Populations at theproject sites. The sites targeted under this project vary significantly interms
of the surrounding population. Taking account the entire population of the municipalities located
partly within or aroundthe PAS,the most populated site is IBTV with 101,000 inhabitants,
followed by Kozara with 94,000, Una River watershedwith 61,000, Sutjeskawith 41,500, Janj
FR with 12,500 and Lom with 1,500. The population within the Prenj complex is estimatedat
less than 25,000 (the latter figure will be verified inthe Feasibility Study).
Socio-economicconditionsat theproject sites. The social assessment identifiedthe following
as the principal sources of income for the majority of households inthe vicinity of the PAS:
pensions, monthly salaries fromjobs not relatedto use of natural resourcesinthe PAS,disabled
persons'benefits, and remittances from relatives. Agricultural production is primarily for
subsistence purposes, andvery little i s sold commercially. The population o fKozara i s the most
dependent on agricultural produce Residents inthe Kozara, Sutjeska, Lom and Janj areas are
engagedinmodest levels of livestock production to meet householdneeds and for income-
generation. Dairy production occurs inall the project areas, with reliance on sales of milk and
cheese for income more common inthe IBTV, Kozara, Janj and Lom areas. Similarly, picking of
mushrooms, herbs and non-timber forest products for householdconsumption is a widespread
practice in all the areas, and more common near Janj, Lom and Sutjeska. Inall of the areas, such
products are rarely sold for income-generation. Most residentsof the six PASclaimed that they
use wood only for their own heating and cooking requirements. There are some earnings based
on sales of firewood inthe 1gman.Bjelasnica-Treskavica and Sutjeska areas. Illegal logging is
believed to be performed by both local residents of the PASand non-residents". Few individuals
reportedly perform primary timber processing for a living. Most of the employed Lom area
residents work inthe forestry sector.




" Based on feedback from forest inspections, there has been a decrease in illegal logging during the recent years. This
particularly refers to illegal logging by non-residents. BiH has adopted an Action Plan for Elimination of Illegal Logging (at the
level of both BiH Entities).


                                                                36

     s
     0

     rc
     0




2
J

      3
      3
      2
      N

ru
0




           00
           m

                                             Annex 5: Project Costs
                                         B0SNIA-HERZEGOVINA:
                    FOREST AND MOUNTAINPROTECTED AREAS PROJECT


                                                   (US$million)
Components                   RS         FBIH    Total     RS       FBIH    Bene-       Total            Parallel IDA
                             GEF        GEF     GEF       Gov"     Gov"    ficiaries   Direct           financing
                                                                                       Project          under FDCP
                                                                                       costs
Protected Area
Development
      PA Management          0.24       0.37    0.61      0.20     0.30    0.00        1.11             0.70"
      Planning
      Ecologicaland PA       0.11       0.10    0.21      0.10     0.15    0.00        0.46             1.5020
      Management.
      Assessment
      PA Facilities          0.55       0.42    0.97      0.48     0.34    0.00        1 .so            0.00
           subtotal          - - 1.80
                             0.90       0.86              0.75     0.75    o.00        - 2.20
                                                                                       3.30
Capacity & Support for
Biodiversity Conservation
      Institutional Capacity 0.20       0.22    0.42      0.09     0.09    0.00        0.60             0.252`
      Development
      Public Awareness       0.10       0.14    0.25      0.15     0.15    0.00        0.56             0.0522
      Programs
      Project Management     0.1423     0.0924  0.23      0.14     0.14    0.00        0.50             0.00
      & Project Monitoring
           Subtotal          - - 0.89
                             0.44       0.44              0.38     0.38    o.00        - -
                                                                                       1.65             0.30
Local Initiatives Grants     0.19       -
                                        0.19    a.41      o.00     o.00    0.08        - -
                                                                                       0.45             0.00
Price and Physical           0.17       0.17    0.34      0.13     0.13    0.01        0.60             0.00
Contingencies (loo/,)
TOTAL                        - - 3.40
                             1.70       1.70              1.26     1.26    0.09        - -
                                                                                       6.00             2.50




l6  Numbers may not add up precisely due to rounding.
" Allocationofgovernmentbudgetacrosssubcomponentisnotionalonly,sincethiswilldependonPAallocation
of staff time and other budgetedresourcesfor project-relatedactivities.
    Allocation of government budget across subcomponent is notional only, since this will dependon PA allocation
o f stafftime and other budgetedresourcesfor project-relatedactivities.
     Portionof State Forest Inventoryand Forest ManagementInformationSystem.
20  Portionof State Forest Inventoryand Forest ManagementInformationSystem.
21   Strengtheningcapacity in strategic planning,alternative forest revenues, and certification support.
22   Strengthening capacity in communications and transparency.
23  Includes US$9,000 in base costs at State-level ProjectGuidanceCommittee meetings chaired by MFTER.
24  Includes US$9,000 in base costs at State-level ProjectGuidanceCommittee meetingschaired by MFTER.
                                                          39

                              Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
                                    BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA:
                 FOREST AND MOUNTAIN PROTECTED AREAS PROJECT

1. Overview. As notedearlier, BiH representedby the Ministry of Financeand Treasury would
be the recipientof GEF grants and would transfer funds to the FBiH and RS Governments.To
ensure close collaborationwith all relevantgovernmentaldecision-makers,includingEntity,
cantonal, and state-levelinstitutions, a ProjectGuidanceCommitteewill be established. The
MET and MSPCEEwould leadthe processofprotectedarea declarationand expansion. PMUs
within MET and MSPCEEwill undertakecore implementationfunctions includingoversight,
procurement,financial management,annualplanning, supervision, monitoringofrepayments,
reportingand evaluation.Eachproject componentwill includecontractedtechnical assistance to
implement activities. Subprojectgrants will be awardedand disbursedunder the Component 3 -
Local InitiativesComponent. PA authoritieswill oversee field-level implementationand
coordinationofproject activities, and undertakea limited amount ofprocurement. Where
appropriate(for example inthe Janj and LomForestReserves inthe RS) implementationwill be
closely coordinatedwith MAWMFs inbothentities. The implementingministries may form
entity-levelsteeringgroups ifconsiderednecessary, but their functions should complement those
of the ProjectGuidance Committeeand supportthe ministerialProjectManagementUnits.

2. Project Guidance Committee - This comprisesthe Sub-committeefor Biodiversity
(establishedin2002 througha decisionofthe SteeringCommitteefor Environmentally
SustainableDevelopmentof BiH), GEF BiH FocalPoint from MFTER, Entity PMUManagers
and from each Entity one representativeeach from localgovernment,the private sector and non-
government organizations(NGO). The Project Guidance Committeewill: (a) provide overall
project guidanceand review project progress; (b) support and guide policy or legal/regulatory
aspects neededto facilitate successful project implementation; and (c) serve as a forum for
strengtheningthe environment sector throughexperience-sharingandnetworkingamongkey
players. The responsibleEntity line ministries (MET and MSPCEE) will appoint the local
government, private sector andNGO representatives(three from each Entity with a total of six
representatives). Semi-annualmeetingswill be heldwith at least one meetingper year to
coincidewith a World Bank Projectsupervisionmission.

3. Project Management Units. Inthe FBiH, it has beenagreed that the existing Sector for
ProjectImplementationinMET will serve as the primary implementationunit.Inthe RS, a
similar Sector for Project Coordinationand Developmentis beingestablishedinthe MSPCEE
and likewisewill oversee implementation.Eachunit will oversee day-to-day financial,
administrative andtechnicalmanagementofproject activities. For the purposesofthis
document, bothare beingreferredto as ProjectManagementUnits (PMUs).

PMU Staffing: Inthe FBiHthe Departmentcomprises a full-time manager, two financial
management officers, two procurementstaff, an accountant andtwo additional office staff. For
the purposesof FMPAP, a dedicatedFMspecialist has beenhiredand additionaltranslation
supportwill be mobilized. Inthe RS, the unit has a managerinplace and needs to assigntwo
staff members for financial managementand procurementduties. The unit will retain consultants
for at least the initial six monthsto strengthenfinancial managementand procurementcapacities,


                                                 40

and will hire translation support as needed. The MET and MSPCEE will each appoint staff
person as their respective M&E focal point, and they may also be included as part o f the P M U
staff. Each PMU can hire additional technical assistance as neededand inconsultation with the
Bank team to strengthenimplementation capacities.

P M U Responsibilities: Each unit will be based intheir respective capitals, and responsibilities
will comprise:
e  Preparation o f annual work plans, budgets, implementation schedules for each component
   consistent with detailed project designs and guidelines, including review and disbursemento f
   grants under Component 3 : Local Initiatives inBiodiversity Conservation;
e  Monitoringo f project activities and results and preparation o f financial monitoring and project
   progress reports, updating manuals and guidelines inconsultation with the Bank team, and
   providing comments on policy and other implementation issues;
e  Coordination o f M&E activities across PASand with other government agencies, including the
   unitswithin the entity Ministriesof Agriculture, Water Resources, and Forestrywhich is
   responsible for the State Forest Inventory and the Forest Management Information Unit, and
   the state focal point on national standards for forest certification (assuming that the M&E focal
   point i s part o f the P M U - ifnot then this will be handled at the ministerial level, with
   administrative support o f the PMU).
e  Preparation o f tender documentationand procurement o f project technical assistance, training
   and facilities for PASand as needed for PMUs inclose consultation with the Bank team. This
   may require arranging for unifiedtenders across entities ifefficiencies can be obtained;
e  Provision o f institutional support to the P A management authorities and units with emphasis
   on project management including finance and administration, procurement, monitoring and
   evaluation;
e  Providing basic information and guidance to all project stakeholders and exchange information
   on experiences with similar programs, nationally and internationally, and with relevant donors;
e  Communicating about the project to the public and the media, and key stakeholders;
e  Facilitation o f inter-ministerial coordination, and inthe RS ensure close cooperation with
   MAWMFregarding project implementation inthe Forest Reserves;
e  Providing support for Bank supervision missions and liaison with Bank staff;
e  Participation inthe Project Guidance Committee; and
e  Functioning as paymaster for the project.

4. ProtectedArea Management Units. It has been agreed that for each existing PA (four in
total) the current staff will assume responsibilities associated with project implementation.
However, additional technical assistance may be procured ifneeded inconsultation with the
PMU. Inthe case o f the Forest Reserves, P A management will report to the P M U inthe
MSPCEE on project-relatedtasks, and as requiredby MAWMF to that ministry on these and
other functions. UntilP A authorities are established inFBiH,the Federation's P M U will fulfill
the following responsibilities as per project design and appropriate for each site. Specific
responsibilities comprise:
e Preparationo f annual work plans and budgetsfor review and approval by their respective
  PMU;
e Supporting and overseeing field-level implementation o f project activities, e.g., preparation o f
  management plans, facilities development, training courses, public consultations, etc.;


                                                    41

   Monitoring o f project activities and results and preparation o f financial monitoring and project
   progress reports;
   Working closely with contracted technical assistance inproject component implementation;
   Communication and liaison with local stakeholders about project activities and results;
   Procurement o f equipment, labor and other items in consultation with P M U and as agreed in
   annual work plans and budget;

5 . Cooperation with Other Ministries. The inclusion o f Forest Reserves and forest areas of
biodiversity importance inthe project requiresthat the Entity line ministriesmaintain
operational-level cooperation and liaison with MAWMFs. It has beenagreed that the Entity
PMUs will hold regular meetingswith MAWMF representatives, and share all progress and
financial reports on a timely basis. Both Entity Line ministriesare considering inestablishing
entity level steering or supervisory committees which would include representation from the
forestry sector.




                                                  42

                Annex 7: FinancialManagementand DisbursementArrangements
                                         BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA:
                 FOREST AND MOUNTAIN PROTECTED AREAS PROJECT

Country Issues
A report providingan updateon the assessment of the country's public financial management
(FM) was preparedin2006. Although BiHhas made good progress inestablishingmodern
public FM institutions and systems since the war ended in 1995, systemic and structural
weaknesses inpublic sector budgeting, accounting, reporting, and auditing remaina challenge.
The Treasury accountingsystem nowprovidesreliableinformation; systems are inplaceto
record, report, andtrack receiptand use of funds; and there is independentaudit ofthe budget
executionreports. However, weak compliancewith the existinginternal control rules and
proceduresis further compoundedby the absence of a moderninternal audit system thus
weakening the internal control framework. Moreover, current public procurementpracticesare
weak and fail to comply with the Public ProcurementLaw. The use of country FMsystems in
BiHshouldbeginwith a pilot Project subject to a separate Project fiduciary assessment after
progresshas beenmade insettingup an effective internalaudit function at the levelofthe State
and the two Entities. Currentlyavailable resources inthe FBiHMET andRS MSPCEEdo not
permit to use country systems for FM for this Project.
Risk analysis
Risk assessment. The overall FMrisk for the project is substantialbefore mitigationmeasures,
and with adequate mitigation measures agreed, the FMresidualrisk is ratedmoderate.Table
below summarizesthe FMassessment and risk ratings of this project:    ~.
                   Risk                     Risk   Risk MitigationMeasures                           Risk after
                                           Rating                                                    mitigation
 Inherent Risk
 Country level. Perceived corruption in      S     Corruption risk will be mitigated by instituting      M
 the country is high. Compliance on                additional procedures and strengthening system
 internal controls is weak. Internal audit         o f internalcontrols. The internal controls to be
 is not yet developed. Capacity of State           applied in practice are described in Financial
 Audit Institution is still low. Efficient         Manuals. Quarterly IFRs will be submitted to
 and effective procurement practices are           the Bank. Risk imposed by low capacity o f
 lacking and appropriate complaints                SA1 will be mitigated by using private auditors
 mechanisms missing.                               acceptableto theBank fbr the project audit.
 Entity level. Weak financial                S   IIThe risk will be mitigated by instituting             M
 Management structures in the two                  additional key controls  6   be applied during
 ministries that will implement the                implementation of the project by dedicated
 project.        Large       infrastructure        project staff, FM capacity building.         Any
 investmentsproneto corruption.                    changes to the PMU's staff structure will be
                                                   agreed with the Bank.
 Project level. Complexity of the project   M    IIThe FBiH PMU has previous experience in               M
 is modest.                                        implementingBank funded projects: Inthe RS,
                                                   experienced specialists will provide support
                                                   until the MSPCEEPMU has sufficientcapacity.
 Overall Inherent Risk                       8                                                          M




                                                    43

             Risk              Risk    RiskMitigationMeasures                                       Risk after
                               Rating                                                               mitigation s
 Control Risk
 1. Budgeting and Planning.     M      No additionalmitigation measures needed.                         M
 Capacity for budgeting and
 planning is adequate, and
 there      is     substantial
 experience inthis respect.
 2. Accounting.                 M      No additional mitigation measures needed.            Current     M
                                       accounting systems will continue being used in the FBiH
                                       PMU, while an experienced specialist will establish the
                                       system, carry out the FM initially, and develop FM
                                       capacity of the new MSPCEE PMU in the RS.
 3. Internalcontrols             S     FM manuals already in use for ongoing Bank-financed              M
                                       projects include detailed description o f internal control
                                       procedures. In the FBiH this manual was adapted to
                                       FMPAP prior to negotiations. In the RS, an experienced
                                       specialist will adapt an existingmanualto FMPAP. .
 4. Funds flow                  M      No additionalmitigation measures needed.                         M
 5. Financialreporting           S     Financial reporting will be based on the current systems         M
                                       used in accordance with project-specificformats agreed at
                                       negotiations.     Existing software will be adjusted to
                                       accommodate these formats, in the FBiH, by the PMU,
                                       and in the RS, by the experienced specialist. The RS
                                       specialist will also establishthe fill reportingsystem.
 6. Auditing.                   M      No additional mitigation measures needed. A private              M
                                       audit company acceptable to the Bank will perform audit
                                       o f the project basedon existingaudit arrangements.
 7. Staffing                           In FBIH, PMU staff experienced with SWMP will train              M
                                       and advise new staff in Bank procedures. In RS, an
                                       experienced specialist will establish the system, carry out
                                      the FM initially, and develop FM capacity of the new
                                       MSPCEEPMU.
Overall Control Risk                                                                                    M
Overall FM Risk                                                                                         M

Strengths. Previousexperiencewith Bank fundedprojects inthe FBiHPMUrepresentsthe
principalstrengths ofthe ProjectFMarrangements.
Weaknesses.InFBiHMET, the principalweakness is that FMspecialist inthe PMUhas no
previousexperience inworking with Bank financedprojects andinRS MSPCEEthe PMUis not
yet appropriately staffed. This is mitigated(a) inFBiHthroughthe involvement of experienced
FMspecialist for SolidWaste ManagementProject (SWMP) who will providetraining and
advice to the newFMPAPFMspecialist,and (b) inthe RS throughengagementpart-timeFM
consultant under a short-termconsultancycontract who wouldtrain the FMspecialistinthe RS
PMU.
Action Plan. Several detailswere discussedduring negotiationsand have beenreflectedinthe
minutesor attachmentsto the minutes: These include:
    Formatsfor the InterimUnauditedFinancialReports (IFRs). Draftformats were finalized
    and confirmedduring negotiations.




                                                   44

 No.    Action                                                      Responsible    Proposed target date
 1.    In the RS, the experienced specialist specified in the MOU   Specialist  June 16, 2008
       shall submit the initial update of the FM operational       specified in
       manual.                                                        MOU
 2.    In the RS, the World Bank shall complete its review o f the World Bank   June 22, 2008
       draft FM operational manual and the specialist shall         Specialist  June 30,2008
       respond ifnecessarywith a revisedsubmission.                specified in
                                                                      MOU
 3.    Inthe FBiH and the RS, the PMUswill submit a draft final      PMUs       August 31,2008
       contractfor the FM software

FMImplementationArrangements.
Implementing agencies. The project i s to be implementedunderthe overallresponsibilityof the
FBiHMET andthe RS MSPCEE. A PMUhas beenestablishedinthe FBiHMET, including
procurementandFMaspects, ofthe whole project. A Project Managerfor the RS PMUhas been
nominatedinthe RS MSPCEE,with further team membersto be appointed. The PMUs will
have overall responsibilitiesfor implementation,includingprocurementandFMactions.
Planning and Budgeting. The PMUs inthe two Entity-levelministrieswill prepareannual
plansbasedon detailedprocurementplans. Care shouldbetakenthat variances of actualversus
budgetedfigures are monitoredon a regularbasis, appropriatelyanalyzedandcorrectiveactions
taken. The two PMUs (inthe case ofthe RS, with the assistanceofthe contractedexperienced
PMU) will preparebudgetsfor all Project components for each Entity.
Accounting Policies and Procedures. Project accounting, on cash basis, will be maintained
separately within the PMUs. Accountingproceduresare set out indetail ina FMManualfor the


                                                      45

FBiHPMUs for the current SWMP. The FMManual covers: (a) the FMsystemproposed under
the project, with special emphasis on accounting and auditing policies, standards and internal
controls; (b) the role o f the FM systems inproject management and implementation; (c) the
accounting arrangements required for project management, the format for and content o f project
financial reporting; (d) the auditing arrangements that will be usedduringproject
implementation; and (e) budgetingand planning. This manual i s to be further developed and
amended to cater for the FMPAP, before Board presentation date. The FMmanual for RS P M U
will be based on the existing manual usedby the experienced specialist, which will be adjusted
to accommodate the FMPAP design.
Staffing. The FBiHP M U consists o f a Head o f P M U (Assistant Minister), Senior Procurement
Officer, Procurement Officer, and two Financial Managers. It i s planned that one junior
accountant and an additional procurement officer joins the team shortly. This staffing level i s
satisfactory for the implementation o f the project. The existing SWMP FMS will train the
FMPSP FMS. The RS PMUhas Manager who is a member o f MSPCEE's regular staff. InRS,
an experienced specialist will establish the system, carry out the FM initially, and develop FM
capacity o f the new MSPCEE PMU.
FMManual. Project specific controls and procedures relating to FMwill be described inthe
FMManuals prepared for the project ineachEntity.Key internal controls to be applied include
appropriate authorizations, control checks, segregation o f duties, reconciliations and
documenting transactions. The Manuals will set out the FMand internal control policies and
procedures and are intendedto guide staff and minimize the risk o f errors and omissions, as well
as delays inrecording and reporting. These written standards will also clarify responsibilities,
including level o f authority, clear control over assets, cash, and bank accounts, and it ensures
timely and accurate financial reporting. The procurement function for the project will be
centralized inthe two ministriesproject units, and the project procurement specialists will initiate
the procurement process.
Internal Controls. The controls for the project are expected to follow the following procedures:
The institutionreceives an invoice andverify it interms o f quality and quantity o fthe
goodshervices received versus invoiced. The invoice i s then forwarded to the project units where
it is registeredas received andforwarded to the Project Director. The invoice is immediately
givento the project accountant who registers the invoice ina simple log file with name o f
supplier, amount, and date o fpayment. He/she checks the invoice, the calculation o fthe invoice,
and finds the appropriate budget from which the amount will be charged (contract number, item
number and program (component)). The accounting code needs to be written on the invoice by
the accountant. After puttinghisherinitials the invoice is givento the project procurement staff.
The procurement staffchecks the invoice against the relevant contract number, ifnecessary
attaches a copy o f the relevant paragraph on which the invoice i s based from the contract and
signs. All relevant documentation shall be attached to the invoice enabling the relevant
coordinator to immediately evidence that the necessary checks have been performed. The invoice
i s finally received again by the project accountant. The receipt o f the approved invoice i s
registeredinthe registry mentioned above ensuringthat payment can be made as per the
payment terms. Payment order and the invoice with all designated approvals and signatories
(described inthe FMl Manual) are submittedto the commercial bank where the Designated
Account i s opened for payment or incase o f Direct Payment the application form for such
payment method i s submitted to the Bank. After applying the eligible percentages the request for
payment o f the counterpart contribution with all designated approvals and signatories (described

                                                  46

inthe FMManual) is processedfor payment. Bank Statements are receivedweekly bythe
project units.Based on the Bank Statements the project accountants will record executed
payments and perform due reconciliation o f the bank and grant balances. The project units will
prepare interim un-audited financial reports listedabove quarterly inthe agreed format and
submit the reports to the Bank. The project's financial records will be reconciled with the World
Bank's Disbursement Summary statement on a monthly basis by the Financial Management.
The Financial Manager will reconcile on a monthly basis the balance on Special Account per the
project's accounting records with statements received from the bank at which the Special
Account i s held.
Proceduresfor Local Initiatives Grants. With respect to the local initiatives grants, the
procedures will be described in Guidelines on the Local Initiatives Grants were agreed at
negotiations, with details on FM aspects specified inthe FM Operational Manuals. The
Guidelinescontain key internal controls and procedures that needto be inplace before small
grant funds can be disbursedincluding: a clear description o f eligibility criteria for beneficiaries;
a clear description o f eligibility criteria for sub-projects; procedures and processes o f monitoring
and evaluation o f the grants, including reporting; and the procurement processes for the grants.
Procedures for disbursement, accounting, documentation and financial reporting will be specified
inthe FMOperationalManual;
Internal Audit. The project unitshave no internal audit function and none is considered
necessary. The activities will be subject to an external audit by the Supreme Audit Institution o f
the two entities.
Reportingand Monitoring
FMReporting and Monitoring Arrangements. The PMUs will maintain financial records for
the Project and will ensure appropriate accounting for the funds provided. The PMUs will
prepare on a cash basis and submit quarterly InterimUn-audited Financial Statements (IFRs) ina
form agreed with the Bank, due within 45 days o f the end o f each quarter. The PMUs will also
prepare annual project financial statements, in a form acceptable to the Bank, and these will be
audited by an external audit firm acceptable to the Bank. The IFRswill include: Project Sources
and Uses o f Funds Statement, Project Balance Sheet, Statement o f Expenditures (SoE) and
Payments made duringreporting period against contracts subject to the World Bank prior review.
FMReporting andMonitoring Capacity. The current FBiHPMUinMETin-charge for the
implementation o f the SWMP submits InterimUn-audited Financial Statements on a quarterly
basis. The reports continue to be submittedon time and are acceptable to the Bank. The same
arrangements will be retained for the new project. However the format o f IFRshas beenrevised
inorder to reflect the newsources and uses offunds for the newproject. The reporting will be
done inUSD. The P M U has purchased and has implementedthe software that was developed by
e-Line d.o.0. Sarajevo. It is used for the current SWMP. The accounting software system uses
MS SQLdatabase. It consists ofthe following modules: financial, procurement andreporting.
The financial modules include 4 sub-modules: Payments, Reports, Other Categories, and Reports
by Other Categories. The payments are enteredinto the systembased on disbursement
categories. The reporting sub-modules allow the PMU to print detailed reports andthe financial
statements. The procurement module enables the PMU to enter all necessary information on
procurement matters. The financial software has adequate security levels. The system meets the
Bank's reporting requirements, although the P M U intendsto purchase an additional license so
that it can make a separate trial balance for the FMPAP. The system updates neededfor the new

                                                    47

project will be completedby project inception. Inthe RS, the software usedby the experienced
FMspecialist who is subject to the MOU will be adaptedto the FMPAP. It will includemodules
on financial, procurementand reporting. The financial moduleswill include4 sub-modules:
Payments,Reports, Other Categories, and Reportsby Other Categories. The paymentswill be
enteredinto the system basedon disbursement categories. The reporting sub-moduleswill allow
the PMUto print detailedreportsandthe financial statements. The procurementmodulewill
enablethe PMUto enter all necessary informationon procurementmatters. The financial
software will have adequate security levels. The system will also meetthe Bank's reporting
requirements.
ExternalAudit
Audit Arrangements. The PMUswill be responsiblefor ensuringthat project financial
statements,designatedaccounts, and Statement of Expenditures(SOEs) are auditedby an
independentauditor, acceptableto the Bank, inaccordancewith standardson auditingthat are
acceptableto the Bank. The annual project audit will be carriedout inaccordancewith the
Guidelinesfor Auditing under WorldBankfinancedprojects (June 2003). The audit report shall
be ina format inaccordancewith the International Standards on Auditing promulgatedby the
International Federationof Accountants (IFAC). The auditedproject financial statementswill be
sent to the Bank within six (6) monthsof the end of the Government's fiscal year. The audit
expenses will be financed from the GEF grant source of funds.
Audit Capacity. There are government-wideaudit arrangementscoveringall Bank financed
projectsinBosniaand Herzegovina(with the exceptionofrevenue earningentities). The State
Ministry ofFinance and Treasury (MoFT) has recentlyreneweda one-year contract for the audit
of fiscal year 2007 with Price Waterhouse Coopers, Macedoniafor the audits of World Bank
financed projects. The FMPAP will be includedon the list ofprojectsauditedunder the master
audit agreement with Price Waterhouse Coopers, Macedonia. There is optionof contract
extensionup to two additionalyears subject to successfulaudit performance. The audited
financial statements of the current SWMP implementedby the FBiHMET for the FY 2006 have
beenreceivedby due date. The auditors' opinionon the financial statementswas unqualified.
The management letter containedminor recommendationsrelatingto accountingissues. The
audit ofthe newprojectwill be includedinthe current arrangementsofthe MoFT.
FundsFlow and DisbursementArrangements
Retroactive Financing. Retroactivefinancingfor expenditures made no earlier than March 15,
2008 will not exceed US$lOO,OOO.
Timeframe. It i s expectedthat the proceedsof the GEF Grant will be disbursedover a periodo f
four years, plus an additional ten monthswhich includessix months betweenproject completion
and closingas well as four monthsfor the completionof accounts and the submissionof
withdrawal applications. As there is no standard disbursementprofile for Bosniaand
Herzegovina,the disbursement forecast is based on the Bank'sexperiencewith financing similar
projectsinother ECA countries, and other projects inBosniaand Herzegovina. The Grant
closing date is estimatedto be April 30, 2013.
DisbursementArrangements. Disbursementsfrom the GEF grant will follow the transaction-
basedmethod, i.e., the traditionalBank proceduresincludingreimbursementswith full
documentation, Statementsof Expenditure (SOE), direct payments and specialcommitments.
Disbursementsfrom the Grant proceedswould be administeredby the PMUs.The PMUs are

                                              48

responsiblefor retaining supportingdocumentationfor SOEs andmakingthem availableto
supervisionmissions, as well as to the auditors. The draft CFAA for BiHrecommendedthat
report-baseddisbursements(previouslyknownas PMR-baseddisbursements) shouldnot be
introducedinthe BiHportfolio at this stage becauseof significant risksrelatingto (i) project FM
weaknesses andlack of capacity inPMUs; (ii) the shaky bankingsystem; and (iii) the unstable
political situationand general governanceproblemspresentlyaffecting BosniaandHerzegovina.
Designated Accounts. The state Ministry of Financeand Treasury will open a two designated
accountsfor eachEntityfor GEF funds ina bank acceptableto the WorldBank. The designated
accountswill be denominatedinUSD. The Government contributionwill be paidinto separate
local bank accountsfor each Entity.
Disbursement Allocations. The Grant amount of US$3.4 millionfunded by GEF will be
allocatedto the FBiH andRS as indicatedinthe tables below. These tables set forth the
Categoriesof itemsto be financed out ofthe proceeds ofthe Grant, the allocationofthe amounts
of the Grant to each Category andthe Percentage of expendituresfor items so to be financed in
eachCategory.
                                       Allocationfor FBiH Activities:
          Category                              Amount           O hof Expenditures to be
                                                (in USD)         Financed
          Eligible goods, works,       US%1,520,000              100%
          consultant services,
          training and operating
          costs
          Local Initiatives Grants     us$180,000                100%
                                 Total US$1,700,000

                                        Allocationfor RS Activities:
          Category                              Amount           YOof Expenditures to be
                                                (in USD)         Financed
          Eligible goods, works,       US%1,520,000              100%
          consultant services,
          training and operating
          costs
          Local Initiatives Grants     us%180,000                100%
                                Total  US%1,700,000


Expenditures Eligiblefor GEF Financing. Eligibleexpenditureswill includeall works, goods,
consultants, training, local initiative grants, andoperatingcosts inaccordancewith the project
cost estimates, the agreedprocurementplan, andthe annualbudgets,which are made in
accordance with Bank guidelinesandproject-specific guidelinesspecifiedinthe legal
agreements.

SupervisionPlan

Duringproject implementation, the Bank will supervisethe project's FMarrangementsintwo
mainways: (a) reviewthe project's quarterly IFRs as well as the project's annual audited
financial statementsand auditor's managementletter andremedialactions recommendedinthe
auditor's Management Letters;and (b)performon-site supervisions, reviewthe project's FMand
disbursementarrangementsto ensure compliancewith the Bank'sminimumrequirements.
Supervisionswill be performedbythe Bank accreditedFM Specialist. The strengtheningof

                                                   49

fiduciary capacity inthe two PMUswill be closely monitored. Supervisionswill be performed
by the Bank accreditedFMSpecialist.
FMLegalCovenants


FM Covenants
Appoint an independentauditor by January 31 o feach year and providean audit to     IState MOF
the Bank by June 30 of eachyear.
Prepareand submit to the Bank quarterly interim financialreports within 45 days     IEntity PMUs
after the end of each quarter.
The RS shall appoint financial management and procurement staff for the MSPCEE Entity PMUs
                                                                                    I
PMUwithin one monthof projecteffectivenessio carry out fiduciary functions for
the project.
Implementthe project in accordancewith the provisionsofthe Financial                 Entity Governments
ManagementManual, ProcurementManualand Guidelines for Local Initiatives in           includingPMUs
Biodiversity Conservation.
Providecounterpartfunds as required for financingtheir share of projectcosts on a    Entity Governments
timely basis, and will deposit these funds into the Project Accounts for withdrawal
as requiredfor project implementation
Maintain acceptable FM arrangementsthroughout the project life.                      Entity PMUs




                                                          50

                              Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements
                                   BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA:
               FOREST AND MOUNTAINPROTECTED AREAS PROJECT

A. General
Procurementfor the proposedproject would be carriedout inaccordancewith the World Bank's
"Guidelines:Procurementunder IBRDLoans and IDA Credits"datedMay 2004, Revised
October 2006; and "Guidelines:Selectionand Employmentof Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers" datedMay 2004, RevisedOctober2006 and the provisionsstipulatedinthe Legal
Agreement. The various items under different expenditurecategoriesare describedingeneral
below. For each contract to be financedby the Loan, the different procurementmethodsor
consultant selectionmethods, the needfor pre-qualification,estimatedcosts, prior review
requirements,and time frame are agreedbetweenthe Recipient andthe Bank inthe Procurement
Plan.The ProcurementPlanwill be updatedat least annually or as requiredto reflectthe actual
project implementationneeds and improvements ininstitutionalcapacity.
A GeneralProcurementNotice (GPN) will bepublishedinthe Development Business
announcinggoods, consultingservices to be procured,and invitinginterestedeligible suppliers
and consultants to express interest andto request any complementaryinformationfrom the
Recipient. Specific ProcurementNotices (SPN) will be publishedinthe on-line edition of the
Development Businessfor all ICB contracts, and inthe printededition at the option ofthe
Recipient.For goods to be procuredthroughICB, individualbiddingopportunitieswould also be
advertisedina major local newspaperon the same (or within 5) day(s) of the on-line publication.
The local advertisementswill be inthe Englishlanguageand, at the optionof the Recipient,will
also be inthe local language.For consultants' contracts above US$lOO,OOO,  SPNRequest for
Expressionof Interestwill be advertisedinon-line editionof the DevelopmentBusinessand inat
least one major national newspaperof wide circulation (inthe local and Englishlanguages).
Civil servants are eligible be hiredas individualconsultants or as membersof a team with
financing underthe Loanprovidedthey are on leaveof absence without pay and they have not
beenworking for any of the BeneficiaryAgencies immediatelyprior to taking leave of absence.
Procurementof Goods: Goods procuredunderthis projectwould mainly be Information
Technology, comprisingoff-the-shelf hardwareand software as well as the designand
developmentofnew systems. Inadditionto the mainIT equipment various peripheralswould be
procured. Other goods may includefurniture, small equipment (including office equipment),
communicationequipment, vehicles, training and printingmaterial.All Goodsto be procured
through ICB will be procuredusingthe Bank's StandardBiddingDocuments(SBD. All goods
will be grouped, to the extent possible, to encourage competitivebidding. The following
methods of procurementwould be followed:
(0     International CompetitiveBidding (ICB). Computer equipmentand softwareunder all
       Components of the Project for contracts above US$lOO,OOO equivalentper contractwill
       be procuredusingICB.

(io    Shopping (SH) procedurewill be used for readily availableoff-the-shelfgoods, training
       and publicity materialsand for all smallvolumes of computers, software andperipherals
       underthe project. All items would have standardspecifications,estimatedto cost less
       US$lOO,OOO equivalentper contract.


                                                51

(iii)     Direct Contracting. Where certain goods are available only from a particular supplier or
          incases where compatibility with existing equipmentso requires goods may beprocured
          underDirect Contracting (Single Source) have obtained prior approval from the Bank (in
          accordance with a paragraph. 3.6 of the Procurement Guidelines).
Procurement of Works:Works procured underthis project would include: marking PA
boundaries, trail improvement, and construction and rehabilitation of small buildings inthe PAS.
These works will be small and scattered so they cannot be grouped into larger bidding packages.
All contractsestimatedto cost less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent each may be procured using
Shopping, and those estimated at less than US$500,000.00 equivalent per contract may be .
procured using NCB procedures25and biddingdocuments for procurement of works satisfactory
to the Bank. Force Account will be usedon case-by-casewith the Bank's prior agreement.
Procurement of non-consultingservices: Non-consulting technical services, suchas Survey and
mapping, digitizing and other, should the need arise during project implementation; will be
procured following the above spelledarrangementsfor Procurement of Works.
Selection of Consultants: Consulting services from firms and individuals requiredfor the
project will includetechnical assistance to participating Entitiesand institutions, development of
communication activities, IT / IMstrategy, studies,project management, QA & QC, Public
awareness campaign, improving legal framework, TA for reduction of administrative barriers
and regulatory impact assessment, etc.
Short lists of consultants for services estimatedto cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract
may be composed entirely of national consultants inaccordance with the provisions of paragraph
2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines and with the prior agreement of the Bank.
The following procurement procedures will be usedfor selection of consultant services:
     (0 Quality and CostBased Selection (QCBS) procedures, as describedinSection 11,
              paragraphs2.1 to 2.3 1of the Consultant Guidelineswill be usedifnecessary for
              assignment under all Components of the Project;
     (io Least Cost Selection (LCS) procedurewould be usedfor selection of an auditor to carry
              out audit of the Financial Statements of the Project. The shortlist should comprise
              only firms selected from the Bank list of eligible firms;
     (ii0 Selection under a Fixed Budget (FBS) may be used for assignmentsrelated to Public
              Relations (PR). Inaccordance with paragraph3.5 of the Consultants Guidelines the
              RFP shall indicate the maximum available budget and a firm will be selected that
              offers the best quality technical proposal withinthat available budget.




25 NCB will be subject to the following conditions:a point system of evaluationwill not be used; domestic
preferencewill not be applied; internationalbidderswill not be excludedfrom bidding; No bids will be rejected at
the bid opening. All bids submitted on or before the deadline for submission o f bids will be opened and readout at a
public bid opening; local bidders shall demonstrate availability o f obtainingsecurities and reasonableaccess to
credit; bid evaluation criteria shall be pre-disclosedto bidders; and technical specificationsshall be clearly written.
These conditionsshall be discussed at the negotiations and made part of the FinancingAgreement.




                                                           52

    (iv) Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications (CQ) will be usedfor contracting firms
            for certain assignments under all components o f the project for which the value of the
            assignments i s estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract.
    (v) Individual Consultants (IC'. Many specialized activities where specific skills are needed
            for short period o f time at scattered intervals and which would not be practicalto
            package with the assignments for consulting firms described above, would be best
            served through the recruitment o f individual consultants (both foreign and national) to
            assist incapacity building and institutional strengthening within all components o f the
            project and to assist the P M U invarious tasks. Selection o f individual consultants
            will be carried out inaccordance with SectionV o fthe Consultant Guidelines.
            Individuals will be selected based on their qualifications for the assignment by
            comparing the CVs obtained inresponse to an advertisement inthe national press or
            DevelopmentBusiness.
    (vi) Sole Source (SS'. Consultants may be hiredunder sole source contracts with the prior
            approval o f the Bank inaccordance with paragraphs 3.9 to 3.13 o f the Consultants
            Guidelinesand following the agreed Procurement Plan.
Training Activities. Training i s an integral element o f the project's capacity building objective.
The Loanwill finance training programs, including training workshops, study tours and local
trainings. Such training programs might be included in larger TA contracts with firms to reduce
administrative burdenon the Recipient side. The PMUs would be responsible for administration
o f a small number o f local workshops (including project launch, midterm and completion
workshops) and limited number o f study tours for the beneficiary Agencies. Expenditures
related to such training activities include: (a) for local training and workshops -per diems of
participants to cover transportation, lodging and subsistence; minor organizational expenses
(stationery, handouts, training materials, coffee breaks); (b) for international study tours -
international travel and visa costs, per diems (lodging and subsistence) and course-related
expenses (fixed tuition or participation fee).
The Recipient would be expected to prepare and agree a training planwith the Bank every six
months. This Plan will define the agreed procedures that will be usedfor procurement o f various
training services. The estimated budget, list o f participants and draft agenda for each training
event will be subject to Bank prior review, however, this may be done through the Annual Plan.
Expenditure items for training activities, including study tours, would be reportedunder SOEs.
The status o fthe training plan would be included as part o fthe quarterly progress reports, and
would be updated and/or modified as may be mutually agreed betweenthe coordination units and
the Bank.
Local Initiatives Grants Program: The project includes selected, appraised and approved in
accordance with the agreed Guidelines on the Local Initiatives Grants up to an amount not
exceeding the equivalent o f US$lOO,OOO for each grant.

Procurement under the Local Initiatives Grants Program would be procured by the grant
beneficiaries in accordance to the Manual for Conducting Very Small-Value Procurement Under
World Bank / IDA Small Grants, Loans and Credits, May 2004.

Operating Costs: Operating costs generated by project implementation, including the day-to-day
operating cost for office maintenance, supplies and consumables, and incremental costs o f


                                                   53

operatingandmaintainingthe equipment providedunderthe project, other sundry items, office
rentalandutilities,recurrentcost ofthe implementingagency directlyrelatedto project
implementation,wouldbe financedby the project andwould be procuredusingthe implementing
agency's administrativeprocedureswhichwere reviewedandfound acceptable to the Bank.
Recurrent cost: Also other recurrent cost resultingfrom the implementationof some project
activities, not directly relatedto the operating cost of the project implementationagency, would be
financed underthe project usingthe implementingagency's administrativeprocedureswhich were
reviewedandfound acceptable to the Bank.
B. Assessment of the agency's capacityto implementprocurement
An assessment ofthe capacity ofthe implementingagencies to implementprocurementactions
for the project has beencarriedout by NikolaKerleta, ProcurementSpecialist. The Project
ManagementUnits(PMUs) within the Ministry ofEnvironmentand Tourism (MET) inthe
Federationof BiHandMinistryof SpatialPlanning, Civil EngineeringandEcology (MSPCEE)
inRepublikaSrpskawill beresponsiblefor procurement. The assessment coveredthe
organizationalstructure for implementingthe project andthe interactionbetweenthe project's
staff responsiblefor procurementandthe Ministry's project andother staff.
The projectwill be implementedand procurementactivitieswill be carried out by specialized
teams, the Sector for Project Implementationestablishedwithinthe Ministry of Environment and
Tourism (MET) inthe Federationof BiHand inthe Sector for Project Coordinationand
Developmentofthe Ministryof SpatialPlanningCivil EngineeringandEcology (MSPCEE)in
RepublikaSrpska.This offices are genericallyreferredto as Project ManagementUnits (PMUs).
The core staffinthe PMUs will comprise, but not limitedto: Projectmanager, Financial
specialist, andProcurementspecialistwho will be responsiblefor all fiduciary arrangements
relatedto the project. The PMUs are supportedby other employeesofthe Ministriesin
preparationof differenttechnical specifications. The Ministries are well staffedwith
professionals from different areas (engineersfor bio-diversity, forestry, civil engineers, urban
planningspecialist,etc.).
Staffingof the Procurement Functionin the FBiHMET. The PMUofMET has a recordo f
goodknowledgeof World Bank procurementrules, proceduresandbiddingdocumentsfrom the
previousand on-going Bank projectsand is fully capableto undertake all necessary functions.
The procurementfunctioninthe METPMUis staffedby Senior ProcurementOfficer assisted
with ProcurementOfficer andbothare full time employeesofthe Ministry.Procurement officers
poses sufficientprofessionalexperiencerelevant to procurement underthe World Bank
procurementprocedures.

Staffingof the Procurement Functionin the PMUof the RS MSPCEE. The PMUof
MSPCEE is inplace and has gainedexperiencethroughmanagingother internationalprojects,
but does not haveprevious knowledgeof World Bank procurementrules, proceduresand
biddingdocuments.The procurementfunction inthe PMUofthe Ministryof SpatialPlanning,
Civil EngineeringandEcology(MSPCEE) inRepublikaSrpskahas not beenstaffed yet. In
additionto the risk of delays inprocurement,the followingare some other potentialriskthat may
result inprocurement delays:




                                                 54

1) the Ministrymightnot be ableto assignedqualifiedandexperiencedemployeeas
    procurementstaff ofthe PMUinatimely manner.The followingmeasuresare envisagedto
    mitigatethese risks:
    a) The PMU of the RS MSPCEEhas a MOUwith a procurementspecialist, as consultant,
        with suitable educationalbackgroundandexperienceininternational procurement,
        familiar with the WB procurementproceduresandguidelines.
    b) The consultantwill be engagedunderterms of referenceacceptableto the WorldBank.
    c) The RS MSPCEEshall appoint a procurementstaff personinthe PMUno later thanone
        monthafter project effectiveness.
2) Usually, tender committees26also delayprocurementas their membersdo not have any
    procurementtraining. The followingmeasuresare envisagedto mitigatethese risks:
    a) Providingbasicprocurementtrainingto the member of the committees, and
    b) by requiringthat the Ministries/ PMUs providethe Bank with the qualificationand
        experienceoftender committeemembersand seek its approval.Furthermore,tender
        committeememberscouldbe requiredto signa certificate that they would withdraw
        themselves from any procurementaction shouldthey determineany conflict of interest.

Duringsupervisionmission,the conductof procurementunder the projectwould bereviewedin
light ofthe potentialprocurementrisks, andrecommendationsmade ifnecessary,to improvethe
procurementprocess.
Support and ControlAspects. The PMUs are subjectto audit by independentsexternal auditors.
The public auditingpracticesinthe country are yet to be strengthened.
RecordKeeping. The procurementstaffofthe PMUs will have responsibilityfor maintaining
procurementrecords. However, a procurementfiling andcontrol systemhas to be organizedso
as to addressthe project needs. All documents on procurementwill be maintainedinthe
Ministrieswhichwill have a loggingsystem. The durationofmaintenanceofthe documentation
inthe Ministrieswill be at least three years. After completionofthis period, all documentsare to
be sent to the Governmentarchives. The PMUs will maintaina computerizedprocurement
database.
Risk Analysis / Country Procurement Environment. Public procurementinthe countryi s
regulatedby a harmonizedLawon PublicProcurement(LPP) enactedin September2004. The
law applies to all administrativeauthorities ofBH, Entities,BrckoDistrict, Cantons, municipal
bodies, public organizations, andpublic enterprises. An implementingregulationcame into
force inJanuary 2005. A newPublic ProcurementAgency has beenestablished. However,
significant capacitybuildingis still requiredinthe lineministriesandinthe Public Procurement
Agency to enhance the Governmentcapacityto conductprocurement.Inaddition, a procurement
reviewbodyhas yet to be set upto adjudicatedisputes. Inlate 2006 Bank staff conducteda
CountryProcurementAssessmentReviewscanningthe legislativeframework, procurement
practices,institutional capacity andthe risks for corruption. The assessment found that the risk
was moderatefor conductingpublicprocurementinBosniaandHerzegovina. The report issued


26These risks apply to bothMinistries(the Ministry of Spatial PlanningCivil Engineeringand Ecology in
RepublikaSrpska andthe Ministry of Environmentand Tourism inthe Federationof BiH


                                                  55

a series of recommendations designedto strengthenthe public procurement
environment/capacity inthe                   including legislative`reform, improving procurement
procedures and practices, institutional reform, and capacity building.
Implementingagency risk assessment. Based on the assessment o fthe capacity ofthe PMUs
to carry out and manage procurement and in line with the CPAR the Bank determines that the
overall risk for procurement is High. It i s recommendedthat the procurement thresholds for
procurement o f goods, works and consultancy contracts are set inaccordance with the latest
ECA regional thresholds. The reviewthresholds for the project will be determinedafter the
procurement plan i s prepared prior to GEF TF negotiations. Inaddition to the prior review
supervision to be carried out from Bank, it i s recommendedone supervision mission per year
visit the field to carry out post review o fprocurement actions. The procurement staff inthe
PMUs would properly collect and maintain the procurement documentation.
Also, a further issue exists as to reflect the cross-sectoral integrated concept project, concerning
management and coordination betweenthe Ministrieso f Agriculture, Water Management and
Forestry (MAWMF) inboth Entities, Ministry o f Foreign Trade and Economic Relations
(MFTER), Cantonal and Municipal institutions, Tourism Trade Associations, Protected Areas
Association, related NGOs, and academics.            Inorder to ensure successful implementationit is
essential that the DSIs take on a proactive rather than reactive role.

Action plan for buildingagency's capacity. Inorder to build-inand maintain strong
procurement management capacity inthe Ministries the Bank recommends the following actions:

    0    Inorder to get better understanding ofthe Bank's newprocurement and consultant
         guidelines, as well as the new biddingand proposal documents, the relevant staff
         involved inthe procurement management process to attend appropriate trainings
         organized by relevant institution (e.g.: I L O inTurin), or by the Bank within the country
         and/or region.
         The Bank will carry out a brieftraining session on procurement duringthe project launch
         workshop, as well as will provide the PMUs with a full set o f the most recent guidelines,
         bidding, proposal and evaluation documents on C D and paper.
         The MSPCEE PMUwill contract a local procurement specialist to provide the
         procurement services during the initial three months after project effectiveness in close
         collaboration with the P M U staff so as to buildthe capacity o f these staff to take over the
         procurement functions, and to provide advice on a retainer basis to the staff for an
         additional three months after the transfer o f fiduciary operations to the P M U staff, with
         extension if requestedby the PMU.


C. ProcurementPlan
The Recipient developeda procurement plan for project implementationwhich provides the
basis for the procurement methods. This plan has been agreed and i s available at the PMUs                .  It
will also be available inthe project databaseand inthe Bank's external website. The


27Main recommendationsare: (i)the Public ProcurementAgency should issue secondary regulationto guide some
specific procurement; (ii)procurement of consultancyservices of intellectualnature should be addressed separately
inthe Law; and (iii)the standardbiddingdocuments need revision.


                                                     56

Procurement Plan will be updated inagreement with the Project Team, as a minimum, annually
or as required to reflect the actual project implementationneeds and improvements in
institutional capacity.
D. Frequencyof Procurement Supervision
Inaddition to the prior reviewsupervision to be carried out from Bank offices, the capacity
assessment o f the ImplementingAgency has recommendedonce every six months supervision
missions to visit the field to carry out post review o f procurement actions, and will include
informal training.
E. Detailsof the ProcurementArrangementsInvolvingInternationalCompetition
1. Goods, Works, and Non ConsultingServices
(a) List o f contract packages to be procured following ICB and direct contracting:
(b) ICB contracts for Goods estimated to cost above $100,000 and Works/Technical services
estimated to cost above $500,000 per contract and all direct contracting will be subject to prior
reviewby the Bank, as well as the first two Shoppingprocedures.
2. ConsultingServices
(a) Consultancy services estimated to cost above $100,000 per contract and single source
selection o f consultants (firms) for assignments estimated to cost above $100,000 will be subject
to prior review by the Bank, as well as the first two contract o f each type below that threshold
(c) Short lists composed entirely o f national consultants: Short lists o f consultants for services
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be composed entirely of
national consultants inaccordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 o f the Consultant
Guidelines.
                                     PROCUREMENT PLAN
I.GENERAL
1.      Agreed Date of the procurementPlan
        Original:      April 9, 2008
        Revision 1: April 18, 2008.
2.      Dateof GeneralProcurementNotice:estimated June 2008
11. Goods and Works and non consultingservices.
1.      Prior Review Threshold:Procurement Decisions subject to Prior Reviewby Bank as
stated inAppendix 1 to the Guidelinesfor Procurement.




                                                  57

         * all Contracts subject tojustification
2.     Pre-qualification.Biddersshall be pre-qualifiedinaccordancewith the provisionsof
       paragraphs2.9 and2.10 ofthe Guidelines(No pre-qualificationis envisaged)
3.     Any Other SpecialProcurementArrangements:None
111. Selection of Consultants
1. Prior ReviewThreshold: Selection Decisionssubjectto Prior Reviewby Bank as statedin
    Appendix 1to the GuidelinesSelection andEmploymentof Consultants:
                    Selection Method               Prior Review                    Comments
-                                                    Threshold
  1.    CompetitiveMethods (Firms) QCBS              > $100,000 All subject to prior review
 2.     CompetitiveMethods (Firms) LCS              Any amount   First contract subject to prior review
 3.    CompetitiveMethods (Firms) CQ                 > $50,000   All subject to prior review
 4.    CompetitiveMethods (Firms) CQ                 <$50,000    First 2 contracts subject to prior review
 5.    Individual Consultants (IC)                   > $50,000   All subject to prior review
 6.     Individual Consultants(IC)                   < $50,000  First 2 contracts subject to prior review
 7.   I Single Source (Firms and Individuals)*                  ]Allsubject to prior review


         * all                                   Ivalues
               Contracts subject tojustification
2. Short list comprisingentirely of nationalconsultants:Short list of consultants for
    services,estimatedto cost less than $100,000 equivalentper contract, may compriseentirely
    of national consultantsinaccordancewith the provisionsof paragraph2.7 of the Consultant
    Guidelines.
3. Any Other SpecialSelection Arrangements:None
4. ConsultancyAssignments with Selection Methodsand Time Schedule: See below
IV. Other
1. Ex-PostReview:All other contracts belowBank's prior reviewthresholdare subject to
    Bank's selectiveex-postreview. Periodic ex-postreviewby Bank will be undertakenduring
    regular supervisionmissions.Procurementdocuments, suchas biddingdocuments, bids, bid
    evaluationreportsandcorrespondencerelatedto bids andcontractswill be kept readily
    availablefor Bank's ex-postreviewduringsupervisionmissionsor at any other points in
    time.




                                                  58

                            Annex 9: Economic and FinancialAnalysis
                                    BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA:
                FOREST AND MOUNTAINPROTECTED AREAS PROJECT

Economic. Since technical grants do not require a detailed economic analysis, this section only
estimates incremental costs and evaluates environmental benefits inqualitative terms.
Project design assumes environmental and economic benefits arise through physical investment,
development o f new strategies, capacity building and training. The project will assist PA
authorities (and where needed, forest enterprise authorities) to increase their management
efficiency, develop new ways o f sustainably fundingtheir operations, capitalize important
physical investment, and improve the conservation aspects o f harvest management. The project
will also support activities to assist communities inand around PASindeveloping sustainable
and alternative revenue generation.
Through the expansion o f protected areas covered and stakeholder capacity enhancement
activities, the project will generate significant mutual economic and environmental benefits by:
(i)creatingtheopportunityforgeneratingjobsfrombetterutilizationofnon-timbervaluesof
these forests, particularly from tourism and recreation, including non-timber forest product
collection, sustainable commercial game management; (ii)       securing conservation o f biodiversity
ininternationally important critical forest habitats includingHCVFs; and (iii)     conservation and
improved management o f globally significant endemic biodiversity and landscape values o f
critical ecosystems.
The incremental costs are for those activities that achieve country and regional benefits by (i)
supporting protected areas planning; (ii)   establishing P A management and buildingpublic
awareness o f biodiversity Conservation and IUCN categories inthe region; and (iii)      increased
national capacity to manage protected area natural resources sustainably and conserve their
globally important biodiversity. GEF assistance will helpto mainstream biodiversity
conservation in landscapes where the primary emphasis i s on economic uses, with the result that
all IUCN categories will be emphasized inthe project.
Finally, the project will support activities to stimulate local enterprise and generate new revenue
sources compatible with PA management. The result will be improved sustainable revenue
generation for populations living inand around PASthrough better utilization o f the area innon-
consumptive ways such as tourism, and increased efficiency o f extractive practices such as
NTFP collection. Therefore, the social and economic impact o f project activities i s expected to
be positive including the generation o f employment inrural areas.
ParallelForestSector EconomicFramework:This project focuses on the process of PA
development inforest and mountain ecosystems. BiHhas great potential for forestry and the
government o f BiHhas taken some steps to this end. As part o f recent reform processes o f
varying degrees inthe different parts o f the country, economic and administrative control
hnctions have beenseparated inthe parallel forestry sectors, a step towards more transparency
inforest management. Consolidationofthe current achievements through implementation ofthe
newlegal frameworks has also begununder the FCDP. Entitieshave also developed action plans
to help reduce illegal activities. Implementation o f this action plan i s helping the forest
enterprises to capture a more correct level o f revenue from timber harvesting, than they are able
to at present.

                                                   59

 This project also looks at the tourism potential o f forests. The project will investintourism and
recreation related infrastructure such as ticket booths, gates, and visitor centers as well as ina
 local and Entitypublic relations program. These investmentsshould result in increased capture
o f tourism fees, increased sales o f tourism and recreation-related products and services, plus
increased visitation to project and other PAS.
Another aspect o f the project looks at safety concerns. Minesare a reality left over from the
wars, and some remote areas, as well as areas near human activity in especially the Igman
mountain complex still contain minefields. While this potential danger has some effect on the
utilization o f these areas for tourism activities, overall this i s not a significant concern.
Demining efforts are ongoing, with clear "Do Not Enter" areas (marked inredtape with "skull
and crossbones"), inboth remote locations and sites close to close to current/potential future,
recreation areas. The project does not propose to directly support any demining. Nevertheless,
project support for new management plans will take direct account o f deminingactivities.
Assumingthe forests inprotected areas become safer through trail management, the net benefit
o f investmentsfor alternative tourist utilization has significant potential. Recently conducted
studies analyzed the potential economic benefits o ftourism. An assessment o f opportunities for
tourism found that the natural and cultural landscapes inBiHprovide mediumto highpotential
as a tourism destination. The areas with the highestpotential among the project sites are
Sutjeska N P and Igman-Bjelasnica-Treskavica-Visocica. It i s expected that the feasibility study
for Prenj-Cvrsnica-Cabulja will highlightthe strong potential for mine-safe tourism development
inthe westernportion o fthe proposed site. Although air access to BiHis improving, many
European tourists come by car, along routes near the protected areas. There are hundreds of
thousands o f tourists visiting the Adriatic coast for their vacations annually. However, the
tourism season i s short and confined primarily to the summer months. Naturally the season
could be extended to include skiing inwinter for mountain areas such as the proposed P A Igman-
Bjelasnica-Treskavica-Visocica near Sarajevo.
Financial. Due to government budget constraints, the proposedbiodiversity conservation
activities could not be implementedwithout GEF support. Nevertheless, while project protected
areas will strive to generate a greater contribution to their annual budgetfrom non-consumptive
P A activities, such as tourism and recreation, and less from logging and similar activities, inthe
long term, experience from other parts o f the world show that self-financing for PAScannot
always be expected, nor i s it possible. As a result, and assuming the Government's commitment
to increase the area under formal protection and secure sustainable management, future Entity
budgetprovisions needto be made which will impact the financial plans at different levels.
The project recognizes that inthe current climate government authorities face significant
challenges in financing a PA network that i s able to meet fully a range o f conservation and other
objectives. However, steps are beingtaken and opportunities exist that improve the prospects for
a growing and strong P A system inthe country.
At present, the policy framework for government support from and revenue sharing between
Entity governments and protected areas is underrevision. The PAShave argued persuasively for
greater budget support from the central authorities, and it appears that this will be given partly
through changes intheir institutional arrangements. By converting to or establishing PASas
public institutions, and not enterprises (at presentNPs operate as public enterprises), PASwill be
eligible for greater levels o f government budgetsupport. Such arrangements not only improve
the financial projections for PAS,but also better reflect their function and importance as national
assets. Increased government allocations for operating costs will reduce the dependence on
                                                    60

revenues from forestry operations, while at the same time the new governance structures will
improve accountability and representation. Current annual budgets for these sites, and new
managementplans will reflect the changes ininstitutional and associated financial provisions.
As public institutions, it is anticipatedthat inthe RS the NationalParks will be financed from the
Entity budget. However, not all NP revenues are expected to be depositedinto the Entity
Treasury. Some revenues, e.g., some taxes, entrance fees, will be retained by the NP authority for
direct investment. The inclusion of sucha provisionwill be critical for PA financial
sustainability. As part of PA managementplanning and Entity-levelpolicy discussions, the
project will strengthen and highlight the value of these and similar mechanismsthat allow PASto
manage a portion of the revenue stream from generation of income to investment.
The rebounding of tourist inflows to the country after a decline inthe 1990scaused by the war
provides an opportunity to generate revenuesfrom tourists and for BiHto capitalize on growing
market segments interestedinnatural and culturalheritage. The increasing importance of
ecotourism has been analyzedby a JICA project "Sustainable Development through Eco-
Tourism inBosnia andHerzegovina". In2004 JICA interviewed tourists insouthernBiHand
23.9% mentioned that their motive for visiting BiHwas ecotourism; inthe northern area with
less cultural heritage it has been even 52.5%. BiHhas considerableexperience in attracting
significant numbersof tourists to its protected areas, but has generally derived limitedrevenues
from entryher fees. As tourism, and especially ecotourism, becomes more popular inBiH, the
existing andproposedprotected areas have a good potential to cover a significant portion of their
annual operations and maintenance costs from tourism revenues inthe long term when the
project has been completed.
The project is designed to address concerns of financial sustainability of the protected areas
includingtwo current NationalParks by enhancing their managementand alternative revenue
streams suchas tourism, and developing a financing strategy for the PA system that includes
positioning the system to access external financing sources, especially from the EU.
To support protected area development and financial sustainability, the project would help
finance investments inbasic, but "soft" PA long-term infrastructure (establishment and
maintenanceof marked, safe hikingtrails, visitor shelters and information centers) and
development of related services (training of protected area staff to provide interpretation services
to visitors, informational materials for visitors) to promote tourism in the priority protected areas,
as determinedby feasibility studies and local participation. The project will fund promotionand
marketing activities to encourage andthus increase visitation, especially inkey market segments
focusing on the assets of particular PASand linking these where appropriate with other
attractions and tourist circuits.
The project would benefit local communities by providing opportunities for obtaining new
income from increasedvisitor use of the protected areas (e.g., through sale of food, room
services, handicrafts, and employment as park rangers or wildlife guides). The project will also
support initiatives that generate income from tourism through improved environmental and
social practices, enabling providers to supply a growing customer base willing to pay a premium
for good and services that meet certain standards.
Financial projections assume completion of protected area infrastructure and the capacity to
manage the protected areas and revenue from protected area visitors. Currently, infrastructure is
missing and staff lacks the skills and other resourcesneededto ensure that visitor use of the
protected areas occurs ina sustainable manner and is consistent with the protected areas'
biodiversity conservation objectives. The project would buildthis capacity through TA, training
                                                  61

and monitoring programs. Duringthe project period, visitor use, and therefore revenues are
projected to increase modestly, as the skills to ensure environmental sustainability o ftourism are
developed. A financing strategy will include a standardized visitor and user fee structure for
individual NPs and associated protected areas. It i s anticipated that at project completion, on
average 20% o f recurrent management costs for the project sites will come from tourism and
related revenues. Additional financial benefitsare expected from increased tax revenues
generated by tourism activities and more broadly from the watersheds (and ecosystems) that the
PASprotect.
Project expenditures on the integrated components will generate global, BiH and local benefits
with non-recoverable incremental costs. The GEF project aims to generate strategies for long
term sustainability. Finally, the project does not include any budget to purchase private land.
Inthe light ofthe severe fiscal difficulties that the BiHGovernment is experiencing, this
financial contribution would be crucial inensuringlong term conservation o f biodiversity inthe
protected areas.
Fiscal Impact: Owing to the financial constraints faced by the Government, every effort has
beenmade to minimize the fiscal impact o fthis project on the national budget. Evenso, it will
be important to establish clear expectations for long-term reliable government financing
necessary for an effective PA system. This i s critical as BiHmoves towards meeting
requirementsfor full EUmembership, and beingable to capitalize on opportunities for much
neededfinancial and technical assistance. Inthis regard, and with its contributions inthe
following areas: a) improving financial and technical management o f PASand potential Natura
2000 sites (many are expected to be within PAS); b) buildingpublic awareness and
understanding o f improved PA management standards and policies; and c) prioritization and
verification o f Natura 2000 sites, the project will enable government authorities and other
stakeholders to be better equippedto access EUassistance inpreparation for accession. For
example, by mid 2008, the EU expects to have completed an IPA Nature and Biodiversity Action
Plan including an investment plan for future IPA finance. Additional opportunities lie in
Instrumentfor Pre-Accession Assistance for Rural Development (IPARD) for activities that
promote agri-environmental activities. Beyond access to assistance, the tourism potential o f PAs
will be greatly enhanced when they are able to actively market their natural assets as part o fthe
Natura 2000 network, since for Europeantourists this acts as an important indicator of quality
and experience.
The Government total contribution is estimated at US $2.5 million or about 42% of project
financing, and would come mainly inthe form o f providing office space, services like cadastre
surveys and salaries, among others for certainPA personnel, such as rangers, as well as the
staffing and operation o f the PMUs. It i s expected that the long-term fiscal impact o f the project
is likely to be positive through enhanced capacities to access an increased and diversified
revenue sources.
The project's support to existing and would-be local enterprises insetting up and expanding
environmentally friendly businesses intourism services, farming and crafts production and other
entrepreneurial activity, will help expand the Government's tax base.




                                                  62

                                      Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues
                                          BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA:
                   FOREST AND MOUNTAINPROTECTED AREAS PROJECT

The project i s classified as Category B.The project will have overall positive environmental
impact by conserving biodiversity and improving natural resource use. The project would
improve managementpractices invulnerable ecosystems and reduceunsustainable use of natural
resources inthose areas. Positive impacts are expected from the expanded system of protected
areas, which would includeadditional recreation areas, provide employment opportunities from
watershed protection and maintain gene pools for forests products harvested andusedby the
local population (berries, mushrooms, snails, etc.).

   SafeguardPolicies Triggeredby the Project                                              Yes                     No
   Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                                [XI                     [ I
  Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                            [XI                     [I
   Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                               [ I                    [XI
   Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)                                 [ I                    [XI
   Involuntary Resettlement(OP/BP 4.12)                                                    [XI                     [ I
   Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)                                  [ I                    [XI
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                                     [XI                     [ I
   Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                             E[Il                   [XI
  Projects inDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                                                       [XI
  Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                      [ I                    [XI

EnvironmentalAssessment (EA).
With the B classification the project requiredthe undertaking of a EA andthe preparation of an
Environmental Management Plan (EMP). The EMP was subject to numerous informal public
discussions prior to preparation ofthe final draft. The final draft, incorporating all comments,
was formally disclosed at public meetings in Sarajevo on June 7,2007 and inBanja Luka, on
June 13,2007.
The EA concludes that the overall environmental impact of the project is expected to be positive.
Negative impactswill be outweighed by the positive impactsassociated with the project goal of
sustainable management of PAs and natural resources. It should also be noted that project has
close links with the FDCP which will positively influence forest resource management inthe
Balkans, andprovide recommendationsto mainstreambiodiversity conservation into forest
managementplanning as well as landscape levelprioritization for protected andproduction
areas.
Possiblenegative impacts are primarily associated with:
         i)renovatiodconstructionofsmall-scaleprotectedareafacilitiessuchasvisitorcenters,
              offices, check posts, park entry booths, watch towers, trail repair and enhancement,
              etc.
         ii)increaseinrecreationaluseoftheexistingandproposedPASresultinginadditional
              levels of noise and disturbanceto wildlife and waste.



* By supporting theproposedproject, the Bank does not intend to prejudice thefinal determination of theparties' claims on the
disputed areas
                                                            63

The EMP, appropriate for existingand future PAS,outlines mitigation measures for the above
impacts, provides monitoring guidelines for assessing associated impacts and capacity building
activities for impact monitoring and assessment. The EMP also provides a set o f
"Environmentally Sound Clauses for Contractors" to be usedby construction contractors to
address possible negative environmental impacts. An environmental screening process i s also
included for the types o f activities likely to be implemented under the Local Initiatives for
Biodiversity Conservation. The semi-annual Project Progress Reports will include data on site
inspection o f environmental compliance.
Involuntary Resettlement.
An Access RestrictionProcess Framework was developed duringproject preparationto guide the
mitigation o f potential negative impacts on livelihoods o f populations residentnear the PAS. The
Framework was disclosed inearly June 2007, inboth Sarajevo and Banja Luka, and has the
endorsement o f the relevant Entity ministries.Consultations were held inthe communities during
the development of the Process Framework,
The establishment o f newprotected areas and improved management o f existing PASwill need
to involve local communities inbroad and sustained participatory processes. Thorough
participation i s critical because, it i s likely that there will be some restrictions o f access to
natural resources as a result o f PA formation. Where access restrictions are an issue, the
Framework will be usedto mitigate the impact of these restrictions on livelihoods.          .
The Framework, appropriate for all existing and future PAS,describes the participatory processes
by which project components were prepared and will be implemented. Critical elements inthe
Framework include: a) social assessmentsto gauge potential impacts and guide P A establishment
as well as mitigation strategies; b) public consultations and mechanisms for representation inP A
management; c) communications and outreach strategies to mobilize public support; d)
stakeholder participation in identifying and implementingeligible mitigation measures and
livelihood strategies; e) local representation, roles and responsibilities inPA monitoring; and e)
conflict resolution mechanisms. The Framework also describes the arrangements for
implementing and monitoring the process.
It should be noted that the Social Assessment undertaken for the project indicates broad support
for P A establishment, inboth IBTV and Una River. The vast majority of
respondents/participantsemphasized the opportunities that the PAScould create, vs. the potential
threats.
Forests.
The project will (ina positive way) contribute to the improvement of livelihood of stakeholders
dependingupon or interact with forests. Specifically, and consistent with OP 4.36, the project
aims to harness the potential o f forest ecosystems to reduce poverty ina sustainable way
integrate forest conservation effectively into sustainable development and protect vital local and
global environmental services and values of forests.
Natural Habitats.
Consistent with OP 4.04, the project will help to conserve natural habitats, and ensure that
specific project activities avoid habitat degradation.




                                                      64

                             Annex 11:ProjectPreparationand Supervision
                                         BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA:
                 FOREST AND MOUNTAINPROTECTED AREAS PROJECT

                                                             Planned                          Actual
 PCNreview                                                  03/02/2004                     03/02/2004
 InitialPID to PIC                                                                         03/26/2004
 InitialISDS to PIC                                                                        03/26/2004
 Appraisal                                                  0612512007                     0612SI2007
 Negotiations                                               04/09/2008                     04/09/2008
 Board Approval                                             05/29/2008
 Planneddate of effectiveness                               1013112008
 Planneddate of mid-termreview                              10115/2010
 Plannedcompletiondate                                      10131/2012
 Plannedclosingdate                                         04/30/20 13

 Key institutions responsible for preparation o fthe project:
      0   Ministry of ForeignTrade and Economic Relations, BiH (GEF FocalPoint)
      0   Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, and Water Resources, FBiH
      0   Ministry of Agriculture, Water Management, and Forestry, RS
              o PIUs in bothEntitiesfor FDCP, responsiblefor managingvarious preparationstudies
      0   Ministry of Environmentand Tourism, FBiH
      0   Ministry of Spatial Planning, Civil Engineeringand Ecology, RS

 Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:
 Name                                                  Title                                     Unit
 Jessica Mott                                    Task Team Leader                               ECSSD
 David Bontempo                   Operations Analyst & former Task Team Leader                  ECSSD
 ChristianPeter                               former Task Team Leader                           AFTS2
 Mirjana Karahasanovic                           Operations Analyst                             ECSSD
 NanditaJain                         NaturalResourceManagementConsultant
 Samra Bajramovic                                ProgramAssistant                              ECCBA
 Nikola Kerleta                                 ProcurementAnalyst                              ECSPS
 Lamija Hadzagic                         FinancialManagement Specialist                         ECSPS
 LeighHammill                                 Senior ProgramAssistant                           ECSSD
 Marjory-AnneBromhead                          former Sector Manager                            ECSSD
 Danielle Malek                                    Lead Counsel                                 LEGEC
 Agi Kiss                                          Lead Ecologist                               ECSSD
 John Fraser Stewart                Sr. NaturalResourceManagement Specialist                    ECSSD
 Serena Arduino                                      Consultant
 Martin Mautner Markhof                              Consultant
 John Kellenberg                                  Sector Manager                                ECSSD
 Tijen Arin                                   EnvironmentalEconomist                            ECSSD
 HiwoteTadesse                                Senior Program Assistant                          ECSSD

IBank funds expended to date on projectpreparation:
      1.  BBFAO:                    US$10,587                   1.  Remainingcosts to approval: US $30,000     I
     2.  BBGEF:                     US$453,000            I EstimatedApproval and Supervisioncosts:

                                                                2.  Estimatedannualsupervision cost: US $90,000
     3.  Trust funds:               US$175,000




                                                         65

                           Annex 12: Documents in the ProjectFile
                                   B0SNIA-HERZEGOVINA:
           FOREST AND MOUNTAIN PROTECTED AREAS PROJECT

1 ) BiHNational EnvironmentalAction Plan, March2003
2) IgmanFeasibility Study, 2001
3) Una River Feasibility Study, 2005
4) SutjeskaNational Park ManagementPlan, 2004
5)  "Study about Influenceofthe Forestryon Biologically Sensitive Areas in B&H' ,June 2001
6) Key ProjectDocuments
    0   SocialAssessment, 2006, Process Framework, 2007, ParticipationPlan, 2007, and Operational
        Sourcebook.2007
    0   UpdatedAccess RestrictionFramework, 2008
    0   Final EnvironmentalAssessment/Framework EnvironmentalManagementPlan, 2007
        FMPAP: DetailedProjectSite Descriptions, 2008
    0   Guidelinesfor Implementingthe Local Initiatives Grant Program, 2008
7) Studiescompleted under ItalianTrust Fundfor the FDCP
    A. Federation of Bosniaand Herzegovina
    0   Development of Feasibility Study for NP Igman-Bjelasnica-Treskavica-Visocica
    0   Development of EnvironmentalManagementPlan Frameworkand TestingEMP Through Targeted
        EAs associated with ProposedFMPAP
    0   Study on Game Management in Special Hunting Districts of BiH
    0   Revitalizationand Setup of Habitat for Chamois in BiH
    0   Reviewof Current Biodiversity in TrstionicaVirgin Forest
    0   Reviewo fCurrent Biodiversity in PljesevicaVirgin Forest
    0   Biodiversity Endemic Development Centers in Herzegovinaarea as Contributionto the Targets 2010
    0   Evaluationof Biodiversity Statusof Ecosystemsof Karst Fields in FBiH as Contributionto the
        Thematic Programs of CBD in Line with Targets 2010
    B. RepublikaSrpska
    0   EndangeredGame Species in BiH
    0   Possibility for Establishment of Klekovaca-Lom
    0   Justificationfor Development of Ecotourismin BiH
    0   Study on Identification of High Conservation Value Forests(HCVF) in Bosniaand Herzegovina, 2007
    0   Developmentof EnvironmentalManagementPlan Frameworkand TestingEMP ThroughTargeted
        EAs associatedwith ProposedFMPAP
        Social Assessment of FMPAP
8) Other Relevant ReferenceMaterials
    0   USAID, Bosniaand Herzegovina:Biodiversity Assessment, 2003
    0   World Bank, Journey to a Cleaner Future:Investingin People and Institutionsthat make
        EnvironmentalLaws Work, 2007
    0   Bosnia-Herzegovina:Annex 1 on the State of the Environment,2002, www.rec.org/l2.151.doc
    0   World Bank, Biodiversity Strategy for the Europe and CentralAsia Region, (2003)
    0   Habitats Directive Working Group-BiH, Elaborationof Methodologyand Action Planfor EU
        Biodiversity ProtectionStandards Scientific Coordination, Final Draft (2007)
    0   Investment Opportunitiesfor SustainableTourism Businesses in BiH, Background Study, 2007,
        preparedfor ForeignTrade Chamber of BiH
    0   World BanWWorld Wildlife FundAlliance for Forest Conservationand SustainableUse: Reporting
       progress in ProtectedAreas -A Site Level Management EffectivenessTrackingTool, 2003
    0  RegionalEnvironmentalCentre, NGO Directory of South Eastern Europe, 2006




                                                  66

                                        Annex 13: Statementof Loansand Credits
                                          BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA:
                         FOREST AND MOUNTAINPROTECTED AREAS PROJECT

                                                                                                             Difference between
                                                                                                             expectedand actual
                                                    Original Amount in US$ Millions                            disbursements

Project ID   FY    Purpose                        IBRD       IDA       SF        GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.   Orig.     Frm. Rev'd
PI00792     2008   ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE AND          0.00     25.00     0.00       0.00    0.00     25.97      0.00         0.00
                   SAFETY PROJECT
PI01213     2007   AGR./RURAL DEVELOPMENT           0.00     21.00     0.00       0.00    0.00     21.95      1.53         0.00
PI00415     2007   AVIAN FLU BA-                    0.00      5.00     0.00       0.00    0.00      5.22      1.60         0.30
PO96200     2006   LAND REGISTRATION                0.00      15.00    0.00       0.00    0.00      15.34    -0.18         0.00
PO90666     2006   ECSEE APL3-BiH                   0.00     36.00     0.00       0.00    0.00     38.55      5.10         0.00
PO88663     2005   HLT SEC ENHANC                   0.00      17.00    0.00       0.00    0.00     11.63      8.17         4.63
PO83353     2005   URB INFRA & SERV DEL             0.00     20.00     0.00       0.00    0.00     18.01      2.62         0.00
PO79226     2005   EDUC RESTRUCTURNG                0.00      10.00    0.00       0.00    0.00      9.62      6.40         1.71
PO84596     2004   EMPLYMT2                         0.00      12.00    0.00       0.00    0.00      3.05      1.01        -1.92
PO79161     2003   FORESTDEVTKNSRV TA               0.00      3.75     0.00       0.00    0.00      3.92     -0.19        -0.33
PO55434     2003   SM SC COM AGRIC                  0.00      12.00    0.00       0.00    0.00      2.54     -2.59         0.00
PO57950     2002   SOLID WASTE MGMT                 0.00      18.00    0.00       0.00    0.00     17.71      5.40         0.93
PO70995     2001   COMM DEVT                        0.00      15.00    0.00       0.00    0.04      4.64     -2.78        -1.93
PO58521     2001   ELEC PWR 3 RECN                  0.00     35.00     0.00       0.00    0.00      4.91      0.34         0.00
                                           Total:   0.00   244.75      0.00       0.00    0.04     183.06    26.43         3.39




                                        BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
                                             STATEMENTOF IFC's
                                           Held and DisbursedPortfolio
                                             InMillionsofUSDollars


                                                    Committed                                   Disbursed

                                                   IFC                                       IFC
        FY Approval  Company             Loan     Equity      Quasi     Partic.    Loan     Equity      Quasi      Partic.
        1999         Bosnalijek          0.00       1.84       0.00      0.00        0.00      I.84      0.00       0.00
        2001         Bosnalijek          0.00       0.00       0.54      0.00        0.00      0.00      0.54       0.00
        2005         Bosnalijek          9.22       0.00       0.00      0.00        7.94      0.00      0.00       0.00
        1985         Energoinvest        9.93       0.00       0.00      0.00        9.93      0.00      0.00       0.00
        1997         EnterpriseFund      0.00       1.48       0.00      0.00        0.00      0.95      0.00       0.00
       2002          FCL                 11.05      0.00       0.00      2.03       11.05      0.00      0.00       2.03
       2004          HVB CPB             11.24     10.97       0.00      0.00       11.24      8.95      0.00       0.00
       2005          HVB CPB             0.00       3.82       0.00      0.00        0.00      3.82      0.00       0.00
       2006          MI-BOSPO            2.55       0.00       0.00      0.00        0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
       2006          Nova Banka          12.75      0.00       0.00      0.00        0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
       2002          Procredit Bosnia    2.87       0.00       0.00      0.00        2.87      0.00      0.00       0.00
                     Raiffeisen-BOS      19.12      0.00       0.00      0.00        0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
       2002          Raiffeisen-BOS      14.41      0.00       0.00      0.00       14.41      0.00      0.00       0.00



                                                         67

                                                   Committed                           Disbursed
                                                  IFC                                IFC
2005    Raiffeisen-BOS               14.02         0.00     0.00    0.00     14.02    0.00       0.00   0.00
1998    SEF Akova                    0.20          0.00     0.00    0.00      0.20    0.00       0.00   0.00
1999    SEF Lijanovici               0.90          0.00     0.00    0.00      0.90    0.00       0.00   0.00
1977    TKA Cazin                    4.34          0.00     0.00    0.00      4.34    0.00       0.00   0.00
        Wood Konjuh                  1.75          0.00     0.00    0.00      1.43    0.00       0.00   0.00
                    Total portfolio:  114.35      18.11     0.54    2.03     78.33   15.56       0.54   2.03




                                                              Approvals PendingCommitment
        FY Approval      Company                          Loan      Equity     Quasi     Partic.
        2002             Lukavac                        0.01        0.00        0.00     0.00
        2006             MI-BOSPO                       0.00        0.00        0.00     0.00
        2006             EKI Bosnia                     0.00        0.00        0.00     0.00
        2006             Nova Banka                     0.00        0.01        0.00     0.00
                              Total pending commitment:    0.01     0.01        0.00     0.00




                                                       68

                                             Annex 14: Country at a Glance
                                                  BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA:
             FOREST AND MOUNTAIN PROTECTED AREAS PROJECT
                                                           Boonla Europe 6   Lower-
 POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          and   Central  mlddle-
                                                    Herzegovina      Asia   Income     Development diamo nd'
 2006
 Population, mid-year (millions)                               3.9     460     2,276
 GNIpercapita(Atlas method, US$)                             3,230    4,796    2,037                  Lifeexpectancy
 GNI(Atlas method, US$ billions)                              12.6    2,206    4,635                         T
 Average annual growth, 2000-05
 Population(Sy                                                 0.3       0.0     0 9
 Laborforce (%)                                                0.8       0.5      14    GNI                                 Gross
                                                                                        per                                 primary
 Most recent estlmate (latest year avaliabie, 2000-06)                                  capita                            nrollment
 P0verty (%0f populafion belownational po verlyline)           20
 Urbanpopulation (%of totalpopulation)                         46         64     47
 Lifeexpectancyat birth (pars)                                 74         69      71
 Infant mortality (per IOOOiive births)                         t3        28      31
 Childmalnvtrition (%ofchildren undar5)                          4         5      0         A C C ~ S Sto improvedwatersource
 Access to an improved water source (%ofpopulation)            97         92      81
 Literacy(%ofpopulation age E+)                                97         97     89
 Gross primaryenrollment (%ofschool-agepopulation)                       0 2     m       -Bosnia           andHerzegovina
   ~ a 1 e                                                               0 3     m               Lover-middle-income group
   Female                                                                00      t14

 KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                   1986      1996    2006     2000     Economic ratlos'
 GDP (US$ biliions)                                    ..      2.8     0.8       123
 Gross capitalformation1GDP                                   412     22.0       6 2
 Exportsof goods andServiceslGDP                       ....   23.6     313     384                         Trade
 Gross domestic SavingsiGDP                            ..     -8.1    -7.6     -15 2
 Gross nationalSavingsIGDP                             ..     12.2       3.2     5 0
 Currentaccount balanceiGDP                            ..    -290     -8.8      -112
 Interestpayments1GDP                                                     11            Domestic           '            Capital
 TotaldebtiGDP                                                         517              savings                         formation
 Total debt serviceiexports                                              5.0
 Present valueofdebtiGDP                                              45.6
 Present valueof debtiexports                                         92.6
                                                                                                        Indebtedness
                                       1986.96 1996-06      2006     2006   2006-M
 (averageannualgrodh)
GDP                                                  7.6       5.0      6.0      5.7      -Bosnia          andHerzegovina
GDP percapita                                 ....   6.2       5.1      6.0      4.9        -     Lover-middle-income orow
 Exportsof goods and services                 ..     9.2      6.2      t3.7      112


 STRUCTURE o f the ECONOMY


                                                   1986      1996    2006     2006
 (%of GDP)                                                                             Growth o f capital and GDP (Oh)

Agriculture                                                   252      0 5      0 4    40T
 Industry                                                     313      25 1    24 7
  Manufactunng                                                0 9       n 3      129
Services                                                     43 5     64 4     64 9
Householdfinalconsumption expenditure                                  913      913
Generalgov't final Consumptionexpenditure                             26 3     23 9
Imports of goods andservices                                 83 9     70 8     69 8


                                                                     2005     2006
(averageannualgm dh)                                                                  Growth of exports and imports (Oh)
Agncuiture                                                              6 8      19      T
lndustly                                                                6 8      53
  Manufactunng                                                                         40
                                                                        7 0      84
services                                                                4 9      6 5   20

Householdfinalconsumption expenditure                                    0 1    -0 1    0
Generalgov't final consumption expenditure                              7 7     -2 4  .20
Gross capitalformation                                        -17       8 1    -219
Imports of goods andservices                                  4 6       7 9    -06

                                                        ~~             ~~~

Note 2006data are preliminaryestimates
This tablewas producedfrom the Development Economics LDB database
'Thediamonds showfourkeyindicators inthecountry(in bold)comparedwithits income-group average lfdata aremissing thediamondwll
  be incomplete




                                                                   69

                                                     1g96
(US$ millions)                                                                     Export and Import level5 (US$ mill.)

Total eports (fob)                                     336      2462     3539      H)ooo
 Commoddy 1                                                       320      389
 Commodity2                                                       602       891     7500
 Manufactures                                                    1490    2 8 9
Total imports @if)                                   2077       7690     8567       5000

 Food                                                            1260     1248
 Fuel and energy                                                                    2500

 Capitalgoods                                                    1839     1679         0

Elport pnce index(2000=W0)                                                               00   01   02  03      04   05   OB

Import pnce index(2000=WO)                                                                 .Exports      mlmporta
Terms of trade (2000=WO)




BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                            1986     1996      2006     2006
(US$ millions)                                                                     Current account balance to GDP (Oh)

E p O r t S O f goods and SeNlCeS                      658      3,367    4,709       0
Imports of goods and SeNICBS                         2,337      7,626    8,555
Resourcebalance                                      -1679     -4,258   -3,846       5

Net income                                            -222        430      485     .10
Net current transfers                                 1094       1804     1986
                                                                                   .15
Current account balance                               -807     -2,025    -1375

Financing items (net)                                 1050      2,470     2.86     -20

Changes innet resews                                  -243       -445       -8n    -25
Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$ millior 1s)                         2,548     3,671
Conversionrate (DEC local/US$)                          15         16        16

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                            1986     1996      Z O O 6   Z O O 6
(US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding anddisbursed                             5,564
  IBRD                                                 589        481      466                         & . A n ,
  IDA                                                  O9         921      963

Totaldebt service                                                 267
  IBRD                                                 205         41        47
  IDA                                                    0           7         n
Cornposhtionof net resource flows
  Official grants                                                 291
  Official creditors                                               96
  Pnvatecreditors                                                 262
  Foreigndirect investment (net inflows)                          299
  Portfolio equity (net inflows)

World Bank program
  Commitments                                                      27               A-IBRD                       E - BiUad
  Disbursements                                         m0         56
  Pnncipalrepayments                                    25         24
                            -
  Net flows                                             85         32          -1
  Interest payments                                    8 0         25         31
  Net transfers                                        -95           7       -31


Note This tablewas producedfrom the Development Economics LDB database                                                8/28/07




                                                              70

                               Annex 15: IncrementalCost Analysis
                                    BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA:
                FOREST AND MOUNTAINPROTECTED AREAS PROJECT

1.Overview

The Project Development Objective is to strengthenthe institutional and technical capacity for
sustainable protected area and natural resource management and expand the BiHnetwork o f
forest and mountain protectedareas.

The project globalenvironmentalobjectiveis to conserve globally significant biodiversity in
critical forests and mountain ecosystems o f BiH.

The GEF Alternative will: (i)   support PASvia fundamental planning assistance and financing
infrastructure for the establishment o f newPAS;(ii)   promote and increase public awareness o f
biodiversity conservation; and (iii)  strengthenthe capacity to conserve and manage biodiversity
at local, national and trans-boundary levels and establish regional cooperation for forest and
mountain ecosystem conservation. This will include establishing ecologically effective PAS,
integrating biodiversity conservation into forestry and other activities inand around PAS,
improving monitoring o f threatened flora and fauna, and effect their recovery, and building
public awareness o f BiH's biodiversity.

The GEF Alternative intendsto achieve these outputs at a total incremental cost o f US $6
million, to be financed by the GEF (US $3.4 million), and co-financing from government (US
$2.5 million), and leveraged co-financing from grant recipients (US $0.1 million). Inaddition,
the Project will leverage outputs from the FDCP (total incrementalvalue o fUS $2.5 million).
Therefore, the proposed GEF Alternative should be viewed as complementary to ongoing
activities throughout BiH.

2. ProjectContext

BiH's biodiversity is currently insufficiently protectedand under-valued. At presentthere are
more than 20 PAScovering only about 0.55% o f the territory. The categories o f these PASrange
from BirdReserves to Strict Nature Reserves with two National Parks (NPs) inRS (Kozara and
Sutjeska). The National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) recognizes the importance o f
biodiversity, natural and cultural heritage, the threats and the need for expansion the area for
conservation and protection. The ratification o f the Convention o f Biological Diversity i s one
step inthis direction, and has facilitated access to GEF grant funds. A National Biodiversity
Strategy and Action i s to be completed by April 2008.

TheNEAP identifiesthe sustainable development of forest areas together with the improvement
o f environmental management and the protection of biological landscape diversity as priorities,
which are inline with the new project. BiH's forest resources are amongst the richest inEurope
interms oftheir extent andvariety relativeto the size ofthe country. Covering almost 50% of
the land area, forests are one of Bosnia's mainnatural resources. This compares with 24% for
pasture land, much o f it close to forest areas, and only 10%for arable land. About 80% of forest


                                                  71

and other wooded land is government-owned. The remainder is owned by a large number of
individual private owners that will not be within the scope of this project

In2002, a newlegal framework was adoptedfor the RS that includesLawonthe Protectionof
Nature. It stipulatesthe revitalization, protection, preservation and sustainable development of
landscapes, unitsof nature, plants, animals and their habitats as well as other components of
naturethat are part ofthe environment. A similar law is currently underreviewto be passedin
the Federation.Also the protection of forest biodiversity is regulated by the applicable Law on
Forests, as well as by the Hunting and Fishing Laws. The RS Constitution and the Law on
Forestsstipulate that forests and forestland are a public good which enjoys the special care and
protection of the government.

The challenge is to manage existing and proposedPASeffectively, create new and or expandthe
system of PAS,to develop participatory approachesto PA management, and to incorporate
biodiversity conservation into the production landscape.

3. Baseline Scenario

The primary objective of the forest organization and managementreform currently underway in
BiHwith IDA support is to increase revenuesfrom forest resources, improve forest management,
and enhance developmental benefits through participatory approaches inforest landuse
planning. Regardlessof the Government's commitment to biodiversity conservation, without the
establishment of an extendednetwork of PASof sufficient size, biodiversity-rich natural
ecosystems would not be sufficiently protected from the major transition-related threats that are
anticipated over the short and mediumterm. Efforts would likely continue to focus on limited
investment inthe existing NPs, and on small PASwhich, while helpful and valid intheir own
right, would be of questionableviability interms of establishing larger national coverageof
protected landscapes. Government would be unable to commit sufficient budget to establish new
PASand strengthenthe managementof existing National Parks, and existing Government
agencies andNGO groups concerned with conservation would remain weak, ineffective,
uncoordinated, and isolated. Inthe absence of this project, expectedimpacts (resulting from
changing landuse, including forestry and tourism) would result inloss of biodiversity, and
ecological corridors necessary to maintain viability of populations and ecosystems may be
irreversibly disrupted.

As a consequenceo f the current course of action, regardedas the Baseline Scenario, BiH's
diverse and abundant forest biodiversity will likely continue to suffer from unsustainabletimber
and fuel wood harvesting and associated disturbance; inappropriate tourism: unmanagedhunting;
and all resulting inhabitat loss and fragmentation. The project will, therefore, lead the way to
establishing more PASinBiHand improvingthe integrity of the PA network.

costs
The cost of the Baseline Scenario is approximately US $1 million, which is the average annual
total budget contribution from central and local authorities for all PASinBosnia-Herzegovina at
present. Although institutional changes are underway inthe RS that would increase government
budget allocations to PAS,the impact will only reducethe pressure to cover critical expenses



                                                  72

such as salaries by 510%. Overall, budgets will remain insufficient for proper managementof
existing parks. Ifcomparableformulas are usedto determine budget support for new parks, it is
clear that they will be significantly under-funded. One particularly important cost of the baseline
i s that in the absence of sufficient budget, existing PASare somewhat reliant on forest,
enterprise, and to a lesser extent hunting, revenuesto fund their operations. At present 50% to
90% of NP revenuesderive from forestry operations. This leaves PA management in a position
of relatively less bargaining power regarding the extent of harvesting operations. Moreover
under suchfinancing arrangementsand management strategies, it is difficult for PA authorities to
break the cycle of dependence on consumptive uses to fundtheir operations and invest in
protection.

Benefits.
Underthe Baseline Scenario, the main observable benefitwould be to forest enterprises,
particularly the Sarajevo Sume. However, with the establishmentof a PA inthe IBTV, this
forest enterprise could see some of its harvesting potential restricted. That said, the enterprise
management i s preparing itselffor this eventuality, and strongly supports a PA.

Certain activities being undertakenthrough the FDCP will also contribute to improved
management inthe PA system, particularly from implementation of the participation plan.
Ongoing activities to identify and manage High Conservation Value Forests would continue, but
without the opportunity to significantly increase either the area of HCVF under proper
protection, or undertake neededtraining to manage whatever areas are identified. Inaddition,
the FDCP activities to fully implementthe forest inventory, and establish the FMIS, would
continue, but without the motivation to fully integrate these results into PA operations.

Under the Baseline Scenario, activities supportedby international donors inthe tourism sector
will continue for a limitedperiod. While some of these activities are conducted inand around
PAS,they do not incorporate an explicit environmental or biodiversity conservation objective. A
more recent conservation initiative, the WWF/IUCN Dinaric Arc Eco-regional Initiative includes
Bosnia as yet the level of funding and potential co-financing opportunities cannot be specified.

4. Global Environmental Objective and GEF Alternative

BiHratifiedthe Convention onBiological Diversity in2002. A National Biodiversity Strategy/
Action Plan (NBSAP) i s to be completed by April 2008. This strategy identifies the project
regions as centers of biodiversity, andthe project activities as the highest priority for improving
the protection ofthe threatenedforest ecosystems. The Forest Sector Strategy, preparedas an
input for the NEAP, identifies the needto develop interdisciplinary forest planning, including
through the integration of biodiversity conservation.

The Global Environmental Objective of this Project is to conserve globally significant
biodiversity incritical forests and mountain ecosystems of BiH. The Project will support in-situ
conservation and sustainable use by strengthening and expanding PASinBiH. The Project is
consistent with the objectives of the GEF Operational Program Number 3 Forest Ecosystems and
Operational Program Number 4 MountainEcosystems.




                                                   73

Proiect Scope:

The total cost of the GEF alternative i s estimatedat US $6.0 million:
(i)ProtectedArea Development: US $3.7 million
(ii)Capacity and Support for Biodiversity Conservation: US $1.8 million
(iii) InitiativesinBiodiversityConservation:US$0.5million
    Local
Inaddition, FDCP provides financing ofparallel, complementary activities: US $2.5 million

Benefits:

The GEF Alternative would buildon the Baseline Scenarioandmake possible activities and
programs that would not be undertakenunderthe scenario. This would include strengthening
capacity at the field and national levels for planning and managing land-use for conservation and
sustainable use of biodiversity; establishing effective inter-sectoral participatory planning and
sustainable managementof natural ecosystems and associated landscapesat selected project sites
andthus protecting key forest and mountain ecosystems; supporting participatory approachesto
sustainable naturalresources conservation inkey protected areas; supporting environmental
education and awareness programs; developing mechanismsto reduce non-sustainable resource
use; and promoting responsible nature-basedtourism development.

The GEF Alternative would provide the means (above and beyond the Baseline Scenario) for
expanding the existing Nature Reserves and National Parks and drafting and implementing of
management plans. Management plans will focus on : i)conservation of the biodiversity of the
ecosystems within the project region through protection and management; ii)improved
monitoring and appliedresearch on biodiversity and effectivenessof conservation efforts; iii)
establishment of infrastructure for improved biodiversity protection and development of
responsible nature-basedtourism inthe region; (iv) preparing and supporting PA administration
and management; (v) strengtheningpublic education and awareness; (vi) improving the
integration of biodiversity conservation and agricultural activities, especially land-uses such as
pasture management, outside of the proposedParks; and (vii) improved coordination inthe
protection of biodiversity with neighboring countries.

The Project's utilization of the FDCP outputs will also generate significant benefits to the PA
system. The forest inventory work, and the FMIS, will be of crucial importance increating new
managementplans, and achieving better managementof the forest resources inand around the
PAS,thereby contributing to sustainability of both forests and PAS.

The project will significantly buildand strengthen the institutional bodies responsible for
planning and managing protected areas on a national level. It will ensure the development, co-
ordination and sound working relations betweenthe two Entity Governments, inorder to create a
viable and balanced PA network throughout the country. Improved institutional capacity will
also enable the country to use and access different EUfunding programs and instrumentsto
finance biodiversity andnature protection, thereby increasing the sustainability of the PA system.
The national beneficiaries receiving assistance will be the MET inthe FBiH, the MSPCEE inthe
RS, and at a regional level, the individual protected area managementorganizations andthe
regional/cantonal forest enterprises. Inaddition, through investments inthe Forest Reserves in



                                                 74

Janj and Lom, assistance will be provided indirectly to the RS MAWMF. Through the project,
national appreciation o f the biological and landscape diversity o f BiHwill be increased and
improved opportunities for environmental and conservation education will be gained.

The project will also buildmechanisms and capacity to assist local stakeholders, community
members,local authorities andNGOs to participate inthe preparation and implementationof
conservation management plans. Rural communities will benefit from the inclusion o f natural
resource management and local economic development into the protected area management
framework. Other benefitswill result from the stimulation o f sustainable and compatible
economic development activities such as ecotourism within and adjacent to the protected areas.
Additional assistance to local stakeholders will be provided through funding local initiatives to
help ensure that rural development inand around PASis compatible with the objectives ofPAS,
and sustainable development as a whole. The Project will provide targeted assistance to
potential recipients to helpensure that proposals meet the Project's focus on conservation.    .

Global Benefits:
Implementation o f the GEF Alternative would provide the means for establishing effective PAS
and integrating biodiversity conservation objectives into regional and local development
activities. Global benefits would include the recovery o f forest habitats and protection o f
endemic threatened flora and fauna and their recovery. Benefits generated from the project
would also include the promotion o f local and regional cooperation inbiodiversity conservation.

The global benefitso fthe project include the sustainable conservationand management o f some
o f the last remaining areas o f pristine and relatively undisturbedmountaidforest landscapes in
Europe, the expansion o f the countries' protected area which will increase the area o f Illyric
Mountain Deciduous Forest and extend the protected areas along the Dinaric Alps which stretch
from Mount Olympus National Park in Greece inthe south, to Triglav National Park in Slovenia
inthe north.

The project will establish trans-boundary links with PASandrelevant institutions inCroatia and
Montenegro, thereby expanding the network o f ecological corridors beyond BiH's borders.
Through the collaborative process involved, BiHwill benefit from conservation initiatives
undertaken inthese adjacent countries. Establishment o fthe protected areas will also ensure the
protection o f sites o f international cultural and archaeological significance.


5. Incremental Costs

The difference betweenthe cost o f the Baseline Scenario US $1 million and the cost o fthe GEF
Alternative US $6.0 million, US $5.0 million represents the incremental cost o f achieving
sustainable global and local environmental benefits. O f this amount, the Government o f BiHhas
committed to financing US $2.5 million. US $0.1 million i s leveraged as parallel financing from
grant recipients, and US $ 3.4 million i s confirmed from GEF. Inaddition, the Project leverages
US$2.5 millionfrom the IDA-financed FDCP.




                                                    75

Incremental Cost Matrix
                   BASELINE                      ALTERNATIVE                        INCREMENT
Benefits                                                                          II
Component 1:       Limited, or no, further       At least 120,000 new hectares      120,000 hectaresof new PAS
Protected Area     development of the PA         brought into protectedstatus,      (comprising approx. 3% of BiH
Development        system in the short-medium    of which approx. 50,000 will       territory, in line with government
                   term (3-5 years)              be IUCN categories Iand VI,        strategy to work towards a 7-10%
                                                 and the remaining will be          coverage within 10 years, in line with
                                                 mostly Category I1National         EU norms)
                                                 Park, and Category V
                                                 Protected Landscape

cost               $0.7 mil                      $4.4 mil                           $3.7 mil

CaDacity and       Limited technical skill
S U D D Ofor~
          ~        development, particularly in
Biodiversity       the adoption of new           in all relevant sectors and        mountain protectedareas
Conservation       management techniques,        levels                             management and appropriate zoning
                   both in forest and PA                                            and other practices adopted and
                                                                                    applied in management plans

                   $0.3 mil                      $2.1 mil                           1.8 mil

Local Initiatives  Limited or no opportunities
in Biodiversity    to incentivize behavioral     for local collaborative            incentives demonstrate to local
Conservation       change for local inhabitants  initiatives                        inhabitants hou,protecting
                   in and aroundPAS                                                 biodiversity can be positively linked

                   0

Total              US$ 1.0 million               US$ 7.0 million                    US$ 6.0 million

Global             Government continues          An integratedconservationand       Endemic biodiversity of global
Environmental      limited status quo and both   forest management strategy         significance will be protected in the
Benefit            ability and quality of PAs    will be designed and               forest landscapesof BiH
                   decreases. Forest             implementedthat will draw
                   Management and Regional       attention to biodiversity
                   Development Plans would       conservationneeds and
                   not take into account         opportunities. Without GEF
                   biological diversity under    funding the critical biodiversity
                   threat                        conservationefforts would
                                                 drastically constrainedas the
                                                 BiHgovernmentis forced to
                                                 act in favor of short term
                                                 horizon rather than long term
                                                 sustainability.


Domestic           Minimal alternative income
Benefit            opportunities                 conservationinto forest            resources, improved forest
                                                 management strategy will           management, and sustainable
                                                 preserve sustainable use           developmentalbenefits through
                                                 options for economically           participatory approaches in forest
                                                 important endemic forest           land use planning.
                                                 species and enable access to
                                                 new sources of income, such as
                                                 eco-tourism.
                   US$ 1.0 million               US$3.6 million                   I US$2.6 million




                                                       76

                                 Annex 16: STAP Roster Review
                                   BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA:
                FOREST AND MOUNTAINPROTECTED AREAS PROJECT

Review of ProjectAppraisalDocument for a Forestand Mountain ProtectedAreas Project
                                    in Bosnia and Herzegovina
                    STAP Reviewer:Jeffrey A. McNeely, Chief Scientist, IUCN
1. Scientificand technicalsoundness of the project
Generally speaking, this project i s scientifically and technically sound. But Idid find some
issues that were inadequately considered. The major issues are discussed inthe following
paragraphs.
Lack of a systems plan
While the areas that have beenselected for attention underthe project all sound very important,
and probably are the most appropriate sites for the project, it still would seem to have been useful
to include inthe project the preparation o f a protected areas systems plan for Bosnia and
Herzegovina. A protected areas system plan i s the designo f a total reserve system covering the
fullrange o fecosystems and communities found inBosnia andHerzegovina. The systems plan
should identify the range o f purposes o f protected areas and help to balance the different
objectives. It should also identify the relationships among the components o f the protected areas
system, including betweenindividual areas, betweenprotected areas and other land uses, and
betweendifferent sectors and levels o fthe various stakeholders inBosnia and Herzegovina. It
should help demonstrate important linkages with other aspects o f economic development, and
show how various stakeholders can interact and cooperate to support effective and sustainable
management o f protected areas. A protected areas systems plan can help establish priorities for a
workable national system o f protected areas. It would provide the framework within which the
various areas proposed for attention under the GEF project would relate to the larger picture.
A national protected areas system plan can also be an invaluable tool for communicating with
decision makers, the private sector, and the various other interest groups invarious parts o f the
country. The process o f preparing a systemsplan will also offer an opportunity for buildinga
stronger constituency to support protected areas. Much o f the necessary work has already been
done inpreparing the project appraisal document, so preparing the national systems plan should
not be a terribly time consuming and expense process. A useful tool for guiding such a
document i s Davey, Adrian G. 1998. NationalSystem Planningfor ProtectedAreas. IUCN,
Gland, Switzerland. This document i s available on the internet at
www.iucn.ora/themes/wcpa/publications.Hard copies are available directly from IUCN's World
Commission on Protected Areas. (WCPA).
Response: Bosnia-Herzegovina (hereinafter in the responses, Bosnia) is in theprocess of
preparing a national protected area systemsplan. At the time theproject was originally
proposed, it was expected that suchplan would have been already well-advanced, as this was to
be done through the WorldBank-funded Forest Development and Conservation Project (FDCP),
as a cornerstone aspect of the development of the National Biodiversity Strategy (NBS).
However, a decision was taken in 2004 by the government to utilize instead UNEPJinancing
NBS. Unfortunately, for a variety of reasons, this has taken a very long time to be started. Even


                                                  77

so, the areasproposedfor inclusion in theproject were derived by a high-level, inter-ministerial,
and inter-Entity, Working Group. In its deliberations, the Working Group took account of
numerous existingproposals for afuture PA network.
 The UNEP-funded work is now underway, and is expected that the national PA systemplan will
be completed by mid-2007. Although this will too late to alter the existingproposals, the team
believes that the areasproposedfor inclusion in theproject represent a strong technical
consensuson the highest priority areasfor immediateprotection. The team isfurther highly
confident that all areasproposed will bepart of anyfuture national plan. Here it should be
noted thatfour of the six areas are already protected; one of the remaining two (Una River) has
a completed Feasibility Study,paid by the Bosnian government, and the last, the Igman
mountain complex, has a Feasibility Study underway.
Action. TheProject Brief will morefully reflect the ongoing work through UNEPfunding, to
develop an integrated national PA systemplan, and make more explicit ways in which the
project will support thatplan.
Small Grants
The small grants component o fthe project is excellent, and an essential element inthe success o f
the overall project. But Iwas a little surprisedthat the project document didnot evenmention
the concept o fpayments for ecosystem services. The MillenniumEcosystem Assessment has
strongly supported the concept o f ecosystem services, inother words, the benefits that nature
provides to people. A full discussion o f ecosystem services i s available inthe reports of the
MillenniumEcosystem Assessment, but they cover provisioning services, which are the goods
produced or provided by ecosystems; regulating services, such as regulation o f pollinators,
climate, nutrients, and extreme natural events; cultural services, the non-material benefits from
ecosystems, including recreational, educational and inspirational; and supporting services, such
as primary production, carbon sequestration, soil formation and so forth. The approach taken by
the MA impliesthat ecosystem services have value to people, which inturnimpliesthat these
ecosystem services have an economic value that can be internalized ineconomic policy and the
market system. Some o f these services are relatively easy to quantify, though inthe past they
have beenconsidered as public goods and hence have suffered from market imperfections. But
the value ofcarbon sequestration inforests, for example, is substantial, and at a global scale,
some US$11.3 billion worth o f carbon credits were traded on the international market in2005.
The economic value o fwater catchments have also beendemonstrated. It would seem to be
useful to explore the various options for payments for ecosystem services provided by protected
areas, as a means o f providing long-term financial security to the protected areas. Inthose that
support production o f forest products, including non-timber forest products, eco-labeling would
both enhance the value and the credibility o f their sustainable harvesting. The World Bank i s
deeply involved inthe process o fbuildingmarkets for ecosystem services, and actively promotes
environmental fiscal reform (see, for example, World Bank. 2005. EnvironmentalFiscal
Reform: What should be done and how to achieve it. IBRD, Washington D.C.).
The project is also seekingto reach out to the private sector, and inmany parts o fthe world, the
private sector i s an active player inthe market for ecosystem services, including cultural services
such as natural beauty. The private sector can use ecosystem services to create direct financial
income; ensure that the firm receives necessary supplies of natural resources; captures the
demand for the service from clients (for example, tourists); may enable it to compensate for any



                                                  78

negative impacts on biodiversity on a voluntary basis; improve its public image; and simply act
inan ecologically responsible manner that requiresit to investinecosystem services. A global
information service on developments innew ecosystem service-based markets is available at
www.ecosystemmarketdace.com. A service where providers and beneficiaries o f ecosystem
services can work together to capture the benefits associated with ecosystem services i s available
at w.     katoombagroup.org.
None o f this i s meant to replace the Small Grants Facility component o f the project, which
remains well conceived. But sustainability for the existing and planned new protected areas may
well depend on developing new streams o f revenue, and payments for ecosystem services should
at least receive an appropriate degree o f attention inthe project.
Response. Theteam wishes to emphasize that the Project does intend to support paymentsfor
environmental/ecosystemservices (PES) as an important element of longer-termfinancial
sustainability mechanisms. However, it has been suggestedthat PES be de-emphasized, because
theproject has a limited lifetime, it will take some time to develop this relatively complex
mechanism, and in any case, suchpayments will likely not make a large contribution to PA
revenue streams until the longer-term. Nevertheless, (PES), will be developed, aspart of both
the Small Grants Program (SGP), and in terms of newfunding sourcesfor PAS.
Action. Preparation/AppraisaI activities will continue to refine the SGP, and willfocus renewed
attention on early development of mechanismsfor testingpaymentfor environmental services.
Updatefrom Appraisal. At appraisal, inresponse to reviewer and recipient feedback, the "small
grants program" was changed into a smaller "local initiatives program" which will be limitedto
just a few subprojects (at least one perproject PA). While PES is one ofthe subproject options,
it will not necessarily be selected. However PES will still be considered inthe context o f P A
management planning and the evolution o f P A financing.
IUCNCategories
The project document mentions inseveral places that the full range of IUCNprotected area
categories will be used. This sounds like a good idea, but Ido not think that this strategy should
be applied too strictly. Ina country where so many people are occupying the rural areas, it may
be extremelydifficult to establish a Category Iprotected area, and given the economic situation
inthe country, Category V areas may be muchmore appropriate. Perhaps a few o fthe core
zones which are providing critical habitat to threatened species could receive strict protection,
but as a zoning measure rather than a category for the entireprotectedarea.
The project emphasizes the importance o fmultiple-usemanagement o fprotectedareas, but the
IUCN category system has variable uses that are permissible. Multiple-usemanagement i s more
likely under Categories IV, V andVI.
Response. Theabove approach, especially the idea of zoning, is exactly what isforeseen. The
only areas which are now plannedfor strictprotection are the two smallforest preserves, which
already exist in this status. The other areas are clear multiple use areas which willfall, as
noted, most likely under Categories Il?V and VI.
Action. New managementplans, taking into account Feasibility Studies,Environmental
Assessments, and Social Assessments, will create the specijk distinctive zones within any given
PA.



                                                  79

2. Identification of the globalenvironmentalbenefitsand/or drawbacks of the project
Bosnia and Herzegovina i s a sparsely-populated keystone inthe Balkans, and thereby plays an
important role inproviding global environmental benefits, including providing habitats for
endemic species o f plants. Its karst ecosystems are substantial, and significant at a global scale.
The fact that so little ofthe landscape is yet included as legally-established protected areas
indicates that Bosnia and Herzegovina i s a prime candidate for expanding its protected area
system ina way that can contribute to conserving the globally important biodiversity o fthe
Balkan region.
Some o f the proposed protected areas are outstanding on a global scale, such as the Tara Canyon,
which may be the most spectacular canyon in Europe, and the Perucica Forest, which may be one
o f the least-disturbed forests inthe Balkans, ifnot all o f Europe.
Response. The team appreciates the above comment,particularly in that it reflects the client's
strong belief in the opportunities presented by Bosnia's signiJjcant natural assets.
3. Project'scontext within GEF goals, operationalstrategies, programmepriorities,GEF
     Councilguidance and the provisionsof the relevantConventions
This project is particularly relevant to the Convention on Biological Diversity, and specifically
its efforts to implementArticles 8(a) and 8(b) on Protected Areas. Decision VII/28 on protected
areas provides guidance on protected areas, and the programme o f work on protected areas inthe
Annex provides additional guidance that i s well reflected by the project.
Numerous CBD COP decisions on forest biological diversity also relate, including Decisions
11/9, 111/12, IV/7, V/4, V1/22, and VII/l. This project as designedwill be entirely consistent with
the guidance provided by the COP.
COP Decision VII/27, on mountain biological diversity contains a programme o f work on
mountain biodiversity, which covers protection, sustainable use o f mountain resources, and
institutional elements that are all relevant to this project. Additional elements on information
sharing may needto be incorporated inthe project design.
Response/Action. The team appreciates this confirmation of theproject's conformity with key
international provisions on biodiversity. Continuingpreparation efforts, particularly aspart of
the ongoing Social Assessment,will ensure that additional methods of information sharing are
reflected inproject design.
4. Regionalcontext
As part o fthe former Yugoslavia, Bosnia and Herzegovina is surrounded by other countries with
whom they do not always have cordial relationships. While it certainly seems sensible to have
regional cooperation inprotected areas, and especially trans-boundary protected areas, such
regional cooperation i s far from simple under the current conditions. That said, a more
optimistic perspective i s that protected areas could provide a means o f promoting trans-boundary
cooperation on shared ecosystems or on wide-ranging species, such as wolves and brown bears.
The karst ecosystems shared betweenCroatia and Bosnia-Herzegovinawould also seem to be
prime targets for enhancing regional cooperation. Training o f staff for protected areas may also
be more effective ifseveral o f the GEF projects inthe region combine their efforts, including
sharing o f curriculum materials. On transboundary protected areas, the project might wish to
consider another IUCN publication: Sandwith, Trevor, et al. 2003. Transboundary Protected


                                                   80

Areas for Peace and Cooperation. IUCN, Gland, Switzerland. This volume is available on the
internet at the same site mentioned above.
RewonsdAction. The team agrees with the above view of thepotential difficultiesin
establishing transboundary activities. Wefurther agree that the trainingprograms should be
designed to enable experiencefrom other Balkan PASto be brought into Bosnia; this strategy
will be incorporated in thefirst year design of the trainingprogram. It should be noted that
particularly in SutjeskaNational Park, there is ongoing cooperation with the Durmitor National
Park in Montenegro; theproject design explicitly seeks to strengthen this cooperation, especially
in terms of better coordination of recreation activities between the twoparks.
5. Replicabilityof the project
Virtually all countries inthe world now have protectedareas, though Bosnia and Herzegovina
have one o f the weakest national systems. But the proposed project will build institutional
capacity, staff competence, and new approaches to protected areas. Using the new approaches
and institutional frameworks and building on the expanded technical competence o f staff, it may
well be expected that additional protected areas will be established. As accession to the EU
becomes more likely, EU funding may lead to expanded support for protected areas. However,
giventhe point made above about a national systems plan, replicability would seem to be most
likely ifthere is a solid framework on how to proceed with any additional protected areas. Some
o f the alternative sites mentioned inthe project document might be considered for such
replication.
An essential element o f any such replicability will be ensuringthat appropriate staff are engaged,
put inplace, and givenreal career opportunities within the protectedareas o fthe country.
Replicability will also depend on building a constructive and positive relationship with other
sectors, especially tourism and forestry. It will also be useful to learn lessons from other
European countries who have faced similar challenges. Croatia i s relatively advanced in its
protected areas, with an outstanding karst ecosystem that has beenrecognized on the World
Heritage List, namely Plitvice National Park. Plitvice i s able to recover virtually all o f its
runningcosts through various forms o frevenue generation.
Ifthe GovernmentofBosniaandHerzegovinaprovidesthe necessary policy support to enable
the protected areasto retain a reasonable share ofthe value ofthe ecosystem services they
provide, then replication may be far more likely.
ResRonse/Action. As noted above, the national PA systemplan is underway. Certainly, the
central government authorities, as well as local administrations and non-governmental
organizations, are increasingly aware of newfunding sources (e.g., the EU). Staff in existing
parks are already quite well-trainedfor their speciJicroles; the challenge will be to bring their
knowledge to a higher level. This isparticularly true in cases where theforest enterprises will
need to take an active role in PA management (in the smallforest reserves of Janj and Lom, and
in Kozara National Park, especially). In addition, theproject will undertake a signipcant effort
in training new stafffor new areas. Even in this case, however, it should be noted thatproject
implementation/PA management teams are already beingformed -and trainedfrom government
resources -for new skills.
It is absolutely clear that neighboring countries' experiences will need to be leveraged, and the
team especially appreciates the suggestions to look more closely at Croatia's experience. This



                                                 81

has been done to some extent, butfurther collaboration/information sharing with the Croatian
experts will bepursued prior to Appraisal.
At this time, thepolicyframework for revenue sharing between Entity governments andprotected
areas is under revision. The PAShave arguedpersuasively for greater budget supportfrom the
central authorities, and it appears that this will be given. By project Appraisal, thefinal
formulas for revenue sharing in the PASshould be completed. This willpartly be based on
recommendationsfrom an ongoing international consultancyfocused onproviding optionsfor
financial sustainability for the overall PA system. Project design and indicators will be modiJied
based on thefinal policy agreements.
6. Sustainability of the project
Most of the comments made above can be applied to the issue of sustainability of the project.
The Small GrantsFacility, avery important element ofthe project, is unlikely to be sustainable
without project funding. But ifthe small grants are usedto develop commercially viable ways of
managing the benefitsfrom ecosystem services provided by the protected areas, then
sustainability is far more likely. An additional element inthe project to examine the economic
benefits of the multiple ecosystem services provided by the proposedprotected areas would be a
significant contributor to the sustainability of the project.
The fact that other donors are also active inBosnia and Herzegovina, includingthe Government
of Italy, USAID, and JICA, indicate that further possibilities for support of protected areas may
also be possible, and this project may helpto improve the design of subsequent projects.
Response. To-date,project design hasfocused on the modalitiesfor executing the SGP, with
lessfocus on longer-term sustainability. However, the Bank team, and the client, agree with the
above comment that the SGP will have a difJiculttime being sustainable without project funding.
It is expected that experiencegainedfrom theproject will enable Bosnia to leverage additional
sources ofjnance for similar grant-making activities in thefuture. This might befrom bilateral
sources. Importantly, such grants are regularfeatures of a number of EUpre-accession
instruments which will become available to the country during theproject implementation
period.
Action. Remainingpreparation willplace greater focus on the long-term sustainability of the
Small Grant Program. Additionally, thefinancial sustainability consultancy noted above is
expected to make recommendations on this topic.
7. Linkages to other focal areas
One of the most obvious links of the project is to climate change, which is both a challenge to
protected areas (because the climatic conditions may influence the distribution of the species that
the protected areas are establishedto conserve) andan importantjustification for protected areas
(because they may offer opportunities for enabling ecosystems to adapt to changing climatic
conditions). As discussed above, many of the forested areas may be important interms of carbon
sequestration. It i s possible that some of the habitat restoration issues may benefitfrom the
Clean Development Mechanism under the Kyoto Protocol. The threat to endemic plant species,
particularly inthe mountain areas, will requireparticular attention as climates change.
Interms of international waters, some ofthe rivers inBosnia andHerzegovina do flow into
neighboring countries, and the protected areas may help ensure that the quality of water is at an
acceptable level. But it must be recognized that this is a minor link.


                                                  82

Interms of landdegradation, the biggest problem is with landmines,which still are aproblem in
several hundredthousandhectares andprovide a significant threat to developing such areas for
the conservation ofbiodiversity. Onthe other hand, they also hamper other forms of
development, and may serve as de facto reserves. But landmines are also a significant source of
pollution as they degrade, so efforts at de-mining should continue and expand. The project
addresses all four of the strategic priorities of the GEF operational strategy on biodiversity. The
project i s directly addressing protected areas (SP1); the work that it is doing to mainstream
forests and agriculture into the new protected areas address SP2 on mainstreaming biodiversity;
the project includes a significant element of capacity building (SP3), and the project will seek to
develop best practices for protected areas (SP4).
The project will also address OP2 on coastal, marine, andfreshwater ecosystems, though in
Bosnia and Herzegovina the coastal and marine component is miniscule, while the freshwater
ecosystems are very important. The project also addresses OP3 on forest ecosystems and OP4
on mountain ecosystems. Interms of OP13 on conservation and sustainable use of biological
diversity important to agriculture, the project document contains relatively little discussion of
non-timber forest products. But medicinal plants and edible fungi are likely to be significant
components inmany of the proposednew protectedareas. This might require some further
attention.
ResaonsdAction. The team is infull agreement with these comments. Withparticular reference
to climate change and carbon sequestration, this is something which might be able to be
developed in thefuture, depending on what kinds of habitat restoration ultimately occurs in a
given PA. However, our present understanding is that carbon sinksprojects are not highly
favored, even under the Clean Development Mechanism. TheBosnian government is aware of
some opportunities to leverage carbonfunding, and our ongoing dialogue will continue to
engage on thispoint.
It is certainly the case that landmines remain an important challenge. We note that overall, the
only park with any significant remaining landmine issues is the Igman mountain complex outside
Sarajevo. Demining efforts are ongoing there, with clear "Do Not Enter" areas (marked in red
tape with "skull and crossbones"), some of which are in remote locations, and some of which
are in locations close to current/potentialfuture, recreation areas. Theproject does not propose
to directly support any demining. Nevertheless,project supportfor new managementplans will
take direct account of demining activities.
Non-timber forest products (NTFPs) are an important source of livelihood enhancementfor
some of thepopulation, including both those living inhear PAS,and locally-based tourist
visitors. At present, the two existing national parks (Sutjeska and Kozara) have well-established
proceduresfor collection of NTFPs. As theproject willprimarily strengthen their management
capacity, andprovide some much-need asset capitalization, no conflicts areforeseen about this
topic. In the new parks,feasibility studiesprovide evidence of some utilization of NTFPs, but
they do not suggest that this is a barrier topark establishment, nor do they indicate any serious
conflicts. By project Effectiveness, a Process Framework tool will beput inplace, to mitigate
effects of any potential restrictions which might arise in any PA.
8. Linkages to other programmes and action plans at regional or sub-regional levels
Bosnia and Herzegovina forms part of the Pan-EuropeanBiological and Landscape Diversity
Strategy (PEBLDS), and has the potential to expand its participation inthis important


                                                   83

programme. SignificantEuropeanUnionfunding supportsthis effort, and a PEBLDSmeeting
was heldat the end o fFebruary2006 inCroatia, whichwas attendedby colleaguesfrom Bosnia
and Herzegovina. Along withNatura 2000, suchpan-Europeanefforts can offer considerable
support to this project.
Response. Bosnian experts in multiplefields related toforestry and biodiversity are active in a
number of fora, including those above. This has expanded the authorities' understanding of
other programs, and is expected to continue. Further, theproject will indeedprovide supportfor
 initial identijkation of sitesfor inclusion in Natura 2000. This will be clariJied in the Project
Brief
9. Other beneficialor possible environmentaldamagingeffects
The concern about landmineshas alreadybeenmentioned. A potentialconflict with the wood-
processingindustrycouldbe addressed throughseekingappropriatecertification, suchas the
ForestStewardshipCouncil(www.fsc.org).
Another issue that will require some attentioni s the relationship betweenthe various ministries
and levelof government, includingbetweenthe Entities. The governance complexitywill
provide some management challenges that will needto be addressed. The fact that the project
will be executedby the MinistriesofAgriculture, Forestry and Water Management,without the
Ministry of Environment,may complicaterelationships.
Some attention will also needto be givento the balancebetweenpatrolling and enforcementon
one hand, while building understandingand support from local peopleon the other hand.
At least some ofthese protectedareas have considerablepotentialfor winter tourism, as
evidencedby the 1984 Winter Olympics heldinSarajevo. The possibility of over-development
will needto be considered, especially iflargeareas of forest are cleared inorder to make more
ski runs. The distributionof endemic species will needto be particularlyconsidered.
The project documentsays nothingabout invasivealien species, but this is a problemfor
protectedareas throughoutthe world, and certainly shouldbe consideredas one ofthe important
management issues, especiallygiventhe importanceofthe endemic Balkanflora.
Response. Theproject design has tried to be sensitive to the competing claims between
conservation andforest utilization, in some of the areas. It is indeed the case that in the existing
national parks, an important revenue source isfees from timber extraction. Thisprocess is long-
standing, and in theseparks, there is very good coordination betweenpark management and
forest enterprises, and this is expectedto continue. In theparks proposedfor establishment, the
final management arrangements are still being determined. It is likely that in both Una and the
Igman mountain complex, timber harvesting will continue toplay an important role. That said,
theforest enterprises are supportive ofpark establishment, as it is not expected that they will
 "lose" signijkant assets in theprocess.
TheBank, through the FDCP, is very heavily engaged in overall governance improvements in
theforest sector, including harvesting and woodprocessing. These improvements will have
numerouspositive implicationsfor the management efficiency of the PAS.
The complexity of the implementation arrangements is due to the reality of the complex
administrative structure in the country. However, we note that the ministries of agriculture will
not be the primary implementation authority; this will rest with the Entity ministries of



                                                  84

environment andphysical planning. The ministries of agriculture currently contain theproject
implementation unitsfor ongoingprojects, andpreparation has utilized their expertise. During
implementation, evenprocurement andfinancial management isplanned to be organized in
dedicated `>project implementation teamshits '' in the ministries of environment. Importantly,
most of the day-to-day operations will be undertaken at the PA level, which is most appropriate.
           Action. TheProject Brief will be revised to make these arrangements more clear.
Thepoint on winter tourism andpotential overdevelopment of the Igman complex is important.
However, no "large clearing)'isforeseen, even taking into account current development of the
high-density tourist areas. Bosnia's environmental regulations, assisted by the Environmental
Management Plan Framework being developedat present, will help to guide new construction so
as to minimize environmental disruption (including endemics). Even so, we would emphasize
again the multiple-use nature of theseparks, and the reality that especiallyfor Igman, the
country sees increasing tourism there as an important potential driverfor economic growth in
the area.
Updatefrom Appraisal. Bv the time of the appraisal, the main responsibility for project
implementation was assigned to the Entity environmental ministries, and includes specific
arrangements for coordination with the Entitv Ministries of Agriculture, Forestry and Water
Management.
10. Capacity building aspects
The project clearly intends to include a significant element o f capacity building, but this has not
yet beenfleshed out to much detail. Inaddition to appropriate training for all categories o f
protected area staff, it might also be worth considering to incorporate conservation elements in
the school curriculum at all level. It would also be helpfulto support appropriate elements inthe
non-governmental sector, including youth groups; these are often the strongest supporters o f
protected areas and their capacity i s well worth considering.
Response. It is indeed correct that the capacity building is not yet well-defined. Thefull
trainingprogramfor thefirst year will be designed by project Appraisal. Subsequent needs will
be determined on a yearly basis. The team very much welcomes the suggestion on inclusion of
NGOs andyouth groups; the Bank is actively engagedwithyouth groups in the Balkans, and
ongoingpreparation will make a more concerted effort to collaborate with those efforts.
11.Innovativenessof the project
The innovativeness o fthe project comes from its location ina country that is emerging from a
war between 1992 and 1995;has a very small amount o f its territory inthe protected area
system; and is seekingto use protected areas as a foundation for its further economic
development. The fact that many Europeantourists drive to the Balkans for vacations may offer
some innovations for linking protectedareas to Europeantourism. The fact that protected areas
are runby "National Park Enterprises" may offer creative opportunities for developing new
fundingmechanisms, especially ifthese are linked to payments for ecosystem services. The
Small Grants Facility will also offer multiple opportunities for innovation, and it i s important to
ensure that the allocation o f these small grants does not become overly bureaucratic.
Response. The team appreciates this understanding of the signijkant tourism potential in
Bosnia. As noted before, paymentfor ecosystemservices will be exploredfurther, and will be



                                                  85

included as one of the SGP themes. Present design of the SGP is intended to be reasonably
straightforward, and efforts will be made to ensure that the specijk operational modalities are
not overly bureaucratic.
CONCLUSION
This project is anextremely important one for Bosnia andHerzegovina, offering it an
opportunity to join other European countries with an appropriate system of protected areas. The
sites that have beenidentified are likely to be the most important ones, but a comprehensive
system plan for the country would be helpful inshowing how the various protected areas relate
to each other. Interms of the sustainability of the protected areas system, the concept of
payment for ecosystem services is well worth considering and would offer the project a new
dimension of innovation. Suchan approachmay be especially relevant inestablishing a new
system when many options are still open.




                                                 86

Map Section


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IBRD 36061

                                                                                              BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
                 FOREST AND MOUNTAIN PROTECTED AREAS PROJECT

                                    PROPOSED:

                                      FEASIBILITY STUDY                                                                MAIN ROADS                                                                                                SELECTED TOWNS

                                      NATIONAL PARKS                                                                   DAYTON AGREEMENT LINES                                                                                    NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                    EXISTING:                                                                          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                  MAIN RIVERS

                                      FOREST RESERVES

                                      NATIONAL PARKS


                                                               To Zagreb
                    16E                                                           17E          To Bjelovar                                           18E                                                                    19E
                                                                                                                                                                                             To Osijek
                                                                                                                CROATIA

  To                                                                     Una
Karlovac                                                                      Bosanska Gradiska
                                                                              Bosanska Gradiska                                                             Bosanski Brod
                                                                                                                                                            Bosanski Brod
                                                 Bosanska Novi
                                                 Bosanska Novi                  (Srp. Gradiska)
                                                                                (Srp. Gradiska)
                                                                                                                                       Sava                   (Srp.Brod)
                                                                                                                                                              (Srp.Brod)
                                                 (Novi Grad)
                                                 (Novi Grad)                                                                                                                                                                                                       To Belgrade
45N              CazinCazin                                                                                                          Derventa
                                                                                                                                      DeDerventrventa                                                                                                                                       45N
                                                         PrijedorPrijedor                    Kozara NP           Vbras                                                Bosna                                                                                                   Sava

                                 BosanskaBosanska                                                                                                                                                          BrckoBrcko
                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                  BihacBihac      Krupa
                                   Krupa
                                                                                           Banja
                                                                                           Banja
                                                 Sanski Most
                                                 Sanski Most                                 Luka
                                                                                             Luka
                               Una NP                                                                                                                                                                                                  BijeljinaBijeljina                      To Belgrade
      To                                                                                                                                                                 GracanicaGracanica
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Drina
  Sveti Rok             Una                                               Sana                REPUBLIKA SRPSKA
                                                                                              REPUBLIKA SRPSKA
                                       BosanskiBosanski                                                     KotorKotor VaroVaros
                                                                                                                       Varos
                                                                                                                          
                                       PetrovacPetrovac                                                                               TesliTeslic
                                                                                                                                      Teslic                                                                                                                         SERBIA
                                                                              Kljuc
                                                                              Kljuc                                                                                  MaglajMaglaj                       TuzlTuzla
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Tuzla

 CROATIA                                                       Lom FR

 To Medak                                        Drvarvar
                                                 Drvar                                                                                                                   Krivaja                                 Spreca
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              To Valjevo
                                                                                                      JajceJajce
                                                                                         Janj FR                          TravniTravnik
                                                                                                                          Travnik
To Obrovac                                                                                                                                      Zenica
                                                                                                                                                Zenica                                          KladanjKladanj

                                                                                                       Vrbas                                                                         VareVares
                                                                                                                                                                                     Vares                      Vlasenica
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Vlasenica

                                                                                                                                                            Bosna                                                                                         SrebrenicaSrebrenica
                                                                                                                 BugojnoBugojno
44N                                                                                                                                                                   VisokVisoko
                                                                                                                                                                       Visoko                                            REPUBLIKAREPUBLIKA
                                                                                                 FEDERATION OF
                                                                                                 FEDERATION OF                                                                                                                                                                              44N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SRPSKASRPSKA                         Drina

                                                                                   BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
                                                                                   BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA                                                                                                                                                                                To Kraljevo
    To                                                                                                                                                               SARAJEVOSARAJEVO
  Zadar
                                                                               LivnoLivno    Igman-Bjelasnica-Treskavica-Visocica                                                                         PalePale
                                                                                                                                                    ^                                                                                       VisegraVisegrad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Visegrad
                                                                                                                                       Jablanicko
                                                                         Prenj-Cvrsnica-Cabulja-Vran                                       jezero

                                                                                                                    JablanicaJablanica                                                                                   GorazdeGorazde
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                KonjicKonjic   Neretva                                                                                             Lim
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      To Sjenica
                                                                                                                                                                                                        FocaFoca
                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                       (Srbinje)(Srbinje)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Sutjeska NP

                                                                                                                                Mostar
                                                                                                                                Mostar




                                                                                                                                                                                             GackoGacko                                                   Tara

                                                                                                                                                                REPUBLIKA
                                                                                                                                           StolacStolac                                                                      Piva
                                                                                                                                                                      SRPSKA
43N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        43N


                                                                                                                                                                                 BilecaBileca
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MONTENEGRO

                                                                                                                                                                       TrebinjTrebinje
                                                                                                                                                                       Trebinje

                                                                                                                                                                                                                            To Podgorica




        0     10     20       30  40      50 Kilometers                                                                                                                                        To Shkodr

                                                                                           Adriatic                                       Sea
        0         10           20        30 Miles

 This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                                                                                                                                              ALBANIA
 shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
 Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
 endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                 16E                                                              17E                                                                     18E                                                                       19E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        APRIL 2008

