Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10237-CO  Type: (PCR)
MAUPRIVEZ,/ X31709 / T9 069/ OEDD3                                 ,S,tN  10237
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOtBIA
SAN CARLOS I AND II HYDRO POWER PROJECTS
(LOANS 1582-CO AND 1725-CO)
DECEMBER 27, 1991
Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This doeiment has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otberwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS
ISA                  -     Interconexi6n El6ctrica S.A.
BEB                  -     Empresa de Energia de Bogot&
EMCALI               -     Empresas Piblicas de Cali
EPH                  -     Empresas Publicas de Medellin
ICEL                 -     Instituto oolombiano de Energia Elctrica
Cvc                  -     Corporaci6n Aut6noma Regional del Cauca
CORELCA              -     Corporaci6n El6ctrica de la Costa Atlantica
JNT                  -     Junta Nacional de Tarifas
FODEX                -     Fonda de Moneda Extranjera
FEN                  -     Financiera El6ctrica Nacional
LRMC                 -     Long-Run Marginal Cost
CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =   Colombian Peso (ColS)
Col$ 433.92 (12/31/89)  =   US$1
FISCAL YEAR  =   CALENDAR YEAR



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Dwectot-weta
Opeations Evaluition
December 31, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Colombia
San Carlos I and II Hydro Power Projects
(Loans 1582-CO and 1725-CO)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a teport entitled "Project
Completion Report on Colombia - San Carlos I and II Hydro Power Projects (Loans
1582-CO and 1725-CO)" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Office, and Part II contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has
been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
'~~
Attachment
This document hits a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SAN CARLOS I AND II HYDRO POWER PROJECTS
(Loans 1582-CO and 1725-CO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface                                                                  i
Evaluation Summary                                                     ii
I.    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Project Identity                                                   1
2.   Background                                                         1
3.   Project Objectives and Description                                 2
4.   Project Design and Organization                                    3
5.   Project Implementation                                             4
6.   Project Results                                                    5
7.   Project Sustainability                                             8
8.   Borrower Performance                                               9
9.   Bank Performance                                                  10
10.  Cofinancing Agencies                                              10
11.  Consulting Services                                               11
12.  Project Documentation and Data                                    11
13.  Lessons Learned                                                   11
II.   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTI'E
1.   Construction Schedule                                             12
2-   EauiDment                                                         13
3-  Bank and ISA Performnance                                          13
III.  STATISTICAL DATA
1.   Related Bank Loans                                                15
2.  Project Timetable                                                  17
3.   Loan Disbursements
(Loan 1582-CO)                                                18
(Loan 1725-CO)                                                19
4.   Allocation of Loan Proceeds                                       20
5.   Planned and Actual Completion Dates of Components                 21
6.   Project Costs and Financing                                       24
7.   Project Results
A.  Direct Benefits                                               25
B.  Economic Impact                                               26
C.  Financial Impact                                              28
D.  Studies                                                       29
8.   Status of Loan Covenants                                          30
9.   Use of Bank Resources
A.  Staff Input (Loan 1582-CO)                                    33
B.  Mission Data (Loan 1582-CO)                                   34
B.  Mission Data (Loan 1725-CO)                                   35
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONT.)
Annexes:
1   Interconexion Electrica S.A. (ISA)                                 36
Comparison of Forecast and Actual Income
Statements (1978-1989)
2    Interconexion Electrica S.A. (ISA)                                40
Balance of Accounts Receivable at year-end
3    Interconexion Electrica S.A. (ISA)                               41
ISA's Shareholders/Annual Level of Performance
4    Interconexion Electrica S.A (ISA)
Sector Installed Capacity (MW)                                   42



COLOMBIA
SAN CARLOS I AND II HYDRO POWER PROJECTS
(LOANS 1582-CO AND 1725-CO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the San Carlos I
and II Hydro Power Projects in Colombia, for which Loans 1582-CO and 1725-CO
in the amount of US$126.0 million and US$72.0 million were approved on May 5,
1978 and June 12, 1979, respectively. Loan 1582-CO was closed on June 30,
1986, two years behind schedule. It was fully disbursed and the last
disbursement was on February 26, 1987. Loan 1725-CO was closed on June 30,
1988, three years behind schedule. It was fully disbursed, except for some
US$26,083 canceled due to misprocurement. The last disbursement was on May 5,
1989.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Division of the Latin
America and the Caribbean Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts
I and III), and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR is based, inter alia, on the Staff
Appraisal Report; the Loan, Guarantee, and Project Agreements; supervision
reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank
memoranda.



- ii-
COLOMBIA
SAN CARLOS I AND II HYDRO POWER PROJECTS 1/
(LOANS 1582-CO AND 1725-CO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Proiect Obiectives
1.          The main project objectives were: (i) to enhance ISA's role in
harnessing the large hydro potential to meet future power requirements; (ii)
to coordinate through ISA sound overall sectoral developments; (iii) to enable
the efficient and economic operation of the interconnected system; (iv) to
encourage the financial viability of the various entities of the sector and to
institute operational policies designed to increase efficiency and allow
monitoring of performance throughout the sector (para. 3.01).
Implementation Experience
2.          San Carlos I, the first stage of the San Carlos Hydro Plant (units
1-4, 620 MW) was completed in February 1984, about eight months behind
schedule. San Carlos II, the second stage (units 5-8, 620 MW), was completed
in December 1987, three and a half years later than expected at appraisal
(para. 5.02). Delay in completing San Carlos II was due to four
circumstances2 First, severe financial constraints, especially during the
1981-82 period, forced ISA to concentrate its scarce financial resources on
completing San Carlos I and delayed San Carlos II (para. 5.03). Second, the
penstock passed through a roughly 35-meter fault that required a change in its
design and the construction of an intermediate access tunnel. Third, the
discharge tunnel collapsed twice. Fourth, geological problems in the portal
of the discharge tunnel made it necessary to construct an additional access
tunnel (para. 4.04).
3.          The Calderas power station, a small hydro plant that was part of
San Carlos II, was flooded by the river in mid-1990, which destroyed the
generating equipment. At present, ISA is repairing the powerhouse and will
replace the generating equipment (para. 4.04).
Proiect Results
4.          The projects achieved most of their objectives.  The country's
demand for power was met and the reliability of the power service improved
when the project was commissioned (para. 6.11). Delays in project completion
did not significantly affect the quality of service, because demand did not
J   The San Carlos I and II Hydro Power Projects are parts of the same hydro
power plant, the San Carlos Hydro Power Plant. The construction of this plant
was divided in two stages which were named San Carlos I and San Carlos II
respectively.



- iii -
grow as forecast at appraisal (para. 6.04). A high economic internal rate of
return (20 percent) confirms the economic benefit of the projects compared
with Colombia's other generating resources (Part III, Section 7). However,
the projects had less effect than anticipated on overall sectoral performance
and ISA's role as the prospective executing agency of large hydro developments
(para. 6.12). This was due to lack of both mandate to monitor the sector
utilities' performance and acceptance of ISA's role by its shareholders (para.
8.02). At the completion of the projects, ISA's financial position was weak,
as was that of most of the other power utilities, who were unable to pay their
overdue accounts to ISA (para. 6.12).
Project Sustainability
5.          It is expected that the facilities, as well as the institutional
development, created by the projects will continue to produce benefits.  ISA
has proved able to maintain its facilities properly and the institution has
developed substantial planning, technical, and managerial capabilities (para.
7.01).
Issues Remaininq Outstanding
6.          The current issues of the power sector in general, and ISA in
particular, are financial and institutional. The sector is facing a severe
financial crisis that is demanding large government contributions and
impairing its expansion. Causes for this crisis have been an over-ambitious
and inflexible investment program, the collapse of the program's financing
plan because of lack of expected availability of resources from the
international capital market as a result of the Latin American debt crisis,
major devaluation of the Colombian peso without tariff compensation, high
level of accounts receivable and high energy losses (para. 6.03). To remedy
this situation, the government should define explicitly the objectives of the
sector in the context of macroeconomic policies, strengthen the regulatory
body, and delimit accountability of the sector utilities.
6.          The role and structure of the sector's institutions should be re-
examined realistically, since ISA's role has been controversial and not
totally accepted by its shareholders (para. 6.12). Nevertheless, a
centralized sectoral planning should be preserved, as much for long-term
expansion as for the operation of the interconnected system.
Lessons Learned
7.          The most important lessons are the following (para. 13.01).
(a)   Covenants undertaken by companies not directly involved in the
project have little chance of being met without specific
authority, mechanism and political will to enforce them. In the
present case, a strong regulatory body would have helped to
establish and oversee the decisionmaking mechanism connecting
planning, financing and project implementation.
(b)   An expansion plan shouid consider potential departures from
macroeconomic scenarios and market projections to allow
adjustments in the investment program to meet new conditions.



- iv -
Expansion plans should include a margin of flexibility to allow
for periodic revision.
(c)   A rainfall in the basin where the Calderas powerhouse is located,
apparently greater than a hundred year storm, caused the river to
flood the powerhouse with a large amount of boulders and destroyed
its two generating units. The risk of this kind of events should
be taken into account in the selection of the powerhouse site and
type.
(d)   Project implementation should not underestimate the risk of delays
caused by factors external to the project, such as legal processes
for the acquisition of land, obtaining import licenses, and
financial constraints of the project owners.



COLOMBIA
SAN CARLOS I AND II HYDRO POWER PROJECTS
(LOANS 1582-CO AND 1725-CO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.  Project Identity
- Project Name:   San Carlos I and II Hydro Power Projects
- Loan No.:       Loans 1582-CO and 1725-CO
- RVP Unit:       Latin America and the Caribbean Region, Country
Department III
- Country:        Colombia
- Sector:         Energy
- Subsector:      Power
2. Project Backaround
2.01        Public electricity services in Colombia are provided by eight
major utilities. These include three municipal companies in the main cities:
Empresa de Energia de Bogot& (EEB), Empresas Publicas de Medellin (EPM), and
Empresas Pdblicas de Cali (EMCALI); three Government-owned companies:
Instituto Colombiano de Energia Electrica (ICEL), Corporaci6n Aut6noma
Regional del Cauca (CVC), and Corporaci6n Electrica de la Costa Atlantica
(CORELCA); and two companies owned by the other utilities of the sector:
Interconexi6n Electrica S.A. (ISA) and Central Hidroel6ctrica Betania (CHB).
2.02        ISA was established in 1967 to provide a rational framework for
sector development by interconnecting the systems of its shareholders. The
intention was to create a national grid capable of sustaining large
hydroelectric developments and, by pooling the shareholders' financial
resources through ISA, to allow for much larger and more economical projects
than would have been feasible for each utility indepenldently.
2.03        At the time of the project appraisal (May 17, 1978), the
government had set broad sector development objectives. These consisted of
meeting demand within justifiable limits (including compensation for past
under-investments), achieving an efficient sector expansion, using resources
optimally, and achieving financial self-sufficiency.
2.04        Government strategy to reach the above objectives was to
centralize in ISA the planning of sector expansion. It assigned to ISA the
construction, ownership, and operation of all plants requiring joint efforts
by its shareholders, and responsibility for the studies needed to improve
sectoral operating and financial efficiency.
2.05        The projects were consistent with the sector objectives and
government strategy. The energy requirements of the interconnected system
were expected to grow at an average annual rate of about 10.6 percent. To
satisfy these requirements, ISA defined a least-cost expansion plan for the
period 1978 to 1985. This plan allowed for new generating power plants,



-2-
including the project, with an aggregate installed capacity of 2,133 MW. To
improve the sector's efficiency and finances, the project also included two
studies: one on energy losses and another on the operation of the
interconnected system.
3.  Proiect Obiectives and De. k'etion
3.01        The specific objeL.a.ves of the San Carlos I and II Hydro Power
Projects were: (i) to enhance ISA's role in harnessing the large hydro
potential to meet future power requirements; (ii) to coordinate through ISA
sound overall sectoral development; (iii) to facilitate the interconnected
system to operate efficiently and economically; this included the CORELCA
system where, after completion of the 500-kV line interconnection project,
part of the expensive thermal generation was to be replaced by hvdro
generation available in the Central System; (iv) to encourage the financial
viability of the various entities in the sector, and to institute operational
policies designed to increase efficiency and allow the monitoring of
performance on a common basis, throughout the sector.
3.02        The San Carlos I and II Hydro Power Projects consisted of the
following:
San Carlos I
(a)   An earth dam 75 m high; two concrete intake towers connected to
two vertical shafts 150 m deep? a power tunnel, 4,500 m long; a
surge tank; an inclined pressure tunnel bifurcating into two
penstocks; two caverns, one for ten turbine-generators and one fo-
transformers; an access tunnel to the powerhouse; and a discharge
tunnel, 1,570 m long;
(b)   four Pelton turbines; four vertical shaft generators rated 183
MVA; two 3-phase banks of single-phase transformers; a 230 kV
switchyard; and a control building for operation of the power
station and the substation;
(c)   a 244-km double-circuit 230-kV transmission line, and
corresponding substations; and
(d)   a study of losses in the systems of ISA and its shareholders.
San Carlos II
(a)   Four Pelton turbines; four vertical shaft generators rated 183
MVA; two 3-phase banks of single-phase transformers; electrical
equipment; and expansion of the switchyard;
(b)   290 km of double-circuit 230-kV transmission lines;
(c)   a study for operating the interconnected system at least cost; a
training program for dispatch personnel; and a study of ISA's
manpower requirements and execution of a program to train
professional staff; and



(d)   tho Calderas hydro power plant, a small plant cumposed of a
concrete gravity-type dam 25 m high; pressure tunnels; a surface
power station; two turbine-generators of 9.2 MW each; and
ancillary equipment including transformers.
4. Project Desian and Organization
4.01        The San Carlos Hydro Power Projects were part of the expansion
program prepared by ISA in June 1973 anI based on a comparison made between
thermal and a limited number of hydroelectric options. At the time of the
appraisal, not many options had been thoroughly studied, and a study on a
hydro survey and long-term expansion plan with assistance from the Federal
Republic of Germany was still under way.
4.02        The feasibility studies and conceptual design of the San Carlos
Hydro Development were carried out by EPM with the assistance of a local
consulting company. Final designs for the projects were carried out by ISA
with the assistance of the same local consultant. Final designs were
available in time for the appraisal. The Bank engaged an independent
consultant to review the project design and participate in the appraisal.
This consultant agreed in substance with the project design.
4.03        On the basis of the studies on the projects, favorable geological
conditions at San Carlos Power Plant were expected. It was foreseen that the
dam, the intakes and the greater part of the pressure tunnels (80-85 percent)
would be located on and in sound igneous rocks. The remainder of the pressure
tunnels, the power house, and the discharge tunnels would be located in
metamorphic rock requiring some supports; only a small portion (5-8 percent)
of tunnelling would be done across fault zones. Excavation of the caverns was
not expected to present any major problems; however, to minimize the risk of
unforeseen situations caused by the huge volume of the excavation work and the
width of the galleries, it was proposed that the construction of exploratory
tunnels along the caverns would better determine the rock conditions and
define the orientation of the caverns. The bidding documents allowed for this
contingency and indicated the limits for location of the powerhouse. In
contrast with the above, only limited studies on the Calderas small power
plant were available at the time of the appraisal.
4.04        In general, the geological conditions found at the San Carlos
Power Plant during project construction were consistent with those expected at
the design stage, except in the penstock and discharge tunnel, where the
conditions were worse than expected. The penstock passed through a fault of
about 35 meters in length, which required a change of the penstock design and
the construction of an intermediate access tunnel. The diacharge tunnel
collapsed twice and an additional access tunnel had to be opened. Conditions
found at Calderas power plant were very much worse than expected at appraisal
and substantial changes were introduced in the design of this plant during
project implementation. After a few months of operation, in September 1990,
its power station suffered substantive damage caused by an exceptional
flooding of the river. A heavy rainfall in the basin where the Calderas
powerhouse is located caused the formation of numerous landslides on the
surrounding hillsides, overflow of the river and inundation of the powerhouse.
The rainfall recorded was apparently greater than a hundred year storm. The
river carried a large amount oi material including boulders that flooded the



-4-
powerhouse and caused damage to the two generating units and other components.
At present, ISA is clearing the site to repair the powerhouse, new equipment
will be ordered, and protective measures will be taken. Repairs of the power
house, and manufacturing and installing equipment are expected to take some
two and a half years.
4.05        ISA's assessed the environmental effect of the project at the time
of the appraisal, and no major impact was expected. The project area is
extremely hilly, with poor soiis ard high rainfall, making the entire area
unsuitable for farming or stock raising. One small village of about seventy
families was to be displaced by the project, and an adequate program for
acquiring all properties and evacuating residents was submitted to the Bank
before appraisal. Completion of evacuation was a condition for loan
effectiveness.
4.06        ISA was responsible for the construction of the projects.  ISA
established a project unit to manage the project and coordinate related
activities. This unit had the assistance of the same local consultants that
had carried out the project studies. They assisted in the preparation of
construction designs and bidding documents, bid evaluation, procurement of
equipment and supervision of the project construction.
5. Proiect Implementation
5.01        Loan Effectiveness and Proiect Start-up:  Loan 1582-CO was
approved on May 30, 1978, signed on July 14, 1978, and effective on April 5,
1979.  Loan 1725-CO was approved June 12, 1979, signed on November 30, 1979,
and effective on June 19, 1981. The long time elapsed between loan signature
and loan effectiveness was due, in the case of Loan 1582-CO. to legal
difficulties to have the Shareholders' Agreement ratified by the government;
and in the case of Loan 1725-CO, to delays in resolving the large size of
accumulated arrears in payments to ISA of its shareholders and the Government.
5.02        Implementation Schedule:  The San Carlos I Project was completed
in February 1984, eight months later than expected at the appraisal. The San
Carlos II Project was originally scheduled to be completed by June 30, 1984,
but it was commissioned only in December 1987. The Calderas power plant was
commissioned in April 1988.
5.03        Financial constraints on ISA and the civil work contractor were
the main cause of delay. ISA's shareholders did not pay in their
contributions, which were higher than initially expected, on time. At the
same time, the civil works contractor was unable to get temporary financing to
bridge the delays in ISA's payments. Other delays were caused by (i) adverse
geological conditions found in the construction of the penstock and the
discharge tunnel (para. 4.04); and (ii) lengthy procedures for acquisition of
lands and rights of ways.



-5-
5.04        Procurement:  In general, procurement actions proceeded
satisfactorily and in accordance with Bank guidelines, except in the case of a
minor contract. A Bank procurement specialist visited ISA at the beginning of
project implementation to assist it in planning the procurement process. A
contract for US$26,083.41 was declared misprocurement by the Bank, and the
corresponding amount was canceled. The generators at the Calderas powerhouse
failed during commissioning. The supplier remedied the generator defects, but
its response to do it was slow due to intricate administrative procedures
within the supplier's country.
5.05        Proiect Costs:  At appraisal, the estimated cost of the San Carlos
I Hydroelectric Project was US$367.0 million excluding interest during
construction (IDC). The final cost of this project amounted tp US$443.7
million. This final cost includes the cost of the underground works (US$101.7
million) of the second stage of San Carlos, whose construction was added to
San Carlos I by amendment of the Loan Agreement to use the savings obtained in
the implementation of San Carlos I. These savings arose from lower than
expected unit prices quoted by the civil works contractor.
5.06        Exclusive of the underground works mentioned above, the appraisal
estimate of the cost of San Carlos II was US$156.1 million, while the final
cost was US$166.3 million (excluding IDC). The difference was due to: (i) the
higher engineering and supervision costs of the longer project implementation
period; and (ii) higher than estimated costs of civil works for the Calderas
power plant, due to the substantial modifications to its design. The above
cost does not include the cost of repairing the Calderas power station.
5.07        Disbursements:  The expected and actual disbursements of Loans
1582-CO and 1725-CO are given in Section 3 of Part III. The disbursements
were delayed due to the delays in implementation of the projects. The
original closing date for Loan 1582-CO was June 30, 1984, but it was closed on
June 30, 1986 after two one-year extensions. The original closing date for
Loan 1725-CO was June 30, 1985, but it was closed only on June 30, 1988 after
three one-year extensions. Disbursements against commitments were made until
May 5, 1989.
5.08        Loan Allocation:  The original and revised allocations of the
proceeds of both loans are shown in Section 4 of Part III.
6.  Proiect Results
6.01        Proiect Obiectives:  The projects achieved most of their
objectives. They succeeded in (i) meeting the country's power demand through
an efficient expansion of generating capacity; (ii) enhancing ISA's planning
and technical capabilities, and achieving substantive institutional
development of ISA (para. 8.01); (iii) allowing a more efficient and economic
operation of the interconnected system through ISA (para. 6.11); (iv)
achieving some sectoral developments, particularly the carrying out of studies
applicable to the whole sector; these included the study on tariffs based on
marginal costing, and the one on energy losses. However, the projects were
not effective in achieving the financial viability of the sector's utilities
or in improving operational policies. This was attributed in part to the fact
that ISA's shareholders, which are the major utilities of the country, did not
have the will to impose themselves financial policies and monitoring.



-6 -
6.02        Physical Results:  The physical targets of the projects were
substantially achieved, but in the case of San Carlos II, the completion of
the project was achieved some three years later than planned. The destruction
of the Calderas power station that occurred in mid-1990 (para. 4.04) will
impede its operation until the end of 1993, when commissioning of new
equipment is expected.
6.03.       Financial Performance.  Annex 1 compares the appraisal forecast
and actual income statements, sources and applications of funds, balance
sheets, and performance indicators for the period 1978 to 1989. ISA's
performance was adequate during the period 1978-82; however, from 1983 the
sector, and consequently ISA, experienced financial constraints due to an
over-ambitious and inflexible investment program, the collapse of the
program's financing plan because of lack of expected availability of resources
from the international capital market as a result of the Latin American debt
crisis, major devaluation of the Colombian peso without tariff compensation,
high level of accounts receivable and high level of energy losses. The
financial rate of return on revaluated assets was generally close to the
covenanted figure during the period (para. 6.07), but the debt-equity ratio,
debt-service coverage and self-financing ratio that were generally
satisfactory before 1983, deteriorated significantly after this year.
6.04        ISA's internal cash generation was lower than expected and it had
difficulties in covering its debt service, even though the average tariff
increased substantially in current prices during the period. ISA's income was
affected by energy sales lower than forecast at the appraisal and an average
tariff between 50 percent and 60 percent of the long-run marginal cost (LRMC)
at interconnection level. Sales grew much less than they had been forecast,
as a result of the slowdown in the economy. In the 1980s, energy demand grew
at a rate of 6 percent per year compared with rates of 10 percent per year
during 1970s. If energy purchases are deducted from sales shown in the income
statements, sales of ISA's generated energy were only 70 percent of those
expected in 1985, the last year forecast in the appraisal (7,445 GWh actual
compared with 10,502 GWh forecasted).
6.05        The average tariff for long-term sales, in current prices,
increased from Col$0.52 per kWh in 1978 to Col$8.5 in 1989. Expressed in end-
1989 prices, it raised from Col$7.35 to Col$9.66 that represents a 31 percent
increase. Average revenues, including long and short-term sales increased
from Col$0.49 in 1978 to Col$6.48 in 1989. Expressed in end-1989 prices it
raised from Col$6.88 to Col$7.36 that represents an increase of 7 percent. As
ISA operates the interconnected system, all sales and purchases within the
power sector are reflected in its statements, and the average income does not
represent the tariff of ISA's energy. Until 1988, ISA's tariffs were adopted
by its board of directors; now, tariffs are defined by Junta Nacional de
Tarifas (JNT). In October 1990, JNT issued Resolution 089, which defines
goals for bulk tariffs based on LRMC, and Resolution 091, which adopted a one-
time increase of 16 percent for energy prices and an 11 percent increase for
the demand charge. ISA's long-term average tariff in April 1991 was
Col$16.04/kWh (US$0.0265/kWh), that is about 70 percent of the LRMC at the
interconnected level. It is expected that for 1994 tariffs will be around 89
percent of LRMC.
6.06        The level of accounts receivable on electricity sales as a
percentage of annual sales revenues increased from 42 percent in 1978 to 91.4



-7-
percent in 1989, compared with 17 percent established as a performance
indicator. The level of this ratio was extremely high during all the years
covered by this report (1978-89), and was one of the main reasons for ISA's
financial difficulties. Annex 2 shows accounts receivable by shareholder.
Expressed in US$ million, ISA's claims against its shareholders were: 1980,
$77; 1984, $227; 1987, $199; and 1989, $352. Out of the total accounts
receivable, 70 percent represented arrears, which were concentrated in EEB,
CVC, CORELCA and ICEL, companies that also experienced financial difficulties
during the period. Partly due to this situation, ISA had to negotiate loans
with the Fondo de Moneda Extranjera (FODEX) and with the government to cover
the debt service. The Bank, during the supervision of the project, pressed
ISA and the government to solve the problem of overdue accounts receivable,
but without success. This problem was also addressed under the Power Se;tor
Adjustment Loan (Loan 2889-CO), where it was agreed that all debts from ISA's
shareholders should have been settled by end-1988, but the results were not
satisfactory.
6.07        The rate of return on revalued assets (ROA) was somewhat lower
than covenanted. Thus, even though the ROA was technically close to the
covenahted value, ISA in much of this period barely covered or was unable to
cover its debt service and finance an adequate portion of its construction
program with internally generated funds. It appears that the ROA was not an
adequate revenue covenant and also that rates were overstated, because the
method used to revaluate assets did not fully reflect their actual value. As
Colombia law and accounting practice allow only partial revaluation, the full
revaluation process was done on a proforma basis only to determine the ROA
indicator for the purpose of the Bank loans. Power sector utilities use the
Consumer Price Index (CPI) to calculate asset revaluation. The Bank staff
believed that this index did not reflect fully the costs of the sector, and
under Loan 2401-CO to FEN, it was agreed with the Colombian government that an
appropriate price index for the electricity sector would be prepared. This
index was prepared and discussed with the Bank, but it has not yet been used
to calculate asset revaluation.
6.08        The covenanted figure of 9 percent ROA reflects ISA's bylaws at
the time of appraisal, which required the utility's revenues to cover only its
debt service and operating costs. Therefore, a negligible contribution from
internal cash generation to the construction program was expected. The
construction program was to be financed mainly with the shareholders'
contributions. Therefore, the self-financing performance indicator (33
percent average during the period) was defined to include the contributions by
the nongovernment shareholders. As the power utilities also suffered
financial difficulties during the period, their equity contributions were
lower than were needed by ISA to maintain a sound debt level.
6.09        ISA's debt-equity ratio and debt service coverage ratio, which
were generally satisfactory before 1983, deteriorated significantly from this
year. ISA's high indebtedness level and costly debt service resulted not only
from the reduced capitalization from shareholders and internal cash
generation, but also from peso's devaluation against the dollar and the
dollar's depreciation against other currencies. A higher Colom.bian peso
devaluation against the U.S. dollar than had been expected started in 1983 and
extended through the mid-1980s. Although this devaluation corrected for
increases in the real value of the peso during the 1970s and early 1980s, the
power utilities were not prepared to handle the cost of debt servicing that



8 -
come with it. Government did not take any steps to compensate through tariff
adjustment or otherwise to smooth out this impact and the utilities, unable to
cover their debt service, became debtors of FODEX, who honored the government
guarantee.
6.10        Annex 3 presents the appraisal and actual annual level of
performance for the period 1978-89 for ISA's shareholders: EEB, EPM, CVC and
CORELCA. The performance indicators were generally below those established at
appraisal. The power utilities were affected by: (i) reduced sales, as a
result of the economic slowdown during this period and their substantial
increase in non-technical energy losses; (ii) tariffs that did not reflect the
economic cost of service; and (iii) the high devaluation of the Colombian peso
and depreciation of the U.S. dollar against other currencies, without a
corresponding tariff adjustment. EEB, committed to a large expansion program
and unable to reduce its energy losses, ran into financial difficulties to
cover its debt service and accumulated arrears in its payments to ISA. EPM
was the utility least affected by this situation, but even its indicators fell
short of the expectations held at appraisal. CVC and CORELCA were the worst
affected and their performance indicators show that, after 1983, they were
unable to cover their debt service.
6.11        Impact of Proiects:  The projects made a major impact by meeting
the country's power needs and improving the quality of service. Generation by
the project represents over 15 percent of total current demand of the country.
The cost of the project energy is very economical compared with the LRMC.
Additionally, the projects contributed to a reduction in the operating and
maintenance cost of the system, by reducing the use of fuel, and improved the
reliability of service. The projects also have made a major institutional
impact on ISA. The experience obtained in the construction of the San Carlos
facilities and the planning and management tools developed during project
implementation strengthened substantially the planning and technical
capabilities of ISA.
6.12        On the other hand, the impact on the sector's overall performance
and ISA's anticipated role in developing future larger hydro power projects
was only limited. This was because ISA's role was not only unclear and
controversial from the beginning, but subject to numerous tacit changes during
the project. In addition, the lack of a strong regulatory body and more
specific and consistent government policies on the sector impaired efforts to
achieve financial viability of the sector's utilities. At the completion of
the project, ISA's financial position was vulnerable, and all the other power
utilities, with the exception of EPM, were in a very weak financial position
and unable to pay their overdue accounts to ISA.
7. Proiect Sustainabilitv
7.01        San Carlos is the largest power plant in the country and its
energy production is reliable. Its installed capacity, 1240 MW, represents
about 14 percent of the total installed capacity, and its annual generation is
consistent with what was expected during its studies. The projects include
facilities for the installation of two-155 MW additional units. The
facilities built under the projects will continue to produce benefits for both
ISA and the country for a long time. They are safe, lasting, productive, and
demand low operation costs. Those facilities were designed and built in



-9-
accordance with international standards and with the assistance of well-
qualified consultants. Their lives will probably extend further than
projected. Since the cost of the energy generated by San Carlos is low and
will remain almost constant through its life, it will help to keep down the
average cost of electricity in the country. The problem presented at the
Calderas powerhouse, which is a very small part of the projects, is being
addreased satisfactorily and protective measures will be taken to prevent the
powerhouse from any further river flooding (para. 4.04).
7.02        As to the institutional issues, the government is now (in 1991)
working on the establishment of a regulatory framework for the power sector
and reexamining the role of ISA and the other institutions in the sector, as
well as options for its financial restructuring.
8.    Borrower Performance
8.01        As noted, ISA suffered severe financial constraints after 1983
(para. 6.03). At the same time, its institutional development was
substantial. The projects were implemented effectively and efficiently, and
their performance indicators, with the exception of the accounts receivable
indicator, were very close to the values expected at the time of the
appraisal. ISA's installed capacity grew from 1,000 MW to 2,693 MW (about 31
percent of the installed capacity across the country), and ISA's internal
structure was significantly strengthened. In 1977, administrative, financial,
and operations departments were created, as well as an internal audit unit.
In 1979, the Planning Unit was created, which has developed strong technical
capabilities and played a decisive role in the development of ISA and the
sector as a whole. In 1983, the Dispatch Center was commissioned, and since
then, has been decisive in coordinating the systems operated by ISA and the
other utilities. Finally, the recently created Environmental Unit has taken a
clear leadership in its field within the sector; it has developed a
methodology to include the environmental factor in the planning process,
prepared guidelines for resettlement and environment protection, and carried
out significant studies in these fields for future hydro projects.
Implementation of the project's physical components was carried out
efficiently and the costs kept within the appraisal estimate. All this is
attributable to ISA's effectiveness. Delays in project implementation and the
deterioration of the accounts receivable indicator cannot be blamed on ISA.
Annex 1, page 4, contains the comparison between forecast and actual
performance indicators of ISA.
8.02         However, the severe financial constraints experienced by ISA
during project implementation revealed weakness in the power's institutional
framework and the lack of adequate mandate for ISA to meet its anticipated
dominant role in the sector. These deficiencies were demonstrated mainly in
the following ways:
(a)   ISA lacked the mandate to monitor the implementation of the
expansion plan by other utilities, and assess the need for
corrective measures in a timely manner.



- 10 -
(b)   The system for approving expansion plans was painful and rigid as
much for ISA's board as for the government. This made the
updating of the plans and adoption of corrective measures
difficult.
9. Bank Performance
9.01        Bank participation in the projects was generally satisfactory.
During preparation of San Carlos I, the Bank was persistent in discussing
conditions not only on the investment programs and the finance of ISA and of
its shareholders but mainly on institutional issues. The reach of these
conditions explains to an extent the long time it took to agree on them. They
included (i) granting to CORELCA membership as a shareholder in ISA; (ii)
changing of ISA's bylaws to indicate that (a) all major future expansion of
national interest would be owned and operated by ISA; (b) ISA would charge
tariffs to cover operating costs, depreciation and achieve 9.0 percent anual
return on revalued assets; (iii) the cost of fuel to CORELCA, by the time of
completion of the 500 kV line, would be equal to or greater than the delivered
cost of energy purchased by CORELCA from ISA; (iv) shareholders of ISA to
raise tariffs so to achieve anual return of 9.0 percent each on revalued
assets; (v) implementation of Government plans to bring the price of fuels
(petroleum and natural gas) in line with the cost of new domestic oil and
world prices; (vi) measures to avoid the problem encountered under the Bank
loan to ISA for the Chivor Project, namely, that several of the shareholders
did not honor their financial obligations to ISA on time; (vii) preparation of
a power sector development master plan.
9.02        The Bank exercised a close supervision of the projects.  It spent
about 125 staff-weeks in supervision, this is about 14 staff-weeks per year.
During project implementation, the Bank supported ISA continuously with its
shareholders and the government, and supported programs to strengthen ISA's
planning and management capabilities. The Bank, through the supervision of
its loans to EEB and EPM, kept alive their commitments to contribute and pay
ISA for their electricity. Unfortunately, due to their financial
difficulties, the utilities' accounts payable to ISA increased substantially
(para. 6.06). The Bank showed flexibility by approving the use of savings
from Loan 1582-CO to partially finance the civil works of San Carlos II and
some local costs. To help to meet ISA's financial needs, the Bank supported
the creation of FEN and approved Loan 2401-CO to it. To strengthen ISA's
planning and managerial capabilities, the Bank pushed for and acted as
executing agency for two technical assistance projects financed by UNDP. One
was the Planning System for Power Expansion, and the other was the Design of a
Planning and Monitoring System for the Execution of Hydroelectric Projects.
10. Cofinancina Aaencies
10.01       In addition to the Bank loans, the projects received financing
from the International Development Bank, Eximbank from Japan, Orion Royal Bank
and Bank of Tokyo. Relation and interaction between the Bank and the
cofinancing agencies during project implementation were very little and no
special effect was obtained from joint actions.



- 11 -
11. Consulting Services
11.01       The studies and design of the San Carlos hydro plant, and the
inspection of its construction were performed satisfactorily by a local.
consulting firm, assisted by external independent consultants. The technical
assistance to develop a project management system, partially financed under
the project, was provided satisfactorily by a foreign consulting firm. The
other studies included in the project were performed, also satisfactorily, by
local consulting firms.
12. Proiect Documentation and Data
12.01       The Loan and Shareholders' Agreements were adequate, in general,
to the Project objectives, and the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) provided a
useful framework to both the Bank and ISA to review project implementation.
However, the SAR did not assess ICEL's financial viability, one of ISA's major
shareholders, because at the time of the appraisal there were not suitable
information available for the preparation of financial projections.
Consequently, the Shareholders' Agreement did not include specific covenants
related to ICEL's performance. ISA prepared a project completion report and
provided additional information requested.
13. Lessons Learned
13.01       The most important lesaons are the following.
(a)   Covenants undertaken by companies not directly involved in the
project have little chance of being met without specific
authority, mechanism and political wili to enforce them. In the
present case, a strong regulatory body would have helped to
establish and oversee the decisionmaking mechanism connecting
planning, financing and project implementation.
(b)   An expansion plan should consider potential departures from
macroeconomic scenarios and market projections to allow
adjustments in the investment program to meet new conditions.
Expansion plans should include a margin of flexibility to allow
for periodic revisions.
(c)   A rainfall in the basin where the Calderas powerhouse is located,
apparently greater than a hundred year storm, caused the river to
flood the powerhouse with a large amount of boulders and destroyed
its two generating units. The risk of this kind of events should
be taken into account in the selection of the powerhouse site and
type.
(d)   Project implementation should not underestimate the risk of delays
caused by factors external to the project, such as legal processes
for the acquisition of land, obtaining import licenses, and
financial constraints of the project owners.



- 12 -
COLOMBIA
SAN CARLOS HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
(Loans 1582-CO and 1725-CO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The Borrower's main comments are summarized below.
Construction Schedule
-     The time periods initially defined for civil work construction proved to
be very optimistic. A less-optimistic construction schedule should be
adopted at the planning stage.
-     There were interferences between the erection of electromechanical
equipment and the civil works. These interferences showed the necessity
of having an integrated schedule available at all times. For the
schedule to work, it is necessary to have a tight schedule monitoring
and coordination between all the companies involved.
Procurement
-     The utilization of standard outlines for bidding documents and contracts
made the evaluation of bids and award of contracts easier. As a result,
there was an important time saving in procurement activities.
Civil Works
-     The development of the main civil works contracts had serious economic
problems during the execution stage due mainly to: (i) low financial
capacity of contractor, aggravated by the fact that the contractor was
carrying out simultaneously the civil works corresponding to four (4)
different contracts (Punchina dam, San Carlos I and II underground civil
works, and Jaguas project); and (ii) payment delays by ISA. The
contractor's financial capabilities should be highly analyzed when
selecting and awarding this type of contracts.
-     Delays in the acquisition of land and right of ways for the project
contributed to the delay of civil works. ISA has no control over the
time period required to carry out the legal processes involved on this
matter.
-     The fact that both supervisory and design activities were carried out by
the same consulting company was positive. It facilitated communications
and preparation of complementary studies, detail designs and
modifications during the construction.



- 13 -
The material excavated at the spillway that was useful for the dam
embankment was 914,000 m3 less than expected due to a large quantity of
rock-balls that restricted its utilization. Deeper drill holes during
the earlier stages would have provided a better estimate.
The design of the penstock coating surface was modified, replacing the
hydraulic concrete for shotcrete. This meant a project benefit because
it avoided important delays on operation starting date. Also, this
change meant less construction costs.
The industrial safety standards included on the bidding documents were
unsatisfactory.
Eauipment
The Colombian legislation includes regulations to protect national
industry against imported equipment. The duration of the procedures and
requirements to import equipment are difficult to predict making it hard
to schedule them in advance. To improve scheduling of these activities,
a closer links with the governmental departments involved should be
established.
There were two problems affecting the storage of electromechanical
equipment: (i) poor storage conditions and (ii) lack of enough storage
areas. As a result, it was necessary to replace and repair some damaged
equipment. There is a need for a carefully written plan that would
outline the special equipment storage requirements on the area of the
project.
ISA had to negotiate advance payments with its contractors in order to
get the Bank loans disbursed before the loan closing dates.
Bank and ISA Performance
The Bank and ISA performance met, in general, previous expectations.
However, some delays in the disbursement of the loan proceeds occurred
due to changes on Bank organization and its payment procedures, and
ISA's financial constraints contributed to delays of the civil works.
Recommendations
A continuous flow of local currency to the project is needed in order to
minimize the project's financial problems. This can be obtained through
earlier arrangements with FEN, timely payments of the shareholders to
ISA, and a higher participation of the Bank and IDB.
Financing of loan financial charges would minimize the pressure of
payments due to contractors and to the Bank, and avoid delays on the
project schedule due to delays in payments to contractors.



- 14 -
The financial conditions of Bank loans, especially duration of grace
periods and closing dates, should be adjusted in accordance with the
project construction period.
It would be convenient that the Bank and the borrower monitor jointly
the status of payments to contractors during project implenmentation to
identify the cases and causes for payment delays. The Bank should
consider to adjust the contract's currency proportion if the
macroeconomic conditions changes.



- 15 -
PART III - STATIST1CAL DATA
I. felated Bank Loans
Pago 1 of 2
Amount                             Disbur_ec
(In US$     Year of       So-        as of
Number and Titl        million)   Aooroval    Borrower    02/28/91            P.urpose
1. 38-CO:                     3.53      1950     CVCM           100%   Anchicaya units i and 2
Achicaya Hydro-                               CHIORAL                 (2 x 12) MW hydro)
electric
2.39-CO:                       2.6      1950     CHEC           100%   The Insula units I and 2
La Ineula Hydro-                                                     (2 x 10 MW hydro)
electric
3. 54-CO:                      2.4      1951    LABRIJA         100%   Palmas units 1 and 2
Labrija Hydro-                                                       (2 x 4.4 MW hydro)
electric
4. 113-CO:                     4.5      1955   CHIORAL          100%   Anchicaya unit 3(20 MW
Anchicaya Yumbo                                                       hydra) and Yumbo unit I
Power                                                                (10 MW thermal)
5. 215-CO:                     2.6      1958   CHIDRAL          100%   Yumba unit 2 (10 MW
Yumbo Extension                                                      thermal)
6. 217-CO:                     4.6      1959     CHEC           100%   La Esmoraida units 1 and 2
La Esmelaida                                                          (2 x 13.3 MW hydro)
7.225-CO:                       12      1959      EPM           100%   Guadalupe units I and 2
Guadalupe                                                            (2 x 45 MW hydra) and Trana-
ras unit 1 (18 MW hydro)
S. 246 CO:                    17.6      1900      EEEB          100%   Laguneta unit 4 (16 MW
Bogota Power                                                         hydro) and Zlpaquira unit 1
(33 MW termal)
9. 255-CO:                      25      196o      CVC/          100%   Yumbo unit 3 (33 MW
Yumbo Ill Callma I                            CHIORAL                thermal and Calima units
Power                                                                I and 2 (2 x 30 MW hydro)
10. 282-CO:                     22       1961     EPM           100%   Tronoras unit 2 (18 MW
Second Guadalupe                                                     hydro) and Guadalupe units
3. 4 and 5 (3x45 MW
hydro)
11. 313-00:                     s0       1962     EElS          100%   Zlpaquira unit 2 (37.5 MW
Second Expansion                                                     hydra) and Coleglo units
1.2 and 3 (3 x 50 MW hydro)
12. 339-CO:                     6.8      1963     CVC/          100%   Calima units 3 and 4
Power Expanslon                               CHIORAL                (2 x 30 MW hydra)
13. 347-0C:                      5       1963 ELECTRIBOL        100%   Cosplque units 2 and 3
Coapique Power                                                       (2 x 12.5 MW thermal
14.360g0                        45       1964     EPM           100%   Quatape units 1.2.3 and 4
Nate                                                                 (4 x 70 MW hydro)
15. 5370CO:                     16       1966 s    EES          100%   El Cologlo units 4. 5 and 6
Third Expanslon                                                      (3 x 5' MW hydra) and Canoes
(1 x 50 MW hydra)
1. 575-0C:                      16       1966     ISA           tO%   Central System Intercon-
Power Intercon-                                                      nectlon (230 kV transmis-
nection                                                              laon line and substaton)



- 16 -
Page 2 012
Amount                             Olsbureed
(In US$     Year of       Eoh        as of
Number and Ttlet        mililon)   Aporoval    Borrower    02128/91            PUrDOCO
17. 6e1 COC                    52.3      1970      ISA           t00%   Chivorl(4x1i5hydro)
Chivor Hydro-
eIsctric
18. 874-CO:                      88      1973      EPM           100%   Ouatape II units 1,2,3 and 4
Guatpe it                                                             (4 x 70 MW hydro)
Hydroelectdic
19. 1582-CO:                    126      1976      ISA           100I%   San Carlos I (4 x 155 MW
San Cadoe I                                                           hydro)
Hydro Power
20. 1583-CO                      50      1978   GOVERN-          %00%   500 kV Interconnectlon
800 kV Intercon-                                MENT                  Central System/ Atlantic
nection                                                               System
21. 1628-CO:                     84      1978      EEEB          100%   Mesitas Hydra (El Paralso
Mesitas Hydro-                                                        3 x o MW: La Cu ac 3 x 100 MW
electric Power                                                        pumping 3 x 10 MHP: Sequile
dam strengthening)
22. 1725-CO:                     72      1979      ISA           100%   San Carlos It
San Carioc II                                                         (4 x 155 MW hydra)
Hydro Power
23. 1807-CO:                     87      1980      EEE8          100%   Bogota dibtribution
Bogota Power
Distribution
24. 188e-CO:                    125      1980      EPM           100%   Guadalupe IV (3 x 71 MW
Guadalupe IV                                                          hydro)
Hydro Power
25 1953-CO:                      85      1981      EPM            74%   Playas (3 x 67 MW hydra)
Playas Hydro
Power
26. 1999-CO:                     36      1682   CORELCA           84%   Atlantic coast village
Village                                                               olctrMfication
Electrification
27. 2008-CO:                    309      1982      EEE8          100%   GuavIo (1 x 200 MW hydro)
Guavia Hydra
Power
28. 2401-CO:                    170      1984      FEN           100%   Power developmentfinance
Powor Develop.
ment Finance
28.2      1984      FEN           100%   Power development finance
(Cofinancing)
29. 2449-CO:                  164.5      1984      EPM            51%   Rlo Grande Hydro
Rio Grando                                                            (3 x 100 MW hydro)
Multipurpose
30. 2834-CO:                    171      1986      EEE8           44%   Bogota OIstribution If
Bogota DIstrtbu-
tion 11
31. 2889-CO:                    300      1 98e   GOVERN-          75%   Power Sector Adjustment
Power Sector                                    MENT
Adjustment



- 17 -
2  Proiget Timetabl,
D &te            Date
Item                         Planned          Actual
San Carlos I (Loan 1582-CQ}
Identitication                                                           08/76
Preparatlon                                                              01/77
Appralsal MIssion                                                        04/77
Post-Appraisal Mission                                                   09/77
Loan Nogotiatlons                                                     04/04/78
Board Approval                                                        05/30/78
Loan Signature                                                        07/14/78
Loan Effectiveness                                      09/78         04/05/79
Project CompletIon                                   06/30/83            02/84
Loan Closing                                         06/30/84         06/30/86
Son Carlos IL (Loan 1725-CO)
Identification                                                           05/78
Preparation                                                              10/78
Appralsal Mission                                                        11/78
Post-Appraisal Mission                                                   01/79
Loan Negotiatlons                                                     06/12/79
Board Approval                                                        06/12/79
Loan Signature                                                         11/30/79
Loan Effectiveness                                      10/79          06/19/81
Project Completion                                      06/84            12/87
Loan Closing                                            06/85         06/30/88



- 18 -
3. Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (Loan 1582-CO)
(In million of US$)
Bank Fiscal Year     Estimated       Actual       Actual as % of
and Semester       Cumulative    Cumulative       Estimated
1978-1979
December31, 1978          11.8           0.0                0%
June 30.1979              23.4           7.0               30%
1979-1980
December31, 1979          35.0          12.6               36%
June 30, 1980             54.8          18.5               34%
1980-1981
December31, 1980          74.6          24.9               33%
June 30, 1981             85.4          33.6               39%
1981 -1982
D)ecember 31, 1981        96.7          46.2               48%
June 30, 1982            106.5          58.2               55%
1982-1983
December31, 1982         115.5          74.4               64%
June 30, 1983            123.9          90.4               73%
1983-1984
December31, 1983         126.0         105.3               84%
June30,1984              126.0         107.6               85%
1984-1985
December 31, 1984        126.0         120.2               95%
June30,1985              126.0         121.1               96%
1985-1986
December 31, 1985        126.0         123.5               98%
June30,1986              126.0         125.3               99%
1988-1987
December 31, 1986        126.0         125.7              100%
June 30,1987             126.0         126.0              100%
1987-1988
December 31, 1987        126.0         126.0              100%
Date of Final Disbursement            2/26/87



- 19 -
3. Loop D!us!mmnts
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (Loan 1725-CO)
(in million of US$)
Bank Fiscal Year    Estimated       Actual       Actual as % of
and Semester       Cumulative    Cumulative       Estimated
1979-1980
December 31, 1979          2.4           0.0               0%
June 30, 1980              4.6           0.0               0%
1980-1981
December31, 1980           8.2           0.0               0%
June 30, 1981             13.9           0.0               0%
1981-1982
December31, 1981          26.3           1.4               5%
June 30,1982              50.4           4.8               10%
1982-1983
December 31, 1982         60.6          16.1              27%
June 30, 1983             66.9          27.7              41%
1983-1984
December 31, 1983         69.8          31.8              45%
June 30.1984              71.5          40.3              56%
1984-1985
December 31, 1984         72.0          58.2              81%
June 30,1985              72.0          61.2              85%
1985-1986
December31, 1985          72.0          62.1              86%
June 30. 1986             72.0          62.1              86%
1986-1987
December 31,1988          72.0          63.4              88%
June 30,1987              72.0          66.8              93%
1987-1988
December 31,1987          72.0          67.0              93%
June 30, 1988             72.0          68.3              95%
1988-199
December31, 1988          72.0          71.7             100%
Jurn30, 1988              72.0          72.0  1/          100%
Date of Final Disbursemont             5/5/89
I/ US$ 28,083.41 was canceled because of misprocurement



- 20 -
4. Allocaon of Loan Proco,ds On USS
Original           Actual
Cateoorv                                            Allocation       Disbursements
LgM  I  C
(1)  CMI works for Part B of tho Project                    54,500,000        75,942.413
(2)  MIscellaneous mechanical and electric
equipment for Part A, B and C of the Project           14,500,000          7,737,170
(3)  CMI works and erectlon services for Parts 
D and E of the Project                                  2,000,000                0
(4)  Equipment and materila for Part E of th
Project, and control and communhatione'
equipment for Part D and E of the Project              16,800.000         22,819,035
(5) Consultant's services (Including laboratory
and other equipment, and vehicls thereftor)             1,500,000         4,624,382
(6) Interest and other charges on tho loan
accrued on or before March 14,1983                     24,100,000         14,877,000
(7)  Unallocated                                            12,600,000                0
TOTAL                                             126.000,000       126,000,000
Loan 1725-CO
(1)  Equipment and materials (ncluding services
for their Installatlon) for Parts A and B
(excluding turbines and atemators for Part
A of the Project) and equipment and
materdals for Part C                                   40,900,000         42,081.605
(2)  CIV; works for Part B of the Prolect                    5,400,000        12,264,258
(3)  Civil works and erectlon services for Part
C of the Project                                       11,500,000         3,600,000
(4)  Consultants' services (ncluding equipment
and vehicls therefor) and training                      6,500,000          9,669,245
(5)  Surwys and drilling (Parts B and C of the
Projec                                                   600,000           1,039,322
(6)  Unallocated                                             7,100,000                0
(7)  CMI works for Part A of the Project                                       3,319,486
72,000,000        71,973,916 I/
1/ US$ 26,083.41 was canceled because of misprocurement



- 21 -
5. Planned and Actual Comoletion Dates of ComRonents
Page t o1 2
Appralasd                Actual        Months of    Comments
Prolect Components                   Completion              Completlon        Delay
San Carlos Power Station
Effectiveness of the Loan
1 582-CO                                         Sep-78                 Apr-79
1725-CO                                          Oct-79                 Jun-81             20
Access
Completion evacuation                             Jun-79                 Jun-79              0
Road relocalization                               Jun-80                     NA            NA
Procurement
Underground works
Call for bids                                    Jun-77                  Jun-77
Award of contract                                Apr-78                  Apr-78
Acceptance option 2nd tunnel                     Aug-79                 Aug-79
Dam
Call for bids                                    Jun-77                  Jun-77
Award of contract                                 Apr-78                 Jul-78
Power station equipment
Call for bids                                    Dec-77
Award of contract                                Sep-78                  Nov-78             2
Transmission lines
San Carlos - Guatape
Call for bids (equipment)                       Sep-78                 Dec-79             15
Award of contract (equipment)                   Feb-79                  Jul-80            17
Call for bids (erection)                        Mar-79                 Nov-80             20
Award of contract (erection)                    Aug-79                 Mar-81             19
San Carlos - Bogota
Call for bids (equipment)                       Aug-78                 Dec-79             1 6
Award of contract (equipment)                   Dec-79                  Jul-80             7
Cail for bids (erection)                        May-80                 Nov-80              8
Award of contract (erection)                    Oct-80                 Mar-81              5
Eameralda - Yumbo
Call for bids (equipment)                       Jun-80                 Sep-81             15 Include 200 MVAR
of capacitors.
Award of contract (equipment)                   Jan-81                 Mar-82             14 Additional purchases
completed 9/87
Call for bids (erection)                        Jun-81                     NA            NA Additional works
completed by 9/87.
Award of contract (erection)                    Oec-81                 May-84             29 Additonal equipment
delivered by 12/85



- 22 -
Page 2 of 2
Appraisal                 Actual        Months of
Prolect Components                    ComD1ltion               Completion        Delay
Proiect Execution
Dam completion (1582-CO)                            Apr-82                 Dec-83             20
First tunnel. caverns completion (t582-CO)          Jul182                  Nov-83             16
Second tunnel completion                           Jun-83                   Jul-88              4
Flrst penstock completion (1582-CO)                 Jul-82                  Oct-83            52
Second penstock completion (1582-CO)               Jun-83                   Jun.86
Filling reseivoir (1582-CO)                         Jul-82                 Dec-83
Transmission
San Calos - Guatape Una (I 582-CO)                Dec-80                   Jan-82            -11
San Carlos - Bogota Line (t582-CO)                Jun-82                   Jul-83             13
San Carlo - Medellin                              Jun-83                   Nov-O5
Esmeraida - Yumbo                                 Jun-83                  May-84
Generation                                                                                     0
Units  - 4 (1 582-CO)                             Jun-83                  May-84 I /          I I
Units 5 - 8 (I 725-CO)                            Jun-84                  Dec-87 I /         43
Studies
Losses
Terms of reference to IBRO                         Jul-78                     NA             NA
Invite proposals                                  Aug-78                      NA             NA
Award contract                                     Oct-78                     NA             NA
Discuss proposals with IBRD                       Jun-79                      NA             NA
Dlspatch
Terms of reference to IBRD                         Jul-79                  Jul-79              0
Engagement of consultants                         Dec-79                  May-80               5
Completion                                        Dec-81                  Dec-88              81
Training
Engage consultant                                 Dec-79                      NA             NA
Program to ISRO                                   Jun-80                      NA             NA
Completion                                        Jun-83                      NA             NA
Calderas Power Station
Access
Land acquisition                                  Dec-80                  Dec-81              12
Access road completon                             Dec-80                   Apr-82             18
Procurement
Call for bids ctvil works                         Nov-79                   Feb-81             15
Award of civil works contract                      Jul-80                  Jul-8t             12
Call for main equipment bids                      Jan-80                  Aug-81              19
Award of main equipment contracts                 Nov-80                  Aug-82              21
Execution
Underground work                                   Jul-83                 Sep-87             51
Clvil works power station                         Dec-82                  May-88             29
Plant cornmissIoning                              Sep-83                   Apr-88             58
It Refered to the last unit



- 23 -
6. Prolect Coafs and Financing (USS million)
Page 1 of 2
ARpralsal and Actual Prolect Costs (Loan 1 582-CO)
SAR                                ACTUAL
LOCaa   E,Qao      Total             L2, Al  F2otn      Th
Enainoerlna. Studies and
Administration                  27.8      2.4      30.2              47.1       1.5     48.6
Power Station CMI Works
Infrastructure                  24.1       0.7     24.8               21.9      0.3      22.2
Access tunnel                    4.3       3.3   -  7.6                27       2.0       4.6
Punchina dam                    37.3      48.8     86.0               50.3     28.9      79.2
Underground works               44.9      57,0    101.8              112.0     83.9    195.9
Subtotal                     110.5    109.8    220.2               186.9    115.1    301.9
Mechanical Eauloment
Dam                              2.2       3.4      5.7                2.1      2.5       4.7
Penstock                         0.4       9.3      9.7                                   0.0
Turbines                         2.2      21.8     24.1                1.6     15.4      17.0
Other                            3.0       4.6      7.6                0.0      0.0       0.0
Subtotal                       7.8      392      47.0                3.7      17.9     21.6
Eletical Fguiment
Generators                       1.9      16.6     18.5                0.9     14.4      15.2
Transformers                     0.6       5.3      5.9                0.3      2.4       2.7
Other                            2.8       8.8     11.5                5.3      2.6       7.9
Subtotal                       5.2      307      35.9                6.4     19.4      25.7
Transmission
Unes                             7.8      17.5     25.3               14.6      8.2      22.9
Substations                      1.3       2.7      4.0                4.1     14.0      18.1
Control building                 2.2       0.0      2.2                2.3      2.6       4.8
CommunicatIons                   0.6       1.6      2.1                0.0      0.0       0.0
Subtotal                      11.9      21.8     33.7               21.0     24.8      45.8
Total Project Cost            1         2          L
Financial Charges                                54.1                                  40.1
Total Invostment                               .4Z                                    483
Prolect Financina
IBRFG1 582                                         126.0                                 126.0
I1RF-1725                                                                                  4.2
IBRF-FEN                                                                                  21.3
IDB                                                 70.0                                  60.0
Suppliers                                           40.0                                  24.1
ISA                                                185.3                                 232.8
Commercial Banks (Govemment)                                                              15.4
GRAND TOTAL



- 24 -
e. Prolect Costs and Financina (millons of U8SI
Pag 2 ot 2
Aaaralsal and Actual Prolect Costs (Loan 1725-COI
GAR                                    ACTUAL
Local    Foreign    Total               Local    Forolon     Total
A.  POWER STATION SAN CARLOS II
Engineerina and AdminIstrat on         15.1        2.0      17.1                31.3       0.4       31.7
Mechanical Eauioment
Penstock                               0.5        9.8      10.3                 0.5        5.2       5.7
Turbines                               2.2       21.3      23.5                 0.5       11.4      12.0
Other                                  1.2        1.7       2.8                 0.0        0.0      o0.0
6ubtota1                             3.8       32.8  .   36.0                 1.1       16.6      17.7
EloctdcRl Eauloment
Generators                             1.6       18.4      20.0                 1.8       13.2      15.0
Transformer                            0.3        4.1       4.3                 0.1        2.0       2.1
Other                                  2.0        4.0       6.0                 6.5        3.6      10.1
Subtotal                             3.8       26.5      30.3                 8.4       16.6      27.2
Transmisslon
Unea                                   8.4       20.9      29.4                 9.1       20.2 ,    29.2
Substations                            3.4       11.2      14.6                 0.4        7.1       7.5
Subtotai                            11.8       32.2      44.0                 9.5       27.3      36.8
Total Cost-San Carloa II            34.6       93.4     127.9                50.3       63.0     113.3
B.  POWER STATION CAL2OERAS
Enginooerng. Administration             0.9        1.2       2.1                 9.4       0.1        9.5
CMI works                               6.2        6.8      12.0                20.1        6.6      28.7
Equipment                               2.8        6.0       6.9                 3.0        9.0      12.0
Total Cost-Caideras                  9.9       13.1      22.9                32.4       15.7      48.1
C. STUDIES
Dispatch                                0.2        1.8       2.0                 0.0        3.0       3.8
Training                                0.9        2.3       3.2                 0.3        0.7       1.0
Total Cost-Studies                    1.1       4.1       5.2                 0.3        4.5       4.8
Total Project Cost                                      1=  taa 11n3 
Financial Charges                                                                                 i1.3
Total Investment                                       1JiLl
Prolect Financina
IBRF 1/                                                     72.0                                     67.6
IBRF -FEN                                                                                            60.9
Suppilera                                                   30.5                                     20.2
ISA                                                         53.6                                     76.5
Commercial Banks (Govemm*nQ                                                                           6.2
GRANO TOTAL                                             156.1                                    237.6
1/ US$4.2 millon financed civil works Included In the project financed under Loan 1582.CO



7. probd B_MA
Apprlap l     Actual
diato*  . EsUate            Vaklues
1. Comirym   Elect  DltyaDemawd (GW'):
78       18,515        16,164             .                     Electricity Demrand and Sales (GWh)
79*    .18,537         17,845                  40,000
80       20,950        19.448
81       23,053        19,479
02       25,357        21,511
83       28,014        2434                    30, 000 _0
84       30,423        24,&58                                       WAI Depl
85       33,340        25,733
86                     27.548
87                     29,41                   20,0001
88                     30,9732000                           ---
89                     32,349
2. ISA's Energy Sales (GWh)
1978            2,832         3,387                                   amci *td ' VS   -_
1979            3,314         3,676
1980            4,558         4,867                                  .I -
1981.           65294         4,183.                       o                                                     -_
1982           .8,342         57846                            78  79  80   81  82  83  84  85  86  87  88   89
.1984          0. ,595       8,279
185        .   110,502        9,977
teas         ...             10,317
1907                         11,436
1988                         12,555
1989                         13,825



- 26 -
B. Economic Impact
Ahoraisal Estimate             Actual
Jaguas +
San Carlos I +    S.Carlos I +
San Carlos I      San Carlos II      S. Carlos II
-Economic Rate of Return                                                  20.2%
-Rate of Return with benefits
based on tariffs                   7.5%               13.5%              14.5%
Underlyina Assumotions
1.          The actual economic rate of return for the San Carlos I and II
Projects is 20.2%. It has been calculated using economic prices expressed in
U.S. dollars of end-1987 for costs and benefits. End-1987 was the date when the
San Carlos I and II hydropower plant, the major component of the project, was in
full operation.
2.          The costs considered consist of construction costs of the new
facilities and the incremental cost of operating and maintaining the system.
3.          The construction costs include the cost of the San Carlos and
Calderas power plants, and the transmission facilities associated with those
plants. The useful life span of the powerplants was estimated to be fifty years
as a whole.
4.          The incremental costs of operating and maintaining the system were
calculated by estimating the incremental cost of fuel consumption for the power
interconnected system with the project plus the cost of operating and maintaining
the project.
5.          The benefits considered are the value of the additional energy to be
supplied to the consumers. For the period 1984-90, the additional energy to the
consumers attributable to the project was based on actual values of demand,
generation of the project and volume of storage at the beginning and end of the
period. For the period 1991-2003, the energy attributable to the project was
based on simulations of the system generation.   This was calculated as the
difference between the average annual energy to be generated by the project and
the incremental volume of storage of the system till the commissioning of the
next generating plant. Incremental energy was valued using the long-run marginal
cost (LRMC) of power at generation level for the whole Colombian interconected
system, which is about US$0.032 per kWh.
6.          The above eonomic rate of return is not comparable with the rates
estimated at appraisals because at them, costs were calculated using economic
prices while benefits using actual tariffs. The actual rate of return of the San
Carlos I and II Projects calculated as in the appraisals with the actual average
tariff of about US 19.5 cents per kWh at interconnection level, is 14.5%.



- 27 -
COLOMBIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT (LOANS 1582-CO AND I 725-COI
INTERCONEXION ELECTRICA S.A. (1SA)
Rate of Return In Investments 1/
(rhousands of end-1987 US Dollars)
Additlonal                Additonal     LRMC 2/
Investments           O & M         Total       Demand       Cost per       Total         NET
Year         Local       Forelan       Costs         Costs        GWh          GWh          Benefits    BENEFiTS
1978       -20280        -20256                    -40536                                                -40538
1979       -18441       -16479                     -34920                                                -34920
1980       -20547        -20138                    -40685                                                -40685
1981       -21 503       -57766                    -79269                                                -79269
1982       -30309        -56760                    -87069                                                47069
1983       -22030        -56446                    -78476                                                -78476
1984       -13902        -19520        -1571       -34993         1230         31.81        39126         4133
1965        -6623         -5826        -1795       -19044         2748         31.81        87350        68306
1986        -6453         -6929        -1795       -15177         3326         31.81       105800        90623
1987        -2083         -2142        -2693        -6918         4316         31.81       137292       130374
1988         -201        -2527         -3591        -6319         5144         31.81       163631       157312
1989                                   -3591        -3591         5144         31.81       163631       160040
1990                                   -3591        -3591         5144         31.81       163631       160040
1991                                   -3591        -3591         5144         31.81       163631       160040
1992                                   -3591        -3591         5144         31.81       163631       160040
1993                                   -3591        -3591         5144         31.81       163631       160040
1994                                   -3591        -3591         5144         31.81       163631       160040
1995                                   -3591        -3591         5144         31.81       163631       160040
1996                                   -3591        -3591         5144         31.81       163631       160040
1997                                   -3591        -3591         5144         31.81       163631       160040
1998                                   -3591        -3591         5144         31.81       163631       160040
1999                                   -3591        -3591         5144         31.81       163631       160040
2000                                   -3591        -3591         5144         31.81       163631        160040
2001                                   -3591        -3591         5144         31.81       163631       160040
2002                                   -3591        -3591         5144         31.81       163631       160040
2003                                   -3591        -3591         5144         31.81       163631        160040
2004                                   -3591        -3591         5144         31.81       163631       160040
2005                                   -3591        -3591         5144         31.81       163631        160040
2006                                   -3591        -3591         5144         31.81       163631        160040
2007                                   -3591        -3591         5144         31.81       163631        160040
2008                                   -3591        -591          5144         31.81       163631        160040
2009                                   -3591        -3591         5144         31.S1       163631        160040
2010                                   -3591        -3591         5144         31.81       163631       160040
2011                                   -3591        -3591         5144         31.81       163631        160040
2012                                   -591         -3591         5144         31.81       163631       160040
2013                                   -3591        -3591         5144         31.81       163631        160040
2014                                   -3591        -3591         5144         31.81       163631       160040
2015                                   -3591        -3591         5144         31.81       163631        160040
2016                                   -3591        -591          5144         31.81       163631        160040
2017                                   -3591        -3591         5144         31.81       163631        160040
2018                                   -3591        -3591         5144         31.81       163631       160040
2019                                   -3591        -3591         5144         31.81       183631       160040
2020                                   -3591        -3591         5144         31.81       163631       160040
2021                                   -3591        -3591         5144         31.81       163631        160040
2022                                   -3591        -3591         5144         31.81       163631       160040
2023                                   -3591        -3591         5144         31.81       163631        160040
2024                                   -3591        -3591         5144         31.81       163631        160040
2025                                   -3591        -3591         5144         31.81       183631       160040
2026                                   -3591        -3591         5144         31.81       163631       160040
2027                                   -3591        -3591         5144         31.81       163631       160040
2028                                   -m591        -3591         5144         31.81       163631       160040
2029                                   -391         -3591         5144         31.81       163631       160040
2030                                   -3591        -3591         5144         31.81       163631        160040
2031                                   -3591        -3591         5144         31.81       163631       160040
2032                                   -3591        -3591         5144         31.81       163631        160040
2033                                   -3591        -591          5144         31.81       163631       160040
ECONOMIC INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN (EIRR):                                               20.2%
1/ Cost and benefts are expressed In economic prices
2/ Long-Run Marginal Cost



- 28 -
C. Financial Imoact
Appraisal          Actual
Estimate            1985 a/
1.  Financial Rate of Return (%):            9.0           8.1
2. Ratio of Total Receivable to
Total Billings (%)                      16.8          52.6
3.  Debt Service Coverage (Times)           .1.0           0.8
4.  Debt/Equity Ratio                      33/67         54/46
5.  Sector Self-financing Ratio (%)         32.1           1.4
a/ 1985 is the last year of financial projections in the SAR



-29 -
D. Studies
Purpose as
Defined at                     Impact of
Appraisal         Status        Study
San Carlos T!
Study of losses in the         To reduce          Completed   Minimal, due to
systems of ISA and its         energy losses.                  lack of resources
shareholders                                                   allocated to
implementation of
the recommended
program.
San Carlos II:
Study for operating the        To reduce          Completed   Relevant. Now, ISA
interconnected system at       operation costs.                has the knowledge,
least cost, computer                                           tools and staff
programs and training of                                       to plan the system
dispatch personnel.                                            operation at least
cost.
ISA's manpower requirements   To improve          Completed   Relevant. ISA's
and specialized training       planning of                     training programs
for ISA's professional         human resources.                are well planned and
staff.                                                         ISA has very well
trained staff.



- 30 -
(Flle:Covenants)
S. Status of Loan Cogenants
Page I of 3
Section      1582      1725         8rtl Oeserplon                                   Status of Compliance
3.02          x               (b)  ISA to carry out by W30/7O a study of            MeL Final report received on
energy losses                                   on 4/50. Second phase recelved on
x          ISA to employ consultants to cany out:
x     (a)  ISA and shareholders dbspatch functlons          Complied
(Annex 2, Paft 0 (a) (
x     (b)   Olapatch personnel training for ISA and         Compied
sharholders (Annex Z Part D(a)(I)
x    (c)  Study of training requirements for                Compie d
professional peraonnel
3.03          x         x          ISA to ensure that the ProJectb                  Compie d
cwned out wlth due regard to
enilronmental factors
3.04          x         x          ISA to carry out by t2131/80 a plan for          Met on tO183.
the evacuation of the ueas of the
Project
3.00          x                  (c) ISA to prepare quauter progres repots.         CompUled
3.07          x         x          (a) ISA to acquire by 31/12/1960 the land        Compild
and the land rights for the construection
works of the Project
x         x          (b)ISAtoacqulr by31/12/1980theland               Complied
and the land trigts required for the
Project
4.03          x         x          ISA to maintaJn Insurance                        Compled
x               (b)  ISA to Insure Chvr I                             Compfled
4.03                          (a)  ISA to fumish terms of reference of              Met Consultant appointed on June
study of uniform system of accounts and        lo0
methodology to revalue asset of ISA
and huaholders
(b)  ISA to carry out the study rtefrred In           Complied
4.05 (a) by 3/31/80
(c)  ISA to fumIsh draft report refedred In           Complied
4.05 (a) for comments by 3/31/81
(d)  ISA to fumsh to the Bank the lnal                Met In May 1961
report rtefrred in 4.05 (a) by 6/31/81
3.02          x         x          ( to have Its accounts and                       Compied
flnancsl statements for each
fiecal year audited by Independent
auditors.
x                    (N) to fumlh to the 8ank witNn                  They were gonerally timely submrmed
four monmhs after the end of each



- 31 -
Pkoe 2 of 3
Lomne
Secilon      ItI       1725         BId. tOeacrlplon                                 Status of Compliance
5.04          x         X          IA.And shareholders to prepare and               CompRed
turnibh to the Sank by 12V31/79 a
master generatton and transmlslon plan
5.05          x         x    (a)  ISA to prepar by 12/31/0 a baln                   Compiled
devlopment and reforeetaton program
x               (b)  ISA to estabish by 12/31/81 a unit to            Compiled
execute (a)
x              (c)  ISA to provide the unnt referred In (b)           Complied
wlth personnhl. funds and resourose
necesseay
5.06          x         x      J(a)   ) ISA to Inform the Bank any proposal         CompUled
for IncreasIng Its power gqneration by
more than 200 MW
x                    (1) ISA to afford the Bank a                     Compilt
reaaonable opportunity to comment on a
x                    Gi) ISA not to commit any capit                  Compiled
expenditure unless economically and
financially juel ffed
(b)  ISA to obtain concurrance of the Bank            Compiled
for capital expenditures not Included
In (a) that exced 2.5% of the not
current value of ISA's fIx d asats In
operadon
5.06          x         x     (a)  ISA to eatekbish and maintain taritf             Actual rafts of retum were
to generate  * rte of retum of                  8.1% In 1965 and 8.7% In 190.
8%In 1979. 9% In 1980. 11%In 1961
and 9% threatter on the avrage net
current value oat it nx d aset In
opweaon.
(b)  ISA to reiaw the adequacy of ft                 ISA reviewed It and furnIshed It
taMrs during tho flrst two months of            to the Sank.
each quarter and furnlsh a report to
the lank
(c)  ISA will adJust the tarlfs n In the              Tariffs were pertodically adjusted.
coure of the twelvemonth period                 Actual rates of rtum were clos
commencing wlth the quarter It would            to covenanted values.
not earn th rate of retrm eatablehed
In (a)
5.09          x         x          ISA will not Incur any debt unless it           ISA requesd and obtalned Bank approval
not revenues re greaer thn 1.5 tmes             for new debts.
its debt sece
Annex 5        x         x          ISA to urnIsh to the Bank dudng the              Compild, although the report wae
first quarter of each ywar a report on          geneally submitted late.
the revaluaton of aselt of the
preceding yer



- 32 -
Pace 3 ot 3
Loans
SocCon       11s2      1725        BOdt Oecuptlon                                   Status of CompUiance
Shawholderd'
Acr.ment
5.02                   x    (a)   Shareholders to establish and maintain           EES met this covenant. EPM c rate of
tamff. to generate a rate of rotum on          retum wa generally very close to
not rlue assets as follow: EEES. 12%:           the covenantd value. CVCs rates In I908
EPM. 6% In 1979 and 9% thereafte'               and  100 were 6%. COFlELCA met the
CVC 9%; and CORELCA. 5% In 1979 and             covenant till I7, but In t968 and
19tW  6% In ialW. 7% In 192 and 9%              196 Is rates were 3.9% and 6.3%.
thereafter                                      r respectvly.
(b)  Sharholders to reiw the adequacy of             Compilred.
Us tams dudng the first two months
of eah quater and humrth a report
to the Bank
(a)   Shuaholders will adjust tadif n In             Partally compUed.
the course o the twev months perod
commencing with the quarter. It would
would not am tho rts of retum
established In (a)
5.03                   x           Each shareholder will pay to ISA:
(a)  by 2131/79. deprecIaton chages                  Compild, but very much latr
accumulated to 12131/7                          than covenanted.
(b)  all othor amounts payable. aty days             Not met Accounts receivable amounted to
atWr the day of the bIllngs                     86.5% In 1967.
5.09                    x          Shaeholders to prepare by 12/31/79 a            Met
dIstrbution maser plan
5.10                    x          19 Shareholders to prepare by 12/31/79          Met
atautS study
( 8hareholders to discuss by 3/31/80            Met
with the Bank and the GOernmemnt
conclusdons of the tudy In 
Guarartte
Acreement
3.02                    x    (b)  The Govemment to take all acions                 Tarff ll set by Govemment
to ene shaholders                               have boen Insufficient to mwt
perform obligations under the                  the boane covnants.
shareolder's agreement
3.03                    x          Govenmment to take actions.                     Concession of Import Oconses
Including granting Import                       were generally delayed.
llcnses to ensure timely
procurement for the Project



9. Uso of Bank Resources
A. STAFF INPUT (Loan 1582-CO)
(Staff Weeks)
Bank FY            1974-76    1977      1978      1979      1980      1981     1982      1983    1984-86    Total
Preparamon                       21.8      17.9                                                                           39.7
Appralsal                                  12.2      22.4                                                                 34.6
Negotations                                          36.1                                                                 36.1
Supervision                                           0.3      10.1      11.0       6.2      9.9       4.2      11.2      52.8
Total                21.8      30.2      S8.8      10.1      11.0       6.2       9.9       4.2      11.2    163.3
A. STAFF INPUT (Loan 1725-CO}
(Staff Weeks)
Bank FY             1978      1979      1980      1981      1982      1983     1984      1985    1986-88    Total
Preparation                       2.0      25.5                                                                           27.4
Appraisa                                   14.7                                                                           14.7
Negotiations                               24.4                                                                           24.4
Supervision                                 0.6       9.6       6.4      14.1     12.8       6.2       2.0      20.6      72.4
Total                 2.0      65.2       9.6       6.4      14.1      12.8       6.2       2.0     20.6    138.9



- 34 -
B. MISSION DATA (Loan 15S82-CO)
Staff    Perfor-
Month/    No. of    No. of    Weeks    mance    Type of
Type of Misslon                 year     Weeks  Persons 3/  In Field   RatIng 1/ Problems 2,
Preparation                       02/74     1    1PE, I FA      2
Preparatlon                       09/74     1    1 PE            1
Preparatlon                       11/75     1    1 fA            1
Preparation                       05/76     1    1 PE, 1 F      2
Preparation                       08/76     1    1 PE            I
Preparation                       01/77    2      1 LO, I EC    3
Preparation                       03/77     1    1 FA            I
Appraisal                         05/77     3     1 PE. 1 FA.    7
1 LO
Appraisal                         08/77     3     1 PE, 1 FA,    7
1 LO
Post-Appraisal                    09/77     2     1 fA, I LO     3
Supervision I                     05/78     1    1 PE            1         1
Supervision II                    09/78     1    1 E             1
Supervision III                   05/79     1    1 PE            1         1
Supervision IV                    10t79     1     I E            1
Supervision V                     07/80    1.5    1 PE          1.5        2         F
Supervision VI                    10/81     1    2 PE           2          1         F
Supervision Vii                   11/81     1    1 FA            1         3         F
Supervision VIII                  05/82     1    1 PE            1         3         F
Supervision IX                    11/82     1    1 PE            1                   F
Supervision X                     10/83     1    1 PE            1         2        F, T
Supervision Xi                    05/84     1    1 PE            1         2         F
Supervision XII                   03/85     1    1 PE            I                   F
Supervision Xil                  10/85     1    1 PE, 2 fA     3          2         F
Supervision XIV                   09/86     1    1 PE, 1 fA     2          2         F
Supervision XV                    11/87     1    1 PE, 1 fA     2          2         F
Total                                              48.5
1/ 1  Problem-free or minor problems; 2 - Moderate problems; and 3 - Major problems.
2/ F  Financial; T - Technical.
3/ PE - Power Engineer; fA - Financial Analyst; E - Economist; LO = Loan Officer



- 35 -
B. MISSION DATA (Loan 1725-CO)
Staff    Pertor-
Month/    No. of     No. of    Weeks    mance    Type of
Type of Mission                  year     Weeks  Persons 3/  In Field   Rating 1/ Problems 2,
Preparation                        05/78     1     IPE            I
Preparation                        10/78     2     1 PE, 1 FA     4
Appraisal                          01/79     2     1 FA. 1 PE     4
Supervision I                      09/79    0.5    1 PE          0.5
Supervision II                     07/80    1.5    1 PE          1.5         2          F
Supervision III                    10/81     1    2 PE            2          2          F
Supervision IV                     11/81     1     1 FA           1          i          F
Supervision V                      05/82     1     1 PE           1          3          F
Supervision VI                     07/82    0.5    1 T           0.5
Supervision VII                    11/82     1     1 PE           1                     F
Supervision Vil                   10/83     1     1 PE           1          2        F. T
Supervision IX                     05/84     1     1 PE           1          2          F
Supervision X                      03/85     1     1 PE           1                     F
Supervision Xl                     10/85     1     IPE. 2 FA      3          2          F
Supervision XII                    09/88     1     1 PE 1 FA      2          2          F
Supervision Xil                   11/87     1     1 PE,  FA      2          2          F
Total                                               26.5
-/ 1 - Problem-free or minor problems; 2 - Moderate problems; and 3 - Major problems.
2/ F - Financial; T - Technical.
3/ PE = Power Engineer; FA = Financial Analyst; E = Economist; T = Training Specialist



INTEPCONEXION EEECTlRCA SAS MM
PROJECT COLFOEbON REPORT   ANS 1617?25-CO)
Compwilbn   Foeat nd Actal Incone Stemet (1S76-196e
(mUon of cuwe  Col S)
-73--9- 160-1961- -1182-  -1063- -1964--99--1 s   17 lwm  19
3M      Ad"       3M      AcM9      SAR         alo1    3AR    A-*-W     MR    AC"        "a               i DM     Au       A"-    -c-.   :O-,
Enefo  so  (WhN                    3314      3636    4558    4e87       5204    4163    6348    6646    6627    5770    o8             0278   10502    6617   10317   11436   1256    13026
Avsoe TuU ot kWh
inlColombmnn pos                  0.614    0.607    o.es     0.746    0.572    1.070    0.we    134    1.0103    I.-2    1.373    2.364    1.430    2.784    3.135   3A667        06    0.480
OD 4OAN PRIM
Sal  aenug                        2036    2206    290         3630    4614    4613    0336    7017    968    106156   13073    18572   16016   2772   32344    4117?  66a3                 567
CoaWbtUon  It                      413      461      461       GM5      500      702               640               437    -          115   -
TouOPWepr                         2448    2667    34e0       4195    6114    6306    6336    676?    85s5    11355   13173   19867   16016   27772   32344   41617   6363   eeb07
00n*nk_on                          104       139      119      168      234      430      335    1156       456    1400      613    2336       S01      10S     1022    262    4444        7476
Trenesion                           74      120        84      163       6s      219       87      206      107      169      120     323       133     317      510      671    1213      1663
lheuconnectlo                         0        0        0        0       67        0       70        0       el        0       el       46      100       as      112     133      102       e7
Dprecataln                         571      671      661       727     1166      072     1514     1323    2278    2094    3253    3517    3644    4945    6746    683            12920    17174
ANHgldZSaaufded b                                     10asaft  66  106  166               187               176               203               1to
Enwgppurclaaedfrom  he,shokdm       64      326      376      867       461    1001       570    2024         0    262          0    4348        0        o6     252     4136    9264    10032    W
GBe sl admini_lUa                                                                                                                                               1202    1865    2113    2510    e
Owe                                                                               37                                                                     671     a"4    1068    138        1940
TOtMl peUo co"                     678     1166     1340    206       2242    265       27"      4711     3102    0736    4260    10673    4780    3765   13037   19736   31471   4076
eDWo _O kwome                      1570      150     2120    2130    272    2646          3540    4046    6456    4e20   a6            8114   10252    13667   16507   22021   3482   4670
Non-opermlkghhcof                    a      122        0      514         0    1371         0     1184        0      136       0      420        0    -2477    -011 10o   6707   -17206
T6Wlw th,come                        0      122        0      514        0    1371         0    164          0      1G        0      429        0    -2477    .011      l1o    4707   -17200
INoheebefor        hs kimmo1570             1631    2120    2644    2072    4017    3540    6840    6450    46111    a8               0543    10262   11510   17588    22201   2613        31680
Toml_km                            1296     1222      1761    1706    2267    2916    3006    4052    3841   6513            6156     66    6612    11605    17274   19084   22540   32301
LOW khuhtaUogcOnshucon              640       517     1147    1034      1227    2111    1862    2587    2146    3637    2560    404            4524    6025    7442   s5o6         2155     3080
"MM chargOd to income               422       705      417      674      803      607      027     U40f    1714   162    2580         348,    2380    6477    032    13466   206s5  26701
_Werm oaIgoFOL2/                    230                197               156               117                78                 0                 0
NotkSicofg                          812      926     1607     1070      1612    3210    2467    4446        4666    3214    am        664      764    6033    7764    6713    7630    2666
.---------.-   ....    ....    ....    ....    ....    ....-  *.--*--.--   ....    .. ..    ....    ....    ....       ....    ....    ....       ....    ....
_  _  .          _.           ..                   ..                        ....S
It ShmholdW co_tbet  tor h  us. dOUm hUerconneciln S1tem. ThIB coFitbulon Was lmthetd wiLh Om comnelokng dlSSn Cation.
25 atlaron tOh Fonda de Dssobo Loans, wlic would be ralbursd by the shw hokdm.l
00



fFMCT  O NR                       M S   0172tO
C06vglll dFa.t   m  ad AI A    .w So6r56 and Appka_m OtFuncs (17is3
- t11- -am-- -im,---- -tins--- t                                   -M--- -am---- - M--- 1Ja  tVW  ti 
Qffl ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A 1 geCl                                                                 A -   t a- 91W9Mt1   
Ngblcaa. b.tm kIbin                1570    la"       2120    2044      2a72    4017      354      044    646        4616    am        OM    IO         11510    1756   ami   20165   31m
WpmcOMW4dnot5l.6                   607       571      756      72m     1342      672     1711     la23    2440    Ia         3457     31?    3a4        40       6745    am        A       17174
03n .h.puu.                           0       20        0       54        0       71        0       at        0      us         0       67        0     4873    1s15 s    353    a3s        4047
Gross kUmrmImah0m.Von             2007        z     am0    34s         4214     50eo    5201      7344     0415     7e06    124     13147   144   2132    2I           34742   44444   ioso
A4MO Mi                             404     5Bs       7        751     15       1132     1751    2104      245      4a:4    4373    dm         G4M     10406    12070   _ D          11 a17734
kmd aa,pdtk1ma.                    422       705      417      614      Ia       207      s7      1465     1714     13       2WO    3640   2Ia          0477     aM      13404   2         20101
TOM                                426     1240      1206    1425    2110    low         210      206      4165    6416    4670   10471               24a    2202   400?    50-    146485
Niekaluah gmmb_on                  121       6        167     20    2105    3125    20543    3a             47a47     Ia   s3n6    2aw6    474e    -2055    3454    4205   -1W    46
cedm1       a mmbm*                 110      156      2457    2407    3m         4410    57am      3172     7424    424       a42      4216   13761      4011     1w       3146            117064
TldsoMlil_1Mn  aug7                          253      4013    4497      5405     755               es5   12171    41         14404     am      laMi       4                -2146   44"M    24m
fli    m                             03to    31te     am       4164     7        704  1e 6 11eu    uG 40    146              21Ia   2I42    20727    2           1447    ste4    27n    407
E%f
GOV.  aWtmm  5041_03s0)           2089      751      21t0     tet       54      1715      543     120    3161       1at4    3002    1445        am       233      201        0        0        0                       w
oa. emdOn (S         )             ses      sts      two    1106       266      mm20     3072    am        604      am       6431    3a34    mm0        2374    34a4      3156      543        0 o 
Toalqli                           344      uin       04      3146     2444      4eat    4515    3040    616         43D0   10120     4747   10413    2a07       374s    3156       543        0
06NW, mOmm                             0                 0      734        o        0        0     6513        0      749        0       m         0      an       12D    low       4144   2ths
TOTAL. 6OUFS                    11a4     e114    13042   12044    1S6 1        O4     24461    2MM      M5a     2s    48          34444   677#   aa2o   2s            116    76617   14as
o_mm6sn                            7547     am5       6419 n     52  M  "3m1     m       2010     16715   203e       1201    35431    1401    40716    11155      a4       4a        370    2774
_04161050                          a          641     2123       06      64      tin       543    1349    31a6       146      3a92    1651       Ws    1497        a0m    3465    134 13t IB
Wtai    _tsw  mpb                    aes      171      610      356     5se       770    5G0        m        7eo      35      low       457    1247       417      370      353    to3       17s5
T1      U  pgaJu ltn p,wgmn     em                 II44    111-G    10160    14342   15301    21041    loin    ;;6-0   17142    4314    170D65   62072    130W0   107    730    147t61   20a4
k1 Omuaa O.Uian                     651      517      1142     1034     1212    2111        n      25e7    2141    Ia?         W2      464      455      5n       7442    5am       2105    3560
Ta    owrwkiI7eet                  t2  72          1W2a     11i2     14    17412   2377         21540   34131   20719  4s750   22DIa         5I       1015    112 l2a1            16W7    24034
FOE La=sAmoIdmUUI                    IN                1es              1i0                177               404                 0                 0
_.66                           206                167               156               117               7ye                 a 
4as        0      me0        0      ass        0      204        0     aa          0        0o       o        0o       O                O        0 
h      in        m8a6              2IB        47       344      134      272      421      424    *1452       a      1134      471    6m         304      123    2       .O 1050   .1W20    tB
06w 6.04010                           0        7        0        0        0       25        0     354         0      6 10       0     142         0    06        214    20U    5=0   40461
ok6b4a                               0      GM          0     1174        0     1o01        0     M21               aom o,      0     3s76        0     43a   5465    s010         4517  t207
oSur                                  0      149        a     462         0      450        0      142        0      117        0     1007        0    4212    .32    7la    1077   54157                        P1
-~~~                           -                                                                                                                                       OQ P3
Tom  ~OPUOatmU                       0      Ia         0      Ia2        0  o    6         0     am          0   0             0o    -a          0    14372    7407    1sa1    aIM3  101405            tD X
x
TOTAL AFCATIONS                    114       6114    13042    104      161402    OM      24461    20046      .6       Ia    4e0   3a4         574       3ma      26a    1154   7617  142420
........... ..... ..... ..... ..... ........-.. ..... .....0..... ..... .......... ..... .......... .....



W1TUMMOO ELEcrRCA SA& O-
PPQCC COLETLO PEORM WA^NS ISM172&Mo
Ccnpwmauit c ~Formc1 and A08jM Bbnom ShMWf (1976I969
(mUown d cuwt Col S)
1979-          1            -161-  -I                        --- -196 4-- -195--    1966  1967  196  1
am      AWA                         M9 AduI         SafR btACl   SS           ac&              Ac        SAR  8AM        A!    t     ~     A         C
Win.  dms.                       21449   2325   34275   2937   45397   406(6   71932   6869  111226   9166  124751  153476  177640  235657  29005   4z2813  622427  801820
AiJnubftdd.uck6w                   1641    2075    2734    3430    4234    5396         23      7632    95    11421   13582   17316   160:4   243   39315   5811   62   131634
Natmdshn                          1360    21156   31541   2 7   41165   35109   6 4   52007  101960    0477  111169  136182  1606  20934  250739  383602  632636  666908
w  inpragr                        158X2   14507   24866   30379   37412   82508   4560   74881   56026   6677  109994   60602  14545    70367   96778   715 MI7              3478   5156
Tc1i Oda,W                      86601   85665   563s   56346   78578 57             111253  126686  156010  167154  221163  216984  304265  279761  349617  440117  5s7711  721566
kItfl -to                            0        14       0       14       a       3e        0    336         0    369          0    5431        0   11073   13778   15620    5969  136488
Cash                              348      720      68      1260      713    a67       971      848    1486      463    2077    2296    2203    3967         84    1644    a2    5940
AooM ftc.          O( W m.)    409    1106         578    2029      854    2582    1o6w    2960    1596    625    2200   13300    2516   14816   22250   36176   4860   81845
Aec. Ro.h4s (oaWbiwls)            463    1065       738    1667      934    51ia      1433    5794   1I61    am73    2370   12560    3561   12231   16135   25960   48861   70613
hwhI89dS                          320      115      410      176     472      339      774      s2W    1169      703    13a3       776    139    1091    1419    1619    2238    2621
Olhw                               247      761     261    1262       315    1189      363    2853       39a    2966      442    2501       498    4765   10733    1713    4697    5457
To7l clwwtaus                    1767    3779    2544    9a9        326s   10041    4s89   12796    GM    16452    8452   31465   10246   36689   54121   67334  106006  1S678 
aohgsat.                           1891     66o    1547       795    1544    1408    1925    3031    2229    2272    266           227    8666    7462    7821   11697   27965    29211
TOTAL ASEl                       41750   40116   60e29   83745   63408   09s91   117797  146103  166536  189776  232503  256487  318397  338020  425037  835816   766663 1077548
E        AI UAEUTIES
Equ6y
Co69 am      w2                           a02  6721   10213   13805   154e2   22236   22667   29010   33081   35470   44817   46000   60663    S2           c360e    64811  120054  256199
Sneh                             3101              4406             66m2             11475            18375             26669            43448
Gov.wnmw cmniiogw                2402      s25    4528    2911    5073    4e25    5616    566    67             7270   12469    6758   13375   12957   13706   16S62   17405   17406
PRss.a6o  swp&m                 13950   14863   16326   2007   25676   36177   34681   6O80    47e67   6777   65487   85432   91279   75319   71103   64945  154742  224671
ToW equ6y                       25469   24382   36472   39423   53074   63036   74806   6969   107920  110497  181532  140185  206992  143322  145169  166616  262201  486475
LmIr4mm d    Wa)                 15021   12929   20606   16126   2BX0    27206   38s6s    36651   54500   56325   75109   66036  102145  166334  237270  296124  347741  407568
Lou: cuffl mamalSs                 769              120S             1781              2454             4373       e      a4s              9722
Not Wng4.m dew                   14232   12929   19300   18125   25426   27206   37434   39661   50127   56325   66225   66036   92422  168354  237270  256124  347741  407583
Pat"                                 0       37        0       60       0       so        0      145       0      345        0      432              5e3      743    1106    1454    1836
CukmgWmu~                         769        0    1206         0    1781        0    2454         0    4373        0    6948         0    9722        0        0       0        0        0
AccowMpaaMloc5 684                         804    1126    1531    1425    2541    2103    3879    3069    3179    4173    2937    5131    252    2D75    2546    2812    4013
AcoupapiS (wgp                     11      124       63      253      77      437       so    1101        0    1301         0    3848        0    3s99       560    1917    2121    6772
ODkMd l. k9uInaagm                  0      537        0    1121        0    1784         0    1694        0    2072         0    3802              3a26    5461    8632    4874    3758
p uPsRIm                         1e       454      247       n2     379    11ie       82    1367       748    2044    12E0    3371    1751        D001    11569   16902   2484    19131
Oal    _ cudruW hbfln              1Bs       6s    -215      489      241    1253      270    3719       303    5488      339    95a9      360    4782   15574   40041   663   124251
TO06 cauTult hbrAm               2028    2005    26ss    4066    3904    7213    5455   115S0    6480   14082   12748   22967    16963   2360   3269   65836  115048  156932
Olhw 11bU _                          0      615        0    2053        0    1632         0    494         0    5W8          0    4857              5447       64    5981   10207   10G19                  A 
_   -   --    -        -       -      -                      -             -                   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D MD
TOTALEOLNIY AND UBIJLTM          41780   40118   6o02s   6374a   63406 o      9166  117797  146103  166536  1697    232502  256487  313897  338026  425035  538167  766662 107847                             X
...  -. ..... .....   .... -.....                                      .....                        -................................. ..... -..W.
0



INTERCONMOON ELECTWICA BA. OSM
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT ILOANS i5awin726-C
Compazion of Foecast andAcua Key Puformanca Indiators (1978-156)
-1s79--- -1960-- -1961- -1962- -1963-- --194--  - t6--   9   1967 1t 1to9
"       AJN       "Q  hR   Acul     W       ctuM  l         ACO       SR      Actual   BAR    Act        WA      AcW     Aci       cW       cW b
Enrgy saim                        3314    3636    4566    46?7   1204    413    6349             648    8827    5770    8585    6m        10602    977   10317   11436   12S68   13626
Recsimblmatoop.lncof "i  1/t       18.7    41.6    16.7    46.4    16.7    48.7    16.7    34.0    16.7    53.0    16.7             7.6    16.6    52.e      G.s    66.6       6s.    O1A
MM onstecoverag(Ulnes)2            2.67     1.60    2.39     2.40     2.00     2.61     1.94    2.01     2.14     1.11    1.77     1.20     1.61     0.6     1.15    O.7      0.78     0.36
OVddM+*quRya io 31                 0.37    0.35     0.3a     0.31     0.36     0.30    0.35     0.31     0.34     0.35    0.33     0.30     0.33    o0.4     0.62     0.64     0.54    0.45
8eW-findMgrauo 3                   27.4    32.0    31.7   3a.6    33.4    37.6    33s           26.7    34.6    1D.       32.0    20.0    32.1        1.4    16.7   -16.0    67.4    1eJ
PAtsofl ftn(%)41                    SO      6.1      9.0      9.2    11.0       6.7      9.0     0.3      9.0      7.0     9.0      a.4      7.6     6.1      6.0      72       7J      t.1
If Fato of Accounrt Pacaivbl on nrgy mals to Total 81gn.
2/ RPao f Gross nenal Cash Gsrsatlon to Tota Debt Bswlcs (xckudlng aN MeC). Thm dmflnltlon dls trom as on- used hI thm SAR ha only excludEd IOC fnanced by Nam.
3 It wee not possble to deermhAw the method wued to calculao thl rauo In tta SAR. Ne In has been estimatsd wIth dilb otmuta and only th numertor b shown.
31 RIo ON Not Intmm  Cashi Gadnsoon pu isu ehokld  ' contutlons (othw  tha  tose fince by the Gowmmntq                                                                                           '
to Totil Apppc,&kmw.
4/ PAWto of Opeathg Income to Awago Rewmd Net Fxed Assets hi SBvc.
0
Mi 



-40-                                          Annex 2
COLOMBIA
INTERCONEXION ELECTRICA SA. (ISAI
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SAN CARL08 I AND 11 HYDRO PROJECTS (LOANS 1582-CO AND 1725-CO)
Balance of Accounts Receivable at year-end
(million of ColS)
. .......-1984.1------------------ .......9 87.--------------  ---------------19 89-----------------
Total     Cummulative      Total     Cummulative       Total     Cummulative
Billing      Aneara        Bliling      Arrears        Billing      Arrears
For Enerav Sales to:
EEB                                     2389           424         16619        13763         34882         25728
EPM                                      534            24          1755             2         4123            28
ovc                                     36o0          3082          6007         4429          9940          6327
ICEL                                    5698          4072          9133         5582         23961         17013
CORELCA                                 1091           613          2662          1031         8843          6147
CHB                                                      0                           0            96            0
CH EC                                                    0                           0                          0
Sub-Total                             13300         8215         36176         24807         81845         55243
For Capital Contributions and other from:
EEB                                     3048          2780          4357         3262         12593          9087
EPM                                        0             0            62            17         6947          6910
cvc                                     2699          2565          2296             0         16471        15396
ICEL                                    6333          5888          0s6e         8414          18209        16372
CORELCA                                  298           272           627           530        16592         15721
CHB                                                      0                           0
CHEC                                                     0                           0
Sub-Total                             12576         11485        16408         12223         70812         634s8
TOTAL
EEB                                     5417          3184         20976        17025         47475         34815
EPM                                      534            24          1817            19        11070          8938
cvc                                     6507          5647          8303         4429         26411         21723
ICEL                                   12031          9960         18199        13996         42170         33385
CORELCA                                 1387           885          3289          1561        25435         21888
CHB                                        0             0             0             0            96            0
CHEC                                       0             0             0             0             0            0
TOTAL                                 25876         19700        52584         37030        152857        118729
==Wwm        ==m           --  == s        --- m=       mm=_  ---w    *_---
Total (In US$ million)                  227           173          199           140           352           274
Exchange Ra1e (year-end)               113.89                      263.7                      433.92
1/: Total billing for energy sals and capital contrIbution committed, for that year respectively.



PFOECT CgT Ff pRrK
SAN CAes I AIND HVOeRD     PPOJEa ILOANS 1882.CAN l725
Areul Ueiv of Pehrtromm
-10o -13                             -181-              -1982--           -198 - 1            16 --1965--                          198       1917     13       13
-AN      A~       Bam      Dl        BA       A-'       SAR  - A-          Sam      MW       SAR      A5        SAR      A00      AC*      AM       A,       AC
EnwW  _SU  (1*i)l a19                    171      429      3.9       4.75     383       m27      4.18     824      4.18      849      4.       7.21     4.8       420      514      5.44      G8
SsU*anc p (1Q 21              4.6D      8OD      386D     47.0    8280       24.00    112.0D   30.oo    1.20    26.OD    121.D0   28.O0    231.40    32.00    4&00    84.00
Debt SeA= caa 0,")            &3.        2.00     2.90     2.90      11O      ao       3.o       2.00     3.5D      1.80     1eo      1.90     19       2.        1.m      1.41     1.10     0.9
Debt  _c cvuag bctod
kweW,uo in IA Woe) 4/         1.0      1.3      1.70      1.50     1.80      1.30     1.50     1.80     1.70      1.50     1.        6 1.60   18       2.00      .62     1.40
RXd of (m9)                    970       6.8     t10o     540    20O.9      10.40    20.20    I.es.30   1.0      14.80    17.9      13.20    20.20     190      14.30    14.00    12.10    13.o
Losem                                  15.50              1MOD              1tesD              19.50              2Z20               2500              24.40    24.70    38.o      24A0     22.3
Emg baSW  (W) 1/               1Z       3o        ae87     3.81      37       370      4.33     3.09      4.70     4.14     5.08      4.32     n48      4.49     4.3       529      8L48     784
g.*UlgWAD (1Q2 )                .60    50oo 0     7.0D    80oo     801o    81.00    75.00    4100        74ao    30oo   420o0        10OO   010.90       . 200o    10.00    1lo.
Debt muvlcsa wae WA" 51        z.0       2.10     Z40      2.10      2.0      z2o      Zo0       1.90     1.70     1.90     11o       1.60     4.10     2.00      130      1.50     1.13    o02
Odet owvi  apm"  WAka
hweI 'nIS_A (dlmee41          1.40     210       1.80     1.90     1.70      1.80     10       18.0     1.10      1.80     2.00     1.30     210       1.70     120      1.50
P** offawn                     92D      730      11.10     7.00     13.90     0.90    11.90      7.8D    11.90    1020      15.20     8.o    18.70     11.30     11.14    13A2      9.30     7.20
ame (9) 7/                             20.30              2n10               20.00             21.30              20.50              21.80             2240    21.81    19.10    20.0       13.70
E30g93   (MWb) 1/              2.a8     2.5      z28       2.61      30       ze.7     131      2.9       aeo      2.90     asD       3        440  425  140      420      4.0      4.38     4.e9     t
SoU*3ltoog aa)2/              2529    15oo       41.40   e6eo       8.30    77.80    10500    70.30   2f0D         7.00   140.00      6.00   188        -.52     0.20     -1.10
DM oSuwlcaraUM"e) 1            1.W       1.8o     1.8O     1.70      2.10      22      2.40      270      2.70     1.10     3.O       1.10     4.0      0.70      0.90     0.70     048      0.48     1
DaMII-_egckf
hkwaml* in ISA fws) 4/        1.00     1.20     1.20      1.20     1.30     o.e       1.30     1.40     1.40      0.e0     1.70     O0       1.6D      0.60     0.o6     020
PAU of fawn ()                  8.0     7.60     12.0      7.40     1S35O     8.o      1320     10.8o    12.50     5zo      90oo      9.60    1120    12.10    12.50    12.30       &51      6.42
Lmu-es (  7                            14.20              14.30              14.10              14.40             1.10               1.50              15.10    17.60    19.40    2.o80    21.0
EnuW son(  I1t                 1.60      1.55     Z14      1.64     2e4       203    U14         - 252    3.9      3.30     4.40      3.64     614      3.2      aea       444      4.49     4.5
S     b49ma1   U reN (%Q2/   .17.00     -4.30    -14.00    458o    -0.80    -178A0    .0.0    aa20       21.70    .1.70    35.90    4270      en.0    .21.40    419.10    4i680
OebtsM08eusmOM")8              060      0.70      0.70     040        70      0.80     1.00     0.60      1.10     Q0.8     1.20      0.80     1.60       0       .60      0.8 0.e  001      080
Otsvmwme hg
h_we    t inMA (le)6/         129      1.70     120       1.10     1.30     130       1.30     1.30     1.10      220      1.10     0.70     1.20      o.0      070      0O.
Raft of 6ai (9                  00      4.30      5.0      2.80      0oo      220      7.00     520       9.00      .70     9.00     720       9.00     e.00     R90       .10      5ss       .3
tLa""() 7/                             00.80              2270               22.20             23.0               23.20              22.50             2.00    22.70    2370    23.60    22.30
Lases ("  7/                           19o8               210                19.30             21.30              2200              233                23.40    2.80    24.10    2430    23O0
1/S19 h b0WlSq_1.
U       f by _I   la (g_  ha #n  A dsbypp9l  (eS he                                  b ISA).
3/ui unou _cash g_a sq nflan (apembu klw,e     dpecmn nblcreseeto  ev. fi  by ddbt sm   nIofket durwing cUUon
4/Guamlmn - Ch ghwian d    by: debt iesC (tnht ci bliredurlcOnsSUccOla
baecd by Mrb) pMv=Wsnub in SA                                                                                                                                                                      >
51 Graas bbI  millhguneOml  (op
71TI7ISIOld          dOll lOt_ oct    by n4tpply W  ougPO l pPle wt8                                                                                                                                X
to Oe b88rcnud ssym); _ tphiint awt oxckusee   Low



- 42 -
Annex 4
COLOMBIA
INTERCONEXION rKLECTRICA SA. (ISA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SAN CARLOS PROJECT (LOANS 1582-CO ANO 1725-CO)
Sector Installed Capacity (MW)
Year of
Commis-
As of December 31. 1977                   shoning    Hydro    Thermal    Total
EEEB                                                     583        138       719
EPM                                                      729         0        729
CVC-CHIDRAL                                              540         58       598
ICEL - CHEC                                              363       203        we
CORELCA                                                    0       440        440
ISA                                                      500         0        500
TotalasofDecember31.1977                               2715       837       3552
Plant Additlons
EEEB
-Mesltas                                     198e        200                 200
-Meeltas                                     1987        400                 400
EPM
-Guatape 11                                   1979       280                 280
-Ayura                                        1983        16                  16
-Guadalupe IV                                 1985       213                 213
-Playas                                       1987       200                 200
CVC - CHIDRAL
*Salvajlna                                    1985       270                 270
ICEL - CHEC
-Barranca III                                1978                   55        55
-Iraula                                       1979        18                  18
-Palpa III                                   1982                   75        75
-Palenque V                                  1982                   22        22
-Barranca IV                                  1983                  32        32
-TasaJero                                    1985                  150       150
CORELCA
-BaliOnas                                    1978                   31        31
-Termo-Barranqulila                          1980                  142       142
-Termo-CartaJena III                         1980                   71        71
-Termo-Guaelra I                             1983                  16O       16o
-Ballenas                                    1984                   31        31
-Termo-Guajlra II                            1987                  170       170
ISA
-Termozipa IV                                1981                   68        so
-Turbogas-Chinu                              1982                  133       133
-Chivor 11                                   1982        800                 500
-San Carlo I                                 1984        620                 020
-TermozIpa V                                  1985                  s6        66
-San Carlos II                               1987        820                 620
-Jaguas                                       1987       170                 170
-Calderas                                     1987        18                  18
ICEL-ISA
-Betanla                                     1987        500                 500
Total Plants AdditIons 1978468                         4025      1204      5229
Total Installed Capacity                               6740      2041      8781



