Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2239-CO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
INTERCONEXION ELECTRICA, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR A
SAN CARLOS I HYDRO POWER PROJECT
May 17, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Average Calendar 1977         March 31, 1978
Currency Unit  =  Peso - Col$                      Col $
US$1           =  Col$36.985                        38.42
Col$1          =  US$0.027                          0.002603
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                 -  3.281 feet (ft)
1 square kilometer (kn2)    -  0.386 square mile (mi2)
1 cubic meter (m3)          =  35.315 cubic feet (ft2)
=  264.2 gallon (gal)
1 kilogram (kg)             =  2.206 pounds (lb)
1 ton (t; metric; 1,000 kg) =  1.100 short tons (sh. tons)
1 kilowatt (kW')            -  1,000 Watts (103 W)
1 Megawatt (HI)              -  1,000 kW (103 kW = 106 W)
1 Gigawatt (GI)             =  1,000 MW (106 kW = 1o9 w)
1 kilowatt-hour (kWh)        =  1,000 Watt-hours (103 Wh)
-  830.3 Kilocalories (kcal)
1 Gigawatt-hour (GWh)       =  1,000,000 kWh (106 kWh)
1 Terawatt-hour (TWh)        = 1,000 GWh  (109 kWh)
1 kilovolt (kV)             =  1,000 Volts (V)
1 kilovolt ampere (kVA)     =  1,000 Volt amperes (103 VA)
1 Megavolt ampere (MVA)     =  1,000 kVA  (106 VA)
1 Megavolt ampere reac-     =  1 Megavolt ampere reactive
tive (MVAr)                     power (COS 0 = 900)
1 kilocalorie (kcal)        =  3.968 British thermal units (Btu)
1 Hertz (Hz)                =  1 cycle/second
..per  ...                   =    ... /...
...per second; ...per hour  -  .../s;  .../h
...per day; ...per year     =  .../d;  .../a
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CHEC      = Central Hidroelectrica de Caldas
CHIDRAL   =  Central Hidroelectrica del Rio Anchicava S.A.
CORELCA   -  Corporacion Electrica de la Costa Atlantica
CVC       =  Corporacion Autonoma Regional de el Valle del Rio Cauca
DNP       =  National Planning Department
EEEB      =  Empresa de Energia Electrica de Bogota
EPM       =  Empresas Publicas de Medellin
GDP       =  Gross Domestic Product
ICEL      =  Instituto Colombiano de Energia Electrica
IDB       -  Inter-American Development Bank
ISA       =  Interconexion Electrica S.A.
JNT       '  Junta Nacional de Tarifas de Servicios Publicos
KfW       m Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



voa oTXIAL USE ONLY
Page 1 of 3
COLOMBIA
SAN CARLOS I HYDRO POWER PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Interconexion Electrica, S.A. (ISA)
Guarantor:            The Republic of Colombia
Amount:               US$126 million equivalent
Terms:                Repayment in 17 years, including 4 years of grace;
interest at 7.5% per annum.
Project
Description:        The project forms part of ISA's 1978-82 expansion
program and would provide part of the additional power
capacity required in the early eighties. It includes
(a) construction of a 70 meter high earth dam on the
Guatape River, inlet and discharge tunnels, and an
underground power station with four generating units, as
well as related transmission facilities; (b) consultant
services for engineering, civil works and supervision;
and (c) a study of power losses to ascertain their
nature, size and occurrence as a basis for recommending a
program to minimize them. Once completed, the San Carlos
I station would be the largest power generating facility
within the integrated system, with an installed capacity
of 620 MW. The second phase, to be constructed at a
future date, would permit installation of an additional
930 MW. The project would continue the Bank's institution
building efforts in the sector started in 1950. In
particular, it would strengthen centralized planning, as
well as the management and operations of two of ISA's
shareholders. The project is subject to the risks
normally associated with large civil works in difficult
terrain. Project implementation may be delayed if ISA
and its shareholders fail to generate sufficient funds
through timely rate increases. The Government and the
shareholders' commitment to providing the necessary
financial resources should ensure that the project will
be carried out as scheduled.
This docueint ha a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page 2 of 3
Estimated Cost:                                   Local       Foreign       Total
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Engineering and Study       15.0          1.7         16.7
Civil Works                 59.7         76.5        136.2
Electrical Equipment         2.8         21.4         24.2
Mechanical Equipment         4.2         27.3         31.5
Transmission System          6.4         15.2         21.6
Base Cost             88.1        142.1        230.2
Physical Contingencies       8.1         14.8        22.9
Price Contingencies         67.1         47.0        114.1
Total Project Cost       163.3       203.9        367.2
Interest and Other
Charges during
Construction                 -           54.1        54.1
Total Funds Required   163.3         258.0        421.3
NOTE:  During the period 1978-82, ISA will carry out
other works with an estimated cost of US$1,883.1 million
equivalent and will require an increase in working
capital of US$51.8 million.
Financing Plan:                                         Local    Foreign    Total
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Net Internal Cash Generation
and Shareholder Bond
and Equity Contributions          163.3       22.0      185.3
Proposed IBRD Loan                  -        126.0      126.0
IDB Loan (already approved)         -         70.0       70.0
Suppliers' Credits             .    _-        40.0       40.0
Total                        163.3      258.0     421.3
Rate of Return:       Using revenues, at 1976 tariff levels, multiplied by the
standard Colombian consumption factor as a proxy for
benefits, the return on investment is 7.5%. While
indicating the low level of 1976 tariffs, the return does
not reflect the economic worth of the project. The exis-
tence of a consumer surplus in electricity justifies the
use of a higher consumption factor which, combined with
tariff increases ranging from 25-35% (increases to be
effected by ISA's shareholders are in this range), would



Page 3 of 3
increase the return on investment to the estimated
opportunity cost of capital in Colombia, 11%, on the
basis of revenues alone. The entry into operation of the
San Carlos I project would obviate the power deficits
in the interconnected system otherwise projected for 1983
and 1984. Although the San Carlos I project would not
remove the projected deficits in critical hydrological
periods, it would make the system more manageable. The
impact of the project on Colombia's development process
would be considerable as it would add 3,700 GWh of
hydropower to the system. According to the overall
distribution of consumption, 42% of the power generated
would be for the residential sector and 35% for industry.
Appraisal Report:    Report No. 1850a-CO, dated May 17, 1978.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
INTERCONEXION ELECTRICA, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR A
SAN CARLOS I HYDRO POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed loan
to the Interconexion Electrica, S. A. (ISA), with the guarantee of the Republic
of Colombia, for the equivalent of US$126.0 million to help finance the San
Carlos I Hydro Power Projetct. The loan would have a term of 17 years, includ-
ing four years of grace, with interest at 7.5% per annum. The Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) has already approved a loan of US$70.0 million equiv-
alent to ISA, for a term of 20 years, including 5-1/2 years of grace, at
interest of 8% per annum, and commission of 1-1/4%, to finance part of the
cost of the project.
PART I: THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The latest economic report on Colombia (1548-CO) was distributed
to the Executive Directora in May 1977. It assesses current developments and
provides a medium-term perspective of the Colombian economy. An updating
report is being prepared and is scheduled for distribution to the Executive
Directors in August 1978. Country data sheets are provided in Annex 1.
Background
3.        During the past two decades substantial structural transformation
has taken place in the Colombian economy. The country has made impressive
progress in the transition from a predominantly rural and agricultural
economy made up of largely self-contained regions to a more integrated urban
industrial economy oriented increasingly toward international trade. This
broadening of the country's productive base has been accompanied by rapid
growth of nontraditional exports and development of a modern sector which
relies to a considerable extent on imported inputs. From 1967 to 1974 GDP
rose by an average of 6.5% per annum in real terms, well above the historical
average of less than 5% (1950-67). Accelerated economic growth coupled with
a decline in population growth brought about a rapid increase in per capita
incomes. Increased investment and relaxation of the foreign exchange con-
straint were the major factors responsible for this acceleration in growth.
Merchandise exports expanded more than four-fold during this period, and,
most significantly, nontraditional exports became an increasingly important
source of foreign exchange earnings, in large part compensating for the slow
1/   Substantially unchanged from President's Report, Second Cali Water
Supply and Sewerage Project (Report No. P-2169-CO).



- 2 -
growth of receipts from coffee exports. Much of this increase in non-
rlitional exports was the result of both product and market diversifica-
tion attributable to the Government's export promotion program. Substantial
medium- and long-term capital inflows to the public and private sectors for
development projects helped sustain investment levels and enabled Colombia
to maintain the favorable structure of its external debt. However, despite
the substantial progress made during the past two decades, Colombia still
has a long way to go on the road toward modernization; it still is
essentially an underdeveloped country with a limited modern sector super-
imposed on a broad, traditional and poor base.
4.        When the present Government took office in August 1974, the country
was faced with a generally deteriorating economic situation--weakening balance
of payments, loss of self-sufficiency in petroleum production, accelerating
inflation, deterioration of the public finances, and reduced public invest-
ment. GDP growth showed signs of slowing and unemployment was increasing,
especially in the urban areas, reaching a peak of 13% in 1974. As a con-
sequence, the new administration moved rapidly to introduce an economic
stabilization program along with a set of reforms aimed at restoring the basis
for long-term economic growth. In line with these goals, it initiated basic
reforms of the fiscal, monetary and price systems.
5.        To help strengthen the public finances, the new Government undertook
a comprehensive tax reform designed to achieve a substantial improvement in
the progressivity and elasticity of the tax system. Steps were also taken to
correct major distortions which existed in the price system. Price controls
on a number of important agricultural products were removed, thereby providing
greater stimulus for increasing farm production. Far-reaching modifications
in petroleum pricing policy aimed at regaining self-sufficiency in production
of crude petroleum by improving incentives for exploration and exploitation
were introduced. Concurrently, measures were taken to reduce the subsidy on
local consumption of petroleum products, with the dollar equivalent price of
gasoline being raised in successive steps by 150% between August 1975 to
January 1977.
6.        Economic growth slowed in 1975 and 1976, with real GDP increasing
by less than 5% in both years. This was the result of the stabilization
measures adopted at the end of 1974, the effects of the world recession,
reduced private investment, and, in 1976, a poor harvest stemming from adverse
weather conditions. The stabilization program succeeded in reducing inflation
from 27% in 1974 to 18% in 1975, but the expansionary impact of rising inter-
national reserves caused by higher coffee prices and shortages of basic food
items produced an acceleration of inflation to 26% in 1976. Private invest-
ment declined in real terms during this period as a consequence of attempts to
stabilize the economy through tighter fiscal and monetary measures. Public
sector revenues and savings were strengthened as a result of the tax reform
and of increased revenue from coffee export taxes. The balance of payments
improved substantially in 1976, mainly as a result of an increasing trade
surplus caused by higher world coffee prices. Consequently Colombia's
net international reserves rose by nearly threefold, from US$437 million
in 1974 to US$1,166 million in 1976.



- 3-
Recent Economic Performance
7.        Growth and employment picked up significantly in 1977, largely
as a result of increased iinternal demand generated by the income effects of
exceptionally high export receipts from coffee. GDP is estimated to have
increased by 5.4%. This higher level of growth was distributed evenly over
all sectors of the economy except non-coffee agriculture which was affected
by the continuation of the severe drought which began in the second half of
1976. High world coffee prices during 1977 produced a record trade surplus
and the balance of paymenits registered an overall surplus for the year of
US$686 million. By year enld, Colombia's net international reserves stood at
US$1,852 million, equivalent to seven months' imports, the highest level in
the country's history. Increased export receipts from coffee contributed to
a further strengthening of public finances over that which had occurred in
1975-76. Increased receipts from taxes on coffee exports caused a substantial
increase in the current surplus of the Central Government, more than off-
setting unexpected slower growth in some of the country's other major taxes.
8.        Expansion of coffee earnings combined with the shortages of basic
food items led to an unprecedented acceleration of inflation during the
first half of 1977. For the twelve month period ending in June 1977 infla-
tion reached 45%. In an attempt to reduce inflationary pressure the Govern-
ment introduced a number of fiscal and monetary measures aimed at curbing
growth of coffee producers disposable income, at further strengthening public
finances and at slowing the growth of the monetary aggregates. Legal reserve
requirements were increased, limits were placed on external borrowing, and
Central Bank rediscounts were reduced. The coffee retention tax rate was
doubled from 23% to 46%, and the system of delayed payments to coffee pro-
ducers was used to further limit growth of coffee producers' disposable in-
come. In order to increase aggregate supply and stem the rapid accumulation
of foreign exchange reserves, import duties were reduced and the import
licensing system was liberalized. In an effort to curb upward pressure on
prices, the authorities temporarily discontinued their policy of periodic
adjustments in the foreign exchange rate and in prices of petroleum products.
The last two measures were only a temporary expedient to break the infla-
tionary spiral. From July 1977, the Government has resumed periodic ex-
change rate adjustments aLnd in January 1978 increased the price of gasoline
by 20%. The Government intends to continue to pursue policies that maintain
Colombia's international competitiveness and that help regain petroleum
self-sufficiency (paragraph 25).
9.        Another conflict between short-term and long-term objectives exists
in the Government's interest rate policies. To avoid cost push effects,
nominal interest rates were frozen during the period of accelerating inflation
and real interest rates cleclined rapidly and became sharply negative. As a
consequence there was a growing unwillingness on the part of the public to
hold medium- and long-term financial assets, and investment funds had to be
increasingly allocated by cumbersome administrative controls. The problem
has become less serious as inflation has abated, but will require further
attention by the Government.



- 4 -
10.       The stabilization measures taken earlier in the year, the gradual
decline of world coffee prices from June 1977 on, and the availability of more
ample agricultural supplies on the domestic market resulting from both im-
proved weather and increased imports, produced a dramatic slowdown in infla-
tion in the second half of 1977. For the full year 1977, inflation was re-
duced to 29%. Further declines in the rate of inflation are expected this
year as the Government maintains tight fiscal and monetary policies.
Additionally, declines in international coffee prices and rapid increases
in imports are expected to further reduce inflationary pressures from the ex-
ternal sector. Prospects for this year's agricultural output appear good, and
the Government is prepared to increase food imports substantially if needed.
Development Strategy and Prospects
11.       The Government's development strategy, embodied in the 1975-78
development plan, aims at creating the conditions necessary for substantially
increasing employment opportunities, particularly for the poorest segments of
the population. It provides incentives for private sector investment in the
least developed areas of the country and for the use of more labor intensive
production techniques. Public sector investment specified in the Plan concen-
trates on expanding and improving infrastructure and on socially oriented
projects designed to alleviate rural and urban poverty. This includes compre-
hensive integrated rural development and nutrition programs which directly
benefit the lowest income groups of the population. Because of the importance
of commercial agriculture in generating employment and expanding exports,
Colombia's development plan assigns a high priority to providing farmers
with credit and technical services required to increase output. In order
to alleviate urban poverty, the Plan places emphasis on reducing migration
to the cities by increasing employment in agriculture and through provision
of improved services in slums of Colombia's major cities. These efforts
are being complemented by policies and programs to encourage the development
of small- and medium-scale enterprises and to decentralize industry away
from the three largest cities. Special priority is given to the development
of domestic energy sources to reduce the country's growing dependence on
imported oil.
12.       In the past three years substantial progress has been made in
carrying out this strategy despite the economic dislocations occasioned by the
world recession and the need to concentrate on short-term economic management.
Most of the Government's development efforts during this period have focussed
on improving the standard of living of the poorest 50% of the population, with
a substantial share of the benefits of public sector expenditures accruing to
this segment of the population. Provision of improved social services has
been a major objective of the current administration. This is reflected in
the increase in expenditures on education, health, water and sewerage, which
rose from 33% of total expenditures in 1974 to 37% in 1976. Preliminary
estimates show an even higher share spent on such programs in 1977.
13.       Projections of Colombia's energy balance indicate an expanding
deficit which could reach significant proportions by the early 1980s. To
avoid the constraint on growth that shortages of energy would entail, the
Government is giving high priority to the development of alternative energy



- 5 -
sources. Major projects are being developed to expand hydroelectric power
generation and incentives are being provided private companies for accele-
rated exploration and exploitation of the country's hydrocarbon potential.
Coal and natural gas are expected to provide an increasing contribution to
the country's energy needs in the future. An energy development program,
which would nearly triple power generation by 1986, has been drawn up by
the Government, with estimated investment requirements of between US$6.0 and
US$8.0 billion in constant 1976 prices. Given the long gestation periods
of power projects, their execution must be initiated without delay if energy
constraints on future growth are to be avoided.
14.       The Government is making a major effort to accelerate growth of the
agricultural and industrial sectors. In the past, Colombia has been largely
self-sufficient in basic foodstuffs. However, an increasing food deficit is
projected for the years ahead in the absence of major advances in food pro-
duction. The Government is attempting to meet these needs through integrated
rural development programs directed towards small farmers, through expanded
farm credit, research, ext:ension and marketing facilities and through improved
farm management practices, including farm investment planning. Industry has
been singled out as the leading growth sector for the future and the Government
has adopted exchange rate, fiscal incentive, credit allocation, and locational
policies intended to assure that the sector fulfills its role as a major con-
tributor to employment growth and exports.
15.       Based on its strong resource base and its high level of international
reserves, Colombia should be able to sustain annual real growth of no less than
6% over the period 1978-82. Private sector investment is expected to recover
as inflation subsides and fiscal and monetary policies are eased. Public
sector investment is expected to increase as restraints on such spending are
lifted and major energy projects enter the execution stage.  Non-inflationary
increases in public sector investment spending depends to a large degree on
continuing Government efforts to maintain high levels of public sector savings.
In this regard, timely and adequate adjustments of tariffs on public services
is especially important, and the Government has already gone a long way in
the adoption of such policies.
16.       Less buoyant terms of trade as world coffee prices decline from
the high 1977 level and rapidly increasing imports to meet the requirements
of expanding investment are expected to lead to a renewed widening of the
resource balance beginning in 1978. Assuming that economic growth accele-
rates in the industrialized countries and that appropriate incentives--
particularly continuation of periodic exchange rate adjustments--are provided,
nontraditional exports should resume the high rate of growth achieved in the
early 1970s. Colombia iEI projected to require gross capital inflows of about
US$3.7 billion during the five year period 1978-82, of which US$340 million
should be disbursed from commitments made through the end of 1976. This
inflow would enable Colombia to maintain an adequate level of foreign ex-
change reserves during the period. A significant increase in capital require-
ments is expected in the early 1980s when major additional projects in the
energy sector will have to be initiated. To achieve these targets, annual



-6-
gross capital inflow will have to increase from US$600 million in 1976 to
,-_r US$1.0 billion in 1982. While about half of Colombia's capital inflow
is expected to be provided by official multilateral and bilateral sources,
financing from commercial sources is expected to become increasingly important
during the period as Colombia gains greater access to international capital
markets.
17.       Colombia's public external debt repayable in foreign currency
amounted to US$3.3 billion at the end of 1976, or about US$2.4 billion
excluding undisbursed commitments. The Bank/IDA share of this external
debt was 28.5% and is expected to decline to about 25% by 1982. Although
the public debt service ratio fell during the past two years as export
growth accelerated, this ratio is projected to increase from 9.5% in
1976 to about 11% by 1982. Balance of payments prospects beyond 1980 will
depend among other factors on the timely development of domestic energy
sources and on progress made in executing several natural resource-based
export oriented projects currently under preparation. As a developing country,
it is normal to expect Colombia to be a net capital importer, i.e. to have a
deficit in its balance of payments on current account. However, to avoid an
excessive growth in this deficit over the next few years, careful management
of internal demand will be required. Given such management, it should be
possible to prevent the external sector from again becoming a constraint
on economic growth, and to maintain Colombia's present creditworthiness
for external borrowing of substantial amounts on conventional terms.
PART II: WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
18.       The proposed loan, the 72nd to be made to Colombia, would bring the
total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$1,713.2 million (net of cancella-
tions). Of this amount, US$1,170.3 million is now held by the Bank; IDA made
one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in Colombia in 1961. Disbursements
have been completed on 46 loans and the IDA credit. IFC has made effective
investments and underwriting commitments of US$53.7 million in 24 enterprises
and now holds US$28.1 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans and the IDA credit as of March 31, 1978, and IFC investments as of
March 31, 1978. The Annex also contains summaries on the execution of the
23 on-going projects.
19.       Since FY68, Bank lending in Colombia has become more diversified
and has been concentrated on production-oriented programs and activities which
carried social as well as economic benefits. Eight of the eleven agricultural
loans have been made since then, seven of the ten loans for industry, all
three loans in the education sector and all six loans for water supply and
sewerage. This compares with only seven loans since FY68 in the power and
transport sectors.



20.       Bank lending to Colombia in FY77 consisted of loans for rural develop-
ment, agricultural credit, telecommunications, highways and small-scale industry,
totalling US$281 million equivalent. In addition to the proposed project, the
FY78 program includes the recently approved loans for nutrition improvement,
water and sewerage and urban development, and a proposed loan for power inter-
connection (being considered simultaneously). Work is also under way in
development finance companies, further urban development, water supply and
slum improvement, transportation, mining, power, including rural electrifi-
cation, and small farm development for possible consideration by the Executive
Directors during the next two years.
21.       The proposed Bank lending conforms closely with the Government's
development strategy. To help Colombia develop domestic sources of energy, a
substantial part of the proposed lending would be for hydro-power. The Bank
would also assist the devealopment of coal mines, which hold potential in
helping Colombia meet partL of its energy requirements. Bank involvement in
the energy sector would help mobilize additional external financing as some
of the projects would require co-financing. Other future loans would finance
agriculture and industry ito assist the Government in its efforts to raise
overall productivity, income and employment and to strengthen and diversify
exports. Closely related to these objectives would be the proposed Bank
lending for transport infrastructure in more backward areas of the country to
integrate them into the modern economy. In this context, we are proceeding
with a project to improve domestic.airports. Finally, we are preparing a
relatively large number of loans in support of the Government's efforts to
help the lowest 50% of thie Colombian population. The nutrition project, the
proposed urban development and slum improvement project, and the proposed
water supply and sewerage projects are principally designed to improve the
poor's standard of living.
22.       The operations of external lenders in Colombia are shown in Annex I.
While IBRD, IDB, and AID provided about 75% of total external financing to
Colombia in the 1961-72 period, their share has decreased since then to
approximately 40%. Like the Bank, IDB and AID have given increased emphasis
to social projects. For instance, the IDB has assisted projects in low cost
housing, urban and rural development, agrarian reform, university education,
water supply, and land erosion control; in the future IDB proposes to assist
Colombia in its plans to develop sources of domestic energy and to expand the
activity of the productive sectors to help generate increased employment. AID
has supported programs in education, urban development and small farm develop-
ment. More recently, it has moved to small project loans aimed chiefly at
improving the distribution of income. It is expected to phase out its aid
program in Colombia in 1979 with the commitment of a US$6 million nutrition
loan.
PART III: THE ENERGY SECTOR AND POWER REQUIREMENTS
Energy Resources and Requirements
23.       Colombia is endowed with substantial primary energy resources
(hydropower, natural gas, petroleum and coal), the most promising of which is



- 8 -
hydropower, estimated at a potential 100 GW, of which only 2.3% have been
developed to date. Coal resources have been little explored, but reserves
are estimated to range from 20-40 billion metric tons, at which level they
would be the largest in Latin America. A recent discovery of natural gas in
the Guajira Peninsula, amounting to 3.5 trillion cubic feet, has brought
proven reserves to a level well above 5 trillion cubic feet. On the other
hand, because of insufficient exploration, known reserves of crude oil have
fallen and are estimated to amount to less than nine years of 1976 output.
However, only one of Colombia's nine sedimentary basins (the Magdalena River
Valley) has been explored on a systematic basis, although the state oil company,
ECOPETROL, in association with foreign oil companies, is now exploring other
basins. Additionally, investigation of nuclear, geo-thermal and solar energy
is underway.
24.       Since 1965, output of primary energy has lagged behind overall
economic growth, mainly because of declining crude oil output. By 1975,
production of crude (321 trillion Btu) had fallen to 78% of 1965 output and
72% of the 1970 level. While over 1965-75 total energy output increased by
3.6%, from 603 trillion Btu to 625 trillion Btu, energy consumption increased
by almost 80%, rising from 271 trillion Btu to 489 trillion Btu.  (Exports and
losses account for the difference between production and consumption figures.)
By 1976, hydrocarbon imports exceeded exports by US$35.6 million equivalent.
Projections of Colombia's energy balance indicate an expanding deficit that
could reach significant proportions in the early 1980s and become a constraint
on economic growth (paragraph 13).
Energy Development Objectives and Strategy
25.       As stated, the Government's objective is to overcome the energy
deficit by developing domestic energy sources and by promoting rational use of
them. To this end, it has adopted several measures. First, it has recast its
hydrocarbon pricing and regulation policy to stimulate output of petroleum,
natural gas and coal. Foreign oil companies have reacted favorably to these
measures and have initiated new explorations. Second, CARBOCOL, a Government
agency established to develop the country's coal resources, has concluded
contracts with various foreign companies to undertake exploration and develop-
ment of several coal fields, particularly the largest, El Cerrejon, in the
Guajira region. Third, considerable substitution of gas for petroleum products
in industry and thermal power generation is being carried out on the Atlantic
Coast. Fourth, a program for expansion of power generation and transmission
facilities to meet forecast demand over the 1977-84 period has been drawn up
(paragraphs 33 and 34). Fifth, the Government has concluded a contract with
the French Minatome Group to explore the country's uranium potential. Lastly,
the Government proposes to charge the full cost of energy to consumers and, in
this way, self-generate an important share of the financial resources required
for investment in the sector.
The Power Market, Service Levels and Institutional Framework
26.       Electric power is the fastest-growing form of energy in Colombia.
Its share of total energy consumption has risen from 19% in 1960 to 24% in



- 9 -
1976. Colombia's installed capacity at the end of 1976 was 3,300 MW, includ-
ing self production; hydro stations account for 68% of total energy generated.
Since 1967, production of electricity has been growing at an annual rate of
10.5%, i.e., one and three-fourths times as fast as than the growth rate of
GDP. Power sales have also been rising rapidly (9.2% per annum since 1972).
Annual per capita electricity consumption stands at 599 kWh. 1/ Households
(42% of the total), industry (35%) and commerce (13%) are the major electricity
users.
27.       About 60% of Colombia's 24.2 million population has electricity.
The urban population, in 1977 estimated to be about 70% of the population, has
greater access to electricity. 2/ In 1976, for example, 85% of households in
large cities (population of 50,000 or more) had electrical service while in
rural towns (population between 50-2,500) the corresponding figure was 36%; in
other rural areas, 16%. With the assistance of external lenders. the Government
is carrying out programs to increase the supply of electricity to rural areas.
28.       The Ministry of Mines and Energy is charged with formulating
national policy for power generation, transmission and distribution. In
defining investment priorities, it shares responsibility with the National
Planning Department (DNP). The Government cannot enforce its policies
directly on the municipally-controlled power companies, but Interconexion
Electrica, S.A. (ISA), a generating and transmission company controlled by
the largest municipal power companies and by the Government-owned national
power companies, provides a mechanism for reaching agreement on major issues
affecting the sector (paragraphs 29 and 51).
29.       The development of Colombia's power sector has been assisted by the
gradual consolidation of isolated facilities into regional systems and the
interconnection of these systems to facilitate development of low-cost hydro
resources. The entities which provide electricity service comprise:
(a) independent municipal companies, of which the largest are
Empresa de Energia Electrica de Bogota (EEEB), Empresas
Publicas de Medellin (EPM) and Empresas Municipales de Cali
(EMCALI);
(b) entities under the National Government, the most important
of which are Corporacion Autonoma Regional del Cauca (CVC),
Corporacion Electrica de la Costa Atlantica (CORELCA), and
Instituto Colombiano de Energia Electrica (ICEL), all of
which have numerous local subsidiaries; and
(c) ISA, the shareholders of which are EEEB, EPM, CVC, CORELCA
and ICEL.
1/    This figure does not take account of losses.
2/    Residents of cities with 2,500 or more inhabitants.



- 10 -
30,       Public utility tariffs are regulated by the Junta Nacional de
-rifas de Servicios Publicos (JNT) in the DNP. JNT, which was established in
the late sixties with Bank support, has the power to approve requests from the
power companies for tariff increases. The power companies, however, are free
to set rates lower than those approved by JNT and have sometimes done so.
Power Development and its Financing
31.       Colombia's power sector has developed rapidly.  Between 1950-1977
installed generating capacity increased by 3,000 MW or thirteenfold. A
substantial part of this expansion was financed with internal cash genera-
tion (in the case of the large municipal companies, about 40% of total capital
outlays) and with contributions from the National Treasury, chiefly to ICEL,
CVC and CORELCA. The Bank and IDB were the main source of foreign financing
for the power sector (US$607 million equivalent combined), although in recent
years suppliers' credits increased their participation. From 1971 onwards,
power rate adjustments lagged behind cost increases and the companies' finances
deteriorated. As a result, construction of new works was delayed and the
operating efficiency of the companies suffered. Particularly affected was the
renovation of subtransmission and distribution networks, resulting in increased
energy losses.
32.       Beginning with 1975, rate adjustments have been accelerated, with
average yearly increases through 1977 marginally exceeding average annual
inflation. Investment outlays have once again increased and in 1975 totalled
US$187.6 million equivalent, i.e., 31% over the preceding year. The Govern-
ment and the major power companies have initiated a program of tariff increases
with the aim of achieving and maintaining satisfactory rates of return on
revalued assets. This should generate an adequate portion of investment funds
for planned expansion (paragraphs 53 and 54). In line with this, average
tariff levels in companies accounting for the bulk of sales in the sector have
been increased by some 37% for 1978, with further increases of 33% already
approved for 1979.
Power Requirements and Proposed Investments
33.       Over 1977-84, power requirements in the interconnected system are
projected to grow at 10.6% per annum, i.e. slightly faster than in the past.
To meet this demand, about 4,300 MW in effective generating capacity would
have to be added to the present system; of this, about 540 MW were completed
in 1977 and 1,500 MW are under construction.
34.       Investments in generation and transmission during 1977-84 are
expected to amount to about Col$250 billion in current prices (about US$5
billion in 1976 prices), some 60% of which would be foreign exchange. This
estimate is based upon the preliminary findings of a power development and
sector study which the Government is carrying out, with assistance from the
Federal Republic of Germany, and which will be presented to the Bank upon
completion. To provide for an orderly expansion of the sector, ISA and the
shareholders have agreed to prepare and present to the Bank no later than
December 31, 1979, a Power Sector Development Master Plan covering the period



- 11 -
1980-90 in detail, and 1991-2000 in more general terms (Section 5.04 of the
Loan Agreement and Section 5.09 of Shareholders' Agreement). Furthermore, the
Government, ISA and the shareholders have agreed that, until the completion of
the proposed project, they will seek Bank consent before starting construction
of any generating facililty in excess of 200 MW in the case of ISA and of 100
MW in the case of the shareholders. To this end, they will submit to the Bank
adequate financial and economic justification for each proposal (Section 5.06
of the Loan Agreement, Section 5.01 of the Shareholders' Agreement and Section
3.02(a) of the Guarantee Agreement).
Bank Participation in the Power Sector
35.       Since 1950, the Bank has made 18 loans to Colombia's power sector,
totalling US$350 million. Sixteen loans have assisted the expansion of
generating capacity in the systems serving Bogota, Medellin, Cali, Cartagena,
Bucaramanga and Manizales. The most recent loan (874-CO, 1973) included
expansion of electricity distribution to low income areas. In addition, the
Bank is currently supporting rural electrification under the Integrated
Rural Development Project (1352-CO, 1977).
36.       ISA has received two Bank loans, totalling US$70.3 million. The
first (575-CO, 1968) was to interconnect the central regional systems and
was completed ahead of schedule at lower-than-estimated cost. Remaining
funds were used to construct an additional transmission line which began
operation in 1976. The second loan (681-CO, 1970) was used to construct
ISA's first generating facility, Chivor I, which came into operation two
years behind schedule in 1977, with a US$86 million cost overrun (for further
details see Annex II, paLge 3).
37.       One of the objectives of Bank assistance has been the strengthening
of power sector institutions and finances. Through the late sixties, Bank
efforts at institutional strengthening were most successful in the cases of
EEEB and EPM. The late sixties also saw the creation of two new institutions,
ISA and JNT, in which the Bank played a critical role. In the case of ISA,
the entity's role in sector planning, coordination and regulation has grown as
a direct consequence of Bank lending, and the company's importance is expected
to grow concommitantly with its share in the sector's total generating capacity.
By the mid-eighties, ISA would have the largest generating capacity in the
sector. Furthermore, under the proposed project its planning and coordinating
role would be strengthened (paragraphs 34 and 52).
38.       Bank attempts to strengthen sector finances have had mixed results,
chiefly because of the Government's reluctance, prior to 1975, to press
for tariff increases under inflationary conditions and the unwillingness of
local authorities to increase rates to compensate for rising costs. However,
the Government, ISA and the shareholders intend to maintain in future tariffs
at an adequate level in order to finance an important share of investments
from internal cash generation and have already taken steps toward this goal
(paragraph 32).



- 12 -
39.       Past Bank lending to Colombia's power sector was reviewed in the
OED report entitled "Bank Operations in Colombia, an Evaluation" (Report
No. Z-18) of May 25, 1972. The report concluded that Bank financing was
successful in assisting the power companies to develop hydroelectric plants
at lower unit cost than they otherwise would have been able to do. In turn,
this permitted greater urban coverage as well as cheaper and more reliable
electricity supply to industry. The report commended Bank efforts in the
establishment of JNT and the central interconnected system which facilitated
further power sector development. Among other things, the report recommended
that in the future the Bank pay increased attention to the companies' finan-
cial planning, tariff structures and energy losses. The proposed project
addresses these points.
PART IV: THE PROJECT
Background and Objectives
40.       The project, prepared by ISA with the assistance of consultants,
forms part of its 1978-82 Power Expansion Program and would provide about 15%
of the planned increase in generation capacity. The project was appraised
by a Bank mission which visited Colombia in March-April 1977. Supplementary
work was undertaken by missions which visited Colombia in August and September
of 1977. Negotiations were held in Washington during the weeks of March 6,
and 13, 1978, with a Colombian delegation led by Messrs. Gabriel Turbay,
Director of Public Credit, and German Jaramillo, General Manager of ISA.
41.       Project objectives are to:  (i) satisfy part of forecast demand at
least cost by utilizing the country's large hydroelectric potential; (ii)
enhance ISA's role as a major planner, coordinator and dispatch agency in the
sector; and (iii) improve long-term sector planning and operating efficiency.
Project Description
42.       The project comprises:  (i) construction of a 70 m high earth dam
(Punchina), inlet and discharge tunnels, and a power station; (ii) engineering
services related to (i); and (iii) a study of losses in the systems of ISA
and its shareholders. Under the project, the Government/ISA would also
carry out the Master Plan mentioned in paragraph 34.
43.       Physical Facilities.  The San Carlos hydroelectric complex, which
will be located about 150 km from Medellin in northwest Colombia, will be
built in two stages (1,550 MW total capacity), the first of which (620 MW) is
included in the proposed project. These facilities constitute the second step
in a series of four interrelated hydro developments, with a total capacity of
approximately 2,500 MW on the rivers Nare, Guatape and Samana, of which the
Guatape developments, financed by Loans 369-CO and 874-CO, are the first step.
The project works consist of:
(a) the Punchina earth dam, with a volume of six million cubic
meters,. on the Guatape River, which will impound a reservoir
with a useful capacity of 50 million cubic meters;



- 13 -
(b) an intake tower and a 4.5 km long pressure tunnel (a second
tunnel would be added at the second stage), and a discharge
tunnel about 1.5 km long;
(c) an underground power station consisting of two caverns with a
volume to be excavated of about 140,000 cubic meters, and
four vertical Pelton turbine generators aggregating 620 MW
(six units of 155 MW will be added at the second stage); and
(d) a control build:Lng, a 230-kV switchyard and 230-kV lines,
totalling about 245 km, together with the related terminal
substations, to connect the station to Guatape and Torca in
the vicinity of Bogota.
44.       Seventy families living in the project area would have to be
relocated by June 30, 1979. (Relocation and readaptation are not expected to
have any serious social repercussions.) An adequate land acquisition and
evacuation program has been drawn up. Satisfactory progress in carrying out
the program would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 8.01(e) of the
Loan Agreement).
45.       Engineering Services.  With Bank agreement, ISA has engaged Integral,
the Colombian consultants who prepared the final design of the proposed hydro
plant, for all phases of project execution. Integral will engage outside
expertise as needed for specialized tasks during construction.
46.       Study of Losses.  A study of power losses in the systems of ISA and
its shareholders would be carried out by ISA through consultants under terms
of reference and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.02(b) of the
Loan Agreement) by June 30, 1979. The study would identify the nature, size
and occurrence of such losses and make recommendations for minimizing them,
including actions to be taken and an implementation schedule.
Costs and Financing
47.       Total project cost is estimated at US$367.2 million equivalent, of
which US$203.9 million equivalent correspond to the foreign exchange compo-
nent. Also required are US$54.1 million equivalent for interest during
construction including US$26.8 million equivalent for interest on the Bank
loan. During project execution (1978-83), ISA plans to carry out other
investments at a cost of US$1,883.1 million equivalent, and will require an
increase in working capital of US$51.8 million equivalent.
48.       The proposed loan of US$126 million would finance 30% of the total
funds required for the project, i.e., 49% of the project's foreign exchange
cost and interest and other charges on the Bank loan during construction (6%
of total cost). Financing of interest during construction is justified in
view of the heavy strain imposed on ISA by its large investment program. The
remaining foreign exchange costs would be financed by a recently approved
US$70 million equivalent loan from the IDB, contributions of US$22 million
equivalent from ISA's shareholders, and US$40 million equivalent from supplier's



- 14 -
credits. Local costs, US$163.3 million equivalent, would be financed by ISA's
ireholders through equity contributions and bond subscriptions.  Retroactive
financing of up to US$200,000 equivalent is proposed for engineering services
paid afC-  January 1, 1977, and of up to US$4 million equivalent for the
downpayment on the underground civil works contract (paragraph 50) which has
recently been signed. The Bank agreed to ISA's awarding the contract in April
1978, in order to avoid one year's delay in project implementation (and
consequent electricity rationing) as a result of the April-November rainy
season (Schedule 1, paragraph 4 of the draft Loan Agreement).
49.       The Bank loan would finance the foreign exchange cost of (a) under-
ground civil works, (b) miscellaneous electrical and mechanical equipment,
(c) mechanical equipment for the dam, (d) transmission lines and substations,
and related control and communication equipment, (e) engineering, (f) consultant
services for the study of losses (about 70 man-months of services would be
required for (e) and (f), at an average base cost of US$7,000 per man-month),
and (g) interest and financial charges on the Bank loan during construction.
IDB will finance the foreign exchange element of (a) the Punchina Dam and some
equipment, (b) foreign consultants to advise ISA on specific technical aspects
of construction, and (c) interest and financial charges on the IDB loan during
construction. Suppliers' credits would cover (a) turbines, (b) generators,
and (c) other equipment. ISA would finance (a) access tunnels (already
underway), (b) financing charges, (c) down payments, (d) price adjustments,
and (e) local costs.
50.       Effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan would be conditioned upon
ISA's compliance with the conditions of initial disbursement of the US$70 mil-
lion IDB loan and upon receipt of assurances that ISA has made satisfactory
arrangements for the balance of project financing (Section 8.01 of the Loan
Agreement).
The Borrower, ISA
51.       ISA, established in 1967, is a stock corporation formed to inter-
connect the systems of its shareholders and to construct, own and operate
new generating plants required for it. It is governed by a Board of Directors,
representing the five major shareholders (EEEB, EPM, CVC, CORELCA, recently
incorporated into ISA, and ICEL). Major decisions require the agreement of
75% of the shares. Day to day operations are managed by a General Manager
(appointed by the Board), assisted by four departments (Technical, Operations,
Finance and Administration). The company has sufficient competent staff and
its pay levels are satisfactory.
52.       During preparation of the proposed project, ISA amended its bylaws
to the effect that in the future the entity will:
(i) be responsible for planning expansion of the interconnected
system;



- 15 -
(ii)  construct and own all future plants in the system except for
plants of regional interest which may be undertaken by the
shareholders af-ter approval by ISA; and
(iii) set tariffs to achieve adequate annual returns on its
revalued assets (paragraph 54).
Any change in ISA's statutes would require prior Bank approval (Section
7.01(a) of Loan Agreement).
53.       Finances.  Between 1972 and mid-1977, ISA's assets comprised a 230
kV transmission line (financed under 575-CO), which was expected to serve for
energy exchanges at cost between its shareholders. In September 1977, ISA's
first generation asset, the Chivor I power station (681-CO), entered into
operation. Thus, the company has been unable to generate a significant amount
of funds and has relied upon shareholders' contributions to finance its
investments. As the shareholders faced financial difficulties because of
inadequate rates and rising costs, so has ISA. The shareholders have addressed
the problem of cash shortages by agreeing to maintain in the future a satisfac-
tory rate of return on r,evalued assets (Section 5.02 of Shareholders Agreement)
which, inter alia, would enable EEEB, EPM and CVC to cover their shares of
project costs; (Section 3.01 of Shareholders Agreement). The agreed rates
of return and the expected levels of investment financed from internal cash
generation (including contributions to ISA) are as follows:
(i)  EEEB would earn at least 12% from 1978 onwards and expects to cover,
from internally-generated funds, 46% of its total investment
requirements during the 1977-84 period;
(ii) EPM would earn 7% in 1978, 6% in 1979, and 9% in 1980 and subsequent
years and expects to generate internally 59% of the total funds it
requires for investment over 1977-84;                                    -
(iii) CVC would earn 5% in 1978, and 9% thereafter and expects to generate
52% of its investment requirements over 1977-84;
(iv) CORELCA, a rapidly-growing entity which serves the relatively
poor Atlantic coast with 100% thermal-based power, would achieve
4% in 1978, 5% in 1970-80, 6% in 1981, 7% in 1982 and 9% from 1983
onwards. As CORELCA would be able to generate internally only 13%
of the investment funds required over 1977-84, it would rely on the
Government for its contribution to ISA (Section 3.02(b) of the
Guarantee Agreement). As part of the project, CORELCA would under-
take a program to improve its operating efficiency and financing
planning (Section 5.05(a) of the Shareholders' Agreement)l and



- 16 -
(v) ICEL functions essentially as a holding company for eleven,
mostly-rural power utilities. It does not have any revenues
of its own; the Government covers its expenses, debt service
and investments, and has agreed to provide the necessary
resources to ICEL for to contributions to ISA (Section 3.02(b)
of the Guarantee Agreement). To assist in strengthening its
major subsidiaries, ICEL would undertake a program to improve
the operating efficiency and finances of at least the five most
important of them (Section 5.05(b) of the Shareholders' Agreement).
54.       For its part, ISA has agreed to earn a rate of return on its re-
valued assets (other than the 500 kV interconnection line being considered
simultaneously with this project) of 5.5% in 1978, 8% in 1979, 9% in 1980,
11% in 1981 and 9% from 1982 onwards. The agreed returns on the 500 kV line
would be 3% in 1982, 2% in 1983, 2.5% in 1984, 4% in 1985, 6% in 1986, and 9%
in 1987 (the first year of full utilization) and thereafter (Section 5.08 of
draft Loan Agreement). Long-term contracts for the sale of Chivor energy
would be finalized by ISA and the shareholders as a condition of loan effec-
tiveness (Section 8.01(c) of the Loan Agreement). ISA's net internal cash
generation would finance 9% of the 1978-82 investment program. This is low
but acceptable since the share-holders contribution to the program would be
27%.
55.       ISA faces heavy debt service obligations, despite the satisfactory
forecast financial performance. ISA and the shareholders, therefore, have agreed
to prepare and submit to the Bank no later than December 31, 1978, a review of
the company's finances covering 1979-85, including proposals for achieving an
annual debt service coverage by internal cash generation of at least 1.5 times
from 1979 on (Section 5.09(b) of the Loan Agreement and Section 5.07(b) of
the Shareholders Agreement). In addition, ISA has agreed that, until project
completion, it would obtain the Bank's concurrence before undertaking any
project costing in excess of 2.5% of the value of its net fixed assets in opera-
tion (Section 5.06(b) of the Loan Agreement) and before contracting any long-
term debt unless internal cash generation is more than 1.5 times its maximum
projected debt service requirements (Section 5.09(a) the Loan Agreement).
Finally, the shareholders have agreed that they would maintain in ISA all
payments due to them from their share and bondholdings until project comple-
tion and in any subsequent year in which ISA would not attain the 1.5 debt
service target (Section 3.02 of the Shareholders' Agreement).
Tariff Structure
56.       The structure of retail power rates in Colombia is distorted.
Although residential rates are generally progressive, the charge being higher
as consumption increases, households pay substantially less for electricity
than industry. This policy has led to some over-consumption of electricity
by households, even though its principal objective was to benefit low-income
consumers. Therefore, the shareholders, under the coordination of the Ministry
of Mines and Energy, have agreed to carry out a study, to be discussed with
the Bank no later than June 30, 1979, to seek ways to improve the tariff
structure (Section 5.10 of the Shareholders Agreement and Section 3.06 of the
Guarantee Agreement).



- 17 -
Procurement, Implementation Schedule and Disbursements
57.       Procurement under the proposed loan would be in accordance with
international competitive bidding consistent with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement. Colombian manufacturers would receive a preference of 15% or
applicable duties, whichever is less, for bid evaluation purposes. The cost
estimate assumes that local manufacturers would supply conductors, towers and
certain miscellaneous electromechanical equipment, with an estimated cost of
about US$10 million.
58.       The prequalification and bidding documents for the underground
civil works were reviewed by the Bank and are satisfactory. Fourteen foreign
firms were prequalified to participate in the bidding; in June 1977, ISA
called for tenders, and bids were opened in November 1977. In April 1978,
the contract was awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder, a consortium compris-
ing Ingenieros Civiles Associados; Ltda. (ICA, Mexico) and GRANDICON, Ltda.
(Colombia). Bid documents for the remaining components are being prepared by
ISA, with the assistance of Integral. Project works would begin in 1978 and
be completed by mid-1983.
59.       The loan would be disbursed over a five-year period.  Disbursements
would be made against (a) 100% of the foreign expenditures for civil works;
(b) for equipment and materials, 100% of foreign expenditures or 94% of the
ex-factory cost of locally-manufactured goods; and (c) for consultant services,
100% of foreign expenditures or 50% of total expenditures. Also, funds would
be disbursed for the total amount of interest and other charges on the pro-
posed loan during construction. The loan is expected to be fully disbursed by
June 30, 1984.
Benefits and Risks
60.       The impact of the proposed project on Colombia's development would
be considerable as it would add 3,700 GWh of hydropower to the system.
According to the overall distribution of consumption, 42% of the power gene-
rated would be for the residential sector and 35% for industry. The number
of residential consumers is projected to expand by 95,000 each year and, as
ICEL would receive 30% of the power generated by the project, a sizeable
percentage of these customers are expected to be in rural areas. Upon enter-
ing into operation, the project would obviate the power deficiency otherwise
projected for 1983 and 1984. Although the project would not eliminate this
deficiency in critical hydrological periods, it would make the system more
manageable.
61.       A return on investment was calculated for the San Carlos I Project
by relating the costs attributed to it, both capital and operating/maintenance
costs, to the 1976 average revenue for the Central and Atlantic systems of
USi 1.45/kWh multiplied by the standard Colombian conversion factor of 0.785
to shadow price consumption. On this basis, the discount rate at which the
present value of project costs would equal benefits would be 7.5%. Although
this return indicates an inadequate level of power rates in 1976, it is of



- 18 -
little significance as a measure of the economic worth of the project. There
i- sufficient evidence concerning the presence of a consumer surplus in elec-
tricity, which would result in a higher consumption factor (0.9-1.0) than the
one assumed. Taking this into account, the tariff increases required to raise
the return on investment to the estimated opportunity cost of capital in
Colombia, about 11%, would range from 25-35%. Since ISA's shareholders plan
such increases to achieve agreed financial rates of return, the return on the
the San Carlos I investment, based on revenues alone, would equal the oppor-
tunity cost of capital in Colombia.
62.       The project is subject to risks normally associated with large
civil works in difficult terrain. There is also a risk that the project
may not be implemented in the time proposed if ISA, because of shareholder
inaction to raise rates, would be delayed in mobilizing the required local
currency. Given the rate increases approved and proposed, the assurances
obtained and, more importantly, the general acceptance by all political
sectors of the need to strengthen the shareholders' and ISA's finances, it is
to be expected that the project will be carried out as scheduled.
Ecology
63.       An ecological study carried out by a specialized consultant (Cesar
Perez Figueroa, Colombia) for Integral indicates that the project area is
unsuitable for farming or stockraising because of extremely hilly topography,
poor soils and heavy rainfall. Since conditions appear favorable to the
development of water hyacinth (Eichhornia crassipes) in the reservoir area,
ISA would have to take measures to control it. In consultation with the Bank,
ISA proposes to formulate before December 31, 1980, a satisfactory medium-range
program for rational use of the project basins, including reforestation, and
organize a unit with adequate funding and administrative capacity to carry it
out, not later than December 31, 1981 (Section 5.05 of the Loan Agreement).
PART V: LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The Loan Agreement between the Bank and ISA, the Shareholders Agree-
ment between the Bank and ISA's shareholders and the Guarantee Agreement
between the Republic of Colombia and the Bank, and the report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Bank's Articles of Agree-
ment are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
65.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Additional conditions of effectiveness would be (a) satisfactory progress
by ISA in the evacuation of the site of the proposed project (paragraph 44);
(b) that ISA has satisfied all the conditions precedent to disbursement of
the US$70 million equivalent loan from IDB and has made satisfactory arrange-
ments for the balance of project financing (paragraph 50); and (c) that the
sales contracts for the Chivor I hydroplant have been finalized (paragraph
54).



- 19 -
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank..
PART VI: RECOMMENDATION
68.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 17, 1978






ANNEX I
Page 1 of 4
COLOMBIA            - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                   --- - ------------------------------------------
COLOMBIA                             REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      1138.9                                        MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      224.8                        1960      1970   ESTIMATE            TURKEY         BRAZIL         MEXICO*
_  --  --    --  --  ---  --  -_   --  - _  -- - - _----    _- --  _- -----  --_ - _-_- -- - _- ---
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                      210.0      350.0     640.0               500.0       550.0       690.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_ _--_ _ _ _ _ _  -_--_           -_-_ - ------
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)             15.4      20.6       24.2                35.6        92.8        50.4
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        14.0       18.0       21.0                46.0        11,0        26.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         71.O       93.0      108.0                65.0        49.0        52.0
VITAL STATISTICS                             A
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)          46.1       44.3       40.9                40.6        38.4        43.8
CRUDE nEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)           14.7       11.0        6.8                14.4         9.9        10.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/tHOU)         o00.0/a    70.0/a       *-               153.0/a    110.0         68.5
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)        54.7 -    58.5 -    60.9                  54.4        59.4        62.4
GROSS REPRODucTION RATE                3.2        3.2        3.1                 2.6/b.c    2.6          3.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                  2.9         2.9       2.8                 2.5         2.9         3.5
URBAN                                  6.0/b      5-5/b      4.9                 4.9/d       5.0         4.8
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           53.0/C    60.3        70.0/a              38.7        56.0        56.7
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        46.6/C    46.6        44.1                41.7        42.0        46.2
15 TO 64 YEARS                        50.4       50.4       52.7                54.0        55.0        50.1
65 YEARS AND OVER                      3.0/c      3.0         3.2                4.3         3.0         3.7
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                      1.o/c      1.0       0.9                 0.9         0.8          1.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1 .B/E    1'*6/c      1.6/b              1*1le        1.5        2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           0.5      306.9      955.1                  ..       250.0        55.5
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)               ..        ..       31.0                 8.2         1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)          5100.0/c  6200.0    6900.0              14000.0/f  29400.0    13000.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRIC2LTURE (x)          47.0 fC    39.0         ..                63.4        40.4        45.0
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)            8.0/:de  7.0         10.2/c              11.9/g        7.5
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
X OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             41 2/C f 31.9/d    27.2                   32.8 /h    35.0/a       27.2
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             67:7/c f 60.1/        54.4                60.6 /h    62.0/a       58.3
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              2.1          3.5/i    52                 2.9 /_      3 0/i       3.4
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS                . 7          /d    14.3                  /4  h    1'/         10.5
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS               ,.         ..      80.0                39.0 /i    45.0          37.1
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS                                 0.2                 0.7 /        1.5         0.3
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              2400.0    2110.0    2100 Old              2250.0      1910.0      1480.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         3520 0/         .     14500 0 1           1770.0 /.. 3220.0/b   1620.0/a
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED            580.0      430.0      470.0               500.0       260.0-    960.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -                                                                                    65S0
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)          94.0       92.0       94.0               112.0       109.0       10.
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)               50.0       51.0       47.0                78.0        64.0        65.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          28.0/h    29.0/e    24.0                  22.0 /k    39.0         28.0/b
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES '-4             16.3        8.4          ..                14.7 /1       ..         9.8
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        77.0       98.0      105.0               108.0        87.0       104.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      t2.0       23.0       36.0                2B.0          .,         22.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              11.0       11.0       11.0                11.0        1           12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                      31.0/i   21.0         17 0                14.0        17.0        24.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                    .        73.0       74.0/d              55.  /m    64.0         76.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                   ..         ..         ..                 1.9         1.0         2.2
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT               59.0/Cj    ..           ..                66.0        73.0/c      61.,/c
PIPED WATE_ (%)0sj6.                                                                        7./          6.
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                  47.0/c        ..        *-                40.0        48.0         59.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED                   o/
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                     s.o/c                                    18.0          8.0        28.0
CDNSUMPT ION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          139.0      105.0      117.0                89.0        60.0       276.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER TI4OU POP)            7.0       11.0       15.0                 4.0        25.0        24.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           244.0/e   414.0       599.0                247.0       491.0       567.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                 2.4        2.7        2.1                 0.7         2.7         3.2
------------------------------------------------------        ------- _----------------  _---- _-- - -- _--- _------
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNE I
Page 2 of 4
oesotha-ise oared, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 end 1991, for 1970 between 1969 end 1971, and for Most Ratent satiate between
1973 ad 1976.
Offic ial eatitetse based ono registerations. *how crude birth rate for 1960 as 39.0, average crude birth rate for 1961-70 aso 36.0 ma  for 1911-76
as 31.0.
0*Meelto has been selected oe en objective country because Colombia is now, in the stage ad economsic developmaent that Mexico wee in tan yerar ego.
Bar  coun0.tries aim at a OH? growth rate of about 7 percent enud at a subsaontial reduction of uneosploymeent.
COLONHIA      1960    /a  Registered only;    /b  1951-64;    Ic  1964;    14  Bogota maly;    /Ie  1963;    /f  lconomicelly entice population;
Ig  1965;    lb  1961-63;    Ii  Tota]l secondary includes teacher training et the third level;    /.j  Water piped inside.
1970    /.  Rare based on burial permits;    /b  1964-70;    /c  Ratio of population under 15 end 65 and ovar to total labor force;
Id  Ec.oonically active PoPulatiomT    I.  1966-66.
MosT RECEN  ISTIMATE:.    /.  1977;    lb  Ratia of population under 15 and 65 and over to total 1ohor force;    Is  March 1977. avrage
oneployment rate in seven largeat uitise;    /d  1972.
TURKEY        1970    I   1967;    /b  Exclude 17 eastern provincee;    /S  1965-67;    Id  1965-70;    Ia  Ratio of population under 15 end 65 end
ovr to labor 15 years end nvear;    If  13 yrear  and ove. ancludes   ploysd;              jL Ragiatrard only;    /b  Disposable
incom;    ItAgicultoral land, ignoring landless houaehnlds;    /J. IncIluig aesiateet norese end s1dwlvce;
/k 1964-66; /1 1967-68; /. Parson saix years and nvear who tell the renas rakore that they can read and -ire..
BRAZIL        1970     I   Economically active population;    /b  Hospital personnel;    Icc  Inside only.
MEXICO        1970    IaInluding asaistant nut-ea;             lb  1964-66:    Ic  Inside only.
HI3, May 6. 1979
locH  ArrOSibto  too 3                                                 Poruletion~~~%_11=    m oa   Inurin   -r     - Population divided by, nombrofpctcg
Tota  - Total  -yfa    re  comPrising land eerc and inlan    eee.ml ed  fasl  graduate  aoa.l, '-treinad" or  certified" orc..ad
,ine. - Moor recat estimate of agricultural  are  used tmsporarily or poersa-                    easiliacy panomal mini treiieg or anporiante
crn    o   rp, pas-trus, marker & kitabos gerdansor to leU   fallow.                 Po=ultioc oar howeitl bad - Papulanion divided by   -h,nr     of hospital beds
avial   nPublic and privtet  general end sperie1lsed ho-pitai and
csr  ar  opia  (501-rCP per capita astfstoo  en c,urrent market prices,                     ehabilittnion ceoters; exludes nursin  homes and secablls -tann   fr-
escitdb  ano conversion method es World Best Atlas (1974-76 ba.si);                    custodial end prevetive care..
1960; 1970 and 1976 data.                                                                    Peffia  ueya  ceoIs  ft   of requiresmete) - Computed fran aneny
equivalent:  11of neaodsple  available in country pan capita par day;
population  and virel otariarice                                        av~~~ala ble sepplise noprtne dometic prdodction, bporno teee copots, ond
pooucc    fodva    ilo)-*   fJl   irer:  if not aviiabie, aveng                            changs  in stock; net supplies eac,lie animal feed, seeds, quantities used
of rM. nod-ear sotfoRco; 1940, 1970 and 197 6 data,                                            in food p--casig sod lossess in distribution; raquiesowte  wore ustinatad
by FAO base.d onpyiloio   xda Ero  norma  uctiviy and hoalth c-nsd-
Po. ltindustk prsuseh  - Mid-year ppulation per squar  kilwt-r                                   acing aioenaltoopratsra, body weighta, ago and sex dietribhutinne of
(100 bactarso) of total urea,                                         ~~~~~population, and a11wiaag 101 for omest  an household level.
Pocoolin  dooitnorsnuro  e ofsarn.  aud- Computed as abov  for                   Per capita  suesir of erotein  fer-   ear day) - Protein content at per capito
o0ni-urs  lan-      ony.                                                                       net supply if food par day; awn aupply of food is defined as above; raqolre-
menta for all coutries setablinbod by USDfA Snomoic fiesesrb Serice
VIriooiieanthond                                                                               provide for a aixio   alloanc  of 60 grns, of total protein per day, sod
Cr-de  birth rota        -..    -vras    A-1Mna livs birtha per thousand of                       20 gras  of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grossa should be anieal
old-you  population; ten-year uritheetic averaga  ending in 1960 end 1970,                     protein: thoase staadrdo  ar  lower than thie of 73 ge-s of total protein
and fiv-y-a  --era9  ending in i975 far eat recen.t estimate,                                  and 23 gros  of enimal protein CO en average for the world, propoond by rAOe
Crud   deth  otenorthosse. aocae -Manul deaths par thousad of mid-year                in the Third World Fand luevep
tooatc;  o-y-a  aritIsotin  avoragas ending In 1960 and 1970 and five-                Per ..Pita  oetein  upol, fro  sof"'  an.d rules - Protein supply of food
yos  overage eading in 1975 for not recent astiwane.                                           derived from  anml  and pulses in greoa per day.
Infant cot-lyrt   /hu    Annual doe tha  f ifaste ondar en  yosr of ago                        leach rots  f/thou) aces 1-4  A-1Ane  deatha Par thouoad in ago ga-p 1-4
pot thousand lIve brths.                                                                       years, to children in this  gag  group; suggested as an indictotr of
Lif   ,_tc_nc  at birth_(yroS - Average assbar of years of life renaming at                       malnutrition.
birth; oulyfiv-year. avragos ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for davelop-
lag cotrive.                                                                                 Education
iros  rcrnootOatrot  -  verfe  uckr of live d.aghteco.  . owoma  will beer           Adlusted  enrolhawst rela-priar  sheni - Erorolbst no ei ago0 ao per-
i_brcnlrproucie   eiodi"         h   oeine   rastaepcfccna o  prmrycoo-g  poulton; includes childre   n,od 6-li y--r
fertility rtes.; usually fi-a-y-  avrgagesnsding in 1960, 1970 and 1975                        but adjusted for different lengths of pefasary  dodunarin; for  -tovtivo   ith
for dav-opiog conre.uiversl education, enrollment may exceed 1IO1 since e     pupils ara talon
Pocoiatio  oo_th rota  (T  -total - Compound annual growth rates of mid-yeeror above ths official school ege.
population for 1950460, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                                 Adluwted  enrollment ratio - secondary school - Computed as above;  -ecadoy
Populationiot  rte  i  -abso - Computed Ilke growth rate of total                                 dedoation requires at least four years of approved primary tootructio-;
populutioc; diff-rat dafinitiona of orbun  rama  affect comparability of                       praidsa gene.ral, voctiona  or tea..ho- treiniag  nestroCtmons for pupilo
data amon  cootucine                                                                           of 12 en 17 years of age;  --rspondeo-  courses ar  genrlly a-laded.
liche  population_(7. of total) -atofurntoielpuaion; differet                                  years  of shoolic  provided (fiit end second 1ev-1e  - lonal yeurs of
defnitOnsof  rba  aras  ayaffect comparability of date anvog countrins.                schooling; at secondary lae1, voctional irotnruction may ho port.laly or
competely sexlude.
---------f9Arl  ercut-r  fprenc  - Children (0-14 ye.ar), woekiogage (15-4,4 yea-),           Voaatiemal sanel  t  it of Aaaomary  - Vecaioml L-ima inuim   LI."nd
and retired (65 years and ovr  aeparoentagS  of mid-year pspmletiom.                           tihoical, industrial  ortarbr progres edaih operate independently or a
Ace  enedoo    crio- Ratio of population nodes 15 and 63 and avr to those                   departmento of secondary institutions.
of ogue 15 through 64.                                                                       Aduit literacy rate  (5  - Litorats adults (abla to nod sod ovine, as Pe-
cecnc   oodner  i  - Ratio of popolstin onder 15 and 65 sod ovr to                             anotege of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
the lobcr forte in ago group of 15-64 yssrs.
Fail   panIn  - accetor       .comu iati of. thov  - C,omlative nmber of acceptors        Housing
of birth-cetral donico  udr    pia o         fncatoa1 daily planing progran                  Person   one non  furbo   - AverogS. nusber of porona per ro  om in  ccpied
niec ...Jee.pron.                                                                              convntional dwellings in urban  rerse; dwellings exclu.de non-permanent
faniv  pannng     oors       o  marie  woen)- Porc-tagee of married women of         etfucturas end unoccPied parts.
childdaaring age (15-44 ysots) who use  irth-nontro1 devices ta all macrid                   occu Pied dweIlines  without piped water  it) - Occu Pied coo-vtionaI du-l1i.gs
.ar  i   an .g grop.                                                                    in urban end rurel ava    ithout inside or outside piped wotrs  f-ilitli-
as prcetag   ofalloccpiud dwellings.
Enclovooc C                                                             Acoess t~~~~~~~~~~~. 71o eloor1riitir   ft of all d-el1inoe  - Conv-tiaaa.l duolliobe with
:?utol  luor_farce  (thousand) - ioonomicslly active parsons, inaluding semd                      electricity in living quarters es percent of total dusiling  in urban and
for_n  od onooplayed bu t _acdiog housewive, students, etc. ; definitions                      rural aes
ino -i cureiss are not coups-ble.                                                      gurel dwellings connected  to electricity  C)-Computed us shov  for rura
tuerfaceInaricglturs  fl - Agriculture1 labor forts fIn feceing, forestry.                 d-11linge only.
heetini sod fishin) em percentage of norel labor force.
uno_loya   (2oflbor force)  U- fnploed sr  ceneIly defined as persons who                       Cousomotian
oro able a-d will ing to rake   job, out ad a Jab on a given day, raeiaasd our               Radio receiworo (pee thou pop) - Ali typsa of receivers fo  racdic br-d-sto
of a job, and seeking work for o ape-ifid efisogom  perid nut exceeding one                     to general1 public par thousand of population:; eaciudas unliconsed r-ci-ero
unofk; uy nor be conpereble hetwaso caosotries due to difierent defintition                     in coutriso and in years when registration of radio sets wsn in offuct;
of  -ployad and source of data, e.g., emislaysast office statintis, -omPIe                      data for recen.t years may not he comparable since most countries abolished
-urvyu, conpulsory unaployflt inuac,licensin.
Pa... gar  cars  fear thou  nop) - Passe.nger cots canprise noror cats.. seai.g
Icoediotr.butian - Pernecage of prgvana inoon  (both i. .soh and kind)                        lees than sight Person; oncodas anbul..c... h-oroo  and militar
re-i-od by richest IX, richest 207., poorset 20X, and pooret h40t ad hoc.e-                     -ehiclo..
boljdo.                                                                                      Electriciry  ibthlyrpe r can) - Manal conomptioc of industrial, carcia.l
public end private electrict  in kilcuat honro Per capita, ga--aly
2IfLatribotioco.    adnnrbi.          ecnae f        lndone bdoalti-tlitbase.d on prndstion dora, wirtthout aIlowasce for lossin grids hot allow-
a-d poar-t lit of Iud onr.iaag far imports and esports of electricity.
Nsweprint fbi/r per cap) - Pat capita annual. coneptupmo in kllngrea
Helthq  and  cutriti-                                                                             estimated from  doasstic prod-cti-n plus not inp-.orr fdnwpir
P.-].a,ton  p,  pyica  - Papolatioc dividod by n,mdcsr of practicing
phyoiei-so qualifie-dfrom a medical ech.ol at university isuel.



ARMEI
Fags 3 f0 4 pages
EC019390G SEVEWPNIC DATA
(Is minions of US dollars)
197c9tual                             Esotimated         Pr oldlaLd                 Average Awest  Ginuh Sanes               -A. Percent o.fGD?
Averaa      1974         1975        1976        1977          1978         0982          (16-9-4          1979.77   1978-62        1974        1977       1982
HArIOVAL ACCOUINTS                           -               1976, Prices and E.chanas sate
Gross Osnet Ic Product                     9,785      14,262       14.893      15,565       16.406        17,406      22.079               6.5            5.0        6.1      100.0       100.0      100.0
Gains from  T-n  of Trads  *                -751         -403        -455       -_.            608           284         .102               ---                                  2.8        3.7        0.5
Gros Snstic I.co-.                     EU7         13,859      -16-,43 8    15,565      1-751          17.67 0     22,18T               7.4           TThT        5.6       97.2      103.        TN"7
impot ho. NFS)                         1,491       2,306        2,152       2,318        2,939         5,365       4,496               7.5           16.9        7.5       16.2        17.9       20.4
imports   "       (Import Cap-clty)        1.419       2.066        2.297       2a821           0          3.199       4.237               6.5           23.         7.13      14.         21.3       19.2
Resoorc   GaCp                                72          240        -145         -274     290                166         259               -              -          -          1.7       -3.4         1.2
Co-soption Empnndiicra                     7.445      10,677       11,663      11,812      12,955         15,016      17,223               6.5            5.4        5.7       74.5        79.0       78.0
I.-et.ent        1    (1c..l  Stocks)      1,661       5,222        2,630       3,179        3,497         4,020        5,217            11.7            15.3        6.7       22.6        21.3       23.4
sossetic Savings                           1.589       2,982        2,775       3,753       4,059          5,854      .4,958              11.1           20.9        6.5       20.9        24.7       22.5
National Savioga                           1,865       2,834        2,544       3,531       5,969          3,742       4,776               7.2           24.9        6.3       19.9        24.2       21.6
MERCHANDISE TRADE                                           An,lncsoC.rr..t Price                                         _                                                        As Pennat of Total
Imports
Capitol Gooda                              290         525          510         575          724           095       1.455             10.4           19.1        12.9       34.7       30.5        27.5
Intetnediate Goods (Eoci. Fpoem)           254         813          705         803       1,193          1,475       2,481             21.4           30.0        13.8       53.8       50.3        46.9
Foals and Related Mtec-isls                  3           6           14          73          153           189         766             12.3             -        41.8         0.4        6.4        14.5
of $tsfch:  petro1o..-).-                                         (14)        (73)        (155)         (189)       (766)              -              -       (41.8)        (-5       (6.4)      (14.5)
Consuptio  Goods                            61          167         166         214          304         3_76          591             18.3           35.3        12.0       11.1       12.8       -11.2
Totol Meohaudioc inport  (P01)             608       1,511        1,395       1,465       2,374         2,953        5,293             14.4           30.5       15.9       100.0      100.0       1700.0D
Prhsony Fr-d-.cn (Enci. F,selo)            418       1,001        1,202       1,776        2,404         7,490       3,971             15.7           43.8        12.4       67.0        80,2       74.9
of  hi60c:  Coffee                      (341)       (642)        (672)    (1,316)       (1,755)      (1,360)      (1,451)           (11.7)      ,(41.5)        (1.3)         -       (56.6)         -
Fuela sod feInted Mtcroisl                  71           95          87          87           93            90         173              5.0            3,4        11.7        6.4        -3.0        3.3
of oibic:  Pocroleo                      (56)          (4)        (-)         (-           (-(-                      (--                       -            -              (0.3)        (-)        (-)
ManoSsatored Goode                         117         398          428         511          520          48         1.160)            22.5           10.1       26.1        26.        148         21.
Total M-thondi-  Emports (FOBS             606       1.494        1.717       2,7          3,097         3,0308       ,0                62      ~     1Z          r          57        100.0       10.
Sarhbadioe Trod5 Iodic-
unpurt Pric_ Sdsn                         71.2        72.4         74.5       100.0        156.6         129.0       160.0
Inpo_t Price Sdn-                         34.0        90.0         93.0       100.0        107,7         116.5       154,9
Terr  of Trodn Indon                      62.3        80.4         80.1       100.0        126.8         111,6       103,3
VALUEG AIDED IT SECTOR (Poctoc Coot)             A-oc1 oars ct 1976 - Pninno nod lo-hn-i  Koran..__                                     Averon  Annual Groth Races                 As Percet of Tota
Agricultur                               2,951       5,939        4.101       4,244       4,328         4,458        5,017              4.9            1.7         3.0       29.7        28.4       24.7
Ind-str- nod Mtoiaf                      2,444       4.013       4,007        4,210  .   4,505          4,825        6,099              8.6            5.0         6.9       30.3        29.5       31.0
Service                                  4.439       5,305        5,641       6.028      6.425          6,864      8.A997               3.0            6.7         7.0       40.0        42,1       44.3
T.t.1                                    9,854      13,257      13,909       14,482      15,258         16,145      20,3i3              5.1            4.7         5.9-    i00.0    U1070          100.0
PUB.IC  FINANCE                                           Annua  Dnce at Cora-. Priu-sA.Preto    D
(C-otro    ovr1    ec
Ccr-ot Sacipcs                           413       1,194       1,402        1,509       2,010         2.220       3,308              19.4          20.0        10.3         9.5       10.0        9.3
Curn   nedicu..n                  262         640          702         821         919           99         J1637             16.0          14.4        13.1         5.1        4.5         4.6
Codatar  Savings                         1.51        554          700         7!        t             1,221       1,671              24.2          25.5         0.2         4.4        37!        4.7
Other Public Secto  Sevings              434         150          394         334         418           481          921            -16.2            5.0       17.8         1.2        3.1        2.6
P.bJitc Sector Investment                612       1, 189      1. 302       1,496       1,551         1, 975      3,453              11.7           5.9        15.0         9.4        7.7        9.7
SELECTED INDICATORS                                              1965-70    1974-70       1978-82                          DETAIL ON PUBLIC SECTOR                        As 1  f Total
GNVESF9INTr PROGRAPI AND FINANCING         Autoal        Planne
(AaoefrPoniod Sho-)                                                                                                                                          1975.'76      1977-83
A av ge  CR(Band on Pined Ioverment)                       3.17        5.77        3.36                                                                                     ___
Inp-ct Elascicicy                                              1.16        1.83         1.25                           Onnia1 Sector                                33.5         3852
M-ri-a1 Dunentic Savings Rote                                   0.20       0.34         0.24                           Agri-tnucre                                  10.2         12.0
N_ri-1n  Notional  Soningn Race                                0.14        0.55         0.23                           Indoosry and Minis8                           9.5          9.7
_________________________________________________________________________________           POwe                                          6.5995
Tranport snd Con-oicacion.                   20.2         14.0
LABOR6 FORCE AINI OUTPUT PER WfORKER                                Total Labor Force                                      Other                                        20.1         _15.0
Cu Mlilli-o              7. of Total           Groush Rote                   Total Eapanditura                           100.0        100.0
1964        193           1964        1975          1964-73
AgrOc-lt-e                            2.427        2.057          47.5        30.2           -1.9                      FIeNACINO,
Icd--cr                               0.958        1.212          10.7        17.8            2.7
Service                               1.749        5.542          54.0        52.0            8.2                      Public Secto  Ss"Sn.gs                       62.7         60. 5
Total                                 5.134        6.812         100_.0      100. 5-.2                                 Encernl Soorea                               15.1         04.6
Other                                       22.2           6.9
Va1s Addad nr Wirk-r (1976 Pninna snd E.obanonRains),                          Total Pin..a.ing                            100.0         100.0
Ia US Dollar              . nf Aveen             rot Rte
1964        1973         1964         193           1964-73
Agrilt-lor                               903       1.517          46.4        88.4            5.9
Industry                              1,057        2,552        135.2        148.6            3,7
Service                               1,730        1.546        127.3         90,0           -1.2
Toto1                                 1,359        1,717        33573        100,0            2.8O



BALANCE OF PAY95296   EXSB86AI. ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(Mousta  tomillion.  f US dollars a   ur.rtpric..)
Aotuol                                                                            ftlaed00.00-d
2971   1972         ~~~~1972      1974          1975          1976           197            9_75        1979          1980          19B1         19B2
972        1,295         1,544        [.BAt         2,137          2.S92          3,711        3,725         4,301        4.903         5,687         6,593
i.m 1I1             141           2 077         fLj           Lust           3.165         3.913         4. 551       5.262         6.&          jjj"
313          -27          122          -216           135            574           546          -193          -250         - 359         - 369         -401
Patton S.rioae                               -169          -191          -203         -173          -243           -293          -209          -256          -331          -386         -426          -468
Pr.ftt.                                    (-715         (-70)         (-70)        (-555         (-68)          (-73)        (-100)        (-117)        (-137)       (-164)        (-1725        (-liB)
00h                                           9)        (-121)        (-1335       (-IlB)        (-175)         (-220)        (-109)        (-159)        (-194)        (-222)       (-234)        (-2B7(
gJamt nmf-s "ast)                            ~~~~~28        26           39            2B             71           112           12 5          136          152           167
-igo       __1T          _TJ0          --               352                                     _4Zrr         -5T93         -628         -4
Privat  Diroot 1-raton                         40            17            23            35           35             49             32            59           57            65            74           83
Pobito EhLT Lo-
Uisborswoe                      ~~~~          ~~~~         ~~222  354  412  380         3B3            250           277           490           601           783          849           941
-92          -96        .121          _:2lU          -134                          -101     ,1                -215          -251         -295         -V
Dohar HGL? Loso
DlebtsrBfoa                                 145           139           60            50            76            125-S                                     ----
-im                               -~~~~79      -M4           -5S           -36          -97           -168          ---           -              -                           - 
C.9.itl Tra..oactio-   ..1216                                39           -78            63          -98            176            109          -----
Chango io Boo Eaaova                             2         -179          4172            91          -95           -434           -46486--                                         
Mfio.l.  Grn.66ro-Ia                                                                                                               T-- 09  AND  MT SERtVICE            197         1972         193          97          17596
PubIlc E&L? toots0    .ttaodltg & Dieboced                                                                                                                           1,395.6      1,650.0     1,936.0      2,117.4     2,351.2       2,449.2
1B8D                                        155            74           162             0           00             60           I.,oa.   onPbic4b 9.2                              57.9        78.5        103.7       113.5         125.4
SM  -           -             -            -             -              -             Oapayoenoa on  "                      92.0         95.9       131.9        211.4       134.7         150.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2-  9  -9  1 .4  3A7  I0.
Otha   MItiLatarsI                           42            41            29            64          -62                          Total Public Dolt Sori.              11.          151.6        2501.4      315.1        24.274
G.sr  at.                                   110           114            67            55           65            152           Oiler Dobt Sruit. (9ot               133.1        155.1        126.6       119.6        108.0        160.
ouppli...                                     35           37            31            45            74            44           Total Dbo Oar-i-o (Not)              274.3        308.9        137.0       433.7        356.2        4151.4
Pri-sos I.oo                                 30            84           196            56          165            170
Bood                                        -                            45           --d-                                  -            EudnnSpor- E. m.  (2
br'i1senLs   .-                                            8             1             4             1           -
Tots'.  P6to EL?  oan                          378          356           525           234           39              J           Pblic  Dbl Srus                        14.5         12.7        13.6         16.9        11.6           9. 5
Total Dolt S-rl-                      29.2         25. 6       21.9         23.3         16.7         15.1
Total Dolt Santo. PI..
Forogo Innot. loo-.                 55.3         51.6        26.1         26.6         19.9         17.6
C .lL9.M                            Oseado   n12/31/76
)!a,jA.bioptrtoCora-y)                    Uiborsa  omIt              P-roa                                                        A--rge To-m  of Public Dolt
told 0806                                    4716                     27.4
IDA                                            12.3                    0.5                                                        Itoesa       rto Ta-  0040              5. 9        4.2          4.0          5.3          5.4          5.13
othn pts1ltla-Ia                              138.4                    6.5                                                        Astoaoloo  72 Frit  Y-o I
G- -o,ats                                    935.6                   38.2                                                            M940                                 7.4          6.9         0.0         10.9          6.4          6.4
Supplista                        ~~~~~~~~~~~193.4          7.1676
sPrivate Oatk                                395.2                   616.1                                                      IB6D 0060 Ot. 4 Diab.r-d                390.6       455.4        504.5        561 .7      631.5         67.
Bonds                                         50.4                     2.1                                                      1BRD so% PulIio  Dolt 0615               29.2        2 7. 5       26.1         26.59       26.9          27.4
PublIc Dobtan..                                32.3                   1.3                                                       (05RsD   2 %             Se-oi-          29.4        30.9         28.9         25. 6       52.3          259.9
Total Poblit 661.T Lc.-                    2,449.2                  100.0                                                      1I4  olo Out.i6 Dioiborad                 19.9         20.9        2~3.0        212.0       22.           22.3
IDA as 7 P.Il  Doblt 06                   1.4         1.3          1.           .           1.0           0.9
IDAaoS.      locAte           ~~~~         ~~~0.2  0.    0.          -            02           0 .1



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1978)
(US$ million)
Loan                                                             Amount (less Cancellation)
Number  Year  Borrower                          Purpose            Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
Fully disbursed loans and credits                                718.8      23.5 /1   --
680     1970  Colombia                          Roads             32.0               3.9
681     1970  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power                52.3                 .2
738     1971  Empresas Municipales de
Palmira                        Water Supply       2.0                .3
741     1971  Empresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado de Bogota       Water Supply      88.0              16.1
849     1972  Instituto CoLombiano de
la Reforma Agraria             Irrigation         2.2               1.5
860     1972  Instituto de Fomento
Municipal                      Water Supply       9.1               3.5
874     1973  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power                56.0              16.5
903     1973  Banco de la Republica             Industry          60.0               2.2
920     1973  Colombia                          Education         21.2              12.3
926     1973  Ferrocarriles Nacionales          Railways          25.0                 .8
971     1974  Colombia                          Pre-Investment
Studies          8.0               4.7
1071    1975  Banco de la Republica             Industry           5.5                .4
1072    1975  Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal                      Water Supply      27.0              21.0
1073    1975  Empresa Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones             Communications   15.0                2.3
1118    1975  Colombia                         Rural Settlement 19.5                13.2
1163    1975  Colombia                         Agriculture        21.0              19.8
1223    1976  Banco de la Republica            DFC                80.0              47.9
1352    1977  Colombia                         Rural Dev.         52.0              50.8
1357    1977  Banco de la Republica            Agricultural Cr. 64.0                64.0
1450    1977  Empresa Nacional de              Communications   60.0                60.0
Telecomunicaciones
1451    1977  Banco de la Republica             Industry          15.0              15.0
1471    1977  Colombia                          Highways          90.0              90.0
1487    1978  Colombia                         Nutrition          25.0              25.0
TOTAL                                           1,548.6      23.5
Of which has; been repaid                         354.1       1.5
Total now outstanding                           1,194.5      22.0
Amount sold                         48.8
Of which has been repaid            19.8           29.0     _
TOTAL NOW HELD BY BANK AND IDA                  1,165.5      22.2
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                                                   471.4
/1   Includes excha,nge adjustment of US$4.0 million.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1978)
Type of         Amount in US$ million
Year              Obligor                    Business         Loan   Equity   Total
1959       Laminas del Caribe, S.A.          Fiber-board      0.50       -      0.50
1960-1965  Industrias Alimenticias
Noel, S.A.                      Food products   1.99   0.08        2.07
1961       Envases Colombianos, S.A.         Metal cans       0.70       -      0.70
1961-1968  Morfeo-Productos para el
Hogar, S.A.                    Home furniture  0.08   0.09         0.17
1961       Electromanufacturas, S.A.         Electrical
equipment     0.50       -       0.50
1962       Corporacion Financiera            Development
Colombiana                        financing         -   2.02       2.02
1962-1963  Corporacion Financiera            Development         -   2.04       2.04
Nacional                          financing
1963-1967  Compania Colombiana de            Textiles         1.98   0.15       2.13
1968-1969 Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970  Corporacion Financiera de         Development
Caldas                            financing         -   0.81       0.81
1964-1968  Forjas de Colombia, S.A.          Steel forging       -   1.27       1.27
1966       Almacenes Generales de            Warehousing      1.00       -      1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966       Industria Ganadera                Livestock        1.00   0.58       1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74 ENKA de Colombia, S.A.            Textiles         5.00   2.60       7.61
1969       Compania de Desarrollo de         Tourism             -   0.01       0.01
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
(HOTURISMO)
1969-1973  Corporacion Financiera del        Development         -   0.45       0.45
Norte                             financing
1969       Corporacion Financiera del        Development         -   0.43       0.43
Valle                             financing
1970       Promotora de Hoteles de           Tourism          0.23   0.11       0.34
Turismo Medellin, S.A.
1970-1977  Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                 Tourism          0.80   0.25       1.05
1973-1975  Corporacion Colombiana de         Housing             -   0.46       0.46
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974       Cementos Boyaca, S.A.             Cement           1.50       -      1.50
1975       Cementos del Caribe, S.A.         Cement           3.60       -      3.60
1976       Las Brisas                        Mining           6.00       -      6.00
1977       Promotora de la Interconexion
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.           Utilities       13.00   2.00       15.00
1977       Compania Colombiana de Clinker, Cement and
S.A.                                Construction
Material       2.43      -       2.43
Total Gross Commitments                           40.31  13.35      53.66
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                           26.56   8.14      34.70
Total commitments now held by IFC                 13.75   5.21      18.96
Total undisbursed                                   -     0.03       0.03



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
1.   Ln No. 680 Highways VI; US$32 million, June 1970.
Effective date: March 29, 1971
Closing date:    original - November 30, 1974
current - November 30, 1978
The largest component of the project, the paving program, has
experienced considerable cost increases and delays. As of this writing, six
sections in the program are still under construction, requiring about 190 km
of paving. Project completion is now expected end-1979. The other components
of the project were completed with much less delay. The Ministry of Public
Works is seeking ways of hastening project execution and strengthening the
performance of contractors.
2.   Ln No. 681 Chivor Hydroelectric Power; US$52.3 million, June 1970.
Effective date: September 1, 1970
Closing date:    Original - June 30, 1977
Current - June 30, 1978
The project was completed and commercially operational in mid-1977,
two years behind schedule, with a cost overrun of about US$86 million (65%).
The delay is mainly attributable to geological problems encountered during
construction of the dam and tunnel.  The cost overruns resulted from these
geological problems, from higher than anticipated bids, and local and foreign
inflation.
3.   Ln No. 738 Palmira Water Supply and Sewerage; US$2 million, May 1971.
Effective date: December 29, 1971
Closing Date:    original - March 1, 1975
current - December 31, 1979
As of June 3C), 1977, about 85% of the loan amount was disbursed.
Adequate tariff measures recently adopted will enable the utility to utilize
the remainder of the loan proceeds in further works, as originally contemplated.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
4.   Ln No. 741 Water Supply (Bogota II); US$88 million, May 1971.
Effective date: August 16, 1971
Closing Date:    June 30, 1980
Disbursements up to February 28, 1978, amounted to nearly 80% of this
loan. Slow progress in the construction of the vital Palacio - Rio Blanco Tunnel
is the main reason for the project's delay; the original contractor was replaced
by another firm which is performing satisfactorily.
5.   Ln No. 849 Irrigation (Atlantico II); US$5 million, June 1972.
Effective date: November 14, 1972
Closing Date:    March 31, 1978
The project is the second phase of a scheme to develop about 17,000
ha of seasonally inundated land for agricultural production. At the request
of the Government, US$2.8 million-of the loan of US$5.0 million were cancelled
in February 1977. Work is continuing on additional feeder roads, tertiary
canal drains, waterfronts, land clearing, subsoiling and leveling. A second
contractor has defaulted and work on the main drainage canal has temporarily
stopped, though a new contract is expected to be signed soon. Settlement of
farmers within the project areas and the provision of technical assistance
and farm credit have been making inadequate progress. The Government is
carrying out a detailed review of the project in order to find a solution
to these problems.
6.   Ln No. 860 Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$9.1
million, October 1972.
Effective date: March 7, 1973
Closing Date:    original - September 30, 1976
current  - September 30, 1978
As of February 28, 1978, about 60% of the loan amount was disbursed.
Management problems affected the initiation of the project, but progress has
since improved.
7.   Ln No. 874 Guatape II Hydroelectric Power Project; US$56 million,
January 1973.
Effective date: March 13, 1973
Closing Date:    December 31, 1979
The progress of the work has been generally satisfactory except for
delays in the resettlement of El Penol and Guatape villages because of the
villagers' reluctance to move into the new cities. This problem is now re-
solved and filling of the Santa Rita reservoir will be started by mid-1978,
three years behind schedule. The revised project cost is substantially above
appraisal estimate, mainly occasioned by higher cost of the works at El Penol
and Guatape. The Borrower experienced serious financial problems but recently
adopted tariff increases should allow it to overcome them.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
8.   Ln No. 903 Development Finance Companies V; US$60 million, May 1973.
Effective date: November 9, 1973
Closing Date:    June 30, 1978
The loan is almost fully committed. Disbursements are expected to
be completed within the next few months.
9. Ln No. 920 Education III; US$21.2 million, July 1973.
Effective date: January 10, 1974
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1977
current - December 30, 1979
The execution of the project had been suspended in mid-1975 pending
redefinition of sector priorities by the Government. Project execution resumed
in 1977 but suffered delays as a result of inadequate budgetary resources of
the Government. The Govesrnment is preparing a proposal to cancel a large
portion of the Loan.
10. Ln No. 926 Sixth Railway Project; US$25 million, August 1973.
Effective date: December 6, 1973
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1976
current - June 30, 1978
Declines in freight traffic in 1975 and the first six months of
1976 (because of an economic slowdown and lower imports), combined with steep
cost increases, resulted in a deterioration of the railway's financial situa-
tion. Since then, the financial position of the railway has been improving as
a consequence of sharp increases of ton-km of freight traffic, and freight
tariff hikes of about 19% in 1976 and 50% in 1977. Improvements have been
registered in other areas although locomotive availability is severely con-
strained largely because of manufacturer defects in over 40% of 88 relatively
new locomotives. Efforts are underway to resolve this problem but early
resolution is not anticipated. Project works are progressing and a substantial
portion has been completed.
11. Ln No. 971 Preinvestment Studies Project; US$8 million, March 1974.
Effective date: June 27, 1974
Closing Date:    December 31, 1978
Commitments are proceeding at a satisfactory rate. The Bank has
approved 26 sub-projects.
12. Ln No. 1071 Small-Scale Industry; US$5.5 million, January 1975.
Effective date: May 20, 1975
Closing Date:    June 30, 1978
A change of management in Corporacion Financiera Popular (CFP),
the beneficiary institution, delayed the initiation of the project. Commit-
ments are now moving well and progress is satisfactory. The Bank agreed to
release the second tranche in view of CFP's satisfactory performance. The
loan is fully committed.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
13. Ln No. 1072 Second Multi-City Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$27
million, January 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:    June 30, 1980
There were substantial delays in making the eight subloans effective.
The last subloan (Barranquilla) was made effective on September 9, 1976.
After a slow start, project implementation is progressing satisfactorily in
most cities.
14. Ln No. 1073 Telecommunications III; US$15 million, January 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:    December 31, 1978
Contracts for all Bank-financed goods have been awarded, and work
is proceeding satisfactorily.
15. Ln No. 1118 Caqueta Rural Settlement Project; US$19.5 million, June 1975.
Effective date: April 1, 1976
Closing Date:    October 31, 1979
The loan became effective on April 1, 1976, after a six-month delay.
Projection execution has proceeded rapidly and some of the lost time regained.
Road and bridge construction is weil ahead of schedule (79 km have been
completed). School construction, however, is behind schedule, while the
credit program is lagging as a result of inadequate budgetary flaws.
16. Ln No. 1163 Cordoba 2 Agricultural Development Project; US$21 million,
September 1975.
Effective date: March 30, 1976
Closing Date:    December 31, 1980
A few months after effectiveness, the Government decided to give
responsibility for project civil works to another agency. This decision
delayed the initiation of the project. Implementation is now proceeding
satisfactorily, but still behind schedule.
17.  Ln No. 1223 Sixth Development Finance Companies Project; US$80.0 million,
March 1976.
Effective date:  September 1, 1976
Closing Date:    June 30, 1980
The loan is proceeding satisfactorily and is virtually fully committed.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
18. Ln No. 1352 Integrated Rural Development Project; US$52.0 million,
January 1977.
Effective Date: August 26, 1977
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
Works are now proceeding as scheduled.
19. Ln No. 1357 Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$64.0 million, February
1977.
Effective Date: September 6, 1977.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1981.
The loan is being committed faster than anticipated. Withdrawal
applications for US$3.1 million equivalent have recently been received.
20. Ln No. 1450 Telecommunications IV; US$60 million, July 1977.
Effective Date: October 3, 1977.
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982.
Works are proceeding as scheduled.
21. Ln No. 1451 Second Small-Scale Industry Project; US$15 million,
September 1977.
Effective Date:  February 141-1978.
Closing Date:    December 31t 1980.
22. Ln No. 1471 Highways VII; US$90 million, July 1977.
Effective Date: November 28, 1977.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The Rehabilitation Program is underway, about three months behind
schedule. Stabilization works are being carried out, with work totalling
US$35.4 million completed; conditions for disbursement of loan funds for
this program are expected to be fulfilled shortly. Implementation of the
maintenance program is in process, about six months behind schedule. Prepara-
tion of studies is proceeding satisfactorily.
23. Ln No. 1487 Integrated Nutrition Improvement Project; US$25 million,
September 1977.
Effective Date: March 9, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Works are proceeding rapidly and coordination among institutions
is effective.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
SAN CARLOS I HYDRO POWER PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:         41 months
(b)  Agency which prepared project:         ISA
(c)  First presentation to Bank:            October 30, 1973
(d)  First mission to review project:       February 12, 1974
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:        April 13, 1977
(f) Completion of negotiations:
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:         September 1978
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
In view of the experience gained by ISA with the first two projects,
no special implementation actions are required.
Section III: Special Conditions
The following special assurances have been obtained:
(a) ISA and the shareholders would prepare a 1980-2000 Power
Sector Development Plan to be presented to the Bank no
later than December 31, 1979 (paragraph 34);
(b) until completion of the project, Bank approval would be
obtained before ISA would start construction of any generating
facility in excess of 200 MW and before the shareholders would
start construction of any generating facility in excess of
100 MW (paragraph 34);.
(c) consultants would be engaged under satisfactory terms of
reference to carry out a study of losses in the systems of ISA
and the shareholders (paragraph 46);
(d) any change in ISA's bylaws would require prior Bank approval
(paragraph 52);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) EEEB, EPM and CVC would make necessary funds available to cover
their shares of project costs, and the Government would provide
funds as and when needed to cover ICEL and CORELCA's shares
(paragraph 53);
(f) ISA would earn a rate of return on its revalued assets (other than
the 500 kV line to be constructed under another project) of 5.5% in
1978, 8% in 1979, 9% in 1980, 11% in 1981, and 9% in 1982 and
thereafter; on the interconnection line, ISA would earn 3% in 1982,
2% in 1983, 2.5% in 1984, 4% in 1985, 6% in 1986 and 9% from 1987
onwards; EEEB would earn a minimum of 12% in 1978 and thereafter;
EPM would earn 7% in 1978, 6% in 1979 and 9% in 1980 and thereafter;
CVC would earn 5% in 1978 and 9% thereafter; CVC would earn 5% in
1978 and 9% thereafter; CORELCA would earn 4% in 1978, 5% in 1970-80,
6% in 1981, 7% in 1982 and 9% from 1983 onwards (paragraphs 53 and
54);
(g) ISA's shareholders would reinvest in ISA all dividends or interest
due from the entity during the construction period, and thereafter
in any year that ISA would not achieve a 1.5 debt service ratio
(paragraph 55);
(h) ISA and the shareholders would prepare a review of ISA's 1979-85
finances for discussion with the Bank by December 31, 1978
(paragraph 55);
(i) during project execution, ISA will seek Bank concurrence before
undertaking any project costing in excess of 2.5% of its net
fixed assets in operation and before contracting any long-term
debt unless internal cash generation is more than 1.5 times its
maximum projected debt service requirement (paragraph 55);
(j)  the shareholders would carry out a study, to be reviewed by
the Bank no later than June 30, 1979, to seek ways to improve
the electricity tariff structure (paragraph 56); and
(k)  ISA would take adequate environmental measures for the project
area (paragraph 63).
Conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan would be: (a) satis-
factory progress by ISA in the evacuation of the site of the proposed project
(paragraph 44); (b) fulfillment of the conditions precedent to disbursement of
the US$70 million equivalent loan from IDB and satisfactory arrangements by
ISA for the balance of project financing (paragraph 50); and (c) the signing
of Chivor I sales contracts by ISA and its shareholders (paragraph 54).






I B R D 3948RI
=< b e Q r s e 7 COOMIA
ELECTRIC P'OWER SY$TE
INTEICONE)ON, ELECTRICA SA(ISA)
S(       H
A     M  E    C  A x                                                5A                                                    >_
ATLANTIC~~~~~~~~~~ALA 
COC EAN
t           =      ~~~~~~~C    r ib1 b e a rfn. tD              U                  
VENEZUELA
INW RC=ZKETION
,~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~Arouco
PAC I F IC
OCEAN   |
CHOCO                   -
RR*N0 0.(~~ /7                          tiO 
CCEAN  -. AUCAA                                                                A N
RISARAL-nA                                                Yopol~~~~~~~~0 k TASMSSO LNEY
>        UIN                         4x N 10
M- E  T                    A             IR-
*wt t. rsorez  p   z         |           ~~~~~~~~~~Nei                                                       4
_~~~ ~ ~~~~~ A-    ( UtA A                                            ISA'S PO>WER FACILITIES                  X0  
/   ^     /  O Florencio           p ~~~~~~~~~~~~SUBSTATIONS          CENTRAL SYSTEM
'x\ -'N  A R I N- 0                                                                                        1:: ~k TRANSMISSING USE:S NORTHEAST (ICEL)
<,   F                   Fbl,ro     IL                                 __ _ CORELCATRANSMISSION SYSTEM ONSTE  DEPARTMENT SOUNDARIES
\  |  Mocc                                POWER PLANT                 -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
ECUADOR                 )          a       PUTUM O                     ....... 230kVTRANSMISSIONLINES



