Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H362-DRC 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing For Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project) 
 
between 
 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated May 26, 2008
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H362-DRC 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
Agreement dated May 26, 2008, entered into between DEMOCRATIC 
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
 
(
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for 
activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  
The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, in the 
Original Financing Agreement or in the Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to 
thirty one million and three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 31,300,000) 
(“Financing”) to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
2.05 
The Payment Currency is the Dollar. 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the 
Program. To this end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through the Project 
Team in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
(a) The 
Project 
Team 
Arrêté
 or any texts pertaining to the operation of 
Project Team shall have been breached, amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived, unless otherwise agreed upon with the Association, 
or other text shall have been passed or actions taken that may impair the 
ability of the Project Team to implement the Project. 
(b) 
The contract between the Recipient and the FMA shall have been 
breached, amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived. 
(c) 
The independent technical auditors satisfactory to the Association 
referred to in Section II. A. 2 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement have 
not been recruited by March 31, 2009. 
(d) 
Any Implementation Agreement shall have been breached, amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived, unless otherwise agreed upon 
with the Association.
 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consists of the following: 
(a) 
The Co-financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Recipient to 
make withdrawals under it (other than the effectiveness of this 
Agreement) have been fulfilled. 
Page  4
-
3
-
(b) 
The Project Team has been established and is operational including, the 
recruitment of the staff shown in Appendix 2 to this Agreement. 
(c) 
The FMA Contract has been entered into. 
(d) 
The MFAP and the PIM have been updated, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, and adopted by the Recipient. 
(e) 
The audit of Financial Statements, for the period ended June 30, 2007, 
acceptable to the Association, has been completed and submitted to the 
Association. 
(f) 
The Recipient has employed the independent external auditors referred to 
in Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions, in accordance with the 
provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
(g) The 
Project 
Team 
Arrêté
 has been adopted. 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
Page  5
-
4
-
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister at the time in charge of Finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 Minister 
of 
Finance 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
2008 Boulevard du 30 juin 
 BP 
12997 
 
Kinshasa I - Gombe 
 
Democratic Republic of Congo 
 Facsimile: 
+243 880 23 81 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
Page  6
-
5
-
AGREED at Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of Congo, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO 
 
By: 
 
 
 
/s/ Athanase Matenda Kyelu 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By:  
 
/s/ Marie Françoise Marie-Nelly 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in creating long-term 
sustainable social development and supporting macroeconomic stability in its territory 
through the: (a) demobilization of approximately 150,000
 
Ex-Combatants, while 
providing support for their reinsertion and social and economic reintegration; and (b) 
contribution to reallocation of the Recipient’s resulting budget savings from defense to 
social and economic sectors. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
 
Part A
:
Demobilization
Support to sensitization, identification, and pre-discharge orientation, including: 
delivery of identification cards, collection of key socio-economic data, and provision of 
limited transportation to special groups and Ex-Combatants and their families, through 
the provision of technical advisory services as needed and transportation services. 
Part B
:
Reinsertion
Transitional assistance to Ex-Combatants through the provision of TSA and 
small works. 
Part C
:
Reintegration of Ex-Combatants
Support to the socio-economic reintegration of Ex-Combatants through the 
provision of goods such as small agricultural equipment; training; and technical advisory 
services. 
Part D
:
Special Target Groups
Support to special target groups defined in the PIM, and in particular: (i) for the 
social and economic reintegration of female Ex-Combatants by: ensuring that special 
needs be taken into consideration; equal benefits be granted; strengthening gender 
awareness and monitoring the impact of the Program, all through the provision of 
technical advisory services; (ii) for economic assistance of disabled and chronically ill 
Page  8
-
7
-
Ex-Combatants through the provision of works, goods, technical advisory services and 
training; and (iii) for the social and economic reintegration of children associated with 
Armed Forces and Armed Groups by providing family tracing and reunification, 
counseling, psycho-social care, facilitation of access to education in communities of 
settlement through the provision of goods and technical advisory services. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2009. 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 2
 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
1. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall: (i) apply the 
criteria, policies, procedures and arrangements set out in the Project Manuals; 
and (ii) not amend or waive, or permit to be amended or waived, the Project 
Manuals, or any provision thereof. 
2. 
The Recipient shall, at all times during the execution of the Project: 
 
(a) 
maintain the Project Team in form and with functions satisfactory to the 
Association and with staff in adequate numbers, not exceeding twenty 
one people, and with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the 
Association, responsible for annual planning and programming, detailed 
costing, day-to-day implementation of Project activities and 
coordination, including with the relevant Recipient agencies, the private 
sector, UN agencies and international donor agencies, disbursement, 
contract management, monitoring and evaluation, and reporting to the 
MD and the Association, all in compliance with the Project Manuals.  
(b) 
cause the Project Team to: (i) employ at all times the staff shown in 
Appendix 2 to this Agreement, with experience and qualifications and 
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) be 
managed by a project administrator recruited in accordance with the 
provision of Section III of this Schedule to be responsible for the daily 
management of the Project, including the submission of requests for no 
objections from the Association, and to have joint signature with the 
FMA on the Designated Account and to be designated as signatory for 
withdrawal applications. 
(c) 
employ, as required, short-term technical experts with qualifications and 
experience and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association. 
(d) 
enter into and maintain throughout the life of the Project an agreement 
with the FMA (the “FMA Contract”) in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association, including proper staffing by the FMA. 
Page  10
-
9
-
(e) 
enter into contract with individuals or firms, with qualifications and 
experience and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, 
to establish provincial antennas, in locations to be agreed upon with the 
Association, in charge of: (i) updating the inventory of projects and 
training and employment providers; (ii) referring Ex-Combatants to 
reintegration projects; (iii) monitoring and reporting on the status of 
training of Ex-Combatants; (iv) technical monitoring of reintegration 
activities; and (v) liaising with institutions at the local level, non-
governmental institutions, and other reconstruction bodies in order to 
create synergies and further opportunities for Ex-Combatants. 
(f) 
enter into and maintain throughout the life of the Project, unless 
otherwise agreed upon with the Association, the following agreements all 
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association 
(the 
“Implementation Agreements”): 
 
(i) 
with FAO to carry out animal/husbandry, agriculture, fishing 
activities in the following Provinces: Bas Congo, Bandundu, 
Equateur, Katanga, Kinshasa, North Kivu, South Kivu and 
Maniema; 
 
(ii) 
with CARITAS to carry out animal/husbandry and agriculture 
activities in the Kasai Occidental, Kasai Oriental and Province 
Orientale, and skill training in Kasai Occidental and income 
generating activities in Kasai Occidental and Province Orientale; 
 
(iii) 
with INPP to carry out skill training and income generating 
activities in the Bas Congo and South Katanga Provinces; 
 
(iv) 
with BIT to carry out skill training and income generating 
activities in the following Provinces: Bandundu, Equateur, North 
Kivu, South Kivu and Maniema;  
 
(v) 
with ADEKOR to carry out skill training and income generating 
activities in the Kasai Oriental Province; 
 
(vi) 
with IFESH to carry out skill training and income generating 
activities in the Katanga Province; 
 
(vii) 
with GTZ to carry out skill training and income generating 
activities in the Kinshasa Province; 
Page  11
-
10 -
 
(viii) 
with UNHABITAT to carry out skill training activities in the 
Province Orientale. 
 
(viii) 
with BIO ID to provide all Ex-combatants with non falsifiable 
demobilization cards and CELL PAY to provide TSA to the Ex-
combatants upon demobilization and in every province. 
 
(ix) 
with UNICEF to carry out interim care, tracing and reunification 
and reintegration activities for children associated with armed 
groups. 
(g) 
enter into contracts with individuals, with qualifications and experience 
and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, to establish 
a
short-term operations cell within the Project Team to: (i) deploy and 
coordinate mobile teams for demobilization; (ii) coordinate with 
MONUC and SMI on operations; (iii) coordinate transportation of 
limited numbers of Ex combatants; (iv) coordinate with CELPAY and 
BIO-ID on the carrying out of their activities; and (v) ensure that CELL 
PAY and BIO-ID are informed of all plans related to demobilization. 
3. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section II of this Schedule, the Recipient 
shall, no later than January 31, 2009, furnish to the Association: (i) an 
independent audit report of the payment of TSA to Ex combatants with a list of 
Ex-combatants; and (2) a technical evaluation detailing information on the 
purposes for which the TSA payments were utilized by a sample of Ex-
Combatants as well as the income-generation and economic status and extent of 
social reintegration of such sample of Ex-Combatants. 
B. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
C. Safeguards
 
The Recipient shall, before the start of any civil works, carry out an 
Environmental Impact Assessment satisfactory to the Association for the planned 
works.  The EIA report shall be disclosed to the public within 30 days after its 
completion, both in the country and in the World Bank InfoShop. 
Page  12
-
11 -
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 
4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth 
below in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph. Each Project Report shall 
cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than one month after the end of the period covered 
by such report. 
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) 
consist of the following: 
(i) 
Ex-Combatants receive their reinsertion payments upon 
demobilization, and 100% of their TSA within four (4) months 
of their demobilization. 
(ii) 
10,000 Ex-Combatants are demobilized within three months of 
the Effective Date. 
(iii) 
By the Closing Date, demobilized disabled Ex-Combatants are 
provided with support appropriate to their condition. 
(iv) 
Throughout Project’s implementation, less than 5% error (double 
or incorrect payments) occur when extending TSA. 
(v) 
60% of demobilized Ex-Combatants are engaged in productive 
economic activities (or schooling) within three months of their 
demobilization. 
(vi) 
By the Closing Date, 80% of the children associated with Armed 
Forces and Armed Groups are successfully reintegrated. 
2. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(a) 
no later than March 31, 2009, recruit independent technical auditors 
satisfactory to the Association to carry out an external evaluation of the 
implementation of the Project, including review of procurement, 
Page  13
-
12 -
 
statements of expenditures, and non moveable assets as well as verifying 
the physical existence of goods, equipments and services acquired or 
delivered throughout the Project; and 
(b) 
no later than September 30, 2009 furnish to the Association an audit 
report prepared by said technical auditors. 
3. 
For purposes of Section 4.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the 
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one semester of the Recipient, 
commencing with the fiscal semester in which the first withdrawal under the 
Project Preparation Advance was made. The audited Financial Statements for 
each such period shall be furnished to the Association not later than four months 
after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
1. 
No contract under the Original Project shall be extended under this Financing. 
All contracts under this Financing shall be new contracts. 
2. 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
Page  14
-
13 -
 
3. 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirement set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
4
.
Definitions.
 The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services other 
than Consultants Services
1.
 
Goods and Services other than Consultants Services.  
All goods and services 
other than consultants’ services, including air or land transportation
 
services, 
shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
2
.
Works. 
All works
 
shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
either Limited International Bidding or Direct Contracting. The Procurement 
Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-Based Selection.
 Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs 
2, 3 and 4
 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of Quality- and Cost-Based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-Based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services. The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
Procurement Method
 
(a) Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications (CQS) 
(b) Singe-Source Selection (SSS) 
(c) Selection of Individual Consultants 
(d) Least Cost Selection (LCS) 
3.
 
Procurement for demobilization cards and reinsertion Services
.
The 
provision of demobilization cards and reinsertion payments shall be provided by 
the Implementation Partners described in Section I A. 2 (f) of this Schedule. 
Page  15
-
14 -
 
These consultants will be procured by Single Source Selection with the prior 
review and clearance by the Association and only if, for each request, 
accompanied by a written request with full rationale from the Recipient. 
4. 
Procurement for Consultant Provided Reintegration Services.  
Reintegration 
services will be provided by the
 
Strategic Partners described in Section I A.2 (f) 
of this Schedule. These consultants will be procured by Single Source Selection 
and by province and specialty with the prior review and clearance by the 
Association and only if, for each request, accompanied by a written request with 
full rationale from the Recipient. 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association: (a) 
each contract for goods or works
 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more and each contract procured on the basis of Direct Contracting; (b) each 
contract for consultants
’
services provided by a firm estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more; (c) each contract for consultants services by an 
individual estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; (d) each contract 
for consultants’ services procured on the basis of Single Source Selection; and (e) 
each contract for transportation services estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Association. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated 
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Page  16
-
15 -
 
Category 
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated (expressed in 
SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Works 
 
15,000 
100% 
(2) Goods 
 
15,000 
100%  
(3) Consultant Services 
 
20,500,000 
100%  
(4) Transitional Subsistence 
Allowances 
 6,100,000  100% 
 
(5) Transportation Services 
 
1,250,000 
100% 
(6) Operating Costs 
 
620,000 
100% 
(7) Refund of Project 
Preparation Advance 
 2,500,000  Amount 
payable 
pursuant to Section 
2.07 of the General 
Conditions 
(8) Unallocated 
 
300,000 
100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 31,300,000 
 
3. 
For purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) The 
t
erm “Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred by the 
Project Team on account of Project implementation, management and 
monitoring, including office space rental and utilities, small works, office space 
security, security for Project records, office supplies including computer supplies, 
bank charges, communications, vehicle operation, maintenance and insurance, 
building insurance, building and equipment maintenance costs, travel and 
supervision costs and salaries of staff of the Project Team each to be satisfactory 
to the Association and as shown in Appendix 2, but excluding salaries of officials 
of the Recipient’s civil service. 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
Page  17
-
16 -
 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,200,000 equivalent may 
be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after February 1, 2008, 
for Eligible Expenditures. 
2.
 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2010. 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
1. 
No later than three months after the Date of Effectiveness, the Recipient shall 
have entered into a contract satisfactory to the Association for the provision of 
care, family reunification and reintegration of about 8,000 children from the 
Armed Forces and Armed Groups. 
2. 
No later than three months after the Date of Effectiveness, a program for female 
Ex-Combatants, satisfactory to the Association, shall have become effective. 
Page  18
-
17 -
 
APPENDIX 1 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
“Adekor” means Association Développement du Kasaï Oriental, a not for profit 
corporation operating in the Recipient’s territories. 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
3. 
“BIO ID” means a corporation established in Kinshasa for the purposes of 
providing secure identification to Ex-Combatants. 
4. 
“BIT” means Bureau International du Travail. 
5. 
“CARITAS” means Caritas Développement Congo, a non-profit corporation 
operating in the Recipient’s territories.  
6. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
7. 
“Cell Pay” means a corporation established in Kinshasa for the purposes of 
providing cell phone services. 
8. 
“Co-financier” means the African Development Bank, referred to in paragraph 
10 of the Appendix to the General Conditions. 
9. 
“Co-financing” means an amount of twenty two million US dollars 
($22,000,000), to be provided by the Co-financier to assist in financing the 
Project. 
10. 
“Co-financing Agreement” means the agreement entered into between the 
Recipient and the Co-financier providing for the Co-financing. 
11. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
Page  19
-
18 -
 
12. 
“EIA” means the Environmental Impact Assessment, satisfactory to the 
Association which must be prepared and disclosed to the public before any civil 
works financed under the Project are carried out. 
13. 
“FAO” means the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. 
14. 
“FMA” means the independent Fiduciary Management Agency with qualification 
satisfactory to the Association, recruited to carry out the financial management 
and procurement functions of the Project and to serve as a signatory on the 
Recipient’s requests to withdraw proceeds of the Financing. 
15. 
“FMA Contract” means the agreement satisfactory to the Association to be 
entered into between the Recipient and the FMA.  
16. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006). 
17. 
“GTZ” means Deutsche Gessellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit. 
18. 
“IFESH” means International Foundation for Education and Self-Help. 
19. 
“Implementation Agreements” means the contracts satisfactory to the 
Association to be entered into between the Recipient and the Strategic Partners 
entities listed in Schedule 2 I. 2. (f) of this Agreement. 
20. “INPP” 
means 
Institut National de Préparation Professionnelle
.
21. 
“MD” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Defense and Veterans Affairs. 
22. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the development grant agreement for an 
Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration
 
Project between the Recipient and 
the Association, dated June 10, 2004 as amended to the date of this Agreement 
(Grant No H089). 
23. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
Page  20
-
19 -
 
24. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006. 
25. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated March 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
26. 
“Project Manuals” means, collectively, the PIM and the MFAP. 
27. 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the advance referred to in Section 2.07 of 
the General Conditions, granted by the Association to the Recipient pursuant to 
the letter agreement dated April 15, 2008. 
28. 
“Project Team” means the team recruited by the Recipient with functions and 
staffing satisfactory to the Association, established within UEPN to act as the 
Project’s implementing team, as set forth in this Agreement, including its 
appendix 2. 
29. “Project 
Team 
Arrêté
”
means the Ministry of Defense 
Arrêté
 Ministerial, to be 
adopted by the Recipient pursuant Section 5.01 (g) of this Agreement. 
30. 
“SMI” means 
Structure Militaire d’Intégration,
 the entity responsible for the 
planning and implementation of the strategy for army reform. 
31. 
“Strategic Partners” means implementing partners listed in Schedule 2 I. 2. (f) to 
this Agreement who have established existing institutional capacity in country 
(operationally, programmatic, financial and structural) to provide specialized 
services without delay and with the need for minimum supervision. 
32. 
“Transportation Services” means the limited provision of transportation 
assistance to Ex-Combatants and their families, children from the fighting forces 
and handicapped and chronically ill who may qualify for special transportation 
assistance. 
33. “UEPN” 
means 
Unité d’Exécution du Programme National de Désarmement, 
Démobilisation et de Réinsertion
,
an entity established and operating pursuant to 
Ordonnance No 07/057 dated July 14, 2007, 
“
portant création organisation et 
fonctionnement de l’unité d’exécution du programme national de désarmement 
démobilisation et réinsertion
”. 
Page  21
-
20 -
 
34. 
“UNHABITAT” means the United Nations Center for Human Settlement.  
35. 
“UNICEF” means the United Nations Children’s Fund. 
Page  22
-
21 -
 
APPENDIX 2 
–
PROJECT TEAM STAFF
 
The Project Team is composed of the following staff, eligible to be financed under the 
Project as 
“Operating Costs”: 
Staffing - Kinshasa 
Number
Project Administrator 
1
Reintegration Manager 
1
Operations Advisor 
1
Monitoring and Evaluations Advisor 
1
Planning Specialist 
1
Monitoring and Evaluation Technical Specialists 
4
Vulnerable Groups Technical Specialist 
1
MIS Specialist 
1
Database Specialist 
1
Human Resources/Administration/Logistics Specialists  
2
Secretary/Receptionist 
4
Database Assistant 
1
Drivers 
2
Total Kinshasa
21
Consultants are not permanent staff of the Project Team and will be recruited on a short-
term basis based on the needs of the project.  Field officers at the provincial level (not 
exceeding 16) will be recruited based on the number of ex combatants in that region to be 
registered and referred to projects and will be provided with short-term consultant 
contracts. 
 
Marie Roger Augustin 
M:\!WP-DOC\CONGO DRC\Projects\Demobilization II\Additional Financing\Signing\FA (Signing).doc 
05/07/2008 4:32:00 PM
 
