Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER TF054242 DRC 
 
Multi-Country Demobilization and  
Reintegration Program  
Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
 
(Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project) 
 
between 
 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(
acting as administrator of the Multi-Country Demobilization and 
Reintegration Program Trust Fund)
 
Dated October 26, 2004 
 
Page  2
CONFORMED COPY 
GRANT NUMBER TF054242 DRC 
 
MDRP GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated October 26, 2004, between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association), acting as administrator of the  
Multi-Country Demobilization and Reintegration Program Trust Fund (MDRP) in respect of 
grant funds provided by certain members of the Association as participants of the MDRP, 
and the DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO (the Recipient);  
WHEREAS (A) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to 
assist in the financing of the Project, through a Grant (the MDRP Grant); 
(B) 
by a Development Grant Agreement dated June 10, 2004 between the 
Recipient and the Association for the Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project 
(the Project), the Association granted to the Recipient an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to sixty-eight million and one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights  
(SDR 68,100,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in 
the Development Grant Agreement; and 
 
(C) 
the Recipient hereby confirms its support for, and its commitment to, the 
objectives of the Project to be financed by the MDRP Grant, and to this end, hereby undertakes 
to take all action necessary or appropriate to enable the Recipient to carry out its obligations set 
forth in this Agreement; 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the MDRP Grant to the Recipient on the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 2004), 
with the modifications set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions, the Development Grant 
Agreement, and in the Recitals to this Agreement have the respective meanings and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan, covering the 
initial 18-month period (or longer) of Project implementation, as the same shall be updated 
from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to 
cover succeeding 18-month periods (or longer) of Project implementation;  
(b) 
“Semester” means any six-month period beginning on January 1st or  
July 1st of each calendar year; and 
(c) 
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Grant
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equivalent to  
one hundred million Dollars ($100,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the MDRP Grant may be withdrawn from the 
MDRP Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works, services and payment of TSA required for carrying out the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the MDRP Grant. 
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in  
US Dollars two separate special deposit accounts, one for the Category (4) of paragraph 1 of 
Page  4
-
3
-
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (Special Account A), and one for the Categories (1), (2), (3) 
and (5) of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement (Special Account B), each in a 
commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out 
of the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule 5 
to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be February 28, 2007, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out, through 
CONADER, the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, technical and demobilization practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the implementation program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works, and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the MDRP Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan. 
(b) 
The Recipient shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Association. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, a plan designed 
to ensure the continued achievement of the Project objective; and 
Page  5
-
4
-
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan. 
Section 3.04. Within three months from the Date of Effectiveness, the Recipient 
shall have established a management information system functional and
 
satisfactory to the 
Association. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall establish and maintain a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and those for the Special Accounts, for each semester (or 
other period determined by the Association) audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four (4) months after the end of each semester (or other 
period determined by the Association), (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for 
such semester (or other period determined by the Association) as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
Page  6
-
5
-
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the MDRP 
Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: 
(i) 
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, records 
and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least two years after the Association has received the 
audit report for the semester (or other period determined by the 
Association) in which the last withdrawal from the MDRP Grant 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
(iv) 
ensure that such reports or statements of expenditures are included 
in the audit for each semester (or other period determined by the 
Association) referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section III
 
of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Recipient shall 
prepare, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association an FMR, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth actual and projected sources and uses of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
showing separately funds provided under the MDRP Grant, and 
explains variances between the actual and projected sources and 
uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains 
variances between the previously forecast and actual 
implementation targets; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end 
of the period covered by said report. 
Page  7
-
6
-
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days 
after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
Section 4.03. The Recipient shall: 
(a) 
have a technical audit, the conditions of which are defined in more details in 
the Project Implementation Manual, carried out for each semester (or other period 
determined by the Association) to assess the performance of the Program and to review 
procurement, statements of expenditures, and immobilizations as well as verifying the 
physical existence of goods, equipments and services acquired throughout the Project, by 
independent technical auditors acceptable to the Association; and 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
three months after the end of the semester (or other period determined by the Association) a 
report prepared by said technical auditors on said technical audit. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified: 
(a) 
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out;  
(b) 
the CONADER Decree, the CIDDR Decree, the CGFDR Decree, the 
CONADER 
Arrêté
 or any texts enacted for their application shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to materially and adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project; 
 
(c) 
the Development Grant Agreement has not come into effectiveness by 
December 31, 2004; and 
(d) 
the Grant has been suspended or cancelled for any reason whatsoever. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
Page  8
-
7
-
Effectiveness; Termination
 
Section 6.01. This MDRP Grant Agreement will become effective as of the date 
upon which the Development Grant Agreement will become effective. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  9
-
8
-
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
Section 7.01.  The Minister of the Recipient responsible for Finance is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
Minister of Finance 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Boulevard du 30 juin  
BP 12997 
 
Kinshasa I - Gombe 
 
Democratic Republic of Congo 
 
Facsimile: 
 
243 880 23 81 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477 6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the 
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO 
 
By /s/ Mukendi Tambo a Kabila  
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Emmanuel Mbi 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the MDRP Grant 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the MDRP Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the MDRP Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Grant Allocated 
 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Civil 
works 
100,000 
  100% 
(2) Goods 
23,500,000 
 100% 
(3) 
Consultants’ services 
26,300,000 
 
100% 
(including audits) and training 
 
 
 
(4) Transitional 
Subsistence 
32,000,000 
100% 
 
Allowance 
(5) Operating 
Costs 
16,600,000 
 
100% 
(6) Unallocated 
1,500,000  
 
 
__________                
 TOTAL 
100,000,000 
 
========= 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
“Foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any country 
other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Recipient; 
(b) 
“Local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the Recipient or 
for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient;  
(c) 
“TSA” means the grants referred to in Section 1.02 (x) of the Development 
Grant Agreement; and 
Page  12
-
11
-
(d) 
“Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred on account of 
Project implementation, management and monitoring, including office space rental and 
utilities, office supplies, reasonable bank charges, communications, vehicle operation, 
maintenance and insurance, building and equipment maintenance costs, travel and 
supervision costs, and salaries of supporting staff, but excluding salaries of officials of the 
Recipient’s civil service. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made 
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of US$20,000,000, may 
be made on account of payments made for Eligible Expenditures before that date but after 
May, 31, 2004. 
4. 
It is understood that the percentages in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule have 
been calculated on the basis of the provisions of the 
arrêté ministériel 
 
No. 003/CAB/MIN/FIN/2004 portant dispositions particulières applicables aux marchés 
publics à financement extérieur
,
which exempt the goods, services and works to be financed 
under the Project from taxes and customs duties levied by the Recipient. If any change is 
made to said 
arrêté
,
which has the effect of levying taxes or customs duties on such goods, 
services or works, the percentages referred to above may be decreased in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions. 
5. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the MDRP Grant Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) civil works under 
contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent each; (b) goods under contracts costing less 
than $150,000 equivalent each; (c) services under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent each for consulting firms and less than $50,000 equivalent each for individual 
consultants; (d) TSA; and (e) Operating Costs, each under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in creating long-term 
sustainable social development and supporting macroeconomic stability in its territory 
through the: (a) demobilization of approximately 150,000
 
Ex-Combatants, while providing 
support for their reinsertion and social and economic reintegration; and (b) contribution to 
reallocation of Recipient’s resulting budget savings from defense to social and economic 
sectors. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as 
the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A:
Demobilization 
Support to sensitization, identification, and pre-discharge orientation including: 
delivery of identification cards, collection of key socio-economic data and medical 
screening, through the provision of goods, works and technical advisory services as needed. 
Part B:
Reinsertion
Transitional assistance to Ex-Combatants through the provision of basic need kits, 
technical advisory services and training, as well as TSA. 
Part C:
Reintegration of Ex-Combatants
Support to the reintegration of Ex-Combatants both (i) economic through the 
provision of: goods such as small agricultural equipment; training; and advisory services in 
particular for the promotion of income generating activities; and (ii) social by developing 
and carrying out of community level programs to promote reconciliation through the 
provision of technical advisory services. 
Part D:
Special Target Groups
Support to special target groups defined in the Project Implementation Manual, and 
in particular:  (i) for the social and economic reintegration of female Ex-Combatants by: 
ensuring that special needs be taken into consideration in Demobilization Centers; equal 
benefits be granted; the provision of counseling services; strengthening gender awareness 
and capacity within CONADER; and monitoring the impact of the Program, all through the 
Page  14
-
13
-
provision of technical advisory services; (ii) for the medical and economic assistance of 
disabled and chronically ill Ex-Combatants through the provision of works, goods, technical 
advisory services and training; (iii) for the social and economic reintegration of children 
associated with Armed Forces and Armed Groups by providing family tracing and 
unification, trauma counseling, psycho-social care, facilitation of access to education and 
recreation in communities of settlement through the provision of goods and technical 
advisory services; and (iv) for the medical and economic assistance of Ex-Combatants who 
are HIV positive through the provision of works, goods technical advisory services and 
training.  
Part E:
Institutional Development and Program Implementation Support 
Strengthening the capacity of the Re
cipient’s institutions at the central and local 
level to carry out and support activities under the Project through the provision of training 
and technical advisory services, and acquisition of vehicles and equipment, the financing of 
Operating Costs and the carrying out of audits.
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2007. 
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
I. 
Procurement of Good and Works
A. General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of  
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published 
by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section. 
B. International 
Competitive 
Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
C. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 
3.4 of the Guidelines; and 
 
(b) 
Works estimated to cost more than $100,000 equivalent per contract and 
less than $500,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2. 
International or National Shopping
Drugs, reagents, medical equipment estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent 
per contract and other goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international or national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. Direct 
contracting
Page  16
-
15
-
Goods which must be purchased from the original supplier of existing equipment in 
order to be compatible with such equipment, or which are of a proprietary nature may be 
procured, with the Association’s prior agreement, from a particular manufacturer or an 
authorized local supplier in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines. 
4. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
Goods, including vehicles, motorcycles, computers, drugs and medical supplies may 
be procured through United Nations Agencies (IAPSO, UNFPA, UNICEF, WHO, WFP, 
etc.) in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
5. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under lump sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from 
three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to 
complete the contract successfully. 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed semi-annual 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1. 
Page  17
-
16
-
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost $150,000 
equivalent or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply; and 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost $200,000 
equivalent or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.  
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
II. 
Employment of Consultants
A. General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World 
Bank Recipients” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997, 
January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 thereto, 
Appendix 2 thereto; and (b) the following provisions of this Section. 
B. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section
 
II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable 
to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract 
may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
 
paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  18
-
17
-
C. 
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for financial audits estimated to cost less than $75,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for training, technical advisory services and implementation support for 
Special Target Groups and HIV/AIDS activities estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. UN 
Agencies
Technical assistance services may be procured under contracts with UN agencies in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. 
Single Source Selection
Technical advisory services and services for activities such as the transfer of funds 
may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
5. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.  
D. 
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost estimates, 
contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests 
Page  19
-
18
-
for proposals. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in  
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the 
qualifications and experience of candidates, the qualifications, experience terms of reference 
and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have 
been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
also apply to such contracts. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  20
-
19
-
SCHEDULE 4
 
Implementation Program 
I. 
Project Coordination and Management
1. 
The Recipient shall at all times during the implementation of the Project maintain 
CIDDR, CONADER and CGFDR in form and with functions satisfactory to the Association.  
2. 
CIDDR shall be responsible for designing general orientations, policy formulation, 
general supervision of the implementation of demobilization and reintegration activities, as 
well as ensuring coordination with defense sector reform activities and policies.  
3. 
CONADER shall be responsible for overall coordination, management and 
implementation of the Program, and in particular: (i) the preparation of annual 
implementation plans and detailed costing; (ii) the implementation and coordination of the 
Program components, and to this end shall work in close collaboration with the relevant 
Recipient agencies as well as local community organizations and associations, the private 
sector, and UN agencies; (iii) monitoring and evaluation of Program implementation 
progress and impacts; and (iv) coordination with international donor agencies. The Recipient 
shall maintain at all times during the implementation of the Project CONADER with the 
following five departments with staff recruited through a competitive process and with terms 
of reference satisfactory to the Association: disarmament and demobilization, reinsertion/re-
integration, administration and finance, children associated with Armed Groups, and 
information and sensitization. 
4. 
CONADER shall be represented in each Province by a PPO which shall report to 
CONADER and whose staff shall be satisfactory to the Association. PPOs shall have the 
following responsibilities: (i) 
updating the inventory of projects and training and 
employment providers; (ii) conducting outreach activities, including counseling and referral, 
and providing support to income-generating activities; (iii) managing the work of  
Ex-Combatants outreach personnel; (iv) technical and financial monitoring of reintegration 
activities, especially at the community level; and (v) liaising with Recipient institutions at 
the local level, non-governmental institutions, and other reconstruction bodies. 
5. 
CGFDR shall ensure, in a transparent manner, financial management and 
procurement activities necessary to the Project, and ensure proper reporting to CONADER. 
6. 
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the PIM and MFAP, 
and shall not amend or waive any provision thereof, which in the opinion of the Association 
shall materially or adversely impact the implementation of the Project. The PIM shall 
specify the detailed rules and processes for demobilization, including identification and 
Page  21
-
20
-
screening of Ex-Combatants; the criteria, procedures and terms and conditions of reinsertion 
and reintegration assistance to Ex-Combatants, in particular the allocation of TSA; the 
verification of assistance packages; and the flow of funds to Ex-Combatants and verification 
of the use of such funds by Ex-Combatants for the intended purposes. 
7. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 4.01 to 4.03 of this Agreement, the 
Recipient shall, at the end of each first two quarters from the Date of Effectiveness, and 
semiannually thereafter, or upon the request of the Association, furnish to the Association: 
(i) a list of Ex-Combatants, (ii) an independent audit report confirming that a statistically 
representative sample of Ex-Combatants have received their TSA in accordance with the 
Project Implementation Manual; and (iii) information on the purposes for which the 
TSA payments were utilized by the sample of Ex-Combatants as well as the income-
generation and economic status and extent of social reintegration of such sample of Ex-
Combatants. 
II. Safeguard 
Policies
1. 
The Recipient shall, within six months of the Date of Effectiveness, conduct the EA, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, and shall prepare the ESF, as needed, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, on the basis of the EA, and the ESMP, 
as needed, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, on the basis of the ESF.  
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with the provisions 
of the aforementioned, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall not amend or waive any provision of the aforementioned, if such amendment or waiver 
may, in the opinion of the Association, materially or adversely affect the implementation of 
the Project. 
III. 
Monitoring and Evaluation
1. 
The Recipient shall:  
(a) 
maintain and apply policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association including those provided for in Schedule 7 in this Agreement, the carrying out 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the  Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about March 31 in each year, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph
 
(a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
Page  22
-
21
-
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Association, by April 30 in each year, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the 
said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
2. 
The Recipient shall carry out no later than December 31 every year an external 
evaluation of the implementation of the Project, including an analysis of environmental and 
social monitoring indicators, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
communicate to the Association the results of such evaluation. 
 
Page  23
-
22
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Accounts 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means in respect of Special Account A 
Category (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and in 
respect of Special Account B Categories (1) (2) (3) and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 
1
of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services as well as TSA required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the MDRP Grant allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount of $3,000,000 in respect 
Special Account A and an amount of $5,000,000 in respect Special Account B to be 
withdrawn from the MDRP Grant Account and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent of 
$1,500,000 in respect Special Account A and to an amount equivalent of $2,500,000 in 
respect Special Account B until: (i) in respect Special Account A the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the MDRP Grant Account allocated to Category (4) plus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to  
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Part B the Project shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of $10,000,000 and (ii) in respect Special Account B the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the MDRP Grant allocated to Categories (1), (2), (3) and (5) plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Part A, C, D and E of the Project shall be equal to 
or exceed the equivalent of $30,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as 
follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of an 
Page  24
-
23
-
amount or amounts, which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the MDRP Grant Account and deposit into the respective Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Recipient 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the 
respective Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall 
specify.  
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the MDRP Grant Account and deposit 
into the respective Special Account such amount as the Recipient 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
respective Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such 
deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the MDRP 
Grant Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the respective Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the MDRP Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of 
the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
Page  25
-
24
-
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from 
the MDRP Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the MDRP Grant allocated to the 
eligible Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the MDRP Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the MDRP Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures, 
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Association, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide 
such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the respective 
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association 
into any Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund 
to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
Page  26
-
25
-
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the MDRP Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
Page  27
-
26
-
SCHEDULE 6 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
1. 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04 (a), 3.04 (b), 3.05, 6.05, Article VII, are deleted in their 
entirety. 
 
2. 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are modified to read 
as follows: 
(a) 
The term “Borrower” is modified to read “Recipient”; 
(b) 
The term “Credit” is modified to read “MDRP Grant”; 
(c) 
The term “credit” is modified to read “MDRP grant”; except that where 
used in Sections 6.02 (a) (ii) and 6.02 (c) (i), as modified below, the term 
“credit” shall continue to read “credit”;  
(d) 
The term “Credit Account” is modified to read “MDRP Grant Account”; 
and 
(e) 
The term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read 
 
“Multi-Country Demobilization and Reintegration Program Trust Fund 
Grant Agreement”. 
 
3. 
Section 6.02 is modified as follows: 
(a) 
The phrase “any other development credit agreement” in 
 
Section 6.02 (a) (ii) is modified to read: “any other Multi-Country 
Demobilization and Reintegration Program Trust Fund Grant Agreement, 
development grant agreement or any development credit agreement or 
development financing agreement”. 
(b) 
The phrase “any development credit agreement” in Section 6.02 (c) (i) is 
modified to read:  “any Multi-Country Demobilization and Reintegration 
Program Trust Fund Grant Agreement, development grant agreement, 
development credit agreement or development financing agreement”. 
Page  28
-
27
-
4. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.06 is modified to read as follows: 
“(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, 
the Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits 
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Recipient and the 
Association of their respective obligations under the Multi-Country 
Demobilization and Reintegration Program Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Grant.” 
5. 
Section 12.05 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
“Section 12.05.
 
Termination of the Multi-Country Demobilization and 
Reintegration Program Trust Fund Grant Agreement. 
The obligations of the Recipient under the Multi-Country Demobilization 
and Reintegration Program Trust Fund Grant Agreement shall terminate on 
the date 20 years after the date of the Development Grant Agreement.” 
Page  29
-
28
-
SCHEDULE 7 
Performance Indicators
 
1. 
30,000 Ex-Combatants are demobilized by the end of the first year of the Project; 
and an additional 80,000 Ex-Combatants are demobilized by the end of the second year of 
the Project; 
2. 
Eligible Ex-Combatants receive their first reinsertion payment upon discharge from 
demobilization sites and 80% of their TSA within nine (9) months of their demobilization; 
3. 
An external evaluation of the implementation of the Project is carried out annually in 
accordance with Section III.2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and includes an analysis of 
environmental and social monitoring indicators;  
4. 
The ratio between social sector expenditures and defense expenditures increases 
each year of the project from the 2002 baseline of 23%; 
5. 
Withdrawal requests are made in a timely fashion; 
6. 
Orientation centers are established according to the timeline in the joint operation 
plan; 
7. 
Less than 5% error (double or incorrect payments) made in reinsertion payments; 
8. 
60%  of  demobilized  Ex-Combatants  engaged  in  productive  economic   activities 
(or schooling) 1 year after receiving their final payment; 
9. 
A program for female Ex-Combatants active within 6 months of beginning of 
demobilization process; and 
10. 
70% of children associated with Armed Forces and Armed Groups successfully 
reintegrated in their chosen reintegration site within 12 months of leaving the transit and 
orientation centers. 
Page  30
-
29
-
