Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H089 DRC 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project) 
 
between 
 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 10, 2004
Page  2
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER  H089 DRC 
 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 10, 2004, between DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF 
CONGO (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter, dated May 4, 2004, from the 
Recipient describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to address the 
Emergency (as hereinafter defined) (the Program) and declaring the Recipient’s commitment 
to the execution of the Program; 
(B) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project) and which forms part of the 
Program, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project;  
 
(C) 
the Recipient intends to obtain from the Multi-Country Demobilization and 
Reintegration Program Trust Fund (the “MDTF”) a grant in an aggregate amount equivalent 
to at least one hundred million US dollars ($100,000,000) to assist in the financing of the 
Project, on terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the “MDTF Grant Agreement”) 
to be entered into between the Recipient and the Association (acting as the administrator of 
the MDTF); and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) (the General Conditions), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement, constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Page  3
-
2
-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms 
have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“Armed Forces and Armed Groups” means organized groups that engaged 
in military fighting and were parties to the Final Act (as hereinafter defined) including 
Forces Armées Congolaises (FAC), Mouvement de Libération du Congo
 (MLC), 
Rassemblement Congolais pour la Démocratie
 (RCD), 
Rassemblement Congolais pour la 
Démocratie - Mouvement de Libération
 (RCD-ML), 
Rassemblement Congolais pour la 
Démocratie – National
 (RCD-
N) and the Maï Maï, as well as armed irregular groups defined 
in the Project Implementation Manual (as hereinafter defined); 
(b) 
“Congolese Francs” or “CF” means the currency of the Recipient; 
(c) 
“Cape Town Principles” means a set of principles and best practice on the 
prevention of recruitment of children into armed forces and armed groups and 
demobilization and social reintegration of children associated with armed forces and armed 
groups in Africa adopted in Cape Town on April 30, 1997; 
(d) 
“CGFDR” means the committee in charge of managing of funds for 
disarmament, demobilization and reinsertion activities established and operating pursuant to 
Decree No. 03/043 dated December 18, 2003 (the “CGFDR Decree”); 
 
(e) 
“CIDDR” means the inter-ministerial committee in charge of conception 
and supervision of disarmament, demobilization and reinsertion activities established and 
operating pursuant to Decree No. 03/041 dated December 18, 2003 (the “CIDDR Decree”); 
(f) 
“CONADER” means the national commission for disarmament, 
demobilization and reinsertion established and operating pursuant to Decree No. 03/042 
dated December 18, 2003 (the “CONADER Decree”); 
(g) 
“Emergency” means the extraordinary event of limited duration which for 
the purposes of this Agreement started in October 1996, and which was caused by the 
escalation of the armed conflict in the territory of the Recipient; 
(h) 
“Environmental Assessment” or “EA” means the evaluation of the Project's 
potential environmental risks and impacts in its area of influence, to be conducted by the 
Recipient in accordance with the provisions of Section II.1 of Schedule
 
4
to this Agreement 
and to be used as the basis for preparation of an Environmental and Social Framework (as 
hereinafter defined) as needed, and an Environmental and Social Management Plan (as 
hereinafter defined) as needed; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(i) 
“Environmental and Social Framework” or “ESF” means the framework, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association, describing measures for the mitigation of 
the potential environmental and social impact of the Project, as the same may be updated 
from time to time with the approval of the Association, to be prepared as needed on the basis 
of the EA and to be used as the basis for preparation as needed of an Environmental and 
Social Management Plan (as hereinafter defined), in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II.1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(j) 
“Environmental and Social Management Plan” or “ESMP” means the plan, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, describing measures for the mitigation 
of the potential environmental and social impact of the Project, to be prepared as needed on 
the basis of the ESF, as the same may be updated from time to time with the approval of the 
Association, in accordance with the provisions of Section II.1 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; 
(k) 
“Ex-Combatant” means any member of an Armed Group, or any child as 
defined by the Cape Town Principles associated with an Armed Group, who fulfills the 
criteria for combatant status, to be set out in administrative texts to be enacted by the 
Recipient pursuant to Section 6.01 (e) of this Agreement;
 
(l) 
“Final Act” means the agreement entered into among parties to the 
Inter-
Congolese Dialogue 
on April 2, 2003, by which they endorsed agreements that constitute a 
comprehensive program for the restoration of peace and national sovereignty during a 
transition period of two years, and including, 
inter alia
:
the Global and All-Inclusive 
Agreement on the Transition in
 
the Democratic Republic of the Congo (December 2002), the 
Transitional Constitution, the memorandum   on   military   and   security   issues    (March   
2003),   and   the 36 resolutions adopted by the Inter-Congolese Dialogue in  
Sun City (March and April 2002); 
(m) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;  
(n) 
“Fiduciary Management Agency” or “FMA” means the agency to be 
recruited pursuant to Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement; 
(o) 
“Manual of Financial and Accounting Procedures” or “MFAP” means the 
manual adopted by the Recipient pursuant to Section 6.01 (d) of this Agreement, outlining 
the financial and accounting procedures, policies, and guidelines to be followed by the 
Recipient in Project implementation, as the same may be amended from time to time with 
the concurrence of the Association, and such term includes any schedules to the MFAP; 
(p) 
“Orientation Center” means centers where Ex-Combatants will be directed 
in pre-determined groups, unarmed and with their military status “suspended”, for 
Page  5
-
4
-
identification and verification of status, medical visit including HIV/AIDS sensitization and 
the possibility of testing, and information on conditions and benefits of demobilization; 
(q) 
“PNDDR” means 
Programme National de Désarmement, Démobilisation et 
Réinsertion
,
the Recipient’s national program for disarmament, demobilization and 
reinsertion adopted by the Government of the Borrower at the inter-ministerial council dated 
May 7, 2004; 
(r) 
“Project Implementation Manual” or “PIM” means the manual adopted by 
the Recipient pursuant to Section 6.01 (d) of this Agreement, and containing details of 
procurement and disbursement arrangements, monitoring and evaluation arrangements, 
arrangements for environmental and social monitoring, and other administrative and 
organizational arrangements, as shall have been agreed with the Association for purposes of 
Project implementation, and as the same may be amended from time to time with the 
occurrence of the Association, and such term includes any schedules to the PIM; 
(s) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Recipient pursuant to the Letter Agreement signed on 
behalf of the Association on January 30, 2004, and on behalf of the Recipient on  
February 19, 2004; 
(t) 
“Province”  means  an  administrative  area  established  pursuant  to  
Décret-Loi No. 081 du 2 juillet 1998 portant Organisation Territoriale et Administrative de 
la République Démocratique  du  Congo  tel  que  modifié  et  complété  par   le  Décret-Loi 
No. 018/2001 du 28  septembre 2001,
 representing a designated area and population in the 
territory of the Recipient; 
(u) 
“Provincial Program Office” or “PPO” means the program offices to be 
established in each Province to help administer Program activities at the provincial level, 
established and operating pursuant to the Arrêté relating to the operation of CONADER to 
be published pursuant to Section 6.01 (e) of this Agreement (the “CONADER Arrêté ”); 
(v) 
“Special Account”   means   each   of the accounts referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement; 
(w) 
“Special Target Group” means a special group of Ex-Combatants that are 
provided targeted support for their medical rehabilitation or social and economic 
reintegration and comprises those who are children, female, disabled, chronically ill or 
HIV/AIDS positive, as well as other groups defined in the PIM; and 
(x) 
“Transitional Subsistence Allowance” or “TSA” means grants to be made to 
eligible Ex-Combatants under terms and conditions defined in the Project Implementation 
Manual for purposes of their reinsertion into civilian life. 
Page  6
-
5
-
ARTICLE II 
The Grant 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the Grant in an amount in 
various currencies equivalent   to   sixty-eight  million  one  hundred  thousand  Special  
Drawing Rights (SDR 68,100,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works services, and payments of TSA required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant. 
 
(b) 
The   Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and   maintain in 
US Dollars two separate special deposit accounts, one for the Category (4) of paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (Special Account A), one for the Categories (1), (2), (3) and 
(5) of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement (Special Account B), each in a 
commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out 
of the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement. 
(c) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay 
the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of 
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The un-withdrawn balance of the authorized 
amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled. 
Section 2.03.  (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Grant, not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by 
the Association as of June 30  of  each  year,  but  not  to  exceed the rate of one-half of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of 
the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set 
from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in 
Page  7
-
6
-
each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association 
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory 
of, the Recipient; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant 
to the provisions of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.04.  Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on June 15 and 
December 15 in each year. 
Section 2.05. The Closing Date of the Grant shall be March 31, 2008, or such later 
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient 
of such later date. 
Section 2.06. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation 
or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, shall carry out, through 
CONADER, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, 
technical, administrative, and military demobilization practices, and shall provide promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services, and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
Page  8
-
7
-
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, a plan designed 
to ensure the continued achievement of the Project objective; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan.  
Section 3.04. Within three months from the Date of Effectiveness, the Recipient 
shall have established a management information system functional and satisfactory to the 
Association. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall establish and maintain a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and those for the Special Accounts, for each semester (or 
other period determined by the Association) audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four (4) months after the end of each semester (or other 
period determined by the Association), (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for 
such semester (or other period determined by the Association) as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request. 
Page  9
-
8
-
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: 
(i) 
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, records 
and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least two years after the Association has received the 
audit report for the semester (or other period determined by the 
Association) in which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account 
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
(iv) 
ensure that such reports or statements of expenditures are included 
in the audit for each semester (or other period determined by the 
Association) referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section III
 
of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Recipient shall 
prepare, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association an FMR, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth actual and projected sources and uses of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
showing separately funds provided under the Grant, and explains 
variances between the actual and projected sources and uses of such 
funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and explains variances between the previously forecast and 
actual implementation targets; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end 
of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days 
after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
Page  10
-
9
-
Section 4.03. The Recipient shall: 
(a) 
have a technical audit, the conditions of which are defined in more details in 
the Project Implementation Manual, carried out for each semester (or other period 
determined by the Association) to assess the performance of the Program and to review 
procurement, statements of expenditures, and immobilizations as well as verifying the 
physical existence of goods, equipments and services acquired throughout the Project, by 
independent technical auditors acceptable to the Association; and 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
three months after the end of the semester (or other period determined by the Association) a 
report prepared by said technical auditors on said technical audit. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified: 
(a) 
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out;  
(b) 
the CONADER Decree, the CIDDR Decree, the CGFDR Decree, the 
CONADE
R
Arrêté or any texts enacted for their application shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to materially and adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project; 
 
(c) 
the  MDTF  Grant  Agreement  has not come into effectiveness by 
December 31, 2004; and 
(d) 
the MDTF Grant has been suspended or cancelled for any reason 
whatsoever.  
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions:  
Page  11
-
10 -
(a) 
the following staff, with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the 
Association, have been appointed: in CONADER: a Project coordinator, a deputy Project 
coordinator, a financial and personnel manager, a director for disarmament and 
demobilization, a director for reinsertion, a director for sensitization and information, and a 
director for children associated with Armed Groups; and in CGFDR: an administrator and a 
procurement specialist; 
(b) 
the FMA has been recruited and a financial management and accounting 
system for the Project, including the MFAP, satisfactory to the Association, has been 
established with the assistance of the FMA; 
(c) 
the independent auditor  satisfactory to the Association referred to in Section 
4.01 (b) of this Agreement has been recruited; 
(d) 
the PIM, including the procurement plan, and the MFAP, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, has been adopted by the Recipient;  
(e) 
administrative texts, satisfactory to the Association, setting out the eligibility 
criteria for the demobilization and reintegration of Ex-Combatants have been published, and 
the CONADER Arrêté as well as 
arrêtés
 defining the organization and operation of CIDDR, 
CONADER and CGFDR, satisfactory to the Association, have been published. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
Section 7.01.  The Minister of the Recipient responsible for Finance is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The  following  addresses  are  specified  for  the   purposes  of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
Minister of Finance 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Boulevard du 30 juin  
Page  12
-
11 -
BP 12997 
 
Kinshasa I - Gombe 
 
Democratic Republic of Congo 
 
Facsimile: 
 
243 880 23 81 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477  6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  13
-
12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO 
 
By /s/ Faïda Mitifu 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  14
-
13 -
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and the percentage 
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Grant Allocated 
 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Civil 
works 
70,000 
  100% 
 
(2) Vehicles, 
furniture, 
15,700,000 
100% 
 
equipment and materials 
 
       
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services 
17,700,000 
100% 
 
(including audits) and training 
 
 
 
 
(4) Transitional 
Subsistence 
18,400,000 
100% 
 Allowance 
(TSA) 
 
(5) Operating 
Costs 
14,400,000 
 
100% 
 
(6) 
Refunding of the Project 
880,000 
 
      Amount due  
 
Preparation Advance                                                                  pursuant to 
 
Section 2.02 (c) of                    
 
this Agreement 
 
(7) Unallocated 
950,000  
 
 
__________               
 TOTAL 
68,100,000 
 
=========  
Page  15
-
14 -
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term: 
(a) 
“foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any country 
other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Recipient; 
(b) 
“local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the Recipient or 
for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient;  
(c) 
“TSA” means the grants referred to in Section 1.02 (x) of this Agreement; 
and 
(d)  
“Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred on account of 
Project implementation, management and monitoring, including office space rental and 
utilities, office supplies, reasonable bank charges, communications, vehicle operation, 
maintenance and insurance, building and equipment maintenance costs, travel and 
supervision costs, and salaries of supporting staff, but excluding salaries of officials of the 
Recipient’s civil service. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made 
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 13,600,000, may 
be made on account of payments made for Eligible Expenditures before that date but after 
January 31, 2004. 
4. 
It is understood that the percentages in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule have 
been  calculated   on  the  basis    of    the    provisions    of     the    
arrêté     ministériel   No. 
003/CAB/MIN/FIN/2004 portant dispositions particulières applicables aux marchés publics 
à
financement extérieur
,
which exempt the goods, services and works to be financed under 
the Project from taxes and customs duties levied by the Recipient.    If any change is made to 
said 
arrêté
 which has the effect of levying taxes or customs duties on such goods, services or 
works, the percentages referred to above shall be decreased in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions. 
5. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) civil works under contracts 
costing less than $200,000 equivalent each; (b) goods under contracts costing less than 
$150,000 equivalent each; (c) services under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent 
each for consulting firms and less than $50,000 equivalent each for individual consultants; 
(d) TSA; and (e) Operating Costs, each under such terms and conditions as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
Page  16
-
15 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in creating long-term 
sustainable social development and supporting macroeconomic stability in its territory 
through the:  (a) demobilization of approximately 150,000
 
Ex-Combatants, while providing 
support for their reinsertion and social and economic reintegration; and (b) contribution to 
reallocation of the Recipient’s resulting budget savings from defense to social and economic 
sectors. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as 
the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
 
Part A
:
Demobilization
Support to sensitization, identification, and pre-discharge orientation, including: 
delivery of identification cards, collection of key socio-economic data and medical 
screening, through the provision of goods, works and technical advisory services as needed. 
Part B
:
Reinsertion
Transitional assistance to Ex-Combatants through the provision of basic need kits, 
technical advisory services and training, as well as TSA. 
Part C
:
Reintegration of Ex-Combatants
Support to the reintegration of Ex-Combatants both: (i) economic, through the 
provision of: goods such as small agricultural equipment; training; and advisory services in 
particular for the promotion of income generating activities; and (ii) social, by developing 
and carrying out of community level programs to promote reconciliation through the 
provision of technical advisory services. 
Part D
:
Special Target Groups
Support to special target groups defined in the Project Implementation Manual, and 
in particular:  (i) for the social and economic reintegration of female Ex-Combatants by: 
ensuring that special needs be taken into consideration in Demobilization Centers; equal 
benefits be granted; the provision of counseling services; strengthening gender awareness 
and capacity within CONADER; and monitoring the impact of the Program, all through the 
Page  17
-
16 -
provision of technical advisory services; (ii) for the medical and economic assistance of 
disabled and chronically ill Ex-Combatants through the provision of works, goods, technical 
advisory services and training; (iii) for the social and economic reintegration of children 
associated with Armed Forces and Armed Groups by providing family tracing and 
unification, trauma counseling, psycho-social care, facilitation of access to education and 
recreation in communities of settlement through the provision of goods and technical 
advisory services; and (iv) for the medical and economic assistance of Ex-Combatants who 
are HIV positive through the provision of works, goods, technical advisory services and 
training.  
Part E
:
Institutional Development and Program Implementation Support 
Strengthening the capacity of the Recipient’s institutions at the central and local 
level to carry out and support activities under the Project, through the provision of training 
and technical advisory services, and acquisition of vehicles and equipment, the financing of 
Operating Costs and the carrying out of audits.
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2007. 
Page  18
-
17 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Procure
ment and Consultants’ Services 
Section 
I: 
Procurement of Good and Works
A. General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of  
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published  
by  the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section. 
B. International 
Competitive 
Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
C. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 
3.4 of the Guidelines; and 
 
(b) 
Works estimated to cost more than $100,000 equivalent per contract and 
less than $500,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2. 
International or National Shopping
Drugs, reagents, medical equipment estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent 
per contract, and other goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international or national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
Page  19
-
18 -
3. Direct 
contracting
Goods which must be purchased from the original supplier of existing equipment in 
order to be compatible with such equipment, or which are of a proprietary nature may be 
procured, with the Association’s prior agreement, from a particular manufacturer or an 
authorized local supplier in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines. 
4. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
Goods, including vehicles, motorcycles, computers, drugs and medical supplies, 
may be procured through United Nations Agencies (IAPSO
,
UNFPA, UNICEF, WHO, 
WFP, etc.) in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
5. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from 
three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to 
complete the contract successfully. 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed semi-annual 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost $150,000 
equivalent or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply; and 
Page  20
-
19 -
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost $200,000 
equivalent or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.  
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
A. General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World 
Bank Recipients” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997, 
January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 thereto, 
Appendix 2 thereto; and (b) the following provisions of this Section. 
B. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section
 
II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable 
to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract 
may  comprise  entirely  national consultants in accordance with the provisions of  paragraph 
2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
C. 
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for financial audits estimated to cost less than $75,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Page  21
-
20 -
 
Services for training, technical advisory services and implementation support for 
Special Target Groups and HIV/AIDS activities, estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. UN 
Agencies
Technical assistance services may be procured under contracts with UN agencies in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. 
Single Source Selection
Technical advisory services and services for activities such as the transfer of funds 
may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
5. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines;  
D. 
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost estimates, 
contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests 
for proposals.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated  to  cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 
2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the 
qualifications and experience of candidates, the qualifications, experience terms of reference 
Page  22
-
21 -
and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have 
been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
also apply to such contracts. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  23
-
22 -
SCHEDULE 4
 
Implementation Program 
I. 
Project Coordination and Management
1. 
The Recipient shall at all times during the implementation of the Project maintain 
CIDDR, CONADER and CGFDR and in form and with functions satisfactory to the 
Association.  
2. 
CIDDR shall be responsible for designing general orientations, policy formulation, 
general supervision of the implementation of demobilization and reintegration activities, as 
well as ensuring coordination with defense sector reform activities and policies.  
3. 
CONADER shall be responsible for overall coordination, management and 
implementation of the Program, and in particular: (i) the preparation of annual 
implementation plans and detailed costing; (ii) the implementation and coordination of the 
Program components, and to this end shall work in close collaboration with the relevant 
Recipient agencies as well as local  community   organizations and associations, the   private 
sector, and UN agencies; (iii) monitoring and 
evaluation
 of Program implementation  
progress and impacts; and (iv) coordination with international donor agencies. The Recipient 
shall maintain at all times during the implementation of the Project CONADER with the 
following five departments with staff recruited through a competitive process and with terms 
of reference satisfactory to the Association: disarmament and demobilization, reinsertion/re-
integration, administration and finance, children associated with Armed Groups, and 
information and sensitization. 
4. 
CONADER shall be represented in each Province by a PPO which shall report to 
CONADER, and whose staff shall be satisfactory to the Association. PPOs shall have the 
following responsibilities: (i) 
updating the inventory of projects and training and 
employment providers; (ii) conducting outreach activities, including counseling and referral, 
and providing support to income-generating activities; (iii) managing the work of Ex-
Combatants outreach personnel; (iv) technical and financial monitoring of reintegration 
activities, especially at the community level; and (v) liaising with Recipient institutions at 
the local level, non-governmental institutions, and other reconstruction bodies. 
5. 
CGFDR shall ensure, in a transparent manner, financial management and 
procurement activities necessary to the Project, and ensure proper reporting to CONADER. 
6. 
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the PIM and MFAP, 
and shall not amend or waive any provision thereof, which in the opinion of the Association 
shall materially or adversely impact the implementation of the Project. The PIM shall 
specify the detailed rules and processes for demobilization, including identification and 
Page  24
-
23 -
screening of Ex-Combatants; the criteria, procedures and terms and conditions of reinsertion 
and reintegration assistance to Ex-Combatants, in particular the allocation of TSA; the 
verification of assistance packages; and the flow of funds to Ex-Combatants and verification 
of the use of such funds by Ex-Combatants for the intended purposes. 
7. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 4.01 to 4.03 of this Agreement, the 
Recipient shall, at the end of each first two quarters from the Date of Effectiveness, and 
semiannually  thereafter, or upon the request  of the Association, furnish to the Association:  
(i) a list of Ex-Combatants, (ii) an independent audit report confirming that a statistically 
representative sample of Ex-Combatants have received their TSA in accordance with the 
Project Implementation Manual; and (iii) information on the purposes for which the 
TSA payments were utilized by the sample of Ex-Combatants as well as the income-
generation and economic status and extent of social reintegration of such sample of Ex-
Combatants. 
II. Safeguard 
Policies
1. 
The Recipient shall, within six months of the Date of Effectiveness, conduct the EA, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, and shall prepare the ESF, as needed, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, on the basis of the EA, and the ESMP, 
as needed, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, on the basis of the ESF.  
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with the provisions 
of the aforementioned, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall not amend or waive any provision of the aforementioned, if such amendment or waiver 
may, in the opinion of the Association, materially or adversely affect the implementation of 
the Project. 
III. 
Monitoring and Evaluation
1. 
The Recipient shall:  
(a) 
maintain and apply policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association including those provided for in Schedule 7 to this Agreement, the carrying out 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the  Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about March 31 in each year, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph
 
(a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and 
Page  25
-
24 -
(c) 
review with the Association, by April 30 in each year, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the 
said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
2. 
The Recipient shall carry out no later than December 31 every year an external 
evaluation of the implementation of the Project, including an analysis of environmental and 
social monitoring indicators, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
communicate to the Association the results of such evaluation. 
Page  26
-
25 -
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (a) 
the  term  “eligible Categories” means in respect of Special Account A 
Category (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and in 
respect of Special Account B Categories (1), (2),  (3), and (5) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services as well as TSA required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount of $3,000,000 in respect 
Special Account A, and an amount of $5,000,000 in respect Special Account B to be 
withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent of 
$1,500,000 in respect Special Account A and to an amount equivalent of $3,000,000 in 
respect Special Account B until: (i) in respect of Special Account A the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Grant allocated to Category (4) plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions for Part B the Project shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 
2,000,000; and (ii) in respect of Special Account B the aggregate amount of withdrawals 
from the Grant allocated to Categories (1), (2), (3), and (5) plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions for Parts A, C, D and E of the Project shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of SDR 20,500,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as 
follows: 
Page  27
-
26 -
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of an 
amount or amounts, which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the respective Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Recipient 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the 
respective Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall 
specify.  
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the 
respective Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the respective Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Grant Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the respective Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 
of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of 
the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
Page  28
-
27 -
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from 
the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after 
and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Association, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide 
such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the respective 
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association 
into any Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund 
to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
Page  29
-
28 -
SCHEDULE 6 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
1. 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04 (a), 3.04 (b), 3.05, 6.05, Article VII, are deleted in their 
entirety. 
 
2. 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are modified to read 
as follows: 
(a) 
The term “Borrower” is modified to read “Recipient”; 
(b) 
The term “Credit” is modified to read “Grant”; 
(c) 
The  term “credit” is modified to read “grant”; except that where used in 
Sections 6.02 (a) (ii) and 6.02 (c) (i), as modified below, the term “credit” 
shall continue to read “credit”;  
(d) 
The term “Credit Account” is modified to read “Grant Account”; and 
(e) 
The term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read 
“Development Grant Agreement”. 
3. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
(a) 
Section 4.02 (a) and the heading of Section 4.02 are modified to read as 
follows: 
“
Section 4.02  Currencies in which Commitment Charges are Payable
 
(a)  The Recipient shall pay the commitment charge on the Grant in the 
currency specified in the Development Grant Agreement or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or 
selected pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of this Section.” 
 
(b) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02 (c) and (e) of the General Conditions the 
words “principal and service charges” are modified to read “commitment charge”. 
Page  30
-
29 -
(c) 
Section 4.03 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
“
Section 4.03.  Amount of the Grant
 
The amount of the Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be the 
equivalent in terms of SDR (determined as of the date or respective dates of 
withdrawal from the Grant Account) of the value of the currency or 
currencies so withdrawn.” 
 
4. 
Section 6.02 is modified as follows: 
(a) 
The phrase “any other development credit agreement” in Section 6.02 (a) 
(ii) is modified to read:  “any other development grant agreement or any 
development credit agreement or development financing agreement”. 
(b) 
The phrase “any development credit agreement” in Section 6.02 (c) (i) is 
modified to read:  “any development grant agreement, development credit 
agreement or development financing agreement”. 
 
5. 
The words  “The  principal  of, and any other charges on” in paragraph (a) of 
Section 8.01 are modified to read “The commitment charge on”. 
6. 
 Paragraph (c) of Section 9.06 is modified to read as follows: 
“(c)  Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, 
the Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits 
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Recipient and the 
Association of their respective obligations under the Development Grant 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Grant.” 
7. 
Section 12.05 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
“Section 12.05.
 
Termination of Development Grant Agreement. 
The obligations of the Recipient under the Development Grant Agreement 
shall terminate on the date 20 years after the date of the Development Grant 
Agreement.” 
Page  31
-
30 -
SCHEDULE 7 
Performance Indicators
 
1. 
30,000 Ex-Combatants are demobilized by the end of the first year of the Project; 
and an additional 80,000 Ex-Combatants are demobilized by the end of the second year of 
the Project; 
2. 
eligible Ex-Combatants receive their first reinsertion payment upon discharge from 
demobilization sites, and 80% of their TSA within nine (9) months of their demobilization; 
3. 
an external evaluation of the implementation of the Project is carried out annually in 
accordance with Section III.2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and includes an analysis of 
environmental and social monitoring indicators;  
4. 
the ratio between social sector expenditures and defense expenditures increases each 
year of the project from the 2002 baseline of 23%; 
5. 
withdrawal requests are made in a timely fashion; 
6. 
orientation centers are established according to the timeline in the joint operation 
plan; 
7. 
less than 5% error (double or incorrect payments) made in reinsertion payments; 
8. 
60% of demobilized Ex-Combatants engaged in productive economic activities (or 
schooling) 1 year after receiving their final payment; 
9. 
a program for female Ex-Combatants active within 6 months of beginning of 
demobilization process; and 
10. 
70% of children associated with Armed Forces et Armed Groups successfully 
reintegrated in their chosen reintegration site within 12 months of leaving the transit and 
orientation centers.
 
