                                        Documentof
                                      TheWorld Bank

                                  FOROFFICIAL USEONLY



                                                                   ReportNo. T7618-DRC




                                    TECHNICAL ANNEX

                                FORA PROPOSEDGRANT

                                  OF SDR 68.1 MILLION

                            (US$lOO MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                              TO

                      THEDEMOCRATIC REPUBLICOFCONGO

                                           FORAN

     EMERGENCY DEMOBILIZATION AND REINTEGRATIONPROJECT




                                         May 3,2004



AFTH3
Africa Human DevelopmentGroup 3
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization

               CURRENCY EQUIVALENT

         (exchange rate effective as of January 31,2004)
        Currency Unit         =       CongoleseFranc (FC)
        US$1                  -        387.5

               GOVERNMENTFISCALYEAR
                     January 1 December 31
                               -

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AIDS    Acquired ImmuneDeficiency Syndrome
BNK     BasicNeeds Kit
CIAT    Comite Internationalpour 1'Accompagnementde la Transition
CIDDR   ComitC interministkriel charge de la conception et de l'orientation en matikre
        de desarmement, dtmobilisation et de reintegration (Interministerial
        Committee incharge of designing and orienting disarmament, demobilization
        andreintegration)
CONADER Comission nationale de desmement, dkmobilisation et reinsertion (National
        Commission for disarmament, demobilization andreinsertion)
CGFDR   Comite de Gestion des Fonds d6sarmement, demobilisation et reinsertion
        (Committee to manageDDRFunds)
DDR     Disarmament, Demobilization, andReintegration
DDRRR   Disarmament, Demobilization, Repatriation, Resettlement andReintegration
DRC     Democratic Republic o fCongo
DRCDRP  DRC DemobilizationandReintegration Program
FAC     Forcesarmees congolaises(Armed Forceso fCongo)
FAZ     Forcesarmees zalroises (Armed ForcesofZa'ire)
FMA     Financial ManagementAgency
FMR     Financial ManagementReport
FMS     Financial ManagementSystem
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
HIV     HumanImmuneDeficiencyVirus
IBRD    InternationalBank for ReconstructionandDevelopment
ICRC    InternationalCommittee ofthe RedCross
IDA     InternationalDevelopment Association
IDP     Internally DisplacedPersons
IMF     InternationalMonetary Fund
I-PRSP  InterimPovertyReduction StrategyPaper
JOP     Joint OperationsPlan
MDRP    Multi-Country DemobilizationandReintegration Program
MDTF    Multi-Donor Trust Fundofthe MDRP
MIS     ManagementInformationSystem
MLC     Mouvement de Liberation du Congo
MOD     MinistryofDefense
MONUC   Missionde I'Organisationdes Nations Uniesau Congo,(UnitedNations
        Organization Missionto Congo)
NCB     NationalCompetitive Bidding
PDO     Pre-dischargeorientation
PIM     Project ImplementationManual
PNDDR   ProgrammeNational de Desarmement, Dkmobilisation et Rkinsertion
PPF     Project PreparationFacility
PPO     ProvincialProject Office
RCD     RassemblementCongolaispour le democratie
SSR     Security SectorReform

                                                                                         J



                                                              FOROFFICIALUSEONLY




             TOC         Transit andOrientation Center
             TSS         Transitional Support Strategy
             UHC         Unified HighCommand
             UN          UnitedNations
             UNDP        UnitedNations Development Programme
             UNICEF      UnitedNations Children's Fund
             VCT         Voluntary CounselingandTesting




                   Vice President                    Callisto E.Madavo
                    Country Director                 EmmanuelMbi
                    Sector Manager            :      Laura Frigenti
                   Task TeamLeader                   JohnElder




This document has a restricteddistribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
!withoutWorld Bank authorization.
                                                                            ~


                                                                                                                                                                     1


                                 DEMOCRATIC REPUBLICOF CONGO
        EMERGENCY DEMOBILIZATIONAND REINTEGRATION PROGRAM
                                                     TECHNICAL ANNEX

                                                          Table of Contents

1    Context and Strategy          ................................................................................................................                  2
  1.1     BACKGROUND                                                                            .................................................................. 2
  1.2     GOVERNMENT                                                                            ..................................................................   3
  1.3     MULTI-COUNTRY          DEMOBILIZATION REINTEGRATION  AND                                  PROGRAM                                                       ....4
2    IDA Responseand Strategy                   .....................................................................................................
                                                                                                                      ........
                                                                                                                                                                     5
 2.1      POVERTYREDUCTION               STRATEGY.....................................................................................................               5
 2.2       TIO ON ALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT ...............................................................
 2.3      LESSONS   LEARNED FROM OTHER IDA PROJECTS..............................................................................                                    7
3    The Demobilization& Reintegration Programinthe DRC                                                     .................................................        9
 3.1      ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA UNDER THE MDRP..................................................................
 3.2      OBJECTIVES    ....................................................................................................................................        10
 3.3      COVERAGE    AND IMPLEMENTATION                      PERIOD ...................................................................................            10
 3.4      THENATIONAL PROGRAM(PNDDR) ...................................................................................
                             DDR                                                                                                                                    12
 3.5      PROGRAM COSTS         ............................................................................................................................ 18
 3.6      EFFECTIVENESS       CONDITIONS .........................................................................................................                  19
4    Studies and TechnicalAssistance                       ..........................................................................................              20
 4.1      STUDIES ..........................................................................................................................................        2 0
 4.2      TECHNICALASSISTANCE                ................................................................................................................ 21
5    InstitutionalArrangements andProgramImplementation                                                      ...............................................       22
  5.1     STAFFING, INSTITUTIONALSUPPORTAND CAPACITY BUILDING......................................................                                                 23
  5.2     FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT,                   DISBURSEMENTS AUDITING........................................................
                                                                               AND                                                                                  24
  5.3     PROCUREMENT        ............................................................................................................................... 30
  5.4     MONITORING EVALUATION....................................................................................................
                          AND                                                                                                                                       35
  5.5     PROGRAMSUSTAINABILITY                  ............................................................................................................ 36
6    Benefitsand Risks        ..................................................................................................................                   37
  6.1     BENEFITS  ........................................................................................................................................ 37
  6.2     RISKSAND MITIGATION               MEASURES           ............................................................................................... 37
  6.3     ENVIRONMENTALAND SOCIAL                      ASPECTS         ........................................................................................     38
7    Financialand EconomicJustification                                                                                                                            39
8    Action Plan  ..............................................................................................................................
                                                                   ...................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                    41
9    Attachments
IBRD No 31547
         .          ............................................................................................................................                    42




                                                                           1


DRC - Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project-TechnicalAnnex                          2




                  Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project
                         in the Democratic Republic of the Congo

1 Context andStrategy
1.1 Background

1. Since the early 1990s, the Great Lakes region has been embroiled in a series o f closely
interlinked conflicts directly affecting the territory o f the Democratic Republic o f Congo
(DRC). These conflicts stem from a complex interaction o f poor governance, politics o f
ethnic exclusion, security dilemmas and competition for the control o f economic rents.
The war in the DRC started as a Congolese civil war, but drew in two opposing regional
blocs. Unfinished civil wars and regional rivalries were also being fought out inthe Congo,
with the use o f local proxies adding fuel to the fire o f local domestic conflicts, especially in
Ituriandthe Kivus.

2. Since January 2001, there has been significant progress towards peace and
reconciliation, within the context o f the 1999 Lusaka Cease-fire Agreement. The
centerpieces o fthis progress are:

(9      TheInter-Congolese Dialogue: On April 2,2003 inSun City, the participants inthe
        Inter-Congolese Dialogue signed the Final Act o f the inter-Congolese political
        negotiations, endorsing agreements that constitute a comprehensive program for the
        restoration of peace and national sovereignty during a transition period o f two
        years. The agreements include the Global and All-Inclusive Agreement on the
        Transition in the Democratic Republic o f the Congo (December 2002), the
        Transitional Constitution, the memorandum on military and security issues (March
        2003), and the 36 resolutions adopted by the Inter-Congolese Dialogue in Sun City
        (March and April 2002). ). Within this framework, all sides in the armed conflict
        engaged in political negotiations, including the political opposition and civil
        society, and formed a Transitional Government, on June 30 2003.The Comitk
        International pour 1'Accompagnement de la Transition (CIAT), which includes
        most intemational partners, continues to support this process through its Committee
        on Political and Security Affairs.
(ii) Thedisarmamentanddemobilizationofforeign armedgroups:TheUnitedNations
        Mission to the DRC, MONUC, was established in 1999 to monitor the cease-fire
        agreement and develop an action plan for its implementation, including the
        Disarmament,     Demobilization,      Repatriation,    Resettlement    and    Reinsertion
        (DDRRR) o f foreign armed groups operating in the DRC. There remain an
        estimated 15,000 foreign combatants to be disarmed, demobilized and repatriated.
(iii) Thewithdrawalofforeig. troops:TheGovernmentofDRCsignedagreementswith
        the Governments o f Rwanda (July 2002) and Uganda (September 2002) that paved
        the way for a withdrawal o f foreign troops.

DRC - Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project-Technical Annex                    3


(iv)    On July 28, 2003 the mandate o f MONUC was extended to include the
        demobilization o f Congolese combatants (Resolution 1493,2003).


The situation in Ituri and in the Kivus, requires special attention. An expanding UN force
and the Dar-Es-Salaam ceasefire agreement (May 2003) signed by irregular Ituri forces,
and the establishment o f the Administration interimaire de Z'Ituri have helped stabilize the
area and allowed planning for DDR.


Economic and Social Impact

3.      Africa's third-largest nation is gradually emerging from five years o f a violent
conflict termed Africa's first continent-scale war, compounding the legacy o f decades o f
poor governance. The conflict's impact is dramatic.

4.      An estimated 3.5 millionpeople have died since 1998, both from the violence itself
and from starvation and disease, making this conflict the deadliest since World War 11. An
estimated 3 million people are displaced, with 500,000 refugees inneighboring countries.
Schools and training centers have closed leaving a generation without education. Hospitals,
clinics and preventative health initiatives have been devastated with yet unmeasured
consequence.

5.      The conflict has exacerbated ethnic rivalries and tensions over landand territory in
eastern Congo posing a long-term challenge to the transition to peace.

6.      The economy, already affected by decades o f poor governance, has collapsed. Per
capita income has declined steadily from US$380 in 1985 to US$250 in 1990 and to US$85
in2000. Infrastructure, which was deteriorating under the Mobuturegime, hasbeen largely
destroyed during the conflict, leaving few roads and only sporadic access to electricity and
safe water.

1.2   Government Response and Strategy

7. Since 2001, the Government has launched a program o f economic reforms, aimed at
restoring macro-economic stability, and kick-starting economic activity, while tackling
some governance issues inherited from the past. This program is being implemented with
the support o f the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund(IMF). Inparticular, a
$1.7 billion Emergency Multi-sector Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Program
(EMRRP), $454 million of which is provided by the Bank, was broadly endorsed by all
parties to the inter-Congolese dialogue and aims to restore connectivity, rehabilitate social
infrastructure and improve food security. The Emergency Economic and Social
Reunification Project ($214 million), approved in September 2003, targets reunified areas.
Economic growth returned in2002, after a decade o f contraction.

DRC - Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project-Technical Annex                     4


8. The government has recently laid out the responsibilities o f the different ministries with
respect to demobilization and reinsertion. Responsibility for demobilization rests with the
Ministry of Defense, while responsibility for reinsertion has been placed in the Ministry o f
Social Affairs with the Ministry o f Solidarity and Humanitarian Affairs being given a
supporting role inthe reinsertion o f ex-combatants into communities. The government has
established the institutional structure for DDR in a series o f decrees (December 2003).
This includes the Interministerial Committee for DDR to oversee DDR activities
nationally, the National Commission for DDR (CONADER) to coordinate preparation and
implementation of the national program, and the Committee to Manage Financial
Resources to coordinate funding for DDR (CGFDR).

9.       On security sector reform, the transitional government has advanced the process o f
the restructuring of the army with the support from international partners. Presently the
major armed groups have been combined into the FA-RDC and a unified command
structure put inplace.

InternationalResponse

10.      The international community has been re-engaging inDRC over the past three years
following nearly a decade o f suspension o f activities. It has supported and encouraged the
peace-process and backed the government by resuming a number o f development
initiatives that had been suspended. A Consultative group o f major donors agreed on a
coordinated support strategy for DRC in Paris in 2002.             Another Consultative Group
meeting held inDecember 2003 resulted inthe commitment o f nearly $4 billion insupport
ofDRC's recovery efforts.

11.     Not least has been the considerable humanitarian effort mounted by the UN
agencies, ICRC and International NGOs. These continue to provide essential support to
health and other services particularly in the East. The rapid deterioration of the
humanitarian situation in the Ituri region in 2003 led to a European Union armed peace-
imposing mission ledby France, which has since been taken over byMONUC.


1.3 Multi-country Demobilization and Reintegration Program

14.      In a bid to coordinate their efforts in the field of DDR in the Great Lakes sub-
region, the Bank and a number o f the main donor countries decided to establish, in 2002,
the Multi-country Demobilization and Reintegration Program (MDRP), a multi-donor,
regional approach to support and facilitate the process o f demobilization and reintegration
in the Greater Great Lakes region. The MDRP trust fund supports special projects in
preparation o f the national program and the national program itself. Six special projects
have been approved, four o f these focus on the demobilization o f children associated with
the armed forces, one supports pilot DDR activities in the field, and one supports a rapid
response mechanism for emergency situations as well as assistance to the design o f a
national DDRprogram.

DRC - Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project-TechnicalAnnex                       5


15.      A regional approach offers several key advantages including: exchange o f
information between national programs; the creation o f synergies allowing MDRP to have
a greater impact on national programs; availability to all parties in the conflict o f identical
measures to assist them in continuing the peace process; the capacity to take into account
regional impacts associated with some o f the programs and; increased transparency in
associated national programs.

16.      The MDRP secretariat manages the multidonor regional trust fund set up to support
demobilization and reintegration in the greater Great Lakes region. These funds serve as a
means o f mobilizing and channeling resources provided by key donors; it reduces the
transaction costs for participating governments, donors, and the Bank and allows bilateral
donors to complement IDA resources with grants.


2    IDA Response and Strategy

17.      In October 1997, the Bank allocated a US$ 2 million Post Conflict grant to assist
the newly installed government o f President Laurent-D6sir6 Kabila, to tackle immediate
post conflict challenges. The specific objectives o f that grant were to: (i)prepare a
Demobilization and Reintegration Program for vulnerable groups; and (ii)launch
community-based activities inthe Eastern provinces o f the country. Lessons learned from
the grant evaluation are feeding into the preparation o f the national DDR program. IDA
has prepared its assistance withinthe framework established by the MDRP strategy.


2.1    Poverty Reduction Strategy

18.      Since 2002, the Government has been implementing an I-PRSP based on wide
consultations with civil society and community groups. Although it was developed by a
previous government, the Inter-Congolese Dialogue and later the new Transition
Government endorsed this work. The I-PRSP rests upon three pillars: (i)        restoration and
consolidation of peace and sustainable good governance; (ii)       macroeconomic stabilization
and pro-poor growth; and (iii)community dynamics (community-led development
initiatives).

19.      The Government has been developing its full PRSP through a representative and
participatory process. The Joint Staff Assessment o f the I-PRSP and the 2003 annual up-
date have beenreviewed by the Boards o f IDA and the IMF. With efforts continuing at the
current pace, the full PRSP is expected by the fourth quarter of 2005. The successful
implementation o f the National Disarmament, Demobilization and Reinsertion Program
(PNDDR) is a critical part o f the first pillar o fthe I-PRSP.

DRC - Eint.rgeiicJ2Detnobilixtion arid Reinregrnriotr Project - Technical Ilniie.y              6


20.     Transitional Support Strategy (TSS).               The TSS (July 2001) identified meeting
basic and urgent needs, including a focus on demobilization and reintegration, as a key
challenge. The Consultative Group meetings (Paris, December 4-5, 2002 and December
17-19, 2003) included DDR as one o f four priorities to support the Congolese strategy
towards economic and social reunification. A new TSS was discussed by the Board in
February 2004.        This TSS identifies the restoration o f stability and security as a key
challenge in D R C and singles out DDR as one o f the critical factors in addressing this
challenge. The DRCDRP is an integral part o f the strategy.

21.    Restructuring existing credits. The existing IDA portfolio consists o f 5 projects
with satisfactory performance. There is considerable scope to develop synergies between
this project and existing projects particularly interms o freintegration activities.

2.2   Rationale for IDA involvement


23.     The request from the government for technical and financial assistance to
implement the national DDR program comes in a critical period for regional peace. IDA'S
participation is justified in view o f its considerable experience with such programs, the
volume o f funding required, the stress the program will put on social and economic
reintegration o f ex-combatants, as well as the need to respond to a client request to
coordinate international support.           IDA assistance will complement efforts by other
international actors already underway inthe DRC and inthe region.

24.     The IDA grant will be complemented by MDRP grants both for co-financing the
nationalprogram and for financing special projects already underway.

25.    Need for Emergency Assistance. The application o f the Bank's emergency
procedures under OP 8.50 isjustified by:

        (9        Theprogram's impact on economic priorities and investment programs. The
                  program provides the means to consolidate social and economic recovery in
                  the DRC and in the region. Without a successful demobilization and
                  reintegration program there is a much greater danger that disaffected ex-
                  combatants will turn to violence.
        (ii) Itscriticalcontributiontothestabilizationof thesocietyandeconomy.The
                  transition in the DRC and the peace process throughout the region can be
                  supported by specific stabilization measures. The demobilization and
                  reintegration o f ex-combatants is a key element o f this process within the
                  current window o f opportunity;
        (iii) The urgency to demobilize and provide reintegration assistance to ex-
                  combatants. The current transition government does not have the resources
                  to pay all people currently inthe various military goups. I t must, as soon as
                  possible, start demobilizing large numbers and returning them to civilian
                  life.

DRC - Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project - TechnicalAnnex                       7


26.     Making resources available for development. Persistent insecurity in the Great
Lakes Region has led to a shift in resources away from social and economic development
towards the security sector. A successful national DDR program will allow the shift o f
government expenditures away from defense and towards social and economic
development. A reduction o f defense spending will also help reduce the budget deficit and
therefore constitutes an important factor for macroeconomic and fiscal stability in the long
term.

2.3   Lessons learned from other IDA projects

27.    .IDA has acquired substantial experience in this sector through support for DDR
programs throughout Africa and in other regions (Angola, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Djibouti,
Eritrea, Ethiopia, Guinea-Bissau, Mozambique, Rwanda, Sierra Leone, Uganda, Chad, East
Timor). This experience has often taken the form o f technical assistance and/or financial
assistance through investment credits, programs o f balance o f payments support or
restructuring on-going projects. Building on lessons learned from relevant projects in
Africa and on the conclusions o f the Bank's Operations Evaluation Department, several
good practices have been identified and are integratedinto the program.

28.     Demobilization. Although short, this phase is logistically complex.             Successful
demobilization is a necessary first step toward successful reintegration. Among the key
actions are the distribution o f non-transferable        demobilization cards, the collection of
socio-economic date and the establishment o f a comprehensive database o f beneficiaries.
Inaddition, regrouping ex-combatants during demobilization provides a good opportunity
to give health and HIV/AIDS counseling, voluntary HIV/AIDS testing and information
about re-entry into civilian life and the responsibilities o f citizenship (voting etc.).

29.     Reinsertion. During demobilization, ex-combatants lose their source o f income
(formal or informal). Experience suggests that their financial situation is generally
precarious untilthey can re-establish new revenue generating activities. Duringthis period
(the reinsertion phase) they need a transitional safety net (TSN) to cover the essential
material needs o f their families.      The objective o f this support is to permit the ex-
combatants to retum to their communities and to see to the needs o f their families in a
limited time period following demobilization.

30.     Economic Reintegration. Ex-combatants are often an economically vulnerable
group due to their lack o f relevant skills, capital and social networks. In addition, they are
often a group at risk because o f their familiarity with guns and violence.              Targeted
assistance is recommended to help them find viable economic strategies.              To be cost-
efficient and effective, assistance must be adapted to their socio-economic profiles and the
economic environment.        Female soldiers often require special assistance to achieve
economic self-sufficiency.

DRC - Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project - Technical Annex                   8


31.     Generally, the assistance received by ex-combatants should not exceed the amount
necessary to achieve the average standard o f living o f the communities in which they are
reintegrating. In addition, reintegration assistance must be o f limited duration to avoid
creating dependency. Information services and counseling can help ex-combatants analyze
their options and find employment. Apprenticeships in the informal sector linked to
employment are preferred to stand alone training programs.

32.    Ultimately, ex-combatants are reintegrated into the general economy. Therefore,
creation o f long-term employment is closely linked to growth in the private sector and the
creation o f employment. It should be noted that ex-combatants themselves represent an
important source o fhumanresources for the economy.

33.    Social Reintegration. Social reintegration is often facilitated by the existence o f an
extended family network. Therefore, ex-combatants should be encouraged to reintegrate
near their families. In addition, community structures can help them reintegrate both
socially and economically. Support to communities in which ex-combatants settle can
encourage acceptance and reinforce social capital.             As much as possible, children
associated with the armed forces should be reunitedwith their families andhelped to restart
their education.   Disabled ex-combatants often require special medical and economic
assistance. Female ex-combatants have had particular difficulty in re-integrating society
andare inneedo fspecial consideration.

34.     Care should be taken to prevent the stigmatization o f ex-combatants as conveyers o f
disease and violence. The fears o f communities related to the return o f ex-combatants
should also be addressed. Community sensitization and information efforts are paramount
inthis regardas is theprotection allmedicaldata.

35.    Institutional issues. Program coordination by one civilian agency with overall
program responsibility, balanced by decentralization of implementation to provinces and
communities makes for a powerful institutional arrangement. Where possible, existing
implementation capacities should be leveraged. The employment o f some ex-combatants as
counselors and field staff can facilitate reintegration. Finally, security sector reform must
be closely coordinatedwith the DDRprogram.

DRC - Emergency Demobilization and ReintegrationProject - Technical Annex                                      9


3     The Demobilization& ReintegrationPrograminthe DRC'

3.1      EligibilityCriteria underthe MDRP

36.      The DRC Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Program is part o f the
Multi-Country Demobilization and Reintegration Program for the greater Great Lakes
Region. Under the MDRP, the following criteria need to be fulfilled for a country to be
eligible to receive assistance for the demobilization and reintegration o f ex-combatants:

General criteria:

     -   Affected by conflict. Beinginvolved inor directly affected by one or more o fthe

     -   conflicts inthe greater Great Lakes region.
         Participation in the regional peaceprocess. Demonstratedwillingness to
         contribute to stability inthe greater Great Lakes region and to implement relevant
         provisions o f the applicable peace/ceasefire accord(s).

Country-specific criteria.

         (i)Preparation of a national demobilization and reintegration program. This
                   would typically be demonstrated by a coherent national program developed
                   inconsultationwith the international community and national stakeholders.
                   It could also be demonstrated by having a strategic planning and
                   consultation process underway, with a clear roadmap andtimetable.
         (ii)Establishmentof asuitableinstitutionalstructure. Thegovernmentneedsto
                   establish flexible implementation arrangements with appropriate planning,
                   coordination and monitoring capacity and with the participation o f relevant
                   political and security stakeholders.
         (iii) letter of demobilization policy outlininggovernment commitment. The
               A
                   Government drafts a letter outlining its commitments to the regional peace
                   process, demobilization and reintegration, security sector reform and fiscal
                   impact o fdemobilization.
         (iv) Establishment of appropriate safeguards and fiduciary measures.                               The
                   government would provide assurances and monitoring measures to ensure
                   consistency with standard environmental and social safeguards. Inaddition,
                   the government would establish satisfactory financial management and
                   procurement arrangements.

37.      The Government o f DRC will have fulfilled all general and country-specific criteria
prior to effectiveness and is therefore eligible under the MDRP objectives to receive
financial assistance from IDA and the regional MDTF.


' Inthe DRC the term `transition' is used for the set o f activities commonly referred to as `reinsertion', while
the term `reinsertion' is used for the set of activities commonly referred to as `reintegration'.      The term
`reintegration' refers to the process o f incorporating the various armed groups into a single army. W e follow
the standard usage (as in Section 2.3) in this document to avoid confusion.

DRC - Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project - TechnicalAnnex                10


3.2   Objectives

38.    The general objective o f the Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Program
(DRCDRP) i s to help consolidate peace and promote economic stability and sustainable
development in the DRC and inthe greater Great Lakes region. The specific objectives o f
the program will be:

           (i)    to demobilize up to an estimated 150,000 ex-combatants and to help
                   support their return to civilian life

           (ii)   to promote the reallocation of Government expenditure from militaryto
                   social and economic sectors.

39. The DRCDRP is expected to have a significant impact on reducing poverty inthe DRC
by: establishing more secure conditions inthe rural areas that will encourage the general
population including IDPs to resume productive lives inthe rural economy; freeing up
additional national resources for investmentinsocial and economic sectors; and investing
inthe humancapital ofex-combatants. The DRCDRPwill financemost ofthe
government's National Program on Disarmament, Demobilization and Reinsertion
(PNDDR), but will not finance disarmament and expenses o fmilitarypersonnelprior to
demobilization. Inaddition, some activities inthe PNDDR are already being financed
through MDRP special projects andwill not be financedunder the DRCDRP.

3.3   Coverageand ImplementationPeriod

40. Targetgroups. The Government envisages approximately 150,000 former combatants
from the following target groups for the PNDDR:

       (i)     The demobilization andreinsertion o fthe signatories to the Global Accord:
               FAC, MLC, RCD, RCD-ML, RCD-N, Mayi-Mayi and the Dar-es-Salaam
               ceasefire;
       (ii)    Non signatory Armed groups that have taken part inthe conflict, who
               require DDRand are willing to participate inthe program and respect its
               conditions;
       (iii)   Congolese ex-combatants seeking to return from foreign countries;
       (iv)    Children associated with the fighting forces as defined by the Cape Town
               principles.

DRC - Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project - Technical Annex                    11


41. Eligibility criteria. The Government has established criteria to verify whether people
belong to the eligible armed groups and separate eligibility criteria for integration into the

volunteer for demobilization and reinsertionbenefits.
army. For those who are 1) not eligible for integration1into the army, and 2) those who
                                                             The following general criteria
apply:

    (i) Congolesenationality;
    (ii)     Possession o f a weapon or possession o f a certificate o f disarmament issued by
             competent authorities, including those issued during spontaneous and voluntary
             disarmament. The ratio o f combatant/weapon will be determined in the Joint
             Operations Plan (JOP). The JOP links the activities necessary for the reform o f
             the army with the activities necessary for demobilization and reintegration.
    (iii)    Proof o fmembership ina recognized armed group;
    (iv)     Proof o f having taken part inconflict inDRC between October, 1996 and May,
             2003.

42. An estimated 150,000 ex-combatants will be demobilized. CONADER, the national
implementing agency, will coordinate actions with the High Command and MONUC to
ensure that the criteria are applied systematically andrigorously.

43. Combatants suspected o f crimes against humanity will be excluded from the program
and their cases will be followed bythe relevant legal authorities.

44. Geographic coverage. The program will cover the whole country, but some areas will
see a heavier concentration o f ex-combatants than others. Thus, Program benefits would be
spread throughout the country as well. To facilitate rapid Program start-up while allowing
time to build capacities in other parts o f the country, reintegration activities would be
prioritized by province according to the settlement pattern o f ex-combatants, and
implementation capacities at the provincial and community levels.

Duration. Following the date of effectiveness the Program would be implemented over a
period o f three years.

45. The Government is also working with its international partners, as well as with
neighboring Governments, to facilitate the repatriation o f an estimated 15,000 foreign ex-
combatants. They will be accommodated by their own national DDRprograms.




__________________-_-------
' This applies to adults only.

DRC - Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project - TechnicalAnnex                   12


3.4    The NationalDDR Program(PNDDR)

46. The PNDDR has been validated by representatives o f all concemed ministries as well
as all the belligerent parties. It outlines all o f the elements o f the DDR process from the
disarmament and regroupment of.the forces to the full economic re-integration o f the ex-
combatants. The IDNMDRP financed DRCDRP will not fund disarmament. Within the
PNDDR, the DRCDRP will consist of:

    (i) Sensitization
    (ii) Orientatioddemobilization(includingon-siteservices);
    (iii) Transition
    (iv)    Reinsertion
    (v)     Special groups; and
    (vi)    Institutional development and Program implementationsupport.

47. The PNDDR and the DRCDRP will be implemented by the National Commission for
DDR (CONADER) under the supervision o f the Interministerial Committee for DDR
(CIDDR).

48. The initial stage o f the PNDDR has been conceived to run concurrently with the
military reform program. As the latter program will review all currently mobilized armed
forces and potentially demobilize approximately 150,000 o f them, it i s logical for reasons
o fboth efficiency and security that the two programs share part o f a common process.

49. Logistical arrangements. For security reasons and in order to promote savings and
efficiency, the `Regroupement', Disarmament and OrientatiodDemobilization exercise will
be carried out inphases. Each phase will correspond to a specific geographic area. Phases
within a region will be run consecutively, whereas Phases inregions far apart will be able
to be run concurrently. Within each DDR phase there will be, depending on the need, a
number of:


 0   Army regroupment sites (mostly barracks)
 0   Disarmament Points
 0   OrientatiodDemobilization Centers
 0   Child Protection Centers

There is also a plan for mobile disarmament and demobilization teams in very remote
areas.

50. Some o f these centers will be lodged in existing facilities requiring varying degrees o f
rehabilitation, some will have to be temporary structures constructed for the program. As it
is planned for each person to spend up to five days in the Orientation Centers, the Centers
will therefore accommodate up to 1,000 people per week inaddition to the staff..

51. CONADER will require at least 10 provincial offices and some sub offices for
reinsertion for the duration o f the program (see organigram inAnnex 5).

DRC - Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project - Technical Annex                   13


52. Security Arrangements. A phased approach will be applied to the program, which will
allow for part o f the armed forces to remain deployed for purposes o f national security, for
the provision o f security during `regroupment' when disarmament will take place and for
security at the centers.

Sensitization

53. Prior to the launching o f the actual DDR process, CONADER will commission
specialized agencies to sensitize both the potential beneficiaries and the communities to
which they will retum as to the content and implications o f the PNDDR, to manage
expectations and secure participation in the program. They will also institute specific
reconciliation activities in communities where the retum o f ex-combatants may cause
tension or hostility. This sensitization and reconciliation service will continue throughout
the life o fthe program as necessary.

`Regroupement' and Disarmament.

54. Although this activity is not covered by the project it i s described here to provide a
complete description o f the national program. The current Unified HighCommand (UHC)
has instructed that all forces within the current army wishing to be considered for
integration into the new army must be restructured into formal units for administrative
purposes and these will be known as units o f `720'. Commanders o f these units will submit
(under oath) a list of all their combatants and their armament to CONADER prior to the
DDRexercise.

55. With the implementation o f the program and the start o f the various phases selected
`720' units will be confined to their barracks. All weapons will be registered and placed in
a secure place. They will remain the property o f the Congolese Government but be under
international observation during the DDR period. Each combatant will be given a receipt
for his weapon.

56. Those irregular combatants, or armed fighting groups, that have not been constituted
into units of `720' under the Unified High Command, but that also require disarmament
and potentially demobilization and re-integration, will be invited to present themselves to
specially designated disarmament points, which will be under the supervision o f
CONADER. They will disarm, receive a receipt for their weapon and be invited to present
themselves to the Orientation Center at a specific time.

Orientation and Demobilization

57. All Combatants will come to the Orientation Centers in pre-determined groups,
unarmed and for those currently with the FA-RDC their military status will be
"suspended."     On entering, each ex-combatant will be identified and have his status
verified. Children associated with armed forces will be separated and taken to specialized
centers. Women will also be separated from the men. All will have a medical visit,
(including HIV/AIDS sensitization and the possibility o f voluntary testing). Adult ex-

DRC - Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project - Technical Annex                  14


combatants will then be briefed on the eligibility criteria, conditions for entering the army
and the demobilization program andreinsertion benefits.

58. Those that wish to join the new army and that meet the eligibility criteria will
immediately leave for a military location. There they will undergo further evaluation (at the
expense o f the MOD). Ifthey should fail to meet the requirements o f the security service,
they will again become eligible for consideration for demobilization and reinsertion. A time
frame and the process will be determined inthe joint operations plan.

59. Those wishing to enter the demobilization and reinsertion process and meeting the
criteria, will continue on to the demobilization activities. These will include: formal
demobilization from the armed services; a formal acceptance o f the terms o f the program,
the collection o f socio-economic data; further orientation on the program; and civic
training.

Identification and Verification

60. CONADER will supervise and coordinate the verification o f the status o f each
combatant. This may require a special verification panel. The panel's main role will be a)
to establish whether the individual i s a combatant either eligible for demobilization and re-
integration as defined by the PNDDR or for integration into the new army; and b) to
establish if the individual is a child soldier as defined by the Cape Town Principles. Those
not meeting either set o f criteria will be tumed away. Human rights personnel may also
intervene at this stage to identifysuspected perpetrators o f crimes against humanity.

Services provided during Orientation and Demobilization.

61. Medical Screening: A special medical team will screen the combatants to identify
serious diseases or impairments that may affect economic and social reintegration or re-
incorporation into the security forces. Voluntary counseling and testing for HIV/AIDS will
be offered. To this end, medical teams will be established and will comprise members with
skills relevant to HIV/AIDS and the special needs o f women and children. All medical
information will be kept confidential.

62. Socio-economic profiling:         A simplified socio-economic questionnaire will be
completed by CONADER for all demobilizing ex-combatants during the demobilization
process. Data collected during the exercise will contain information about ex-combatants'
demographic characteristics (age, gender, marital status, number o f children, etc.),
education, assistance needs and aspirations. The data will be incorporated into the M I S to
be administered by CONADER and will be used to inform the development o f
reintegration assistance strategies.

DRC - Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project - Technical Annex                 15


63. Pre-discharge orientation:         Pre-discharge orientation (PDO) will provide ex-
combatants and, where applicable their partners, with essential information. The orientation
program will be put in place by CONADER, which will also identify and train counselors
and prepare appropriate materials.       The PDO will provide accurate information about
programbenefits and minimize unrealistic expectations. Specific PDO topics include:

     (i)    DemobilizationID card (non-negotiable, non-transferable);
     (ii)   Program benefits and payment procedures;
     (iii) Programopportunities;
     (iv)   The role o fthe CONADER's provincial offices;
     (v)    HIV/AIDS prevention and control; and
     (vi)   Civic duties andhuman rights.


64. Demobilization cards: A proper identification system is essential to ensure target
group integrity during program implementation.              Each ex-combatant will receive a
demobilization program IDcard from CONADER. These will include photographs andbe
individually numbered and stamped. They will not vary by ex-combatant group. All ID
card information will be incorporated into the Management Information System (MIS).

65. Provisions for special target groups: Children associated with the armed forces:
while awaiting transfer to Transit Centers they will be separated and accommodated in
areas managed by the child protection agencies. These agencies will reunify them with
their families or place them in alternative care. Dependents: Although families o f ex-
combatants are not direct beneficiaries under the PNDDR, the family unit o f an ex-
combatant will be taken into consideration during the planning and implementation o f the
different phases o f the program. CONADER will work in close consultation and
coordination with relevant Ministries on all issues inrelation to accompanying families.


Reinsertion

66. Upondischarge from the Orientation Centers, demobilized combatants lose their source
o f income and their right to army accommodation. Transitional safety net assistance will
therefore be provided to support ex-combatants for a limited period following their return
to civilian life('transition ' phase). It will consist o f a Basic Needs Kit (Kit de premiere
nkcessitk) to assist in the actual retum to home and the first part o f a Transitional
Subsistence Allowance (TSA) to sustain the ex-combatant and his or her family until they
have had a chance to register for the reintegrationprogram intheir area.

67. The BNK would provide the following assistance to facilitate the initial transition to
civilian life o f ex-combatants: (i)transport and food allowance, most probably in the form
o f a $30 cash grant; (ii) basic household items kit; The BNK would be provided to all ex-
combatants upon their departure from the demobilization centers. Transport allowances
will not be given to children as they will be transferred by child protection agencies to
Transit Centers for children. Vulnerable cases such as handicapped and chronically illmay
qualify for special transport assistance.

DRC - Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project - TechnicalAnnex                     16



68. Transitional Subsistence Allowance: This assistance is provided incash. Each adult ex-
combatant will receive $50 on departure from the Orientation centers the first installment
o f the TSA.

Reintegration

69. The second and third installments o f the TSA will be paid once the ex-combatant
registers inhisher chosen area o f reintegration. Upon registration at the provincial offices
the ex-combatant will receive a cash payment o f U S $150. This will be followed a number
o f months later by a second payment o f U S $150, if the ex-combatants continue
participating in program activities and are starting to reintegrate in their communities. The
offices will be responsible for the registration o f the ex-combatant for TSA as well as for
the socio-economic reintegration.

70. Assistance will be provided to help ex-combatants reintegrate themselves into their
communities and establish sustainable livelihoods. The following guiding principles will
apply for reintegration assistance: (a) minimize market distortions and maximize
beneficiary choice; (b) provide assistance that leads to sustainable livelihoods, (c) involve
communities o f settlement and foster reconciliation, (d) to the extent possible, benefit the
wider community

71. Economic reintegration. Ex-combatants should be offered assistance in attaining
sustainable livelihoods. They should be equally eligible for the program irrespective o f
rank or former military affiliation or gender and they should be allowed to choose their
reintegration destination freely. In principle, the programs should give preference to
reintegration assistance that also benefits the ex-combatant's community o f return. To the
extent possible, reintegration support should build on existing capacities rather than create
new structures. Assistance will be offered in different forms: provision o f information,
counseling and referral services; vocational training, formal and informal apprenticeship
schemes and educational opportunities; employment. It is anticipated that with the
restoration o f peace many labor intensive programs and other employment opportunities
will be generated by public and private rehabilitation, development and investment
initiatives. The Bank is itself supporting substantial government commissioned
infrastructure programs throughout the country.

72. Social reintegration. Social reintegration is essential for a sustainable return to civilian
life and livelihoods. Social reintegration may be especially difficult in areas where ex-
combatants lost their families or where the social fabric has been destroyed. Community
participation inthe PNDDRi s therefore considered critical for successful reintegration.


Special target groups

73. Gender. The PNDDR will provide targeted support for the social and economic
reintegration o f female ex-combatants. Women "associated with the fighting forces" may
constitute a sizeable group that from previous experience warrants particular attention.

DRC - Emergency Demobilization and ReintegrationProject - TechnicalAnnex                                       17


Often sexually abused they are not only traumatized but often stigmatized and require
specializedre-integration support. Specific measures would include the following:

                   (i)Ensuringthatthespecialneeds(e.g., security,sanitation)offemaleex-
                   combatants are taken into account inthe orientation centers;
                   (ii)ensuringthatallbenefitsforex-combatantsareequalforandequally
                   accessible to menand women;
                   (iii)encouragingfemaleex-combatantstoparticipateinexistingwomen's
                   associations;
                   (iv) including partners o fex-combatants andwomen incommunities o f
                   return incommunity-level counseling activities;
                   (v) strengthening the gender awareness and capacity o f CONADER staff
                   and o f others involved inthe reintegration process; and
                   (vi) monitoring the impact o fthe Programonpartners o fex-combatants and
                   women incommunities o freturn and bringing emerging problems to the
                   attention o f the relevant authorities.


74. Disabled ex-combatants.2Only limited medical and economic assistance has been
provided to disabled ex-combatants to date. The PNDDR would seek to systematically
address the medical and economic rehabilitation needs o f the estimated 2,000 disabled ex-
combatants to be demobilized under the Program. A medical commission would define the
degree of disability. With respect to physical rehabilitation, the Program would provide
assistance depending on the degree o f disability.

75. Chronicallyillex-combatants.The Program would also seek to systematically address
the medical needs o f chronically ill ex-combatants. A medical commission would
determine the degree o f illness. The Program would endeavor to ensure access to medical
care and counseling for chronically ill ex-combatants for up to 12 months after
demobilization. After this period, the Program would transfer responsibility for these ex-
combatants to relevant health authorities.

76. Children associated with the armed forces. Child ex-combatants are estimated to
represent at least 10% to 20% o f the fighting forces. They will need priority assistance.
CONADER will work in coordination with partners specialized in the area o f child
protection. The children associated with the armed forces program has been established by
experts and based on current best practice. The guidingprinciple is to secure the release3 o f
all children associated with the fighting forces and to promote their earliest re-unification
with their families or placement inalternative care.

77. Children associated with the armed forces will be separated from the adults and the
mainstream DDR program as soon as presented to the program. They will be taken to



   Disability is defined as the functional limitation within an individual caused by physical, mental or sensory
'impairmentare
  Children      "released" from the fighting forces and do not require `legal' demobilization.

DRC - Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project - Technical Annex                   18


dedicated transit and orientation centers (TOC) for children where experts will assess their
needs and define the best approach for re-integrating the child into society. The children
will require special assistance especially inthe areas o fpsychological support, drug abuse,
sexual abuse, child mothers, etc., but the ultimate goal i s to return the child to his or her
family or to place them in an alternative family setting --TOO are not to become
permanent orphanages. Tracing services will endeavor to find the child's family. However,
ifthese cannot be found, extended familymembers or appropriate alternative care such as
foster families, independent living, or group homes will be sought. Assistance will include
family tracing and reunification, trauma counseling and psychosocial care, and facilitation
o f access to education or skills training in communities o f settlement. While CONADER
would coordinate general assistance to children associated with the armed forces,
implementation would be undertaken by organizations experienced in this area. Several
pilot activities are currently being funded through the MDRP Special Project window.
These provide the basis for the nationalprogram.

78. HIV/AIDS. Previous experience has demonstrated that combatants are a high-risk
group for HIV infection. The project would offer an extensive HIV/AIDS service to the ex-
combatants. The PNDDR itself will provide the necessary counseling to all combatants in
the Orientation centers inorder to allow them to make an informed decision as to voluntary
testing. On-site testing will be made available, as will any post-testing counseling that is
required. PNDDR will only be able to provide treatment for acute opportunistic infections
but will direct patients towards available HIV/AIDS programs. The MAP program inDRC
has recently been launched and it is hoped that it will provide an increasing number o f
treatment opportunities to which ex-combatants canbe referred.


3.5   Program Costs

79.The Government's Program i s estimated to cost US$ 200 million (see Table l),f           o
which IDAwould finance US$$lOOmillion. MDRPis financing an additional $100 million
o f the program and $18 million through special projects. Total Program costs per
beneficiary are roughly $1228.

                Table 1 :Demobilization and Reintegration Program Costs




Contingencies                                                     I    19        3       1  2%
        Total (estimated)                                         1  1228      200       I 100%

DRC - Emergency Demobilization and ReintegrationProject - TechnicalAnnex                    19


80. Government counterpart contribution. Notwithstanding its fiscal constraints, the
Government is committed to supporting the Program. In this spirit, Government would
waive all taxes leviedinDRC on works, goods and services for this Program. It would also
contribute land, office space, security and other in-kindsupport.

         Table 2: Demobilization and Reintegration Program Financing Plan




3.6   Effectiveness Conditions

81. The following conditions o f effectiveness have been agreed upon with Government:


               (i)thefollowingstaff,withqualificationsandexperiencesatisfactorytothe
               Association, have been appointed: inCONADER :a Project coordinator; a
               deputy Project coordinator, a financial andpersonnelmanager; a director for
               disarmament anddemobilization, a director for reinsertion, a director for
               sensitization and information, and a director for children associated with
               ArmedGroups; and inCGFDR: an administrator and a procurement
               specialist.

               (ii)theFinancialManagementAgency(FMA)hasbeenrecruitedanda
               financial management and accounting system for the Project, including the
               Financial andAdministrative Procedures Manual, satisfactory to the
               Association has been established with the assistance ofthe FMA;

               (iii) independentauditorhasbeenappointedsatisfactorytoIDA;
                    an

               (iv) the PIM, including a procurement plan, andthe MFAP, inform and
               substance satisfactory to the Association, have been adopted by the
               Recipient;

               (v) administrative texts, satisfactory to the Association, setting out the
               eligibility criteria for the demobilization and reintegration o f Ex-Combatants
               have beenpublished and the an-&%definingthe organization and operation
               o f CIDDR, CONADER and CGDDR, satisfactory to the Association, have
               been published.

DRC - Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project-Technical Annex                    20


4     Studies and Technical Assistance

82. A number o f studies have been identified to support the development and
implementation o f the program. Some o f these studies are being financed under the PPF
and others will be carried out through MDRP supported special projects or through
additional technical support provided by the World Bank. Technical assistance may also
be provided directly to CONADER by the World Bank, MDRP, and bilateral donors and
through MDRP supported special projects.


4.1    Studies

83. Economic Opportunity Inventory. The objective o f this study would be to establish an
inventory o f reintegration opportunities (training, employment, development projects, etc.)
by province and sector. This inventory would be used by the PPOs for informing and
sensitizing ex-combatants

84. Pre-demobilization orientation program. A program would be developedto provide ex-
combatants with information about the Program, health issues andcivilian life. In
particular, ex-combatants would be briefed about their benefits andthe modalities of
accessing them, banking and financial matters, civic and community duties, training and
employment opportunities, access to land and credit, income generating activities, and
family andhealth issues.

85. Program of community sensitization and participation. The objective o f this program
would be to sensitize the civilian population about the PNDDR and the challenges faced
during this process by ex-combatants and their families. The program would also address
the concerns of the receiving communities and encourage their participation in
reintegration activities. The program would be disseminated in various forms o f media
(e.g., radio, brochures, popular folk theater, andnewspapers).

86. Assistancefor disabled ex-combatants. This study would help design andcost the
detailed assistance package to: (i) provide counseling necessary for the social reintegration
o f disabled ex-combatants; (ii) physical rehabilitation o f disabled ex-combatants to achieve
optimal and sustainable benefits from therapeutic interventions such as the provision o f
prostheses and physiotherapy; and (iii)where relevant, train disabled ex-combatants in
skills needed to pursue an economic activity which is both o f their choice and economically
viable. The assistance would encourage the development o f community-based rather than
institution-based services, and would further initiatives which increase the capacity o f
disabled people to help themselves and each other.

87. Management Information System (Data Base).              The system will manage all data
relating to monitoring and evaluation and will include : socio-economic date, identification
system for ex-combatants and other beneficiaries, and links to the financial management
system.

DRC - Emergency Demobilization and ReintegrationProject- Technical Annex                    21


88. Identijkation of gender issues and inclusion of these issues in the PNDDR. The study
will identify critical needs related to gender and propose specific actions to ensure that
women and men both play a role in the socio-economic reintegration o f ex-combatants in
their communities.

89. Identijkation of training resourcesfor reintegration. This study will provide a map o f
available training capacity related to reintegration, define activities and put in place a
network o f partners, community associations, national and internationalNGOs, and private,
public and parastatal organizations working on capacity building.

90. Financial management system. Design of an FMS, including a manual o f financial and
procurement procedures.

91.Development of an implementation manual. The objective o f the PIM is to describe
how the various components o f the program will be implemented, monitored and
evaluated. This activity will include a review o f program documents and a summary o f the
program; a brief description o f the program components and activities, and o f Government
policy on demobilization and reintegration; an implementation framework; a table o f
activities, resource requirements, implementation time frame, implementing office(s), and
beneficiaries under consideration;        implementation arrangements       related to   fund
administration;    a procurement plan;         guidelines   and operational procedures o f
demobilization, reintegration, social and economic reintegration; vulnerability guidelines;
organizational structures and terms o freference for program staff.

92. Identification of questions related to children associated with the armedforces. The
study will consolidate the lessons learned inpilot activities on child soldier demobilization
and define procedures for continuing these activities.

93. Identification of issues linked to HIV/AIDS. The study will formulate recommendations
on the type o f interventions relative to H N / A I D S to be undertaken by the demobilization
program, outline the implementation procedures and propose a budget.


4.2    TechnicalAssistance

94. Local and/or expatriate technical assistance may be required for long-term and short-
term assignments duringProgram implementation. Consultancies will be required on an
ongoing basis, especially for the design and the implementation o f the manual o f
procedures and the training o f the FMstaff and for periodic external technical and
financial audits and independent evaluations. Where not covered under the MDRPspecial
projects or through other agreed bilateral technical support, qualified (private and/or
public) providers would be contracted by CONADER to undertake such activities.
Targeted technical assistance may also be needed for HIV/AIDS activities and the special
target groups component. CONADER will sub-contract activities inpart or as a whole to
qualified implementers.

DRC - Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project-TechnicalAnnex                    22


5   InstitutionalArrangements andProgramImplementation
95. The institutional structure for the Program was established on December 18, 2003 by
decree (03/041, 03/042, 03/043). It consists o f three primary institutions.

96. The Interministerial Committee on disarmament, demobilization and reintegration
(CIDDR). This committee will provide oversight on the PNDDR. Its responsibilities
include the following:

    (i)     determining Government policy for the demobilization and reinsertion o f ex-
            combatants;
    (ii)    monitoring and guidingthe implementation o f the PNDDR;
    (iii)   providing strategic and policy-level Program coordination.
    (iv)    ensuring coordination o f policy between DDR and Security Sector Reform
            (SSR)

97. The National Commission on DDR (CONADER). CONADER will implement the
program including:

    (i)     the preparation and costing o f detailed annual implementation plans;

    (ii)    the implementation and coordination o f the individual PNDDR components
            (demobilization, reinsertion, reintegration, special target groups, HIV/AIDS
            measures). To this end, CONADER would establish close links with relevant
            Government departments, local organizations and associations, and the private
            sector;

    (iii)   monitoring and evaluation o f implementation progress and impacts; and

    (iv)    ensuring the coordination o f international partners in accordance with the needs
            o f the program and the principles o f the MDRP

98. Comite de Gestion des Fond DDR (CGFDR):              The Committee to manage funds for
DDR is responsible for the transparent and accountable administration o f Program
resources (including procurement and financial management).


99. Links between the three institutions will be further detailed in the implementation
manual. The FM arrangements should be adapted to the relations put inplace between the
three institutions interm o fresponsibility, reporting and control.


NationalLevel

100.    CONADER will consist o f 5 departments (see organigrain Annex 5) :

                 (i) DisarmamentandDemobilization
                 (ii) Reinsertion
                 (iii) AdministrationandFinance

D R C - Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project - Technical Annex                23


                 (iv)    Children Associated with Armed Groups
                 (v)     Information and sensitization


101.     The implementation mechanisms for the DDR component are outlined in the PNDDR and
detailed in the Joint Operations Plan for DDR. The management o f the DDR program will come
under a specialized unit o f CONADER, which will carry overall responsibility for all aspects of
the DDR process. It should be noted, however, that the regroupment and disarmament exercise,
though planned and overseen by members o f the CONADER and monitored by MONUC, will
actually be carried out and largely funded by the M O D and not by the DRCDRP.


Regional Level

102.     Due to the size o f the country and the probability that ex-combatants will returnto
all provinces, CONADER will establish a Provincial Program Office (PPO) in each
province to administer reinsertion assistance, and to monitor and evaluate program
implementation progress and impacts.

103.     The PPOs will report to CONADER and be attached to the offices o f the provincial
administration to ensure the integration o f Program implementation in the Government's
provincial structures.

104.     The CONADER Provincial Program Offices would be responsible for the
following:

             (i)updatingtheinventoryofprojectsandtrainingandemploymentproviders;
             (ii)conducting outreach activities with ex-combatants, including counseling and
                 referral as well as business development support;
             (iii)managingthe work o f district ex-combatant outreach personnel;
             (iv) technical and financial monitoring o freintegration activities;
             (v) coordinating with other Government and non-governmental institutions and
                 reconstruction activities; and
             (vi) reportingto CONADER on a regular basis.


5.1     Staffing, institutional support and capacity building

105.     The institutional structure for Program implementation will be new and will require
strengthening at all levels. Staff recruited for these positions should have experience and
qualifications satisfactory to IDA. Provincial staff would be recruited in accordance with
the settlement patterns o f ex-combatants. Qualified ex-combatants could fill these
positions.

 106.    Equipment would be provided to help each office ftilfill its responsibilities
effectively. For CONADER this would include vehicles and office equipment. Each
Provincial Program Office would receive essential office equipment as well as motorcycles
for monitoring and outreach activities.

DRC - Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project - TechnicalAnnex                        24


107.     Staff development at the central and provincial levels would be critical for effective
Program implementation. Staff at all levels would undergo necessary training. The
objectives o f this training, which would commence immediately after staff have been
recruited/assigned, would be to ensure that all involved in the PNDDR have the same
understanding o f the Program objectives, procedures, and specific responsibilities,
including their tasks in relation to the internal reporting system. A staff development
program would be prepared and would include: (i)           the preparation o f a training plan; (ii)
the development o f training materials; and (iii)the carrying out o f training activities,
including gender awareness and sensitization, conflict resolution and reconciliation. Staff
selection and training would include measures to enhance the ability o f CONADER
personnel to provide assistance in an equitable manner irrespective o f the former military
affiliation o f beneficiaries.




5.2    FinancialManagement,DisbursementsandAuditing

108.     The overall coordination o f the fiduciary aspects o f the Program would be under the
responsibility of the CONADER. All funds would be managed by the CGFDR with
technical guidance by an independent accounting firm recruited prior to project
effectiveness. PPOs would not be involved infunds management, though petty cash would
bemade available to cover minor expenses within established limits.

109.     The principal objective o f the Program's financial management system (FMS)
would be to support management in the distribution o f limited resources with the purpose
o f ensuring economy, efficiency and effectiveness in the delivery o f outputs required to
achieve program objectives. Specifically, the FMS must be capable o f producing timely,
understandable, relevant and reliable financial information that would enable management
to plan, implement, monitor and appraise the Project's overall progress towards the
achievement o f its objectives.

110.     Qualified, experienced and independent external auditors would be appointed on
approved terms o f reference. Regular financial and technical external audits will be carried
out due to the complexity the risk and the need for monitoring the performances o f the
program. The external audits would cover all World Bank, other donors and Counterpart
funds at all levels o f Program execution.


DisbursementArrangements

Financing Mechanisms

111.     Retroactive financing. To facilitate speedy support to ex-combatants demobilized
prior to project effectiveness, the Project would allow retroactive financing in the amount
o f US$20 million (20% o f the IDA grant amount). Retroactive financing would allow the
Government to initiate large-scale demobilization activities as soon as possible.

DRC - Emergency Demobilization ana' Reintegration Project - Technical Annex                 25


Multi-donor trustfund. The Government recognizes that the MDRP trust fund would help
to ensure comprehensive financing for the Program, facilitate the involvement o f donors
that might otherwise not be able to participate, minimize duplication o f efforts, and reduce
the administrative burden on Government through the application o f one set o f
implementation procedures. Government will thus apply to the MDTF o f the MDRP to
finance the part o f the program not financed by IDA or by bilateral partners.           IDA
financing is made under the assumption that MDRP financing will be approved. Problems
with the approval of MDRP funding for the DRCDRP may lead to suspension o f IDA
financing.
112.   Direct Cash Payments to Ex-Combatants. Cash payments to ex-combatants are a
standard feature o f transitional safety nets inDDRprograms. Inorder to improve the
financial management o f these payments and ensure the timely availability o f funds, this
project will make these payments directly from IDA funds. This requires a partial waiver o f
OP 2.30 because some o fthe cash maybe used for purchasingfood and other items that
mightbe construed as humanitarian assistance. To facilitate financial monitoring, the
project will put inplace a dedicated special account to be usedonly for processingthese
payments. Funds will be disbursed from the Special Account through a financial firm hired
to manage the cash payments. Eligible ex-combatants would be requiredto appear for
payments at specified times and locations with their IDcards. Payments would be initiated
and authorized at the Central level by CONADER. The transitional subsistence allowances
(TSAs) will be handed to ex-combatants at the respective CONADER demobilization
centers over the territory.

113.    The followingbank accounts would be maintainedby CONADER for program
funds:
e       IDA Grant Special Account A: (denominated inU S dollars), program funds would
        be deposited from the IDA Grant for cash payments to eligible ex-combatants;
e       IDA Grant Special Account B: (denominatedinU S dollars), program funds would
        be deposited from the IDA Grant for all other eligible expenses.
e       MDTF Special Account: (denominated inUS dollars), program fimds would be
        deposited from the Multi-Donor Trust Fund(MDTF).


114.    The IDA Grant Special Accounts and the MDTF Special Account would be
maintained ina commercialbank acceptable to IDA.

Use of Statementsof Expenditures(SOEs)

115.    Disbursements for all expenditures will be made against full documentation except
for items of expenditures under: (a) contracts for consulting firms inamount inferior to
US$ 100,000 equivalent; (b) contracts for individual consultants in an amount inferior to
US$ 50,000 equivalent; (c) contracts for works in an amount inferior to US$200,000; and
(d) contracts for goods inan amount inferior to US$ 100,000; (e) cash payments, training
and operating costs, which will be claimed on the basis o f statements o f expenditures
(SOEs). All supporting documentation for SOEs will be retained at CONADER and the

DRC - Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project - Technical Annex                  26


regional offices o f CONADER. They will be kept readily accessible for review by periodic
IDA supervisionmissions and extemal auditors.

SpecialAcccounts

116.   To facilitate project implementation and reduce the volume o f withdrawal
applications, CONADERwill open two Special Accounts inU S dollars ina commercial
bank acceptable to IDA. Special Account A will finance cash payments to ex-combatants
underthe contract signed with a financial firm, while Special Account Bwill finance all
other project expenditures. The authorized Special allocations will be US$3 million for
Special Account A and US$4m for Special Account B and will cover approximately four
(4) months o f expenditures. Uponcredit effectiveness IDA will deposit the amount o fUS$
1.5 million into Special Account A and 3 million into Special Account B representing50
percent o fthe authorized allocation.

117.    The remainingbalance will be made available when the aggregate amount o f
withdrawals from the Credit account plus the total amount o f all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Association shall be equal or exceed the equivalent of
SDR 2 million for Special Account A and SDR 20,500,OO for Special Account B. The
Special Accounts will be used for all payments inferior to 20 percent o f the authorized
allocation and replenishment applications will be submittedmonthly. Further deposits by
IDAinto the Special Account will bemade against withdrawal applications supported by
appropriate documents.


AccountingandFinancialReportingArrangements

The AccountingFirm

118.    An internationally recognized accounting firm will be recruited on a short-term
contract (12 to 18 months) to provide technical assistance to the FM team o f CONADER
and CFGDR including (i)     developing a manual of administrative, financial and accounting
procedures, (ii)assisting in implementing a sound computerized financial management
system (budgeting, accounting system, financial reporting) at the central and regional levels
and (iii)training the staff. This firm would provide support to the project until such time as
IDA'Sfinancial management staff certify that CFGDR has sufficient capacity.

Administrative, FinancialandAccountingProceduresManual

119.    The accounting systems, policies and procedures employed by the program in
accounting and managing for the program funds will b e documented in the project's
Financial and Accounting Procedures Manual (FAPM). This will be used by: staff as a
reference manual; IDA and other donors to assess the acceptability o f the project
accounting, reporting and control systems; and by the auditors to assess project accounting
systems and controls and in designing specific project audit procedures.

DRC - Emergency Demobilization ana' Reintegration Project-Technical Annex                27


Integrated Financial Management System

120.   For the Program to deliver on its objectives, a Financial Management System would
be developed. A financial management action plan has been designed to achieve this prior
to project effectiveness (see below). The system should integrate budgeting, operating and
accounting systems to facilitate monitoring and reporting. System generated formats for
periodic reports would be developed and agreedwith program management.

Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs)

121.   Project management staff should be able to produce FMRs by effectiveness. The
report would be prepared on a quarterly basis in accordance with the Guidelines for
Borrowers on Financial Monitoring Reports and would include the following:


    0  Sources and Uses o f Fundsby Grant Categories and Program Components
    0  OutputMonitoringReport
    0  ProcurementMonitoringReports
    0  Cash forecast
        Special Account Statement
    0  Physical progress Report
    0  Notes to the FMRs

Financial Statements

122.   Incompliance with International Accounting Standards and IDA requirements, the
project would produce biannual financial statements. Financial Statements would include:

       A Statement o f Cash Receipts and Payments which recognizes all cash receipts,
       cash payments and cash balances controlled by the project.
       A Balance Sheet that shows Assets and Liabilities.
    0  A Statement of Sources and Uses ofFunds.
    0  Notes in respect o f significant accounting policies and accounting standards
        adopted bymanagement and underlyingthe preparation o f financial statements.
    0  A Management Assertion that Bank funds have been expended in accordance with
       the intendedpurposes as specified inthe World Bank legal agreement.

Audit Arrangements

External Financial Auditing

123.    Qualified independent auditors would be appointed by the CONADER. The
selected auditors would be acceptable to IDA in terms o f independence, qualifications and
experience. The audit would be based on terms o f reference agreed with IDA. The external
audit work would include all World Bank funds, other funds and Government funds (if
available) for the program.

D R C - Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project - Technical Annex                  28


124.     The financial statements o f the Programwould be audited every six months (at least
for the two first years o f the program) untilperformance i s proved to be satisfactory, and
annually thereafter. The date o f the first audit would be determined in consultation with
IDA. The first audit would include the period o fthe PPF.

125.     In addition to the audit report, the auditor would be required to prepare a
Management Letter where internal control weaknesses and recommendations for
improvements, are highlighted. A single audit opinion would be issued on program income
and expenditures, special accounts and statements o f expenditure. Another audit opinion
will be issued on specific controls such as compliance with procurement procedures and
FMR requirements and the terms o f the grant agreements. The audit reports along with
Management Letters would be sent to IDA and all other financing partners not later than
four months after the end o f eachpreceding period.


126. For the sake o f comprehensiveness and harmonization o f procedures, Program
funds would be administered and audited irrespective o f their source and the financing
mechanism employed.

Extemal Technical Auditing

127.     A firm of technical auditors will be contracted competitively to assess the
performance o f the program and to review procurement, statements o f expenditures, as well
as verifying the physical existence o f goods, equipment, and services acquired through the
program. This audit will be conducted on a quarterly basis for the first two quarters and
then semi-annually.      The selection o f the successful firm will be based on Terms o f
Reference that are acceptable to IDA. The terms o f reference will also set out the scope o f
the audit. The audited documents together with the auditor's report will be submitted to
IDAwithin four months o fthe end ofthe review.

Financial Management Action Plan

Issue               I Remedial   Action Recommended                           Due Date
Accounting Firm-        0   An InternationalAccounting Firmwill be hired:
AF                        0  TORSfor the recruitment o fthe Accounting firm   BY
                               agreed with Government and expressions of       effectiveness
                              interest advised
                              The recruitment of the AF completed and the
                               contract signed by CONADER                      Condition o f
                                                                               effectiveness
Staffing                      Recruitment o f key fiduciary staff in           Condition o f
                               CONADERand CGFDR                                effectiveness
Information               0   Recruitment o f Accounting Firmto assist in      By grant
System including              the design of the computerized financial         Effectiveness
accounting                    management system
software

Manual o f          1     0   TORSfor the recruitment o fthe Consultant        Condition o f

DRC - Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project - TechnicalAnnex                     29


administrative and          agreed and recruitment completed                effectiveness
financial                   Manual finalized and agreed
procedures
ExternalAuditing            TORSfor the selection the Extemal Auditors      B Y
(Financial and               agreed and expressions of interest advertised  Effectiveness
Technical)                   Selection o f the Extemal FinancialAuditor      3 months
                             completed and agreed by the Bank               after
                                                                            effectiveness
Financial               0   Agreement on the formats and contents o fthe    BY
Reporting                   Financial statements                             effectiveness



Financial Supervision

128.   The World Bank would do financial Management Supervision over the program life
to ensure the implementation o f strong financial management systems. Statement o f
Expenditure (SOE) reviews would be undertaken where necessary in compliance with
World Bank requirements.

129.    On a semi-annual basis or at such time as the Government and the Bank deem
necessary, the Government and IDA would carry out joint supervision missions. These
missions would make spot checks on a small random sample o f beneficiaries at their place
o fresidence to verify the use of the funds disbursed.

130.    The Project Status Report (PSR) will include a financial management rating for the
component done by the Country Office Financial Management Specialist after an
appropriate review.


RiskAnalysis

131.    In order to establish an acceptable control environment and to mitigate financial
management risks, the measures outlined in the Action Plan (above) should be
implemented. The Program i s high risk until the FMS and other operational systems are
well defined and documented, andpersonnel are trained.

132.    Safeguards to ensure the proper use of funds. Six safeguards have been built into
the Program to ensure that IDA f k d s are utilized for the purposes intended:


                Periodic audits would verify appropriate use o f funds under all Categories;
            0   A unique, non-transferable, photograph ID would be provided to each ex-
                combatant. This would be used to verify ex-combatants' eligibility for
                assistance;
            0   The IDSwould be entered in an integrated MIS that would enable
                CONADER and            Provincial     Program       Officesto   track    Program
                implementation at the central and local level;

DRC - Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project - TechnicalAnnex                     30


             0  Annual surveys o f a representative sample o f the beneficiary population
                would track Program delivery and verify their receipt o f assistance; and
             0  IDA would carry out semi-annual supervisionmissions incollaborationwith
                interested UN/donor partners.

133.   Overall assessment. A Bank accredited Financial Management Specialist has
reviewed the present status and the agreed actions indicated in the Financial Management
Action Plan above. On this basis, IDA has reasonable assurances for satisfactory financial
management o f Program funds inconformity with current IDA requirements. The financial
management o f the PNDDR would require close follow up. To this end, specialized Bank
staff would monitor financial management performance on an ongoing basis.

5.3   Procurement

134.   Procurement o f goods and works to be financed from the proceeds o f the Grant
would be govemed by the Guidelinesfor Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
published in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and
January 1999. Consultant services contracts financed by IDA would be procured in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Selection of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers published inJanuary 1997 andrevised inSeptember 1997 and January 1999 and
May 2002.

135.   The Grant would finance goods required for the demobilization process, including
basic needs kits, equipment to prepare ID cards. The Grant would also finance office
equipment and vehicles/motorcycles for the CONADER and the PPOs, as well as the
rehabilitation of, and the purchase o f essential equipment.

Procurementcapacityassessment andimplementationarrangements

136.   Procurement activities would be handled by CONADER, via the CGFDR,
including: (i) preparation o f the General Procurement Notice and its annual update; (ii)
preparation o f the specific procurement notices; (iii)       preparation and update o f the six
monthly procurement plan; (iv) drafting bidding documents and request o f proposals; (v)
awarding o f contracts and requesting for IDA no-objections when required; and (vi)
drafting o f contracts and ensuring that contracts are implemented and managed properly.

DRC - Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project - TechnicalAnnex                         31


137.     CONADER is a new institution with limited procurement experience. As a result,
the project is considered highrisk.While the procurement program financed by the Grant i s
not extensive, the fact that the upfront delivery o f some goods and the completion o f
rehabilitation o f some works would be critical to the success o f the Program, means that the
CONADER needs to be guided and assisted in order to fulfill its responsibilities
satisfactorily. Consequently, the following measures were agreed: (i)            recruitment o f an
international procurement consultant to assist the CONADER to prepare the detailed
procurement plan for the first six months o f operation, the bidding documents for the first
six months and provide on-the-job training to the national procurement officer; (ii)
recruiting a consultant to prepare the Program implementation manual (PIM); (iii)
recruiting the national procurement officer before Grant Effectiveness. These activities
would be financed under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF). The adoption o f a PTM
satisfactory to IDA would be a condition o f Grant effectiveness. The consultant to prepare
the manual has been identified and the PIM should be available by the end M a y 2004.

Procurementplan

138.     CONADER would prepare the procurement planfor the first six months o f
operationbefore Grant effectiveness. It would update the plan every six months for
discussion with the Bank during supervision missions. Regular FinancialMonitoring
Reports would present procurement activities inan appropriate degree o f detail.


Procurementmethods4

138.     Contracts for goods estimated to cost US$ 200,000 equivalent or more, may be
awarded by International Competitive Bidding(ICB).

139.     For contracts with the commercial bank or other financial firm to handle cash
payments, single source selection may be used provided it is done with prior approval o f
the Bank and according to the provisions o f paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11of the Consultant
Guidelines.

140.     Goods estimated to cost less than US$ 200,000 equivalent per contract may be
awarded by National Competitive Bidding(NCB) as described inparagraphs 3.3 and 3.4 o f
the IDA procurement guidelines. Due to the urgency o f the Program, and in order to
facilitate the speedy procurement o f immediately required drugs and other critical items,
international and national shopping methods would be employed more than is customary in
Bank financed projects. Hence, drugs, reagents, and medical items estimated to cost not
exceeding the equivalent o f US$ 150,000 per contract as well as other goods not exceeding
the equivalent of $50,000 may be procured on the basis o f comparison of at least three
quotations at national or international level in accordance with the provisions ofparagraphs
3.5 and 3.6 o f the Guidelines. A sample format for international shopping would be
included inthe Program implementation manual.



 The amounts per contract and the aggregate amounts apply to the IDA Grant only.

DRC - Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project-TechnicalAnnex                     32



141.    Goods including vehicles, motorcycles, computers, drugs and medical items may be
procured through UnitedNations agencies (IAPSO, UNFPA, UNICEF, WHO, WFP, FAO)
inaccordance with the provisionsofparagraph 3.9 o fthe guidelines.

142.   Goods which must be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with
existing equipment or, are o f proprietary nature may, with IDA'Sprior agreement, be
procured by direct contracting in accordance with the provisions o f the paragraph 3.7 of the
Guidelines.

143.    Civil works contracts would be very limited in both number and value, hence no
ICB i s foreseen. However, ICB procedures would apply for civil works estimated to cost
the equivalent o f US$ 500,000 or more. Civil works estimated to cost between US$
100,000 and less than US$ 500,000 equivalent per contract may be awarded by National
Competitive Bidding(NCB) inaccordance with the provisions ofparagraphs 3.3 and 3.4 o f
the Guidelines.

144.   Given the urgent requirement to rehabilitate demobilization centers on an
exceptional basis, civil works estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 equivalent per
contract may be procured on the basis o f quotations obtained from at least three qualified
contractors in response to a written invitation. The written invitation would include a
description o f the works, basic technical specifications, completion date and if necessary
the plan o f the works. The contract may be awarded to the contractor who offers the lowest
quotation provided that the bidis substantially responsive to the conditions specified inthe
written invitation. A simple format of the invitation with all the subsequent documents
(instruction to bidders, model o f contract etc.) would be included in the Program
implementation manual.

145.    Consultants' services procured under the Grant would finance the strengthening o f
local institutions responsible for the execution o f the Program: CONADER, Provincial
Program Offices, district administrations as well as associations and community-based
groups. The Grant would also finance technical studies in support o f Program execution,
the monitoring o f Program components, external financial audits and external Program
evaluations.

146.    All consultant services estimated to cost more than US$ 100,000 equivalent per
contract would be selected using the Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) method.
For contracts estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 equivalent, the short list may be
comprised entirely o f national consultants provided that at least three qualified national
consultants are available. However, if foreign firms express an interest in these contracts,
they would not be excluded from the selection process.

DRC - Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project - TechnicalAnnex                    33


147.    Consultant services for training, technical advisory services and implementation
support for special groups and HIV/AIDS activities estimated to cost less than US$
100,000 equivalent for firms may be awarded through the Consultants' Qualifications
method in accordance with the provisions o f paragraphs 3.7 o f the Guidelines. Consulting
services contracts meeting the requirements o f Section V o f the Consultants Guidelines
may be selected under the provisions for the selection o f Individual Consultants, i.e.
through the comparison o fthe curriculum vitae o f at least 3 qualified individuals.

148.    Contracts for consultant services for financial audits and external evaluations,
estimated to cost less than US$75,000 equivalent per contract, may be awarded using the
least cost selection method, in accordance with the provisions o f paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 o f
the Bank's Guidelines for the selection o f consultants.

149.    UN agencies may be hired as consultants, where they are qualified to provide
technical assistance and advice in their area o f expertise, according to the provisions o f
paragraph 3.13 o f the Guidelines. UN agencies may be hired on a single-source selection
basis ifthe criteria outlined inSection 3.9 o f the Guidelines are fulfilled.


 Thresholds for prior review

150.    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent o f US$150,000 or more and civil works
contracts estimated to cost the equivalent o f US$200,000 or more would be subject to IDA
prior review.

151. For consultant services, contracts estimated to cost the equivalent ofU S US$50,000
or more for individuals and the equivalent o f US$lOO,OOO            or more for firms would be
subject to IDA prior review procedures.

DRC - Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project - TechnicalAnnex                                               34




                        Table 3. Procurement Arrangements Summary Table




Provision o f services for the implementation o f cash    Single source selection under provisions o f paragraphs 3.8
payments                                                  through 3.1 1 o f the Consultant Guidelines
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent o f US $200,00 or  Intemational Competitive Bidding as described under section
more and civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of  11. o f "Guidelines: procurement under IBRDloan and IDA
USS500,OOO or more:                                       Grant" (ICB).
Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of       National Competitive Bidding as described under paragraphs
USS200,OOO and civil works estimated to cost more than    3.3 and 3 4 of "Guidelines : Procurement under IBRDloans
the equivalent o f US$lOO,OOO and lessthan the            and I D A Grants".
equivalent of US$500,000:
Goods purchasedfrom the original supplier to be           Direct contracting as described under paragraph 3.7 of
compatible with existing equipment or, are of proprietary "Guidelines : Procurement under IBRDLoans and IDA
nature:                                                   Grants".
Goods includingmedical items :                            UNagencies as described under paragraph 3.9 of"Guidelines
                                                          :Procurement under IBRDLoansandIDAGrants".
Drugs, reagents, medical equipment not exceeding the      Quotations obtained from at least three qualified enterprises
equivalent o f US$ 150,000 per contract, other goods not  as described under paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 o f "Guidelines :
exceeding $50,000 and civil works not exceeding the       Procurement under IBRDLoans and IDA Grants".
equivalent o f USS100,OOO per contract :
Consultant services to be procuredby firms and            Quality and cost based selection as described under section 11.
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$lOO,OOO or more:   of the Guidelines "Selection and Employment of consultants
                                                          by World Bank Borrowers".
Consultant services to be procuredby firms and not        Consultants' qualification selection as described under
exceeding the equivalent of US$lOO,OOO per contract :     paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 o fthe Guidelines "Selection and
                                                          Employment o f consultants by World Bank Borrowers".
Consultant services which can be conducted by an          Selection o f individual consultants as described under section
individual without additional outside professional        V. ofthe Guidelines "Selection and Employment of
support:                                                  consultants bv World Bank Borrowers".
Consultant services for financial audits and external     Least cost selection as described under paragraphs 3.1 and
evaluations not exceeding the equivalent o f US 75,000    3.6 ofthe Guidelines "Selection and Employment of
per contract :                                            consultants bv World Bank Borrowers".
HiringUNagencies as consultants:                          Selection according to paragraphs 3.13 ofthe Guidelines
                                                          "Selection and Employment o f consultants by World Bank
                                                          Borrowers".


 152.    All other goods, civil works and services contracts would be subject to post review
by IDA during supervision missions and by auditors during the technical and financial
audits.

DRC - Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project - Technical Annex                  35


5.4   Monitoring and Evaluation

153.    Project monitoring and evaluation will draw upon a comprehensive Management
Information System (MIS) that will combine in a modular fashion databases relative to (a)
individual ex-combatants information, (b) payments o f transitional safety net allowances,
(c) employers, training providers, and consultants in principle accessible to ex-combatants,
and (d) accounting and financial management information. Regional offices will have
access to the M I S and will be connected to the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit in
CONADER's Kinshasa office via satellite, thus allowing for the timely exchange o f
information. Ad hoc studies will be carried out as needed. These will include a formal
evaluation o f the demobilization process as well as regular beneficiary assessments,
combining both quantitative and qualitative methods. A mid-term review will be carried
out by the government and the Bank. An implementation completion report will be
prepared within six months o f the Credit closing, with the government o f DRC contribution
included.

154.    The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit will ensure that information i s provided and
shared regularly, so as to be an effective tool for project management. The M and E Unit
will also be responsible for measuring project performance against the agreed performance
indicators specified below. Specifically, the M and EUnitwill (a) monitor the functioning
and effective utilization o f the MIS, (b) organize and supervise ad hoc evaluation studies,
(c) provide timely feedback to CONADER management, (d) prepare regular reports for
CONADER, government and donors.

155.    DDRcomponent. Monitoring o fthe DDRcomponent aims at ensuringthat project
benefits are provided in a timely and effective manner and that leakage is minimal.
Information on beneficiaries will be entered in the M I S during the demobilization phase
and transmitted to the pertinent regional DDR office to allow individualized follow-up. At
the same time, a robust system o f non-transferable picture IDSwill deter misuse and make
forgery difficult.   Regional offices will be expected to update information on each
beneficiary promptly, and transmit it to the M and E Unit. At any point during project
implementation, therefore, the MIS should provide a comprehensive and detailed picture o f
the status o f reintegration for each ex-combatant. Information on children associated with
the armed forces will be sent by the TOCs to the closest regional DDR office on a monthly
basis (the TOCs will not have direct access to the MIS), and the office will enter it into the
system.

156.    A strong local presence through the regional offices will makeit possible to follow
project execution closely. In addition, for the first year o f project implementation, each
regional DDR office will have a special liaison officer who will answer beneficiary
concerns and take stock o f the problems encountered. The liaison officer will also make
visits to a sample o f combatants in their community o f settlement with the purpose o f
assessingthe success o f reintegration efforts and provide feedback to the Coordination Unit
on a regular basis. UNICEF teams and a Child Soldier Specialist will visit Children
associated with the armed forces.regularly from the CONADER central office.

 DRC - Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project - TechnicalAnnex                                 36




                           Table 4 Key Performance Indicators

I
I      Program Phase                        Key Program Performance Indicators
 Macro Indicators                     30,000 Ex-Combatants demobilizedby the end of the first year ofthe
                                     projectand an additional 80,000 demobilizedby the end of the second
                                     year
                                      Numberof Refugeesand IDPsretumedhome.
                                      The ratio betweensocialsector expendituresanddefenseexpenditures
                                     increaseseach year ofthe projectfrom 23% (in 2002);.


 DRCDW: General                          Timely disbursementof funds..
                                         MIS in placeandfunctionalthree monthsafter Projecteffectiveness.
                                         An extemalevaluationofthe implementationof the Project is carried
I                                        out annuallyin accordance with Section 111.2 of Schedule4 to this
                                         Agreement and includesan analysis of environmentaland social
                                         monitoring indicators


 DRCDW: Sensitization &                  Sensitizationandinformationtools for ex-combatantsinplaceina
 information                             timelymanner andinaccordancewith PNDDR.


 DRCDW: Demobilization                   OrientationCenters are establishedaccordingto the timeline inthe
                                         JOP

I
 DRCDRP: Transition/                     First reinsertionpaymentto all demobilizedEx-Combatantsmade
 Reinsertion                             upondischarge fromdemobilizationsites; andsecond and third
                                         reinsertionpaymentsmadewithin three months of their programmed
                                         date and inaccordancewith thePIM
I                                        Less than 5% error (double or incorrectpayments)made in
                                         reinsertionpayments.


 DRCDRP: Reintegration                   60% ofdemobilizedex-combatantsengaged inproductive economic
L                                        activities (or schooling) 1 year after demobilization.
                                         Active programfor female ex-combatantswithin 6 months of the
                                         start of the demobilizationprocess.
                                         70%of child soldiersassociatedwith Armed Groups successfully
                                         reintegratedintheir chosenreintegrationsite within 12 monthsof
                                         leavingthe transit centers



 5.5    Program Sustainability

 157.    The DRCDRP is designed to aid the sustainable social and economic reintegration
 o f ex-combatants. In this regard, it would make a positive contribution to the socio-
 economic status o f ex-combatants, their families and their communities of settlement. The
 Program would also foster micro-economic recovery by transforming ex-combatants into
 positive economic actors and injecting financial resources at the local level. Furthermore,
 the Program would encourage national reconciliation. Although CONADER itself is a
 temporary structure, the Program would strengthen Government capacities at the provincial
 level for developing, managing and monitoring development interventions.

DRC - Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project - Technical Annex                         37


6    BenefitsandRisks
6.1    Benefits

158.    The Programwould enable the Government to consolidate the peace process and its
social and economic recovery efforts. The Program i s designed to facilitate and expedite
the process o f returning about 150,000 ex-combatants to productive social and economic
life. Increased security following the first stage o f the disarmament, demobilization and
reintegration process should contribute to a returnto normalcy in agricultural activities and
livestock husbandry, ease transport constraints and provide an enabling environment for the
return o f displaced populations, elections and social investments.

159.    A secondary benefit would be the freeing up o f resources currently allocated to the
defense and security sectors, and their reallocation towards social and economic sectors.
Such public expenditure restructuring would allow Government to restore expenditure
levels inthe social sectors inline with its poverty reduction strategy.

160.    It is anticipated that the current positive political momentum, aided by successful
implementation o f the proposed DRCDRP, would contribute to increased development
assistance.

6.2    Risks andMitigationMeasures

161.    Program external risks. There are two significant external risks:

     (i)     A failure to implement the political and security aspects o f the Accord Global
             and the subsequent cease-fire agreements and protocols, especially the sensitive
             military integration process, could undermine the PNDDR. Even if large-scale
             violent conflict did not resume, delays inthe implementation of these provisions
             o f the agreements might delay Program implementation;
     (ii)    the support o fMONUC i s critical to the disarmament phase. A failure to finance
             MONUC couldjeopardize the implementation o fthe Program.

162.    These external risks are mitigatedby several factors:

     (i)     First, the integration o f all parties into state institutions has increased their stake
             inthe consolidationofthepeace;
     (ii)    the continued deployment o f MONUC helps to provide confidence in the
             security aspects o f the process and serves as a deterrent for renewed efforts to
             destabilize the Government;
     (iii)   the Government's preparation o f the PNDDR provides an indication o f its
             commitment to the implementation o f the peace process and to defense and
             security sector reform, and in itself serves as an important confidence-building
             measure.

163.    In the event o f a collapse of the overall peace process and resumption o fhostilities,
IDAwould consider exercising its remedies under the legal agreement.

DRC - Emergency Demobilization and ReintegrationProject - Technical Annex                   38



164.    The major Program-specific risks and mitigation measures are as follows:

               Program resources would possibly be diverted toward military spending.
               Appropriate safeguards with respect to financial management, procurement
               and disbursement have been put in place to avoid any such misuse o f
               Programresources;
               Savings from the downsizing o f the armed forces do not translate into
               increased spending in the health and education sectors. Government
               expenditures would be carefully monitored by IDA in the context o f its
               overall assistanceprogram;
               Given the limited human resource capacity in Congo's public and private
               sectors, implementation is unsatisfactory. The Program would carefully
               monitor implementationprogress and actual reintegration experiences o f ex-
               combatants. C,ONADER would be reinforced with additional qualified staff
               and technical assistance as required;
               HIV/AIDS spreads via the ex-combatants demobilized under the PNDDR.
               The HIV/AIDS prevention and mitigation measures included in the
               Program's design would mitigate this risk significantly; and
               Donors do not provide sufficient resources to fully cover the funding gap.
               The Bank has closely consulted donor and UN partners to ensure broad-
               based support and adequate financial assistance for the Program. Pledges
               received so far cover the funding gap. If sufficient donor funds were not
               forthcoming nevertheless, Program parameters would be adjusted to the
               available resources.

6.3   Environmental and SociaIAspects

165.    Building on lessons from reintegration programs for displaced persons and ex-
combatants inDRC and elsewhere, the Program contains a number o f specific elements to
identify social and environmental risks and devise appropriate mitigation measures. These
procedures and measures will be elaborated in the social and environmental framework
developed for the Multi-Country Demobilization and Reintegration Program (MDRP) by
the Africa Region's Social and Environmental Safeguards unit (ASPEN) in collaboration
with the MDW Secretariat. Relevant procedures and measures would be detailed in the
Program Implementation Manual (see Attachment 8 for a detailed description o f social and
environmental management arrangements).

166.    The Program is classified as environmental category Byas it includes support to
income-generating activities. However, the phased and widely dispersed reintegration of
150,000 ex-combatants into civilian life is expected to be environmentally neutral.
Furthermore, the Program would not finance the construction or rehabilitation o f
infrastructure other than the rehabilitation o f demobilization centers. Furthermore, adequate
arrangements for medical waste disposal o f HIV/AIDS testing materials would be included
inthe Programimplementationmanual.

DRC - Emergencv Demobilization and Reintegration Proiect - TechnicalAnnex                     39


167.      The DRCDRP would seek to promote participatory social and environmental
monitoring. Annual evaluations would include an assessment of, among others: the
procedures to access land; the occurrence o f involuntary displacement or resettlement; the
degree o f community acceptance; the existence o f discrimination on the basis o f gender or
previous military affiliation; the level o f personal security o f ex-combatants; the inclusion
o f Batwa ex-combatants in the program's activities; the level o f criminal activities
undertaken by ex-combatants; and the impact o f reintegration on an ex-combatant's family
members. These evaluations would help to identify social and environmental impacts,
determine the appropriateness o fprocedures and processes, and make recommendations for
improvements where necessary.

7         Financialand Economic Justification

168.     Macro-economic context. An analysis o f defense expenditure in relation to key
economic and financial data permits an assessment o f the potential long-term impact o f
military downsizing on social and economic development. Three main sources have been

projections for 2004 - 2006; (ii) FA-RDC salary structure; and (iii) on expenditure
used: (i)GDP and other macroeconomic data from the IMF for 2000 to 2003, with
                                    the                                       data
from the Ministry o f Finance.




expend
Classification:           "administ"   "administ"  "administ"   function function function
Ex. Rate: end                50          383          404         421      434    447

DRC - Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project - Technical Annex                  40


169.    Impact of Demobilization. The analysis o f the impact o f demobilization is based on
several assumptions, and i s therefore only indicative.        5  Although 150,000 combatants
would be demobilized under the PNDDR, the calculation o f the Program's fiscal impact is
based on the planned net reduction inforce o f the FADRC to 150,000 from the current size
o f 300,000.
170.    With demobilization completed during 2006, the net reduction in force o f 150,000
soldiers would reduce defense expenditure by approximately US$ 29 million annually as a
result o f a savings inwages. The share o f defense expenditure in total current expenditure
would decrease from 12% in 2002 to 10.8% in 2006. Social sector expenditures would
increase 10 fold over the same period.

171.    Analysis of alternatives. The Government's proposals, and the IDA appraisal o f it,
have taken into consideration various alternatives in the design o f the DRCDFW. The final
design is based on best practices and responds to the specific requirements o f the situation
inDRC. It pursues a gradual approach to demobilization and reintegration as comparedto
a simple one-off discharge. The political and security requirements stipulated inthe Global
Accords, stabilization o f the country before and during elections, the need for a structured
defense and security sector reform process, and the difficulty o f economic reintegration in
the immediate post-war period were judged to justify the related short-term defense
expenditure costs.

172.    The Program tries to support the reintegration o f ex-combatants into civilian life by
providing a transitional safety net to facilitate the re-establishment of households and to
avoid social tensions. The Program's design attempts to minimize interference with market
forces and to maximize individual choice and synergies with ongoing interventions.
Furthermore, economic reintegration measures are based on the socio-economic profile o f
the ex-combatants, their own efforts and aspirations, and the specific opportunity structure
intheir communities ofretum.

173.    Cost-effectiveness analysis. The Program design seeks to minimize costs without
compromising quality. Whenever possible, existing structures would be used rather than
parallel systems created. With overall per capita costs o f US$1228 equivalent, the costs o f
the DRCDRP are within the range established by the MDRP framework.

174.    Cost-benejt analysis. It i s instructive to compare the total cost o f the program
excluding funding for special groups, US$184 million, with the direct savings inrecurrent
cost to the Government's budget from the medium-term net reduction in force o f 150,000
soldiers. Compared to the counterfactual, the reduction in force would save approximately
US$81 million during the Program's duration and US$27 million annually thereafter.
Fiscal savings from demobilization would thus exceed Program costs in approximately 7
years. This calculation does not take into account long-term savings in overhead costs,
including training and maintenance o f material. Finally, this simple comparison does not
take into account productivity gains and benefits to the communities and households o f the
ex-combatants' retum to civilian life.


 The assumptions used are discussed inAnnex 7

 DRC - Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project - TechnicalAnnex                     41


 8        Action Plan




 InstitutionalIssues                                  I                          I              I
~




 1. Development o f a financial management manual        CONADER                      7/04
 2.  Recruitment of key personnel for CONADER            CIDDR                        5104
 3.  Purchase o f essential equipment                    CONADER                      5/04
t--
 4. Establishing regional offices                        CONADER, provincial       7/04 -1 2104
                                                      I

 5.  Preparation
                                                                                      4/04
 Demobilization
 7.  Establishing a coordination mechanism              1CONADER                      6/04
     (MONUCICMM, UNICEF, WFP etc.}
 8.  Preparation o f Orientation Center sites            CONADER                    6104-9/04
 9.  Preparation of an implementation plan for FAC and   FACand CONADER               4104




     with the armed forces                               ministries and UNICEF
 16. Designo f a program of support for disabled ex-     Consultanb'CONADER           7/04
     combatants.

DRC - Emergency Demobilization and ReintegrationProject-Technical Annex    42




9      Attachments

  1. List of Documents inthe Project File
  2. EstimatedProgram Costs
  3. Disbursement Categories
  4. A Comparison o f Transitional Safety Nets
  5. Organigram
  6. Environmental and Social Monitoring
  7. Background information for economic analysis
  8. Country at a Glance

                                                                                     43


                                        Annex 1

                          List of Documentsin ProgramFile




A. Government

1.     ProgrammeNational de Dksarmement, Dkmobilisation et Rkinsertion :Deuxikme
       Draft, March3 2004.
2.     Decrees establishing the CIDDR, CONADER and CGFDR, December 18,2003.

B. World Bank

1.     Aide-Memoire, IdentificationMission, September 2003.
2.     Aide-Memoire, AppraisalMission, February2004.
3.     MDRP Consolidated MissionReport, March2003.

C. Others

1. Colletta, Nat J., MarkusKostner et Ingo Wiederhofer. 2002. Disarmament,
   Demobilization, andthe Social andEconomic Reintegration ofEx-Combatants:
   Lessons and LiabilitiesinState Transition. .
2. Colletta, Nat J., Markus Kostner et Ingo Wiederhofer. 1996a. The Transition fi-om
   War to Peace inSub-SaharanAfiica. Directions inDevelopment. Washington, DC :
   World Bank.
3. Colletta, Nat J., Markus Kostner et Ingo Wiederhofer. 1996b. Case Studies inWar-to-
   Peace Transition. The DemobilizationandReintegration of Ex-Combatants in
   Ethiopia, Namibia, andUganda. Discussion paper No. 331. Washington, DC :World
   Bank.
4. D e Watteville, Nathalie. 2001. Addressing GenderIssues inDemobilizationand
   Reintegration Programs.Africa Region Working Paper Series..
5. International Crisis Group. 2001. Disarmament inthe Congo: Jump-starting DDRRR
   to Prevent FurtherWar. December.
6. Kostner, Markus. 2001. A Technical Note on the DesignandProvisionof
   Transitional Safety Nets for DemobilizationandReintegration Programs. World
   Bank.
7. Kreimer, Alcira, John Eriksson, Robert Muscat, Margaret Arnold et Colin Scott.
    1998. The World Bank's Experience with Post-conflict Reconstruction. Operations
   Evaluation Department. Washington, DC: World Bank.
8. ONUSIDA. 1998. AIDS and the Military. Best Practice Collection. ONUSIDA.
9. Verhey, Beth. 2001. Child Soldiers: Preventing, Demobilizing, Reintegrating. Afi-ica
   Region Working PaperNo. 23.
10. World Bank. 2001. Concept Note for Multi-Country Demobilizationand
   Reintegration Program inthe Greater Great Lakes Region. December

-
d    0
     o
d    W




m
m    m
     N




0
0    0
     0
0
0    0
     0
v i 0
a v0i
-
W    *




0
0    0
     0
0    0
-
v i 0
W    0
a   vdi




0    0
0    0
v i 0
N
N v iO
m r -
m    W




0
0    0
0    0
v i 00

o
P    m
     O
m
m    m
     m




0
0    0
0    0
     0
v i 0
t - 0
m v ,
2
vi   -2




.-E
t2
0



.e
i
f:zo .sce
$2   ,3
     $
     2

                                                                   45




                                     Annex 3

                             IDA DisbursementCategories
                                     DRCDRP
                                 (US$ 100 million)




(1) Civil Works                       .I                   100%

(3) Consultants' Services,           26.4                 100%
Training and Audits
(4) Transitional SafetyNet           26.2                  100%
(5) Operating Costs                  21.2                  100%
(6) Rehnding of the Project           1.3
Preparation Advance
(7) Unallocated                       1.4

    a
    qcc
     .3
    a
     m
     c:
     i
     0




      v)
E
m
i    0,
      i
2    $1
     h

1

                                                                                          48


                                          Annex 6

                   Social and Environmental Safeguard Arrangements

The DRC Demobilization and Reintegration Program aims to demobilize a large number
o f ex-combatants and support their reintegration into civilian life. To enhance the chance
o f success, the DRCDRP needs to address a range o f social and environmental issues
effectively. To this end, within six months o f Grant Effectiveness, an Environmental
Assessment including an Environmental and Social Framework and an Environmental
and Social Management Plan will be prepared and disclosed. Its purpose will be to
identify potential social and environmental impacts, summarize the social and
environmental mitigation measures implemented under the Program, outline targeted
monitoring and evaluation activities, and propose institutional capacity building
activities.   These procedures and methods will be elaborated in the Program
Implementation Manual.

1.      Social and Environmental Dimensions

1.1      Successful long-term reintegration o f ex-combatants can make a major
contribution to conflict resolution and the restoration o f social capital, while failure to
achieve reintegration can lead to crime and insecurity and also increase the risk o f
resumed.conflict. Reintegration takes place at the community level, and the perceptions,
attitudes and organizational capacity o f communities to receive and support ex-
combatants become a major factor for determining the success or failure of a
demobilization andreintegration program.

1.2     Ex-combatants may face profound social reintegration problems. There may be a
generalized fear that ex-combatants are merely conveyers o f violence, crime and sexually
transmitted diseases. Communities may then resent support provided to what is perceived
as an overly privileged group. Ex-combatants may be discriminated against on the basis
o f previous military affiliation. Their personal security may be at risk, especially if they
committed atrocities inthe communities to which they return.

1.3     Female ex-combatants who have become accustomed to a more independent way
of life in the military may struggle to adapt to the expectations o f traditional
communities. Female partners o f ex-combatants and their children who migrate to
communities o f other ethnic, linguistic and/or cultural backgrounds may be rejected. Last
but not least, the years o f development children lose to military life profoundly affect
their future identity.

1.4     Ex-combatantsmay also exert pressure on the natural resource base, especially in
communities with highpopulation densities. Community members may be involuntarily
displaced or ex-combatants involuntarily resettled to communities that are not o f their
choice. Traditional tenure arrangements may bar female ex-combatants from access to
land. Ex-combatants may start income-generating activities that, ifuncontrolled, may
lead to overgrazing, deforestationor improper waste management.

                                                                                               49




             Social and Environmental Management Arrangements

     2.1     Buildingon lessons from reintegrationprograms for displacedpersons and ex-
c-
     combatants inDRC and elsewhere, the Program contains a number o f specific elements
     to identify social and environmental risks and devise appropriate mitigation measures.
     These procedures and measures will be based upon a social and environmental
     framework developed for the Multi-Country Demobilization and ReintegrationProgram
     (MDRP)bythe Africa Region's Social andEnvironmental Safeguards unit(ASPEN) in
     collaboration with the MDRP Secretariat. They will be described indetail inthe Program
     ImplementationManual.

     2.2     Access to land. The program would seek to facilitate access o f ex-combatants to
     land inareas o f return inaccordance with local land tenure systems andwith support
     from local authorities. The following principles would be applied: (i)   the program would
     not bear the cost o f land acquisition; (ii)
                                                ex-combatants will be free to settle inthe
     community o f their choice; (iii) no citizen would be compelled to cede any landto an ex-
     combatant; (iv) thus there would be no involuntary displacement o f civilians as a result o f
     ex-combatants settling ina community.

     2.4     Social reintegration. The principle objective o fthe social reintegration assistance
     would be to ease the return o f ex-combatants into civilian life while promoting
     reconciliation andharmony. Given that a significant proportiono f the target group would
     have spent a significant period o f time inmilitary service, many have only knownwar in
     their adult life. This fact, coupledwith the lack o fprevious work experience and low
     educational levels of many o f the former soldiers, will require social support following
     their return to communities.

     2.5     Facilitators working with ex-combatants would undertake activities to promote
     the social reintegration process, including:

                 Community level sensitization and confidence buildingprograms;
                 Assessments o f community perceptionso f ex-combatants arid ex-combatants'
                 perceptions o f communities; Awareness-raising programs focused on civic
                 rights and responsibilities;
                 Information and counselingon sexually transmitted infections (STIs),
                 HIV/AIDS, health and sanitation;
                 Media campaigns through radio, posters, pamphlets and print media;
                 Conflict analysis and reconciliation activities inareas o f real or potential
                 tension to develop concrete interventions to diffuse potential conflict; and
                 Community activities (cultural, sporting events or work projects), which
                 promote social cohesion and help to rebuild social capital inreturn
                 communities.

                                                                                                           50


2.7       Gender. While it appears unlikely that the number o f female ex-combatants to be
demobilized will be sizeable, the PNDDRwould provide targeted support for the social
and economic reintegration o f female ex-combatants. Specific measures would include
the following:

              Provision o f information and training to CONADER and M O N U C concerning
               the eligibility o f female ex-combatants for PNDDR assistance;
               Sensitization inpre-disarmament assembly areas about the eligibility o f
               female ex-combatants for PNDDRassistance;
               ensuring that all benefits for ex-combatants are equal for and equally
               accessible to menand women;
               encouraging implementing partners to ensure that their reintegration support
               activities facilitate the participation o f female ex-combatants;
               encouraging female ex-combatants to participate inexisting women's
               associations;
               including partners o f ex-combatants and women incommunities o f retum in
               community-level counseling activities;
               strengthening the gender awareness and capacity o f the staff o f the
               CONADER and authorities o f the communities to which a significant number
               o f female ex-combatants may return; and
              monitoring the impact o f the Program on partners o f ex-combatants and
               women incommunities o f return and bringingemergingproblems to the
               attentiono f the relevant authorities.

2.8      Disabled ex-combatants.6 To date, only limited medical and economic assistance
has been provided to disabled ex-combatants. The PNDDR would provide assistance for
medical rehabilitation depending on the degree o f disability, and including the provision
o f physical rehabilitation assistance (prosthesis and orthesis), counseling, vocational
training and/or support for micro-enterprise activities. Furthermore, the PNDDR would
seek to reinforce key medical facilities (such as the provincial orthopedic workshops inor
near areas o f return) to provide systematic prosthetic and physiotherapy services,
including maintenance o fprosthetic devices, to ex-combatants.




 Disability is defined as functional limitation within an individual caused by physical, mental or sensory
impairment. Ifthe pattern o f disability among ex-combatants follows national averages, about three infive
disabled soldiers are likely to have traumatic injuries resulting inloss o f limb through amputation (due to
war, landmines, or accident) and about two in five disability originating from disease and resulting in loss
o f a bodily function (e.g. deafness, blindness, paralysis due to poliomyelitis

                                                                                         51


2.11     Under age ex-combatants. In close coordination with the National Child Soldier
Demobilization and Reinsertion Project and UNICEF, the D R C D W will support
assistance to underage soldiers and other minors associated with both armed forces in
accordance with the Cape Town Principle definition o f "child soldiers". Assistance for
the reintegration o f children associated with the armed forces would include family
tracing and unification, trauma counseling and psycho-social care, and facilitation o f
access to education and recreation in communities o f settlement. Children older than 15
years may have different needs and would receive appropriate support (e.g., for
vocational training).

2.12    Environmental classzj5cation. The program is classified as environmental category
B, although the phased andwidely dispersed reintegrationo f 150,000 ex-combatants into
civilian life over a period o f four years is expected to be environmentally neutral.
Furthermore, the program will not finance the construction or rehabilitation o f
infrastructure other than the possible small-scale rehabilitation o f Orientation Centers.
Environmental mitigation measures under the program include the screening and
monitoring o f sub-projects financed under the reintegration component for environmental
impact according to the procedures, acceptable to IDA, set up bythe Government.

2.13    Environmental screening. Community works activities and income-generating
activities would be screened for environmental impact using screening mechanisms
developed for the MDRP.The objective o f environmental screening would be to
minimize the negative environmental impacts o f the Program. The screening procedures
will betailored to the small-scale nature o f community works andincome-generating
activities, examining the potential for impacts and identifying any mitigation measures.
The focus o fthe screening would be on the following issues: health, water and sanitation,
natural resource exploitation, erosion, pesticide use and any other safeguard-related issue.
The screening will also assess the potential environmental impact of community works
andincome-generatingactivities on neighboringcommunities. Incase o fwider negative
environmental impact, actions would be agreed upon with the relevant local
administrations.

3.       Social and Environmental Monitoring and Evaluation

3.1      The DRCDRP will seek to promote participatory social and environmental
monitoring. Annual evaluations would include an assessment of, among other things: the
procedures governing access to land; the occurrence o f involuntary displacement or
resettlement; the degree o f community acceptance; the existence o f discrimination on the
basis of gender or previous military affiliation; the level o f personal security o f ex-
combatants; the level o f criminal activities undertaken by ex-combatants; and the impact
on an ex-combatant's family members.The evaluations would help to identify social and
environmental impact, determine the appropriateness o f procedures and processes, and
make recommendations for improvements where necessary.

                                                                                           52


3.2     Social assessment. Shortly after Grant effectiveness and building on relevant
preparatory activities (preparation o f the sensitization program and o f the pre-discharge
orientation), a social assessment will beundertaken and will include the following:

    (i) Astakeholderanalysis;
    (ii) Aninstitutionalcapacitydiagnostic;
    (iii)   The development o f a public consultation mechanism as part o f the PNDDR's
            sensitization program; and
    (iv)    The design o f a participatory monitoring and evaluation framework.

3.3     The social assessment will help identify the social and cultural structure o f
incentives and constraints that guide and govern behavior with respect to buildingsocial
cohesion and promoting the sustainable use o f natural resources. Furthermore, it will help
determine the relevant social indicators for participatory monitoring, including on the
social exclusion o f returning ex-combatants. Also, attention will be paid to returning
Batwa ex-combatants in project areas to ensure that they fully benefit from project's
activities.

3.4     Information will be distributed horizontally (especially important for the
beneficiaries and in general for sake o f transparency) and vertically in the management
structure o f the Program. Information will be readily available for assembly and analysis
into periodic monitoring and evaluation reports. The Program's                   computerized
Management Infomation System will be built around these parameters.

3.5     Independent evaluations. A special Program element would be annual evaluations
of environmental and social indicators as part o f the annual Program evaluation
undertaken by independent consultants. These evaluations would include a beneficiary
assessment and a review o f Program achievements. The issues to be addressed would
include, among other things: the procedures governing access to land; the occurrence o f
involuntary displacement or resettlement; the degree o f community acceptance; the
existence o f discrimination on the basis o f gender or previous military affiliation; the
level o f personal security o f ex-combatants; the level o f criminal activities undertakenby
ex-combatants; and the impact on an ex-combatant's family members. The evaluations
would help to identify social and environmental impacts, determine the appropriateness
o f procedures and processes, and make recommendations for improvements where
necessary.

3.6     The monitoring and evaluation system is designed in such a way that the regular
review o f social and environmental aspects is part andparcel o fProgram implementation,
and that mitigation measures would be initiated quickly as needed.

                                                                                                  53


                                             Annex 7

       BACKGROUND ASSUMPTIONS FOR THE ECONOMIC ANALYSIS.

1-Recall assumptions:

2003:

Salaries (ex gov) = 14.8 blnCF
Salaries (prov) = 2,3 bln CF (3 months)
Total = 17.1 blnCF
Effectives (ex gov) = 182.553 (12 months)
Effectives (prov) = 137.000 (3 months)
Total effectives = 319.000
Average monthly salary (ex gov) = 6,771 CF ($17)
Average monthly salary (prov) = 5,569 CF ($14)
Rations Total = 9,6 blnCF

2004:

Total Function Defense = 39,963 blnCF
o f fwhich:
salaries = 17,550 bln CF (initially planneL, new numbers 15,550 blnCF)
"fonctionment" = 16,241 blnCF (off which 7,200 blnCF as Fond de MCnage)

Salaries = 6 months all + 6 months half of the effectives
Assuming a reduction o f effectives by halffrom July 2004 on, into 159.000;
Salaries (ex gov) = 10blnCF (effectives, 90,345)
Salaries (prov) = 7.55 bln CF (effectives, 68500)


2 - The "Defense" in the budget classification: expenditures are classified by Nature,
Administration (services) and Function.

2.1 - By function, "Defense" i s the function no. 02, breakdown inthe following sub-functions:

Sub-Function 02.10 -Depense Militaire
Sub-Function 02.20 - Aide militaire a l'etranger
Sub-Function 02.30 -Reinsertion des demobilisbs (is part o f the pro-poor spending)
Sub-Function 02.40 - Autres depenses concemants la defense

  3.2 - By administration -Defenseis the administrationno 27. Recall that, a function is the "sum" o f
  expenditures by "administrations" contributing for a specific function; function Defense, i s the sum o f
              administration no. 27Defense and a little o f administration no.1O/Presidency.

3.3 - By nature - spending by nature is broken down among 8 classes; "Defense" spends in 6
classes: Salaries, Goods, Prestations, Transfers, Equipment and Construction.

                                                                                                                                                   54
                                                                                                                                                    -
                          Congo, Dem.Rep. at a glance                                                                                         9/2/03


                                                                          Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Congo,    Saharan         Low-
                                                         Dem. Rep.        Africa     income        Developmentdiamond'
2002
Population, mid-year (millions)                                  53 8       688        2,495                        Life expectancy
GNi per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                90        450          430
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                  5.0       306        1,072                                -

Average annual growth, 1996-02

Population (%)                                                    2.9        2.4         1.9
Labor force I%)                                                   2.6        2.5         2.3       GNI                                     Gross
                                                                                                   per
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                                              capita                               enrollment
Poverty (% ofpopulationbelow nationalpovertyline)
Urban population (% of totalpopulation)                                       33          30
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                  45          46          59                                1
Infant mortality (per 7,000live births)                          125         105          81
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                                                              Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% ofpopulation)               45          58          76
Illiteracy (% ofpopulationage 75+)                                36          37          37
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)             47          86          95               -
                                                                                                                I   "Congo, Dem Rep
    Male                                                          49          92         103                           Low-income group
    Female                                                        44          80          87

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                    1982        1992      2001         2002      1 Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                   13.6         8.2        5.2         5.7
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                         8.3         6.9        5.1         7.1     I
                                                                                                 i
Exports of goods and servicedGDP                     12.1        16.7       17.8        18.4                              Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                            6.5         6.1        6.2         4.0
Gross national savings/GDP                            4.0         5.0        1.2         5.3                                T
Current account balance/GDP                          -3.8       -10.6       -2.4         -3.9
Interest payments/GDP                                 0.5         0.3        0.0          1.5
Total debffGDP                                      37.2       133.7      219.6        144.0
Total debt servicelexports                           13.2         5.6        1.7        81.5
Present value of debtlGDP                                                 204.6
Present value of debtlexports                                           1,029.1
                                                                                                                        indebtedness
                                       1982-92 1992-02          2001       2002      2002-06     I
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                       -0.6       -3.4        -2.0        3.0          6.0               ----Congo,         Dem. Rep.
GDP per capita                            -3.8       -6.3        4.6         0.2          3.2                  -         Low-income group
Exports of goods and services              2.0        7.8         2.0        8.0


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                    lg82        Ig92       zoo1         zoo2      jGrowth of investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                          30.1        49.0       56.3        56.3       40T

Industry                                             26.7        16.4       18.8        18.8       20
   Manufacturing                                     14.4         4.9        3.9          3.9
Services                                            43.2         34.6       24.9        24.9        0

Private consumption                                  84.0        72.2       92.4        92.3
General government consumption                        9 5        217          1 4         3 7     1
                                                                                                                +..A j x
imports of goods and services                        14.0        17 5       167         215                               GDI     *GDP



                                                 1982-92 1992-02           2001         2002     1
(average annual growth)                                                                            Growth of exports and imports (%)                I
Agriculture                                           2.6        -0.4       -5.4          3.0
industry                                             -4.5        -3.6        3.8          3.0
   Manufacturing                                     -3.7
Services                                             -1.o        -8.7       -8.7          3.0

Private consumption                                   2.6        -3.3      -28.3        16.7
General government consumption                       -1.6       -16.8       -5.2        16.7
Gross domestic investment                            -9 8         2.8      -12.1          4.7
Imports of goods and services                         3.9        12.4       10.0        37.0


Note: 2002 data are preliminaryestimates.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. if data are missing, the diamond will
    be incomplete.

                                                                                                                             55



PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                           1982    1992   2001    2002
Domestic prices                                                              Inflation (%)

/% change)                                                                      T                                           t
Consumer prices                             36.7 4,129.2  359.9   31.5                                      i-

Implicit GDP deflator                       43.5 4,078.5  374.1   23.3

Government finance
/% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                              5.9                        97  98     99        w       01   02
Current budget balance                                     -0.8
Overall surplus/deficit                                      0.5                     "GDP      deflator    *CPI             I
TRADE
                                           1982    1992   2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                               Exportand import levels (US$mill.)

Total exports (fob)                                1,246    940   1,013     2.0w T
 Copper                                                     489    567            I
 Coffee                                             375     206    173     jl sw                                            II
 Manufactures                                        163    129    130
Total imports (cif)                                         702    955
 Food
 Fuel and energy                                             43     43
 Capital goods                                      683

Export price index (1995=100)                                                        96   97   98    99      w       01

Import price index (1995=100)                                                               Exports           Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                           1982    1992    2001   2002
(US$ millions)                                                               Current account balance to GDP (   O h )

Exportsof goods and services               1.658   1,360  1,015   1,100
Imports of goods and setvices              1,904   1,433    953   1,286
Resource balance                            -246     -73     62   -186

Net income                                  -427    -704   -413   -203
Net currenttransfers                         151     -89    228    278

Current account balance                     -522    -866   -126   -223
Financingitems (net)                         362     867    137
Changes in net reserves                      159      -1     -11

Memo:
Reserves includinggold /US$ millions)        196     166      22
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)        1.92E-11 2.15E-6  300.0   346.5

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCEFLOWS
                                           1982    1992    2001   2002
(US$ millions)                                                               Composition of 2002debt (US$mill.)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed        5,078 10,972   11,392  8,211
  IBRD                                        73      81      81      0
  IDA                                        214   1,194  1,151   1,504                     G:718

Total debt setvice                           222      77      18   913
  IBRD                                        14      16       0    132
  IDA                                          2      13       0   221

Compositionof net resource flows
  Official grants                             76     109    170
  Official creditors                         121      58       0    167
  Private creditors                           17      -5       0      0
  Foreign direct investment                   -2      -1      32
  Portfolioequity                              0       0       0

World Bank program
  Commitments                                141       0       0    904                                        E Bilateral
  Disbursements                              38       61       0   410       6 IDA
                                                                               -          D Othermultilateral
                                                                                           -                   F Private
  Principal repayments                         8      14       0    216      C-IMF                             G Short-term
                                                                                                                 ---
  Net flows                                  30       46       0    194
  Interestpayments                             8      15       0    137
  Net transfers                              22       31       0     57


DevelopmentEconomics                                                                                                    9/2/03

MAP SECTION


