Page  1
1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
FINAL VERSION 
 
Report No: 
30897 
Project Name
:
Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project 
Region
:
Africa 
Sector
:
Other social services (100%) 
Project ID
:
P078658 
Borrower(s)
:
Government of the Democratic Republic of Congo 
Implementing Agency
:
TBD 
Environment Category
:
[
]
A
[X] B  [ ] C [ ] FI  [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification
:
[
]
S1 [X] S2  [ ] S3  [ ] SF [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared
:
January 15, 2004 
Auth Appr/Negs Date
:
January 15, 2004 
Bank Approval Date
:
May 25, 2004 
1. Country and Sector Background 
 
A. Circumstances of the Conflict
1. Since the early 1990s, the Great Lakes region has been embroiled in a series of closely 
interlinked conflicts directly affecting the territory of the Democratic Republic of Congo 
(DRC). These conflicts stem from a complex interaction of poor governance, politics of 
ethnic exclusion, security dilemmas and competition for the control of economic rents. 
The war in the DRC started as a Congolese civil war, but drew in two opposing regional 
blocs. Some unfinished civil wars and regional rivalries were also being fought in the 
Congo, adding fuel to the fire of local domestic conflicts, especially in Ituri and the 
Kivus. 
 
2. Since January 2001, there has been significant progress towards peace and 
reconciliation, within the context of the 1999 Lusaka Cease-fire Agreement. The 
centerpieces of this agreement are: 
(i) 
The Inter-Congolese Dialogue:
 On April 2 2003 in Sun City, the participants in 
the Inter-Congolese Dialogue signed the Final Act of the inter-Congolese political 
negotiations, by which they endorsed agreements that constitute a comprehensive 
program for the restoration of peace and national sovereignty during a transition 
period of two years. The agreements include the Global and All-Inclusive 
Agreement on the Transition in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (December 
2002), the Transitional Constitution, the memorandum on military and security 
issues (March 2003), and the 36 resolutions adopted by the Inter-Congolese 
Dialogue in Sun City (March and April 2002). In this framework, the Government 
engaged in political negotiations with rebel groups, political opposition, and civil 
society and formed a Government of National Union, which was completed 
September 8, 2003. The 
Conseil supérieur de la Défense
 has met to begin 
discussing the structure of the integrated Congolese army. The 
Comité 
Page  2
2
International pour l'Accompagnement de la Transition
 (CIAT) supports these 
discussions through its Committee on Political and Security Affairs. 
(ii) 
The disarmament and demobilization of foreign armed groups:
 The United 
Nations Mission to the DRC, MONUC, was established in 1999 to monitor the 
cease-fire agreement and develop an action plan for its implementation, including 
the Disarmament, Demobilization, Repatriation, Resettlement and Re-integration 
(DDRRR) of foreign armed groups operating in the DRC. There remain 
challenges to demobilizing an estimated 15,000 combatants still at large in DRC, 
including improved security and the cooperation of the parties concerned. On July 
28 2003 the mandate of MONUC was extended to include the demobilization of 
Congolese combatants (Resolution 1493, 2003). 
(iii) 
The withdrawal of foreign troops:
 The Government of DRC signed with the 
Governments of Rwanda (July 2002) and Uganda (September 2002) agreements 
that paved the way for a near-total withdrawal of foreign troops. 
 
3. Three developments prepare the ground for the preparation of the national 
demobilization and reintegration program for Congolese armed groups: (i) discussions 
among all parties on the formation of an integrated, inclusive national army, and 
clarification of the institutional arrangements for DDR; (ii) the DDRRR of foreign armed 
groups is providing some relevant experience on the challenges that the DDR of 
Congolese armed groups is likely to encounter; and (iii) the withdrawal of foreign troops 
opens the possibility of the DDR of Congolese armed groups. 
 
4. Failure to work during this window of opportunity risks delaying, and perhaps 
derailing, the transition to peace and recovery. The Congolese armed groups comprise 
mainly the Congolese Armed Forces (FAC), RCD-Goma forces, MLC forces, RCD-K-
ML forces and the Mayi Mayi groups that are signatories to the Lusaka accord.  Members 
of these groups are mostly able-bodied young men, familiar with weapons and warfare, 
who represent a potential threat to the transition. Irregular forces, such as the Mayi Mayi 
and the militias active in Ituri, also pose a threat and demobilization of these groups 
presents special problems. 
5. The situation around Ituri, where an expanding UN force may help to stabilize the area 
and allow planning for DDR and in the Kivus, remains unsettled and will require special 
efforts. 
 
6. There are several Congolese groups in other countries such as ex-FAZ in the Republic 
of Congo and ex-gendarmes 
katangais
 in Angola. The repatriation of these groups is also 
a
challenge. 
 
B. Economic and Social Impact of the Conflict
7. Africa's third-largest nation is gradually emerging from five years of a violent conflict 
termed Africa's first continent-scale war, compounding the legacy of decades of poor 
governance.   
 
Page  3
3
8.  The conflic
t’s impact is dramatic. An estimated 3.5 million people have died since 
1998, both from the violence itself and from starvation and disease, making this conflict 
the deadliest since World War II. An estimated 2 million people are displaced, with 
250,000 refugees in neighboring countries.  The conflict has exacerbated ethnic rivalries 
and tensions over land and territory in eastern Congo posing a long-term challenge to the 
transition to peace.  
 
9. The economy, already affected by decades of poor governance, has collapsed. Per 
capita income has declined steadily from US$380 in 1985 to US$250 in 1990 and to 
US$85 in 2000. Infrastructure, which was deteriorating under the Mobutu regime, has 
been largely destroyed during the conflict, leaving few roads and only sporadic access to 
electricity and safe water. 
 
C. Government and International Response and Strategy
10. Since 2001, the Government has launched a program of economic reforms, aimed at 
restoring macro-economic stability, and kick-starting economic activity, while tackling 
some governance issues inherited from the past. This program is being implemented with 
the support of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF). In particular, 
a
$1.7
billion Emergency Multi-sector Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Program 
(EMRRP), $454 million of which is provided by the Bank, was broadly endorsed by all 
parties to the inter-Congolese dialogue and aims to restore connectivity and improve food 
security. The Emergency Economic and Social Reunification Project ($214 million), 
approved in September 2003, targets areas previously not under government control. 
Economic growth returned in 2002, after a decade of contraction. 
 
11. On the DDR front, the government has laid out the responsibilities of the different 
ministries vis a vis demobilization and reintegration. Responsibility for demobilization 
rests with the Ministry of Defense while responsibility for reintegration has been placed 
in the Ministry of Social Affairs with the Ministry of Solidarity and Humanitarian Affairs 
being given a supporting role in the reinsertion of ex-combatants into communities.  The 
government has established an interministerial technical committee to coordinate the 
preparation of the national program and interim emergency activities.   
 
12. On security sector reform, discussions within the transition government by the 
Conseil supérieur de la Défense,
 and externally with partners supporting this reform, 
continue in an effort to advance the process.   
 
13. In October 1997, the Bank allocated a US$ 2 million Post Conflict grant to assist the 
newly installed government led by President Laurent-
Désiré Kabila, to tackle immediate 
post conflict challenges. The specific objectives of that grant were to: (i) prepare a 
Demobilization and Reintegration Program for vulnerable groups; and (ii) launch 
community-based activities in the Eastern provinces of the country. Lessons learned from 
the grant evaluation are feeding into the preparation of the national DDR program.   
 
Page  4
4
14.  The Multi-country Demobilization and Reintegration Program (MDRP), a multi-
donor, regional approach to support and facilitate the process of demobilization and 
reintegration in the Greater Great Lakes region was set up in 2002.  The MDRP trust fund 
supports special projects in preparation of the national program and the national program 
itself.  Six special projects have been approved, four of these focus on the demobilization 
of child soldiers, one supports pilot DDR activities in the field, and one supports a rapid 
response mechanism for emergency situations as well as assistance to the design of a 
national DDR program. 
 
15. In response to a request from President Joseph Kabila in September 2002, and 
following consultations within the MDRP partnership, UNDP was designated as the lead 
agency for the coordination of international efforts for the disarmament, demobilization 
and reintegration of the Congolese forces. This decision was formally endorsed by the 
MDRP in February 2003. UNDP has developed an interim strategy for the preparation of 
a
national disarmament, demobilization and reintegration program for the period, which 
was discussed during the meeting of the MDRP in Paris (April 2003). UNDP continues to 
lead the discussion on DDR with the transition government. 
 
2. Objectives of the DRC Demobilization and Reintegration Program (DRCDRP) 
 
16. After nearly five years of continuous fighting, the DRC finds itself at an intersection 
of war and peace. The overall goal of the national DRC Demobilization and 
Reintegration Program (DRCDRP) is to help consolidate peace in the DRC and the Great 
Lakes region. The three components of the program are: (i) the demobilization and 
reintegration into civilian life of ex-combatants from the FAC, MLC, RCG-Goma and 
RCD-ML and other groups. Estimates of the number of potentially eligible ex-
combatants range from 90,000 to 150,000; (ii) the provision of reintegration assistance to 
the ex-combatants to be demobilized; (iii) and special assistance to vulnerable groups.  
 
17. The DRCDRP is expected to have a significant impact on reducing poverty in the 
DRC by: (i) helping ex-combatants to re-establish civilian livelihoods; (ii) freeing 
national resources for investment in social and economic sectors; (iii) investing in the 
human capital of ex-combatants; and (iv) enhancing the capacity for community-based 
development mechanisms. 
 
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement 
 
18. The Bank's involvement is justified by the timing of the program, the amount of 
resources required, the focus of the program on sustainable social and economic 
reintegration of ex-combatants, and the need to be responsive to a client request. The 
proposed credit will be complemented by grant support provided by the MDRP for (i) the 
DRCDRP itself; and (ii) the MDRP special projects implemented in advance and in 
preparation of the DRCDRP.  
 
19. 
Need for Emergency Assistance
.
The application of the Bank's emergency procedures 
under OP 8.50 is justified by (i) the program's impact on economic priorities and 
Page  5
5
investment programs, as the program would provide the Government the means to 
consolidate the social and economic recovery. Without a successful demobilization and 
reintegration program there is a much greater danger that disaffected ex-combatants will 
turn to violence; (ii) its critical contribution to the stabilization of the society and 
economy, in the DRC and in the Great Lakes region, within the current window of 
opportunity; and (iii) the urgency to demobilize and provide reintegration assistance to 
ex-combatants.  The current transition government does not have the resources to pay all 
people currently in the various military groups.  It must, as soon as possible, start 
demobilizing large numbers and returning them to civilian life. 
 
20. 
Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) and Transitional Support Strategy 
(TSS).
 The proposed credit is an integral part of the interim PRSP and the TSS. The 
GoDRC outlined a development strategy in an Interim PRSP in March 2002. One of its 
axes is to address the needs of the victims of the fighting and one aspect of this is a 
national DDR program. The TSS (July 2001) identifies meeting basic and urgent needs, 
including a focus on demobilization and reintegration, as a key challenge. Finally, the 
Consultative Group (Paris, December 4-5, 2002) included DDR as one of four priorities 
to support the Congolese strategy towards economic and social reunification.  
 
4. Description 
 
21. The DRCDRP would consist of four components: (i) demobilization; (ii) 
reintegration; (iii) special groups; and (iv) program implementation.  Disarmament would 
be undertaken outside the program following established procedures. Specifically, the 
disarmament of armed groups would be undertaken by other actors prior to their 
acceptance in the demobilization centers.  
 
22. 
Demobilization.
 The DRCDRP will demobilize 150,000 ex-combatants, on the basis 
of well-defined eligibility criteria, and reduce the number of military personnel to about 
120,000. The following demobilization activities would be envisaged: (i) the 
establishment of demobilization centers; (ii) the transport of ex-combatants to 
demobilization centers, if necessary; (iii) the verification of ex-combatant status; (iv) the 
provision of a DRCDRP identity card; (v) the collection of socio-economic data; (vi) 
medical screening (including HIV/AIDS counseling and voluntary testing); (vii) pre-
discharge orientation about civilian life and program benefits; (viii) distribution of 
transport allowance and of the Transitional Safety Net (TSN); and (ix) facilitation of 
transport to the ex-combatants' preferred area of return. 
 
Page  6
6
23. 
Reinsertion.
 The DRCDRP would provide a transitional safety net (TSN) to all ex-
combatants to be demobilized under the program. The TSN may include some or all of 
the following: (i) rent of accommodations; (ii) medical care; (iii) food; (iv) children's 
education; and (v) basic household items. To the extent that TSN is provided in cash, the 
program would provide counseling on the use of the reinsertion assistance prior to 
demobilization and after arrival in the community of settlement.  Cash payments will be 
financed either from counterpart or from MDRP funds and not from the IDA credit. 
 
24. 
Reintegration.
 Building on experiences with such programs, the DRCDRP would 
provide economic and social reintegration assistance to help ex-combatants establish 
sustainable livelihoods. Several guiding principles would apply for reintegration 
assistance: (i) it would seek to minimize market distortions and maximize beneficiary 
choice; (ii) it would seek to involve communities of settlement and foster reconciliation 
wherever feasible; and (iii) to the extent possible, assistance would be provided in such a 
way that it is beneficial to the wider community. 
 
25
.
Economic Reintegration
.
Ex-combatants would be given the opportunity to choose 
the reintegration option that best meets their needs. Reintegration support would be 
offered through a menu of options, which could include agricultural, and non-farm 
income-generating activities, vocational and apprenticeship training, employment, tools, 
and education and scholarships. Certain groups of vulnerable ex-combatants could be 
eligible to receive special reintegration support.  Criteria of vulnerability could include 
gender, age and health status. All ex-combatants would be equally eligible irrespective of 
rank or former military affiliation. Ex-combatants would be allowed to choose their 
reintegration destination freely. It is expected that the majority of ex-combatants would 
settle in rural areas.  Rural ex-combatants' access to land would be facilitated with the 
same community-based procedures used for others who need land. 
 
26.
 Social Reintegration. 
The objectives of social reintegration assistance would be to 
foster reconciliation between ex-combatants and civilians in communities of settlement, 
and to strengthen social cohesion in these communities, especially in communities 
affected by ethnic strife and continued fear of insecurity. The need for reconciliation 
makes community involvement in the DRCDRP critical for successful reintegration. 
Specific activities to be carried out under this component would include: (i) information 
and sensitization of ex-combatants, communities and society-at-large through outreach 
services, including training of counselors; and (ii) individual counseling, as needed; 
 
27. 
Special Groups. 
The DRCDRP will provide specialized assistance to specific groups 
requiring special help.  
 
Gender.
 The DRCDRP would provide targeted, gender-sensitive support for the 
reintegration of female members of armed groups, including gender-sensitive information 
and sensitization initiatives, and appropriate pre-discharge information, benefits and 
opportunities. 
 
Page  7
7
Disability.
 Disability is defined here as the functional limitation within an individual 
caused by physical, mental or sensory impairment. The DRCDRP would seek to address 
the medical and economic rehabilitation needs of the disabled ex-combatants demobilized 
under the DRCDRP by reinforcing relevant medical facilities and services and providing 
special reintegration assistance for vulnerable ex-combatants.  
 
Child ex-combatants.
 A significant number of children is currently assumed to be among 
the armed groups (regular and irregular), with a percentage that reaches 40% in some 
groups.   Special assistance may involve activities such as the separation of children from 
adults in the demobilization process, family tracing and reunification, trauma counseling 
and psychosocial care, and facilitation of access to education and recreation. Community-
based reintegration options for children would be emphasized. 
 
Congolese armed groups in neighboring countries
.
These include ex-FAZ in the 
Republic of Congo and ex-gendarmes 
katangais
 in Angola. 
 
5. Financing 
 
Total : US$  200 million 
BORROWER :  TBD 
IDA: US $100 million.  The proposed grant will be complemented by support provided 
by the multi-donor Multi-country Demobilization and Reintegration Program (MDRP) 
for (i) the DRCDRP itself; and (ii) the MDRP special projects implemented in advance 
and in preparation of the DRCDRP.  
MDRP $ 100 million 
BILATERAL AGENCIES: TBD 
 
Total Project Cost :  $218 million 
 
6. Implementation 
 
A. Institutional Structures
The GoDRC will assume overall responsibility for the implementation of the DRCDRP at 
national, provincial and community levels. The government has established an 
interministerial committee to oversee DDR activities.  It has also established an 
implementing agency (CONADER: Comité nationale de démobilization et reinsertion) to 
implement or coordinate all DDR activities in the country. Where feasible the 
Government would draw on existing institutional structures to assist with the 
implementation.  Every effort will be made to link DDR activities with other on-going 
activities at the community level.  
 
B. Project Timing
The program would be implemented over a period of three years, starting in January 
2005. The Government anticipates that demobilization would be completed within 18 
Page  8
8
months and that reintegration activities for ex-combatants would be implemented within 
the three-year time frame. 
 
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
A
strong monitoring and evaluation system and close Bank supervision would seek to 
ensure that the program reaches targeted beneficiaries in a timely and efficient fashion. It 
is essential that beneficiary information is captured, securely stored, and utilized to 
inform Program implementation. A computerized Management Information System 
(MIS) would be established to track assistance provided to the ex-combatants and 
monitor performance throughout the life of the program. 
 
Monitoring would be undertaken at two levels: the provincial office and the community. 
The monitoring system would be quantitative, providing a comprehensive profile of ex-
combatants. In addition, within six months of the effectiveness date, and annually 
thereafter, the Government would prepare a comprehensive list of ex-combatants, 
identify benefits provided and conduct surveys of representative samples of the ex-
combatants to verify they have received reinsertion and reintegration benefits. Internal 
social and environmental monitoring mechanisms would be complemented by regular 
independent social and environmental monitoring consultancies. 
 
Independent evaluations of program implementation would be carried out annually and 
would consist of two components. Firstly, a quantitative evaluation would analyze the 
databases and existing administrative records and reports, establishing to what extent the 
program has achieved its objectives. Secondly, a qualitative beneficiary assessment 
would be undertaken, focusing on the ex-combatants and their families as primary, and 
the communities as secondary, beneficiaries. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
The DRCDRP is designed to aid the sustainable social and economic reintegration of ex-
combatants. The program would foster economic recovery by injecting resources at the 
local level and would encourage reconciliation by providing incentives for cooperation at 
the community level. Furthermore, the DRCDRP would strengthen capacities at the 
provincial and local level for managing and monitoring development interventions.  The 
program itself, however, would be phased out by the end of the project period. 
 
Benefits 
 
The proposed program is expected to provide two types of benefits: (i) helping the 
Government to overcome the persistent insecurity in the Great Lakes Region, 
consolidating the social and economic recovery in the DRC, and contributing to the 
reunification of the country; and (ii) helping free resources currently allocated to the 
defense sector (28% of recurrent government expenditures in 2001), and promoting their 
reallocation towards the social and economic sectors. While experience shows that 
defense expenditures may increase in the short-term, in the longer term they are expected 
Page  9
9
to decline.  The expected reduction in defense expenditures would allow Government to 
restore expenditure levels in the social sectors in line with its poverty reduction strategy.  
 
Risks and Mitigation Measures 
 
The main country level risk is that of setbacks in the transition process and the 
consolidation of peace throughout the region. A successful DDR program is not the 
prerequisite to a lasting peace process, but its by-product. The complexity of the peace 
process in the DRC, including institutional arrangements, the need for confidence-
building mechanisms and security issues, may impact the start of the program. It is likely 
that localized conflicts, particularly in Ituri and the Kivus, will continue in the 
foreseeable future.  It is also possible that hostilities resume on a large scale.  Dealing 
with potential setbacks in the transition process will require flexibility in order to manage 
contingencies, minimizing the financial costs as well as continuing dialogue with relevant 
stakeholders.  It should be noted that the DRCDRP would itself likely serve as an 
important confidence-building measure in the regional peace process, as it provides 
evidence to other parties of the Government's willingness to demilitarize the conflict.  
 
The main program risks are: (i) low absorption in communities of return (ii) limited 
synergies with reconstruction programs; and (iii) lack of feasible income earning 
possibilities;  
 
The main project specific risks are: (i) failure to engage the targeted beneficiaries; (ii) 
resource mismanagement problems: corruption or program resources used indirectly for 
military spending or political purposes. Appropriate safeguards with respect to financial 
management, procurement and disbursement would be developed to avoid such an abuse 
of program resources. Government expenditures would furthermore be monitored by the 
IMF and IDA in the context of their assistance;  (iii) logistical difficulties given the size 
of the country and lack of transport infrastructure; (iv) excessive time spent in 
demobilization centers; and (v) poor coordination of program activities implemented by 
different actors such as disarmament and demobilization. 
 
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector  
 
IDA has gained substantial experience and has identified best practices on the basis of 
demobilization and reintegration programs it has supported in several countries, including 
programs in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Chad, Djibouti, Timor Leste, Eritrea, Ethiopia, 
Guinea-Bissau, Mozambique, Rwanda, Sierra Leone and Uganda. Such assistance has 
often taken the form of technical and/or financial support through investment credits, 
budget support programs or through reallocations from ongoing projects. Based on 
information from these operations, a review of relevant experiences in selected African 
countries, and the Bank's Operations Evaluation Department's evaluations, the following 
best practices were identified and integrated in program design. 
 
Demobilization.
 This phase is short but logistically complex. The successful 
implementation of demobilization activities is a precondition for the subsequent provision 
Page  10
10 
of targeted reinsertion and reintegration assistance. Key demobilization activities include 
the distribution of non-transferable ID cards, the establishment of a database on the 
beneficiary population and the collection of socioeconomic data. Furthermore, the 
assembly of ex-combatants during the demobilization phase provides a good opportunity 
for health counseling and HIV/AIDS education and screening, as well as the 
dissemination of information about Program benefits and civilian life. 
 
Reinsertion.
 Upon demobilization, the ex-combatants lose their source of income (formal 
or informal). Experience suggests that immediately after demobilization, they are usually 
in a critical financial situation until they can generate income. During this period (the 
"reinsertion" phase), ex-combatants are in need of targeted assistance (transitional safety 
net; TSN) to cover the basic material needs of themselves and their families. The 
objective of the TSN allowance would thus be to enable the ex-combatants to sustain 
themselves and their families for a limited period immediately following demobilization. 
 
Economic and social reintegration.
 Ex-combatants are often an economically and 
socially vulnerable group as they lack marketable skills, material assets and social 
networks. In addition, they are often a high-risk group due to their familiarity with 
weapons and violence. Where this is the case, targeted support is advisable to help them 
establish sustainable livelihoods. To be relevant and cost-effective, such assistance 
should be tailored to their socio-economic profile and adjusted to the economic 
environment. Female, child and disabled ex-combatants often require customized 
economic, social and medical support to establish sustainable livelihoods. Ultimately, ex-
combatants are reintegrated into a broader economic context.  
 
Ex-combatants should receive no more support than is necessary to help them attain the 
standard of living of the communities into which they reintegrate. Reintegration 
assistance should be limited in time to avoid the creation of a dependency syndrome. 
Information, counseling and referral services can assist ex-combatants to assess their 
livelihood options and find employment. The creation of viable long-term employment 
opportunities for ex-combatants is closely linked to private sector investment and 
associated employment generation.  
 
Social reintegration is often eased by the support of an extended family network. Where 
feasible, ex-combatants should be encouraged to reintegrate in the vicinity of their 
extended families. Informal networks of ex-combatants - discussion groups, ex-
combatants associations, joint economic ventures - are important elements to successful 
economic and social reintegration. Efforts to provide assistance to ex-combatants' 
communities of return can provide incentives in support of ex-combatant reintegration, 
strengthen social capital and enhance community-based development activities. Care 
should be taken to prevent the stigmatization of ex-combatants either as unfit for military 
service or as conveyers of disease and violence. Community sensitization and political 
awareness are paramount in this effort. The fears and needs of communities related to ex-
combatant reintegration should also be addressed. 
 
Page  11
11 
Institutional issues.
 Program coordination and supervision by one civilian agency, 
balanced by decentralized and community-based implementation, constitutes a powerful 
institutional arrangement. Wherever possible, existing implementation capacities should 
be leveraged. The employment of ex-combatants as counselors and field staff can 
facilitate reintegration. Local communities should be involved directly in reintegration 
decision-making so that scarce public resources are allocated in a transparent and socially 
accountable manner. The reform of the security sector should be undertaken in close 
collaboration with DRCDRP. 
 
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation issues) 
 
Category B 
 
The DRCDRP is an emergency recovery operation, processed under OP 8.50. A full 
environmental assessment for the component including major infrastructure repairs will 
be completed within a year of project effectiveness. 
 
The phased and widely dispersed reintegration of a large number of ex-combatants into 
civilian life is expected to be environmentally neutral. Only limited rehabilitation works 
are envisaged under the Program. Income-generating activities financed under the 
reintegration component would be screened for environmental and social impact and 
monitored according to procedures acceptable to IDA. Specific environmental and social 
monitoring criteria would be developed and included in the program's implementation 
manual.  
 
HIV/AIDS activities would mainly be in the form of specialized counseling with limited 
voluntary testing where feasible. Adequate arrangements for medical waste disposal 
would be included in the Program Implementation Manual. The application of the 
procedures regarding ex-combatants' access to land would be monitored throughout 
Program implementation and the Government would confirm in the Development Credit 
Agreement that no involuntary resettlement would be undertaken as part of the Program. 
 
10. Contact Point 
 
Task Manager 
John Elder 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington D.C. 20433 
Telephone: +1-202-473-5043 
Email: 
Jelder@worldbank.org
Location: Washington, D.C. USA  
 
Page  12
12 
11. For information on other project related documents, contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone: (202) 458-5454 
Fax: (202) 522-1500 
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be 
necessarily included in the final project.
 
