Page  1
E1927 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO 
 
Emergency Program for Demobilization and 
Reintegration (EDRP) 
 
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACT 
ASSESSMENT 
 
Submitted to World Bank 
 
BOUKARI TARE. 
 
June 2008 
 
Page  2
2
D
E
T
A
I
L
E
D
M
A
P
O
F
T
H
E
D
E
M
O
C
R
A
T
I
C
R
E
P
U
B
L
I
C
O
F
C
O
N
G
O
Page  3
3
TABLE of CONTENT 
 
GLOSSARY OF ACRONONYMS......................................................................................................................4
 
I. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY................................................................................................................................5
 
1.1 PREAMBLE................................................................................................................................................. 5
 
1.2 ENVIRONMENTAL SETTING:................................................................................................................. 6
 
1.3 ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS:.............................................................................................................. 6
 
1.4 SUMMARY OF SITES VISIT   FINDINGS............................................................................................... 7
 
1.5 SUMMARY OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT FINDINGS .
E
RROR
!
B
OOKMARK 
NOT DEFINED
.
1.6 
 
RECOMMENDATION................................................................
E
RROR
!
B
OOKMARK NOT DEFINED
.
II. INTRODUCTION..........................................................................................................................................10
 
III. PROJECT DESCRIPTION.........................................................................................................................11
 
IV. REPUBLIC DEMOCRATIC OF CONGO. COUNTR
Y’S PROFILE ....................................................14
 
V. OBJECTIVES OF ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT..........................................................................15
 
VI. REVIEW OF RELEVANT BANK PROJECT AND NATIONAL RULES ............................................15
 
VII. METHODOLOGY......................................................................................................................................16
 
VIII. DESCRIPTION OF OVERALL AND SITE-SPECIFIC FINDINGS OF ENVIRONMENTAL AND 
SOCIAL IMPACTS ............................................................................................................................................17
 
8.1 DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT OVERALL POTENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL............................ 17
 
8.1.1 OVERVIEW OF AN ORIENTATION CENTER AND ITS ACTIVITIES..............................................17
 
8.1.2 POTENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS..............................................................17
 
WHICH WERE SUPPOSED TO OCCUR ...................................................................................................17
 
8.2
 
REPORT OF THE FIELD VISITS AND PUBLIC CONSULTATION............................................ 22
 
8.2.1 ASSESSMENT OF THE EXISTING ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL SETUPS.............................22
 
8.2.2 STAKEHOLDERS CONSULTATION.................................................................................................22
 
8.3. LIST OF REINTEGRATION PROJECTS................................................................................................ 23
 
8.4 KEY FINDINGS ........................................................................................................................................ 24
 
X
-
RECOMMENDED MEASURES TO COUNTER ANY NEGATIVE IMPACTS..................................27
 
XI LIST OF PERSONS (IN ADDTION TO THOSE IN TABLE 2)  INTERVIEWED DURING 
CONSULTANT’S WORK..................................................................................................................................28
 
ANNEXES............................................................................................................................................................29
 
ANNEX I: ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT, TERMS OF REFERENCE.............................. 29
 
ANNEX II: P
ROFIL 
G
ÉOLOGIQUE
..................................................................................................................... 34
 
APERCU DES FORMATIONS GEOLOGIQUES DES SITES VISITES......................................................35
 
A
NNEX 
III.......................................................................................................................................................... 36
 
I. MAPS...........................................................................................................
Error! Bookmark not defined.
 
II. ORIENTATION CENTERS CONSTRUCTION AND OPERATING PICTURES.....................................41
 
III.ORIENTATION CENTERS AFTER CLOSURE  PICTURES ( 2008).....................................................45
 
ANNEX IV:   LEGISLATION ON LAND...................................................................................................... 50
 
Page  4
4
GLOSSARY OF ACRONONYMS 
 
MDRP 
Multi-country Demobilization and Reintegration Program 
DRC 
Democratic Republic of Congo 
EIA Environmental 
Impact 
Assessment 
ESMF 
Environmental and Social Management Framework 
ERPDR 
Emergency Program for Demobilization and Reintegration 
PNDDR Programme 
National 
du Désarmement Demobilisation et Réinsertion 
program 
NGO Non 
Governmental 
Organization 
UEPN-DDR 
Unité d’Exécution du Programme National de Désarmement, 
Demobilisation et de Réinsertion 
ME Ministry 
of 
Environment 
CRGM 
Centre de Recherche géologique et Minière 
 
Page  5
5
I. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
 
1.1 PREAMBLE 
 
1. The Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) has received from the World Bank through the 
Multi-Country Demobilization and Reintegration Program (MDRP) both a financial and 
technical assistance to undertake a National Program for Disarmament, Demobilization and 
Reintegration. The Government of the DRC has the objective of demobilization of up to an 
estimated 150,000 ex-combatants and provision of reintegration support during their transition 
to civilian life, and promotion of the reallocation of military expenditure to the social and 
economic sectors. 
 
2.  The project has been implemented since 2004 by the Government of the DRC in addition 
with special projects which targeted child soldiers and emergency demobilisation situations. 
All the   projects are now completed. The Governments implementing agency, CONADER, 
currently replaced by a new implementation unit called the 
Unité d’Exécution du Programme 
National de Désarmement, Démobilisation et Réinsertion
 (UEPN-DDR),  with the support of 
the international community, established 18 orientation/demobilization sites across the 
country.  These sites were selected based on the location of troops to be processed. More than 
120,000 adult ex-combatants have been demobilized and almost 30,000 child soldiers released 
from armed groups.  The Project thus continues to make a major contribution to the security 
environment, facilitating longer term development and peace building efforts.     
 
3. An environmental assessment has never been carried out the purpose of this study is to to 
evaluate the potential risks posed by any environmental and/or social impact legacies of the 
project.
 
This will include: 
·
Field visits to the following sites of now-closed orientation centers :  
1. Moanda (Bas Congo) 
2.  Jolie site (Kinshasa) 
3. Kimpoko (Kinshasa) 
4. Nkandi (Kananga) 
5. Lukelenge (Mbujy-Mayi) 
6. Madula (Kisangani) 
7. Boyeka (Mbandaka) 
·
Assessment of any mitigation plans instituted at the time and how effectively those 
mitigation plans were implemented and monitored 
·
Analysis of any residual environmental or social risks remaining, and their current  
potential impacts  
 
4.  The assignment was carried out in two phases
:
phase I
 involved review of all existing 
documentation, as well as, performing visual inspection of selected sites; and 
phase II
 
comprised assessment of potential environmental risks, social impact legacies of the project 
and pollution generated by the decommissioning/removal and closure activities of the sites. 
The report has been prepared for the World Bank.  
 
Page  6
6
1.2 ENVIRONMENTAL SETTING: 
 
5.   The major environmental issues of concern in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) 
include deforestation, soil degradation, erosion and poaching. There are also bush fires during 
the dry season. In general, there is relatively low coverage and access to basic services such as 
electricity, water supply and sanitation, drainage, and solid waste collection and proper 
disposal. The national environmental issues and concerns can be exacerbated through projects 
implementation and the accelerated infrastructure construction in the DRC. Some of the 
immediate problems could be: the health impacts of pollution derived from inadequate 
management of waste and toxic elements and work ethics; inadequate water supply, air and 
noise pollution; poor sanitation, drainage; poor industrial hygiene; and poor industrial waste 
management.  
 
6.  Furthermore, the health and safety issues, including medical monitoring and providing 
appropriate industrial hygiene for workers would be essential in minimizing the negative 
effects deriving from the environmental concerns affecting the country, including the 
prevention of HIV/AIDS exposure to the larger population. 
 
1.3 ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
:
7.
 
Analysis of the expected impacts of the project  were undertaken based on the degree of 
risk to the environment emanating from the orientation centers during the construction and the 
operating phases ( see illustration  in the  annex III). The risk characterization was a process 
of estimating the probable incidence of adverse impacts to potential receptors under various 
exposure conditions, including an elaboration of uncertainties associated with such estimates. 
The analysis process applied in the environmental impact assessment involved the qualitative 
estimation of the potential risks and/or hazards due to activities of the orientation centers.   
The main components for evaluating and characterizing the potential impacts of a site were as 
follows: 
·
type of facilities ; 
·
air Emissions (i.e. impact on air quality); 
·
wastewater (i.e. impact on surface water and groundwater receptors); 
·
solid waste (i.e. impact on the environment); 
·
noise; 
·
occupational health and safety issues; 
·
environmental management and regulatory framework; and level of capacity building, 
training and awareness. 
 
8.  To that end  the components  below were  supposed to be used  but due to the lack of a 
proper information and the closure of  the actual  activities at the site, the process was 
modified to include an interview of the project team members, local communities and visual 
observation of the sites and the area around them. 
·
Depth to water; 
·
Soil and aquifer media; 
·
Topography; 
·
Impact on land-use and planning; 
·
Impact to wetlands and water bodies; and  
·
Impact on workers. 
Page  7
7
1.4 SUMMARY OF SITES VISIT   FINDINGS  
 
9. The sites visit was undertaken after the literature review of the project documents and 
discussion and meeting with UEPN-DDR staff in Kinshasa.  Seven sites have been visited, 
two of them are in Kinshasa province, in the vicinity of the city, the remaining five are 
scattered in five provinces, (Bas Congo, Kasai Oriental, Kasai Occidental, Province Oriental 
and Equatorial Province).  All the orientation centers were closed, handed over to the rightful 
land owners in 2006. The majority of the equipment and/material has been 
decommissioned/removed but some equipments remain on   the site, those equipments are 
donated to either the landowner,   the public or   non governmental organization. The new 
owners have not removed from the site (closed centers).  The rapid growth of the vegetation, 
as an indication of the quality of the soil has confirmed that environmental impact of the 
centers on the flora was low or even insignificant. The removal of the equipments from the 
site did not cause any visual damage.  The tree planting activity during the operation and after 
the closure of the orientation centers has positively impacted the overall vegetation growth. 
Neighboring communities have lost their jobs when the orientation centers ceased operation. 
As per former workers, the subcontractors (NGO and private enterprises) have informed 
workers of the duration of their employment. So far no complaint has been recorded by the 
project from any former workers of the orientation centers.  In terms of land use only three out 
of seven sites are being used partially for cultivation (Kimpoko-Kinshasa; Boyeka- Mbandaka 
and Lukelenge-Mbuji-Mayi). It is an indication that the site used to build the orientation 
centers did not have any pressure on agricultural activities in the communities.  According to 
the UEPN-DDR technical team members, the water resources were not impacted due to: 
(a) the preventives action taken during the construction of the facilities ( standardized pit 
latrines, and water supply system under the supervision of the United Nations 
Development Program (UNDP); and 
(b) there is no surface water close by any of the site. 
 
10. Furthermore the neighboring communities did not held the project liable of any social 
disturbance associated with the operation and the closure of the centers.   
 
1.5 SUMMARY OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT FINDINGS 
 
11. The environmental impacts assessment findings for the study generally fell into the 
following categories:  
 
Health and Safety Issues
:
Workers at the water supply distribution, the power 
equipment, the foods and beverage facilities were not encouraged to make use of 
personal protective equipment (PPE) such as boots, hard hats, masks and gloves. 
Workers working on transmission lines   were supposed to wear protective clothing 
but did not have good supervision to enforce the discipline. 
 
Water supply system Management and Decommissioning or removal of Equipment:  
the decommissioning/removal of the equipments, material and building debris  such as  
water pipes, water tank,  electrical power equipment, oil tank and fuel tank, batteries, 
cables, wires,  tents and temporary houses , foods and cooking material, chairs and 
tables and other obsolete equipment ,  has not been  done  properly. Some water tanks 
and other equipment donated to the rightful landowner, the public organization or non 
governmental organization have not been removed from the site or decommissioned.  
Page  8
8
Environmental Management, Regulatory Framework and Capacity Building:
 
There 
was no integrated environmental management plan or system for the activities 
pertaining to environmental management, including viable and executable contingency 
plans. No personnel (or senior staff) had been assigned with the responsibility for 
environmental management at the facilities. The 
liaison
 between the management and 
the agencies responsible for the Environmental Regulations and Guidelines, i.e. the 
Ministry of Environment was non-existent. Furthermore, there was a lack of awareness 
on the environmental laws, regulations and guidelines by most of the crew and some 
managers of the project. There was no training or awareness workshops or seminars on 
environmental management provided to the staff and workers of the project.  
 
Waste Oil and Spill Control/Prevention
:
Spill contingency plans were unavailable for 
containing oil spills (including diesel oil for the generators). Generators were used 
constantly and oil/lubricants for the equipment were sometimes spilled on the floors 
and the areas where the equipments were located. 
 
Generally, the key environmental impact assessment findings included: 
inadequate solid waste management including disposal/removal (decommissioning) of 
equipment ; lack of contingency plans for oil spill control and protection measures; 
abandoned or discarded  equipment and materials; absence of coherent and consistent 
environmental management plan/system; weak contacts with the agencies responsible 
for environmental management for the country, such as the Ministry of Environment ; 
lack of knowledge on regulatory framework; no capacity building program for 
environmental management..  
 
Consultations
:
Consultation with stakeholders was carried out during the field 
inspections of various sites. In general, there was no knowledge about the closure 
process of the site, although some local communities and national agencies have 
received some material and equipment from the site at the closure.   
 
Decommissioning Plans:  
During the sites visit it was noticed that sites would not require a full 
d
ecommissioning/removal of equipments 
and transport to safe disposal sites.  
 
Statutory Framework: 
Environmental management is gradually being integrated into the national policies for 
development in DRCongo. The initiatives were being undertaken by the Ministry of 
Environment. However, additional work is required to define guidelines and 
regulations to accommodate the different sectors. 
 
In general, it can be concluded that there was a lack of resources, such as human and 
equipment, for conducting coherent monitoring and enforcement of environmental 
management in DRCongo. Furthermore, there was indication that the environmental 
management in DRCongo is poor and may need to be reinforced adequately.    
 
The guidelines and standards must be developed for DRCongo under the instructions 
and environmental assessment procedures described in the World Bank operational 
policy, Bank procedures, good practices and safeguard policies (i.e. OP/BP/GP4.01).  
Page  9
9
Until these standards are developed specifically for DRCongo, it would be advisable to 
adhere to the standards by the World Health Organization (WHO), and UNEP.     
 
Legal Framework on Liabilities
:
the project
 must work closely with the Ministry of 
Environment (ME) to ascertain who assumes the responsibilities for environmental 
liabilities at the project sites. For instance, do the liabilities fall on the new user of the 
site or on the former user. Both the project , ME, and other relevant agencies should 
work jointly in order to determine the appropriate law(s) covering environmental 
liabilities with respect to: decommissioning/removal  procedures, due diligence, and 
indemnification, so that there would be a clear understanding of who is liable for 
contamination, both past and current , i.e. during and after site closure. 
 
Monitoring Protocols
:
There was lack of standards for monitoring environmental 
parameters, i.e. measuring physico-chemical and microbial parameters for water 
quality and air quality for DRCongo. As a result, the project has not adhered to any 
standards that were consistent. The ME must be responsible for determining and 
preparing guidelines and environmental performance indicators that are 
measurable
 
for monitoring sites and facilities of projects.     
 
1.6  
RECOMMENDATION 
 
12. Based on the environmental impacts assessment findings it is recommended to the project 
to undertake the following measures:  
 
(a) 
Legal Framework and Contingent Liabilities:  
It is recommended that the former 
owners bear the liabilities of past actions before they hand over the site to the rightful 
landowner or new owner. Therefore the project must undertake a site 
decommissioning of equipments and material donated and left on the closed 
orientation centers sites, in close collaboration with the beneficiaries. A solid waste 
management advisor should be hired to carry out the decommissioning work. The 
project can choose to fully bear the cost of the adviser and the decommissioning work 
or bear the cost of the adviser’s services and have the beneficiaries support the cost of 
the decommissioning of the equipments. 
 
(b) 
Environmental Management, Regulatory Framework and Capacity Building: 
This
 
should designate a senior staff to be a liaison person between the project and the 
Ministry of Environment. The designated person would have to seek the support of an 
external Environmental Advisor during three months to assist the project in 
conducting awareness on the environmental laws, regulations and guidelines. The 
Environmental advisor must also assist in determining the environment requirements 
of future project activities. 
 
(c) 
Monitoring Protocols
:
The solid waste management will
 carried out throughout the 
period of decommissioning/removal of the equipment and or material a monitoring 
and evaluation task as a supervisor of the sites decommissioning.  
 
Page  10
10
II. INTRODUCTION 
 
The report is an environmental impact assessment leading to the audit of seven closed 
orientation centers conducted in February and March 2008. The consultant reviewed the 
literature of the project and then traveled to the sites where he worked with the regional 
offices coordinators.  The assignment was carried out in two folds: (a) interview of the project 
regional coordinators, former workers of the closed orientation centers, rightful landowners of 
the sites, surrounding communities; (b) site visual inspection, observation of the vegetation, 
the soil, the location of the equipment removed or not, the observation of the surroundings 
landscape with the regional coordinator, former manager the orientation center, or former 
worker.  The list of sites visited is follows: 
1.  Boyeka  (Mbandaka- Equatorial Province  
2.  Jolie Site (Province of Kinshasa )  
3.  Kimpoko (Province of Kinshasa  
4.  Kitona -Moanda  (Province of Bas Congo) 
5.  Lukelenge (Mbujy-Mayi, Kasai Oriental) 
6.  Madula (Kisangani Oriental Province) 
7.  Nkandi (Kananga, Kasai Occidental) 
 
The area of each site  is around sixteen(16) acres. It  carries about 1000 ex-combatants and the 
center management staff and employees. The centers were built  with all the essential 
amenities (see picture below). 
 
Page  11
11
III. PROJECT DESCRIPTION 
 
Background 
 
The Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) received from the World Bank and the Multi-
Country Demobilization and Reintegration Program (MDRP) grants in the equivalent of 
US$200 million (two hundred million US dollars) to finance the Emergency Program for 
Demobilization and Reintegration (EDRP).  
 
The project is classified as Environmental Category B, and has passed the six-month mark 
since the Grant Agreement went into effect.  Therefore, the objective will be to carry out an 
environmental and social evaluation of the EDRP.  The specific tasks and objectives of this 
evaluation are indicated below.  
 
EDRP activities have until now been executed through a government implementing agency 
known as CONADER.  This entity has now been replaced by a new implementation unit 
called the 
Unité d’Exécution du Programme National de Désarmement, Démobilisation et 
Reinsertion
 (UEPN-DDR). 
 
EDRP Development Objectives  
 
The EDRP is the main funding source for the National Demobilisation and Reinsertion 
program (PNDDR), which has been implemented since 2004 by the Government of the DRC.   
Page  12
12
 
The EDRP has two major development objectives: 
 
1. Demobilization of up to an estimated 150,000 ex-combatants and provision of 
reintegration support during their transition to civilian life 
2.  Promotion of the reallocation of military expenditure to the social and economic 
sectors 
 
The PNDDR was approved by the government. It outlines all of the elements of the DDR 
process from the disarmament and regroupment of the forces to the full economic re-
integration of the ex combatants. The IDA/MDRP financed part of the PNDDR does fund 
disarmament. The components covered by the EDRP are the following: 
·
Sensitization 
·
Orientation and demobilization (including on-site services);  
·
Transition 
·
Reinsertion 
·
Special groups; and 
·
Institutional development and Program implementation support. 
 
Sensitization
In order to manage expectations and secure participation in the program, specialized agencies 
will sensitize both the potential beneficiaries and the communities to which they will return as 
to the content and implications of the PNDDR. They will also institute specific reconciliation 
activities in communities where the return of ex combatants may cause tension or hostility. 
This sensitization and reconciliation service will continue throughout the life of the program 
as necessary. 
 
Orientation and Demobilization
All combatants will come to the Orientation Centers in pre-determined groups. On entering, 
each ex-combatant will be identified and have his status verified. Children associated with 
armed forces will be separated and taken to transit centers. Women will also be separated 
from the men. Combatants will then be briefed on the eligibility criteria, conditions for 
entering the army and the demobilization program, and reinsertion benefits. Those that wish 
to join the new army and that meet the eligibility criteria will immediately leave for a military 
location. Those wishing to enter the demobilization and reinsertion process and meeting the 
criteria will continue on to demobilization activities, including: formal demobilization from 
the armed services; a formal acceptance of the terms of the program; the collection of socio-
economic data; further orientation on the program; and, civic training. 
 
Transition
Upon discharge from the Orientation Centers, demobilized combatants lose their source of 
income and their right to army accommodation. Transitional safety net assistance will 
therefore be provided to support ex-combatants for a limited period following their return to 
civilian life ('transition ' phase). It will consist of a Basic Needs Kit to assist in the actual 
return to home and the first part of a Transitional Subsistence Allowance (TSA) to sustain the 
ex-combatant and his or her family until they have had a chance to register for the 
reintegration program in their area. 
 
Reinsertion
Page  13
13
Economic reintegration support will provide ex-combatants with various forms of vocational 
support and training, and assistance building more sustainable livelihoods.  
 
Special Groups
Children associated with the armed forces
.
Child ex-combatants are estimated to represent at 
least 10% to 20% of the fighting forces and will need priority assistance. The PNDDR will 
work in coordination with partners specialized in child protection. The children associated 
with the armed forces program has been established by experts and based on current best 
practice. The guiding principle is to secure the release of all children associated with fighting 
forces and promote their earliest re-unification with their families or placement into 
alternative care. 
 
Dependents
:
Although families of ex combatants are not direct beneficiaries under the 
PNDDR, the family unit of an ex combatant will be taken into consideration during the 
planning and implementation of the different phases of the program. CONADER will work in 
close consultation and coordination with relevant Ministries on all issues in relation to 
accompanying families. 
 
Gender
The PNDDR will provide targeted support for the social and economic reintegration of female 
ex-combatants. Women associated with fighting forces may constitute a sizeable group that 
from previous experience will warrant particular attention. 
 
Disabled ex-combatants
Only limited medical and economic assistance has been provided to disabled ex-combatants to 
date. The PNDDR would seek to systematically address the medical and economic 
rehabilitation needs of the estimated 2,000 disabled ex combatants to be demobilized under 
the Program.  
 
Institutional Development and Program Implementation Support
The implementation mechanisms for the DDR component are outlined in the PNDDR and 
detailed in the Joint Operations Plan for DDR. The management of the DDR program will 
come under a specialized unit which will carry overall responsibility for all aspects of the 
DDR process. It should be noted, however, that the regroupment and disarmament exercise, 
though planned and overseen by members of the national institution will be carried out by the 
Ministry of Defense.  
 
Project activities are progressing well and overall EDRP development objectives are being 
met (as outlined in the Mid term review of October 2006).  In spite of the difficult 
implementation environment, CONADER, with the support of the international community, 
nevertheless succeeded in establishing 18 orientation/demobilization sites across the country.  
These sites were selected based on the location of troops to be processed.  The 18 orientation 
centers were established in the following; a) existing structures rented to the project b) 
military structures c) constructed camps. More than 120,000 adult ex-combatants have since 
been demobilized and almost 30,000 child soldiers released from armed groups The Project 
thus continues to make a major contribution to the security environment, facilitating longer 
term development and peace building efforts.     
 
Page  14
14
 
IV
.
REPUBLIC DEMOCRATIC OF CONGO. COUNTRY’S PROFILE 
 
LOCATION 
 Central Africa
 
GEOGRAPHIC COORDINATE 
0
00 N, 25 00 E 
AREA 
Total: 
 2,345,410 sq km ; L
and: 
 2,267,600 sq km and 
Water: 
 
77,810 sq km 
AREA COMPARATIVE 
slightly less than one-fourth the size of the US 
LAND BOUNDARIES
 
Total: 
 10,744 km 
 
border countries: 
 
Angola: 2,511 km, 
 Burundi: 233 km,  
Central African Republic: 1,577 km, 
 Republic of the Congo: 2,410 km, 
 Rwanda: 217 km, 
 Sudan: 628 km,  
Tanzania: 473 km, 
 Uganda: 765 km, 
 Zambia :1,930 km 
 
COASTLINE 
37km 
MARITIME CLAIMS 
exclusive economic zone: 
 boundaries with neighbors 
territorial sea: 
 12 NM 
CLIMATE 
tropical; hot and humid in equatorial river basin;  
cooler and drier in southern highlands;  
cooler and wetter in eastern highlands;  
north of Equator - wet season April to October,  
Page  15
15
dry season December to February;                          
south of Equator - wet season November to March,  
dry season April to October 
TERRAIN 
Vast central basin is a low-lying plateau ; mountain in east 
EXTREMES 
 
lowest point: 
 Atlantic Ocean 0 m 
highest point: 
 Pic Marguerite on Mont Ngaliema (Mount  
Stanley) 5,110 m\ 
LAND USE 
 
arable land: 
 3% 
permanent crops: 
 0% 
permanent pastures: 
 7% 
forests and woodland: 
 77% 
other: 
 13% (1993 est.) 
IRRIGATED LAND 
100 sq km (1993 est.) 
NATURAL HAZARDS 
periodic droughts in south; volcanic activity 
ENVIRONMENT CURRENT ISSUES 
poaching threatens wildlife populations; water pollution; 
deforestation; 
ENVIRONMENT INTERNATIONAL 
AGREEMENTS 
party to: 
 Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, 
Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine 
Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Tropical 
Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands 
GEOGRAPHY 
straddles Equator; very narrow strip of land that controls the 
lower Congo river and is only outlet to South Atlantic Ocean; 
dense tropical rain forest in central river basin and eastern 
highlands 
POPULATION 
59.3 million 
POPULATION GROWTH RATE 
3.1% (2001 est.) 
LITERACY 
definition: 
 age 15 and over can read and write French, Lingala, 
Kingwana, or Tshiluba 
total population: 
 77.3% 
male: 
 86.6% 
female: 
 67.7% (1995 est.) 
V. OBJECTIVES OF ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 
 
The EDRP is classified as category B, but an Environmental Assessment has never been 
carried out.  The main objective of this consultancy will thus be to 
evaluate the potential risks 
posed by any environmental and/or social impact legacies of the project.
 
This will include: 
·
Field visits to the following sites of now-closed orientation centers :  
1.  Moanda - kitona (Bas Congo) 
2.  Jolie site (Kinshasa) 
3. Kimpoko (Kinshasa) 
4. Nkandi (Kananga) 
5. Lukelenge (Mbujy-Mayi) 
6. Madula (Kisangani) 
7. Boyeka (Mbandaka) 
·
Assessment of any mitigation plans instituted at the time and how effectively those 
mitigation plans were implemented and monitored 
·
Analysis of any residual environmental or social risks remaining, and their current or 
potential impact  
 
VI. 
REVIEW OF RELEVANT BANK PROJECT AND NATIONAL 
RULE
S
Page  16
16
At the national level, previous environmental impact assessment review has indicated that 
there are no national regulations which could have been helped in determining any 
environmental impacts or mitigation measures during the implementation of the project.  
 
In the absence of national policy the World Bank's safeguard policy will prevail. Therefore, 
the World Bank Safeguards Policies were reviewed and one of these namely Environmental 
Assessments OP 4.01 has been identified as likely to be triggered (see table #I below).  
 
In addition, the World Bank related Project
’s ESMF (the Environmental and social 
management framework) of the Emergency Multisector Rehabilitation and Reconstruction 
Project (EMRRP) could be used as guidance.  
 
Table I
:
World Bank Safeguard Policies That Might Apply 
 
VII. METHODOLOGY  
 
The preparation of this EIA document is based on two main approaches, a comprehensive 
review of the relevant literature and a thorough process of consultations with local 
communities as part of stakeholders from seven sites across the country and interview of the 
project technical team. 
 
Literature review 
This has involved review of project documents; orientation center description and activities. 
The aim was to obtain background information on project justification and objectives; project 
description and activities- nature and extent of the infrastructure investment; all locations that 
the project will impact, coverage and prioritization; and institutional arrangements, 
biophysical information ( i.e geology, climate, and topography).                                                   
 
Stakeholders Consultations 
Safeguard Policies Triggered 
Yes 
No 
To be determined 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X 
 
 
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 
X 
 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 
X 
 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 
X 
 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 
X 
 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 
X 
 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 
X 
 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 
X 
 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50) 
 
X 
 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 
X 
 
Page  17
17
Comprehensive consultation with stakeholders was conducted at various levels, mainly 
through interviews of key informants within the local communities. This involved discussions 
within orientation centers site, landowner and surrounding communities.  
 
VIII. DESCRIPTION OF OVERALL AND SITE-SPECIFIC 
FINDINGS OF ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS 
 
8.1 DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT OVERALL POTENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL   
 IMPACTS
 
8.1.1 OVERVIEW OF AN ORIENTATION CENTER AND ITS ACTIVITIES 
 
The project has established 18 orientation/demobilization centers across the country. These 
centers of about sixteen (16) acres each were selected based on the location of troops to be 
processed.  Most of the 18 orientation centers were acquired free of charge through traditional 
chief (chef coutumier), in the vicinity of the main city (regional headquarter of the project). 
The traditional chiefs use their customary rights of the legislation on land so called 
“land 
occupied by local communities”. Few orientation centers were rented to the project. During 
the operation, the centers were able to house more than 120,000 adult ex-combatants who 
have since been demobilized and almost 30,000 child soldiers released from armed groups. 
The activities carried out in the center were identical. The project has built its own pit latrines, 
water supply system and has used generators to produce electricity and pump water from 
spring or river. As a demobilization and orientation camps, lodging and foods were provided 
to the ex-combatant and management staff in addition to offices. The carrying capacity of 
most orientation centers was 1000 people.  
 
As per verbal statement from the project coordinators all the 18 orientation centers, were 
decommissioned
1
,
closed and handed over to the rightful owners.     
 
The project is classified as category B as per the World Banks guidelines; the main objective 
of the consultancy is to evaluate the potential risk posed by any environmental and/or social 
impact legacies of the project. 
 
Before the field visit, it was important to analyze the potential impacts of the past activities of 
the project, particularly the construction, the operation and the decommissioning /removal 
activities. The exercise focused on discussion related to the effects of the past activities on the 
vegetation, the soil, the water resources, the air and the communities.   
 
8.1.2 POTENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS 
 
WHICH WERE SUPPOSED TO OCCUR 
 
1
The decommissioning activity is viewed here  as withdrawal of service and possible clean up of the site, since 
the decommissioning was not  done according to  guidelines and regulation, the Consultant is not guaranteeing 
that it has been done properly, It  has assumed that a decommissioning has been done when referring to the site 
inspection and verbal statement of the project’s coordinators.  
Page  18
18
A. During the construction, the operation and decommissioning of the orientation centers, 
described for the purpose of discussion
The discussion was held on five mains activities undertaken during the course of the 
construction phase, the operation and the decommissioning. 
 
1. Sanitation: construction, operation and decommission of the pits latrines 
2.  Drinking water supply: water distribution system, 
3. Electricity: power supply 
4. Hosing: temporary housing (tents) for ex-combatants and management offices and 
5. Transportation of material, equipment and workers. 
 
The potential environmental impacts that could occur are: 
 
1. Loss of vegetation 
 
Clearance for construction of the structures will lead to various degrees of loss of vegetation. 
The severity of the impact on vegetation will depend on the size of the building(s), the site 
and location. As the recovery regeneration rate in Democratic Republic of Congo according to 
the climate is very high. The clearing of the vegetation and shrubs will not have a significant 
impact; furthermore there are no endangered species of flora along the site of those orientation 
centers. The expected impact could be low.     
 
Page  19
19
 
2. Pollution of land and water resources 
 
Waste of various types and quantities - solid and liquid will be generated at most phases of 
constructing and using the building and auxiliary structures. Possibilities for these wastes 
polluting the environment will be mainly due to inadequacies in the management of the waste 
originating from the buildings, generators e.g. collection and disposal of solid waste and 
domestic waste-water, seepage from septic tanks, and pit latrines. These wastes with organic 
pollutants may pollute contaminate land, vegetation, ground and surface water resources. In 
the process of building houses improper disposal of soil burden (cleared vegetation  and 
topsoil), and demolished materials may result in increased sediments and siltation of surface 
water resources and downstream water courses (streams, ponds and rivers) particularly in the 
rainy season. Similarly, soil erosion from inadequate backfilling and resurfacing, and 
deposition of fine building materials (sand, silts, clays, cement) may result in pollution of 
water resources. Large number of workers on the construction site and wastes they will 
generate as well as remainder of construction wastes, tools, equipment, and temporary 
infrastructure may lead to soil and water pollution. 
 
3. Soil erosion 
 
This may result from inadequacies in backfilling of construction works and improper drainage 
of storm water. Erosion along banks of storm water drainage channel may cause siltation of 
channel and loss of land; and construction on sloping hillsides may lead to landslides and soil 
erosion.  
 
Similar impacts are to be anticipated at the locations where borrow pits are either planned or 
are currently being exploited as sources of construction materials for infrastructure projects. 
These include pit formation from sand mine and creation of stagnant pools of water in left 
borrow pits, which could provide favorable ground for mosquitoes breeding. 
 
4. Air pollution 
 
Dust generated from construction works to nearby houses may cause health impacts related to 
inhaled dust as well as loss of aesthetic due to dust caking on surfaces of buildings and 
vegetation. 
Page  20
20
 
5. Noise pollution                            
 
Noise during construction and decommissioning may cause by earth moving, exaction 
equipment, transportation of people and material, the noise can disturb neighboring areas 
–
(roads, schools, hospitals, markets, residences, etc.). Orientation centers are found to be 
located in all sorts of neighborhoods and construction and decommissioning works may 
impact negative the neighbors, although temporary..  
 
6. Vehicular traffic implication 
 
The construction works at the site will result in increase in traffic volume on the roads in the 
area. The transport of raw materials (cement, sand and equipment) and workers and will 
introduce a number of heavy trucks on the main road and this could increase the risk of motor 
accidents and also result in vehicle –pedestrian and bicyclist conflicts. 
 
7. Possible land acquisition and loss of some livelihoods. 
 
The existing land users (farmers) on the selected sites may need to be completely removed to 
give way to the new infrastructures. As a result of the project undertakings, In rural areas 
losses will include losses of cultivation land, firewood collecting areas, livestock grazing 
areas, recreation etc. 
 
8. Impact on public health 
 
This could be a result of diseases related to poor sanitation which in turn is related to lack of 
/inadequate water supply and appropriate cleaning materials. Rain-water harvesting seems not 
to be a consideration at the orientation centers. Inadequacies in the management of waste e.g. 
latrines and septic tanks overflowing; open defecation and flying toilets may create health 
risks through people and animals coming in contact with human wastes, and flies and rodents 
carrying diseases from the latrines and open sewers. 
 
Page  21
21
9.  impacts related to blockage of access 
 
These may result from e.g. fencing, traffic disruption during construction and operation, etc. 
 
10. Pressures on existing water and other; natural resources 
 
When water is limited, construction and operation phases may increase water demand and 
risks of shortages.                                                                       
 
In order to cope with the above environmental and social adverse impacts, the environmental 
and social screening process was supposed to be conducted in such a way as to ensure that 
potential negative impacts are mitigated appropriately. It should be recommended that the 
construction activities be carried out in compliance with the mitigation measures. In addition,  
potential health impacts on the surrounding population such as dust, noise, traffic accidents 
and an increase in water-related diseases due to standing water in the borrow pits would have 
been mitigated. 
 
It was clear that during the construction activities, the operation and the decommissioning, 
potential environmental impacts  were expected to occur but no formal  mitigation  plans  was 
defined  to prevent, minimize or compensate the potential negatives impacts.  
 
Page  22
22
8.2 REPORT OF THE FIELD VISITS AND PUBLIC CONSULTATION 
 
8.2.1 ASSESSMENT OF THE EXISTING ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL 
SETUPS 
 
Key parameters assessed include general bio-physical characteristic (annex II), socio-
economic 
characteristics including different categories of people likely to be impacted by the project, 
Information was obtained from the interviews, review of existing literature and observation 
during visits to the seven (7) orientation centers. 
 
8.2.2 STAKEHOLDERS CONSULTATION 
 
With the assistance of the UEPN-DDR technical team member, a comprehensive consultation 
with stakeholders was conducted at the various sites, mainly through interviews of key 
informants within the local communities. This involved discussions within orientation centers 
site; landowner
,
lessee or new landowner’s employee and surrounding communities (See 
table#2 key contact).  
 
A
site visit was conducted to closed orientation center, seven (7) as per the ToRS with    
technical team member of the project (UEPN- DDR), in February and March 2008. The 
consultant met with site neighboring communities and visited the site of closed orientation 
centers. This report summarizes the findings gathered during the visits based on various 
interviews and on visual observation of the site areas.  
 
The technical team member of UEPN-DDR and the neighboring communities’ members were 
interviewed (see key contacts below- table#2) and sites were observed and photographed. In 
terms of land issue, all the seven (7) sites were handed over to the rightful owners at closing 
in June 2006. The rightful owners of the land according to the UEP-DDR technical team 
member and stated by neighboring community members, are traditional chief (land owners 
based on customary rights
2
).  The project has returned the land to the landowner properly; no 
complaints were recorded by local coordinators of UEPN-DDR. Some landowners have 
already transferred or leased the land, particularly the site of Kimpoko and Joli Site in the 
province of Kinshasa. 
 
In general the vegetation’s growth rate of the sites observed compare to the nearby 
undisturbed site is over 100%, (see table#4) because of the re-vegetation activities  carried out 
by  some UEPN-DDR’s provincial  offices during the operation and at closing.  The tree 
planting was   an individual initiative, only few centers benefited from it.    
 
Observation of soil quality was entirely deducted from the natural vegetation growth rate. It is 
noticed that the soil has not lost its growing capacity and seems to be healthy (see table#5).           
 
All the sites but Madula’s site in Kisangani still  have some equipments and material not 
demolished or removed at closing (see table #3  list of sites with equipments and material to 
be removed). It was indicated that those equipments and material have been donated to public 
2
The project has acquired the land from the traditional chief  to whom the legislation on land  ( although very 
ambiguous) provides a customary rights  which allow them  to  temporary cultivate or use the land within  the 
area where  they live, the 
 land  is  called “land occupied by local communities”. It is important to keep in mind 
that in DRC,  the land belongs to the State ( see the legislation on land French version –annex IV-RED Para ).     
Page  23
23
or non governmental organization or the rightful landowners. For instance, equipments such 
as container belong to the provincial government which failed to remove them after the 
closure of the site.  Consultation of the nearby 
communities’ members and other has indicated 
that the closure of the orientation centers has impacted negatively the livelihood of the 
population surroundings the sites and the retail businesses in the city.  Local workers have lost 
their jobs. 
In fact the project has provided jobs to surroundings communities through non governmental 
organization’s contractors. In addition, the population (above 500 per center) of the centers ( 
ex-combatants, management team and workers) has created an important demand for small 
businesses and farmers in the area around  the center.  It was stated that, although the centers 
did not stay long but they had impacted positively the economy of the areas around them.   At 
closure, all the local workers have lost their jobs.   
 
In term of pollution prevention, the UEPN_DDR Technical team members have indicated that 
the following measures were taken under the supervision of the UNDP staff during the 
construction and operation of the centers. 
(a) the centers were all secured by  professional security guards ( center entrance and exit 
were secured and  monitored ); 
(b) the water  was distributed through a stand post  ( see annex III) with  a sound drainage 
system to avoid standing water  which can lead to mosquitoes breeding; 
(c) solid waste was burned and /or collected by the center management’s contractor and   
safely disposed off  propriety; 
(d) waste water from the kitchen was treated through a small sewer system with an 
infiltration pits as part of  the restaurant contractor’s obligations; 
(e) pit latrines  (see pictures above ) were  built  to service the center; 
(f)  no traffic accident was reported.           
 
The neighboring communities have praised the cleanliness of the orientation centers and have 
indicated that they have learned some practices from the centers but they lack the pit latrines, 
safe water supply and electricity. They have had the opportunity to drink potable water during 
the operation of the centers for some time.     
 
There were no fauna due to the intensive poaching in the vicinity of the large cities.  
 
dotaccent\11ffi\11\03/,67\032)\035(,17(*5$7,21\03352-(&76\03
 
MDRP/CONADER has conducted sustainable reintegration of ex-combatants through the 
financing of micro-projects. Each micro-project  costs approximately US$ 500 and it  
implemented through NGOs.  The Project   supported ex-combatants in activities that are 
already traditional economic and social activities in these areas, and involve no new 
technologies within the communities, nor the development of major work projects.  
Identification of the micro-projects  was based on selection criteria following procedural 
standards of UNDP. Technical procedures has been standardized to ensure coherency in 
project implementation.  
Several micro-projects were implemented. The following projects list includes but is not 
limited to: 
·
Livestock micro-project; 
·
Small scale fishery; 
·
Masonry; 
·
Retail store; 
Page  24
24
·
Bicycles fleet for taxi in small town ( two to three bicycles); 
·
Rice cultivation; and 
·
Cassava plantation. 
 
The Project has also provided social infrastructures project to communities that are receiving 
and ex-combatants and are lacking the minimum social infrastructures such as water wells and 
sanitation facilities. 
 
8.4 KEY FINDINGS 
 
The only significant negative  environmental findings  included :  Donated equipments such 
as water  tank, containers ( see pictures below)  were left at the site to the rightful land owner,  
public or non governmental organization. The project could be held liable for environmental 
violation if those equipments and/or material turn to be a source of any pollution. There were 
no subprojects identified during the audit which could be a source of any negative impacts. 
The Reintegration activities were conducted trough vocation support training and distribution 
of kit or cash ($400.00). Demobilized ex-combatants have either reintegrated the army or 
returned to their communities to run a business or activities for which they have given 
training.  
 
The keys findings described above are the only potential impacts; no significant legacy 
impacts were identified. It was based on the field visits and meetings as no other 
documentation or procurement plans were available.   
Page  25
25
TABLE # 2: KEY CONTACT  
TITLE/ORGANIZATION SITE 
NAME 
CITY/PROVINCE 
UEPN-DDR Kinshasa Coordinator  
 Kimpoko 
Maluku/Kinshasa 
Kimpoko traditional chief  
Kimpoko 
Maluku/Kinshasa 
Site new owner’s employee 
Kimpoko 
Maluku/Kinshasa 
UEPN-DDR Kinshasa Coordinator 
Joli Site 
MontNGafula/Kinshasa 
Prospective owner’s agent 
Joli Site 
MontNgagula/Kinshasa 
UEPN-DDR Kananga Coordinator 
Nkandi 
Kananga/ Kasai Occidental 
UEPN- DDR Kananga Employee 
Nkandi 
Kananga/Kasai occidental 
Nearby community members 
Nkandi 
Kananga Kasai Oriental 
UEPN-DDR Mbuji-Mayi, Coordinator 
Lukelenge 
Mbuji-Mayi/Kasai Oriental 
Nearby Community members 
Lukelenge 
Mbuji-Mayi/kasai Oriental 
Site owner  
Lukelenge 
Mbuji-mayi/Kasai Occidental 
UEPN-DDR Kisangani Coordinator 
Madula 
Kisangani/orientalprovince  
UEPN-DRR Kisangani Employee 
Madula 
Kisangani/oriental province  
Nearby communities members 
Madula 
Kisangani/ oriental province  
UEPN-DDR Mbandaka Coordinator   
Boyeka 
Mbandaka/equatorial province  
UEPN-DDR Mbandaka Assistant Coordinator 
Boyeka 
Mbandaka/ equatorial Province 
Nearby community members 
Boyeka 
Mbandaka/ equatorial Province 
Traditional chief’s wife 
Boyeka 
Mbandaka/ equatorial Province 
Site Former NGO worker  
Moanda (Kitona) 
Moanda/Bas Congo 
Former worker from the nearby community 
Moanda (kitona) 
Moanda/Bas-Congo 
Nearby community member  
Moanda (Kitona) 
Moanda/Bas-Congo 
TABLE#3 LIST OF SITES WITH REMOVABLE EQUIPMENT AND MATERIAL  
SITE EQUIPMENT/MATERIAL 
NOT REMOVED 
RISK POTENTIAL 
TO THE 
ENVIRONMENT 
POSSIBLE 
MITIGATION 
MEASURES  
Kimpoko 
Water tank and 1 containers 
Low 
Full decommissioning  
Joli Site 
Water tank 
Low 
Full decommissioning  
Kananga 
(Nkandi) 
Water tank, 2 containers 
Lamp posts 
Low Full 
decommissioning 
 
Mbuji-Mayi 
(Lukenge) 
Water tank 
Low 
Full decommissioning  
Mbandaka 
(Boyeka) 
Water tank  
Low 
Full decommissioning  
Moanda 
(Kitona) 
Water tank, 2 containers 
Low 
Full decommissioning  
TABLE #4   SITE’S VEGETATION RECOVERY RATE 
 
SITE VEGETATION 
RECOVERY 
RATE 
Re-vegetation 
KIMPOKO 
100% recovery rate after 29 months  
Trees planted by 
UEPN_DDR Team 
JOLIE SITE 
100% recovery rate after 29 months  
Trees planted by 
UEPN_DDR Team  
KANANGA 
100% recovery rate after 29 months  
Natural vegetation only 
MBUJI-MAYI 
100% recovery rate after 29 months  
Natural vegetation only 
KISANGANI 
100% recovery rate after 29 months  
Natural vegetation only 
MBANDAKA 
100% recovery rate after 29 months 
Trees planted by 
UEPN_DDR team 
MOANDA 
100% recovery rate after 29 months 
Idem 
Trees planted by 
UEPN_DDR Team  
Page  26
26
 
TABLE#5 VISUAL INSPECTION OF THE SOIL QUALITY 
 
SITE SOIL 
QUALITY 
 
Associated to Vegetation 
Land usage 
KIMPOKO 
good growing medium 
Part of land is used to 
grow cassava 
JOLI SITE 
 good growing medium 
None 
KANANGA 
good growing medium 
None 
MBUJI-MAYI 
good growing medium 
Part of the land is used to 
grow corn 
KISANGANI 
good growing medium  
None 
MBANDAKA 
good growing medium 
Part of land is  used to 
grow sweet potatoes 
MOANDA 
good growing medium 
None 
Page  27
27
;
\10
5(&200(1'('\030($685(6\0372\03&2817(5\03$1<\031(*$7,9(\03,03$&76
 
FOUND, INCLUDING NATURE OF ISSUE IN QUESTION, 
RESPONSIBLE PARTY OR PARTIES IN RESOLVING ISSUE.
 
RECOMMENDED MEASURES  
 
Based on the environmental impacts assessment findings the recommended measures are 
spelled out as followings:  
 
Legal Framework and Contingent Liabilities
:
It is recommended that MDRP/CONADER, 
former owner bear the liabilities of past actions before they hand over to the rightful 
landowner or new owner.  MDRP/CONADER should conduct a site full or partial 
decommissioning work based on site specifics in collaboration with the new owner 
(beneficiaries) of the equipments and or material left on the sites, 17 sites in total. Therefore a 
solid waste management advisor should be hire to assist  MDRP/CONADER in conducting 
the decommissioning work.  
In order to conduct efficiently the decommissioning activity the solid waste management 
advisor should take the following actions: 
(c) Identify and quantify potential liabilities to be addressed during the decommissioning 
work; 
(d) estimate the duration of the decommissioning activities per site ;   
(e)  prepare a  cost estimate and a plan of approach, schedule, dismantling or demolition   
if      any for each site; 
(f)   prepare  a bidding documents, plans and specifications; 
(g)  evaluate  bids and project award (as per PIM)); 
(h)  supervise the decommissioning work or  dismantling and demolition activities if any; 
and  
(i)  prepare a decommissioning closure report. 
 
Environmental Management, Regulatory Framework and Capacity Building:
 
to fill the gap 
of the previous project, the UEPN_DDR should designate a senior staff to be a liaison person 
between the project and the Ministry of Environment.  The designated person would have to 
seek the support of an external Environmental Advisor to assist during three months the 
project in conducting awareness on the environmental laws, regulations and guidelines. The 
Environmental advisor must also assist in determining the environment requirements of future 
project activities.  
 
Monitoring Protocols
:
Monitoring will be carried out throughout the period of 
decommissioning/removal of the equipment and or material.  A monitoring and evaluation 
will be undertaken by the solid waste management advisor to track and assess the progress of 
the implementation of solid waste management at each site.  A report detailing the physical 
and financial realization of the decommissioning work outputs compare to the goal of the 
activity.  Mains issues and bottlenecks will be identified and step will be taken to resolve any 
difficulties and adjust the decommissioning work plan accordingly.  
 
Page  28
28
;,\03/,67\032)\033(56216\03\0b,1\03$''7,21\0372\037+26(\03,1\037$%/(\03ffl\0c\03\03,17(59,(:('\03
'85,1*\03&2168/7$17¶6\03:25.\03
 
Nom Fonction 
Abderrahim Fraiji 
MDRP- World Bank 
Benjamin Burckhart 
MDRP 
–
World Bank 
Rene Michel Bauman 
MDRP – World Bank 
Leya Malaika Gisele Tabu 
MDRP- World Bank 
Pierre Egide Bossale  
UEPN , Kinshasa 
Kwete Mbel A Ncyem 
UEPN,Mbuji-Mayi  
Prosper bulemvo Muyakala 
UEPN,  Mbandaka  
Becken Naya Kwando 
UEPN, Mbandaka 
Esther Shimba 
UEPN, Kinshasa 
Francoise Mulawa 
UEPN,  Kisangani 
Jacques Nkongolo 
UEPN, Kananga 
Jolie Keto 
Former NGO,s Staff of the Orientation 
center, Moanda 
Mr. Lumba Maurice 
CRGM 
Valentin Kanda Nkula 
CRGM 
Page  29
29
ANNEXES  
 
ANNEX I: ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT, TERMS OF 
REFERENCE 
 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO 
EMERGENCY DEMOBILIZATION AND REINTEGRATION PROJECT 
 
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR ENVIRONMENT & SOCIAL EVALUATION
1.0 Background 
 
The Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) received from the World Bank and the Multi-
Country Demobilization and Reintegration Program (MDRP) a grant in the equivalent of 
US$200 million (two hundred million US dollars) to finance the National Program for 
Disarmament, Demobilization and Reintegration (PNDDR) through the Emergency Program 
for Demobilization and Reintegration (EDRP).  
 
It is classified as Environmental Category B, and has passed the six-month mark since the 
Grant Agreement went into effect.  Therefore, the objective will be to carry out an 
environmental and social evaluation of the EDRP.  The specific tasks and objectives of this 
evaluation are indicated below.  
 
EDRP activities had until now been executed through a government implementing agency 
known as CONADER.  This entity has now been replaced by a new implementation unit 
called
 
the 
Unité d’Exécution du Programme National de Désarmement, Démobilisation et 
Reinsertion
 (UEPN-DDR). 
 
2.0 PNDDR/EDRP Development Objectives  
 
The EDRP is the funding source for the National demobilisation and reinsertion program 
(PNDDR), which has been implemented since 2004 by the Government of the DRC.  In 
addition, parallel funding was made available for special projects which targeted child soldiers 
and emergency demobilisation situations.  These special projects are now all completed. 
 
The PNDDR/EDRP has two major development objectives: 
 
·
Demobilization of up to an estimated 150,000 ex-combatants and provision of 
reintegration support during their transition to civilian life 
·
Promotion of the reallocation of military expenditure to the social and economic 
sectors 
 
The PNDDR was validated by representatives of all concerned ministries as well as all the 
belligerent parties. It outlines all of the elements of the DDR process from the disarmament 
and regroupment of the forces to the full economic re-integration of the ex combatants. The 
Page  30
30
IDA/MDRP financed part of the PNDDR does fund disarmament. The components covered 
by the PNDDR/EDRP are the following: 
 
(i) Sensitization 
(ii) 
Orientation and demobilization (including on-site services);  
(iii) Transition 
(iv) Reinsertion 
(v) Special 
groups; 
and 
(vi) 
Institutional development and Program implementation support. 
 
Sensitization
In order to manage expectations and secure participation in the program, specialized agencies 
will sensitize both the potential beneficiaries and the communities to which they will return as 
to the content and implications of the PNDDR. They will also institute specific reconciliation 
activities in communities where the return of ex combatants may cause tension or hostility. 
This sensitization and reconciliation service will continue throughout the life of the program 
as necessary. 
 
Orientation and Demobilisation
All combatants will come to the Orientation Centers in pre-determined groups. On entering, 
each ex-combatant will be identified and have his status verified. Children associated with 
armed forces will be separated and taken to transit centers. Women will also be separated 
from the men. Combatants will then be briefed on the eligibility criteria, conditions for 
entering the army and the demobilization program, and reinsertion benefits. Those that wish 
to join the new army and that meet the eligibility criteria will immediately leave for a military 
location. Those wishing to enter the demobilization and reinsertion process and meeting the 
criteria will continue on to demobilization activities, including: formal demobilization from 
the armed services; a formal acceptance of the terms of the program; the collection of socio-
economic data; further orientation on the program; and, civic training. 
 
Transition
Upon discharge from the Orientation Centers, demobilized combatants lose their source of 
income and their right to army accommodation. Transitional safety net assistance will 
therefore be provided to support ex-combatants for a limited period following their return to 
civilian life ('transition ' phase). It will consist of a Basic Needs Kit to assist in the actual 
return to home and the first part of a Transitional Subsistence Allowance (TSA) to sustain the 
ex-combatant and his or her family until they have had a chance to register for the 
reintegration program in their area. 
 
Reinsertion
Economic reintegration support will provide ex-combatants with various forms of vocational 
support and training, and assistance building more sustainable livelihoods.  
 
Special Groups
Children associated with the armed forces
.
Child ex-combatants are estimated to represent at 
least 10% to 20% of the fighting forces and will need priority assistance. The PNDDR will 
work in coordination with partners specialized in child protection. The children associated 
with the armed forces program has been established by experts and based on current best 
Page  31
31
practice. The guiding principle is to secure the release of all children associated with fighting 
forces and promote their earliest re-unification with their families or placement into 
alternative care. 
 
Dependents
:
Although families of ex combatants are not direct beneficiaries under the 
PNDDR, the family unit of an ex combatant will be taken into consideration during the 
planning and implementation of the different phases of the program. CONADER will work in 
close consultation and coordination with relevant Ministries on all issues in relation to 
accompanying families. 
 
Gender
.
The PNDDR will provide targeted support for the social and economic reintegration 
of female ex-combatants. Women associated with fighting forces may constitute a sizeable 
group that from previous experience will warrant particular attention. 
 
Disabled ex-combatants
.
Only limited medical and economic assistance has been provided to 
disabled ex-combatants to date. The PNDDR would seek to systematically address the 
medical and economic rehabilitation needs of the estimated 2,000 disabled ex combatants to 
be demobilized under the Program.  
 
Institutional Development and Program Implementation Support
.
The implementation mechanisms for the DDR component are outlined in the PNDDR and 
detailed in the Joint Operations Plan for DDR. The management of the DDR program will 
come under a specialized unit which will carry overall responsibility for all aspects of the 
DDR process. It should be noted, however, that the regroupment and disarmament exercise, 
though planned and overseen by members of the national institution will be carried out by the 
Ministry of Defense. Technical assistance may also be provided directly to CONADER by the 
World Bank, MDRP, and bilateral donors and through MDRP supported special projects. 
 
Project activities are progressing well and overall PNDDR/EDRP development objectives are 
being met.  In spite of the difficult implementation environment, CONADER, with the 
support of the international community, nevertheless succeeded in establishing 18 
orientation/demobilisation sites across the country.  These sites were selected based on the 
location of troops to be processed.  The 18 orientation centres were established in the 
following; a) existing structures rented to the project b) military structures c) constructed 
camps. More than 120,000 adult ex-combatants have since been demobilized and almost 
30,000 child soldiers released from armed groups The Project thus continues to make a major 
contribution to the security environment, facilitating longer term development and peace 
building efforts.     
 
Objectives of the consultancy 
 
The EDRP is classified as category B, but an Environmental Assessment has never been 
carried out.  The main objective of this consultancy will thus be to 
evaluate the potential risks 
posed by any environmental and/or social impact legacies of the project.
 
This will include: 
·
Field visits to the following sites of now-closed orientation centers :  
1. Moanda (Bas Congo) 
2.  Jolie site (Kinshasa) 
3. Kimpoko (Kinshasa) 
4. Nkandi (Kananga) 
5. Lukelenge (Mbujy-Mayi) 
Page  32
32
6. Madula (Kisangani) 
7. Boyeka (Mbandaka) 
·
Assessment of any mitigation plans instituted at the time and how effectively those 
mitigation plans were implemented and monitored 
·
Analysis of any residual environmental or social risks remaining, and their current or 
potential impact  
 
Scope of Work 
 
Working directly with World Bank and staff of the UEPN, the consultant is expected to cover 
the following: 
 
·
Identify any aspects of the PNDDR/EDRP as so far implemented that may have posed 
environment or social risks; 
·
Identify any sub-projects that may have posed environmental and/or social risks; 
·
Quantify probability and severity of any risks - looking at sites actually used to be sure 
that material and waste was properly managed and land returned to the rightful 
owners; 
·
Assess the design quality of any existing mitigation measures against environmental or 
social risks; 
·
Assess the adequacy of consultations during preparation, including sufficient 
disclosure and information dissemination. 
 
3.0
 
Methodology 
 
The consultant shall: 
 
·
Review appropriate technical material, including guidelines, checklists, 
implementation manuals and strategies to ascertain what procedures were officially 
included.  
·
Interview World Bank MDRP staff in the field, as well as technical staff in the UEPN 
that have been present during the development and implementation of the orientation 
centres and who been part of project processing;.   
·
Conduct field visits to 7 sites of closed orientation centres: 1- Moanda (Bas Congo), 2- 
Joli site (Kinshasa), 3- Kimpoko (Kinshasa), 4- Nkandi (Kananga), 5- Lukelenge 
(Mbujy-Mayi), 6- Madula (Kisangani), 7
–Boyeka (Mbandaka). 
·
And assess any past or current environmental or social impact they may have had on 
the surrounding area or population. 
 
4.0 
Outputs and deliverables 
 
The consultancy is to last 23 days (including site visits) from the date of signature of the 
contract. An Environmental Evaluation Report will be presented to the World Bank for review 
and comments.  Following this the consultant will take into account the comments and present 
the final report no later than seven working days following the receipt of comments from the 
World Bank. The Environmental Evaluation Report will be produced in French and English in 
a
hard copy and electronic form that will include the following elements: 
 
o
A
table of contents 
Page  33
33
o
A
glossary of acronyms 
o
Preface and/or introduction explaining the purpose and background to the 
study 
o
Description of the PNDDR/EDRP and its components and activities 
o
Objectives of the EA 
o
Review of relevant Bank, project and national rules that may have determined 
application and practice of environmental and social impact mitigation 
measures 
o
Description of overall and site-specific findings of environmental and social 
impact 
o
Recommended measures to counter any negative impacts found, including 
nature of issue in question, responsible party or parties in resolving issue, 
timetable for addressing issue. 
o
List of parties met or interviewed during consultant’s work 
o
References 
o
Annexes  
 
5.0  Required qualifications and qualities 
 
The consultant will possess the following qualifications: 
·
At least a Master’s Degree in Social Science or equivalent experience. 
·
Minimum of 10 years professional experience  
·
Standard capacities in relevant Windows programs (Word, Excel)  
·
Knowledge of the National Program on Disarmament, Demobilization and 
Reintegration a plus 
 
The following qualities are also desired: 
·
Substantial experience in preparing evaluations concerning issues of environmental 
and social impact 
·
A
good knowledge of the DRC and environmental issues and their potential 
interactions 
·
Thorough knowledge of World Bank requirements and procedures regarding 
environmental and social impact 
·
Familiarity with the sub-Saharan African context with time spent in the region  
·
Speak fluent French and English 
 
6.0 Required qualifications and qualities 
 
The consultant will be hired on a competitive basis as per World Bank regulations. 
 
Page  34
34
ANNEX II:
 Profil Géologique 
 
Page  35
35
La Géologie de la République Démocratique du Congo est caractérisée par deux grands 
ensembles structuraux séparés par une discordance et/ou une lacune importante. 
™
Les formation de couvertures ( terrains phanérozoïques), non métamorphisés,  
generalement fossilifères et d’âge compris entre le carbonifère et le supérieur de 
l
’holocène. 
™
Les formations de soubassement ( terrain précambrien) plus métamorphisés et plisses 
formant un anneau ininterrompu autour du bassin du Congo.  
(1) Terrains de Soubassement  
Les terrains de soubassement sont subdivises en unités «  tectostratigraphique » . Il s’agit 
dans une premier temps : 
 
(a) des boucliers archéens d’ages supérieur ou égal à 2500 MA affleurant au Congo 
septentrional et au Kasaï ; 
(b) de la ceinture du précambrien inférieur et moyen ( 2500 a 1300 MA) dont les 
sédiments s
e
sont déposés dans les zones mobiles méridiennes situées sur les bordures 
Est et Ouest du craton et dans fossés intracratoniques transverses ; 
(c) la couverture du précambrien supérieur appelée le Katanguien dont les sédiments se 
sont déposés sur les plates formes épicontinentales dans les aires subsidentes du 
craton du Congo ( Katanga plissé et tabulaire). 
(2) Formations de Couvertures 
Elles affleurent en quatre zones : 
(a) une zone littorale, comprise entre l’ Océan Atlantique et les monts du Mayumbé ( 
Monts de Cristal) ; Des formations marines d’ âge tertiaire et créatique y sont bien 
développes ; 
(b)  la cuvette centrale où s’ étalent les dépôts d’âge mezzotinto et cénozoïque ; des 
vastes terrains affleurent sur le pourtour de la cuvette ; 
(c) La bordure de terrains anciens subdivisées en six régions non raccordables ;  
(d) Les fosses tectoniques de l’Est du Congo occupes par des formations cénozoïques et 
particulières et siège d’un volcanisme récent.  
Les formations de chacun de ces quatre zones sont recouvertes indifféremment par des 
formations récentes , la série des sables ocres et la série des grés polymorphes 
 
APERCU DES FORMATIONS GEOLOGIQUES DES SITES VISITES  
 
1.  KIMPOKO ( KINSHASA) 
 
La géologie de Kimpoko décrite sur la carte géologique de la ville de Kinshasa montre
qu’à Kimpoko, il n’affleure que les formations de l’  Holocène représenté par les 
alluvions de fonds de vallées et de basses terrasses.  
 
Un sondage à Kimpoko révèle ce qui suit :  
 
ƒ
De 0m à 2,70m,  sable fin hummifère 
 
ƒ
De 2,70m à 3m,   précipitation de limonite, 30 cm épaisseur  
 
ƒ
De 3 m à 10m,  sable fin Kaolineux 
 
ƒ
De 10 m à 19,50m,  sable fin argileux gris clair 
 
ƒ
De 19,50m à 23,50m,  sable grossier 
 
ƒ
De 23,50m à 27,75m,  sable graveleux 
 
ƒ
De 27,75m à 31,60m,  sable rose fin argileux avec quelque passage de 
gravier 
 
ƒ
De 31,60m à 35,  sable fin kaolineux  
 
ƒ
De 35m à 38m,  passage de gravier 
Page  36
36
Annex III   
 
This annex contains maps and pictures of the orientation centers during construction, 
operation and after closure. 
 
Table of Content 
I. MAPS.............................................................................................................................. 
1.1 Administrative Map 
1.2  Climate Map 
1.3 Hydrography Map 
1.4  Geology Map 
II. ORIENTATION CENTERS CONSTRUCTION AND OPERATING PICTURES 
III.ORIENTATION CENTERS AFTER CLOSURE  PICTURES ( 2008)......................... 
 
Page  37
37
Page  38
38
Page  39
3
9
Page  40
40
 
Geological map of DRCongo
Page  41
41
,,\11\0325,(17$7,21\03&(17(56\03&216758&7,21\03$1'\0323(5$7,1*\033,&785(6\03
 
Page  42
42
Page  43
43
Page  44
44
Page  45
45
III.ORIENTATION CENTERS AFTER CLOSURE  PICTURES ( 2008) 
\03
Page  46
46
Page  47
47
Page  48
48
Page  49
49
 
Page  50
50
ANNEX IV:   LEGISLATION ON LAND 
 
LOI FONCIERE 
 
Cadre juridique 
 
1. 
Le principe de propriété 
Le Droit congolais reconnaît aux particuliers (personnes physiques et/ou morales) le droit de 
propriété sur certains biens qui s'acquièrent, d'une façon générale, selon les modalités prévues 
par la loi n°073-021 du 20 juillet 1973 portant régime général des biens, régime foncier et 
immobilier et régime des sûretés telle que modifiée et complète par la loi n° 80-008 du 18 juillet 
1980 (loi dite foncière). 
 
Ainsi selon cette loi: 
-
«
La propriété est sacrée L'Etat garantit le droit la propriété individuelle ou collective 
acquise conformément a loi ou a la  coutume 
»
(art.34, al. 1 de la constitution du 18 février 
2006) 
-
«
La propriété est le droit de disposer d’une chose de manière absolue et exclusive, sauf 
les restrictions qui résultent de la loi et des droits réels appartenant à autrui »  (art. 14 al 1 
de loi dite foncière). 
Il est important de relever qu’en matière foncière l’appropriation privative du sol a été abolie, le 
soi étant devenu propriété inaliénable de l'Etat (art. 53 de loi dite foncière. 
Il se dégage de l'analyse de l'article précédemment cité la propriété du sol et du sous-sol 
appartiennent d’Etat qui peut accorder des concessions à ceux qui en font la demande. Ceux-ci 
ne peuvent donc détenir que la propriété privée des immeubles incorporés et acquérir sur le sol 
un droit de jouissance qui sert de support de cette propriété. 
Au demeurant, si le « droit de propriété » est la règle, l'Etat se réserve le droit, dans les 
conditions et selon les modalités prévues, d’y apporter certaines restrictions, notamment selon le 
procède d'expropriation pour cause d'utilité publique. 
2. 
Quelques définitions
 
Comme énonce précédemment, en droit congolais, seul l'Etat est propriétaire du sol. Il ne peut 
accorder aux tiers, personne physique ou morale, que des droits de jouissance sur le fonds. Ces 
droits sont dénommés « concessions ». Les concessions sont de deux catégories: concession 
perpétuelle et concession ordinaire qui sont l’emphytéose, la superficie, l'usufruit et l'usage. La 
concession perpétuelle est le droit que l'Etat reconnaît à une personne physique de nationalité 
congolaise de jouir indéfiniment de son fonds aussi longtemps que sont remplies les conditions 
de fond et de forme prévues par la loi. art 80: 
Toute concession foncière suppose un fonds mis en valeur conformément aux normes en 
vigueur sur l'urbanisme, l'environnement et l'hygiène. arts 94,147. Quand il s'agit des Cadre  
concessions agricoles ou pastorales, les critères de mise en valeur dépendent des espèces de 
plants et des hectares: caféiers, quinquina, théiers, etc. C'est l'expertise qui 
peut fixer la somme devant compenser la perte d'une concession avec ce qui y est incorporé 
*
Une servitude foncière est une charge imposée sur un fonds pour l’usage et l’utilité d’un 
autre fonds. La servitude peut être naturelle - exemple l'écoulement de l'eau pluviale 
tombant d'une toiture - , légale - exemple le droit de passage en faveur d'un fonds enclave et 
conventionnelle. 
*
L'emphytéose est le droit d'avoir la pleine jouissance d'un terrain inculte appartenant à  l'Etat, 
à
la charge de mettre et d'entretenir le fonds en valeur et de payer à l’Etat une 
redevance en nature ou en argent - art 110 - La durée est de 25 ans, ce terme est renouvelable. 
*
La superficie est le droit de jouir d'un fonds appartenant à l’Etat et de disposer des 
Page  51
51
constructions, bois, arbres et autres plantes qui y sont incorporés- art .123 - La durée est 
de 25 ans, ce terme est renouvelable. 
*
L'usufruit concédé par l'Etat à une personne sur un fonds est le droit pour elle d'user et de  
jouir de ce fonds, comme l’Etat lui-même, mais à la  charge de le conserver dans son Etat - art. 
132 - La durée est de 25 ans, ce terme est renouvelable. 
*
L'usage d'un fonds est le droit que l’Etat reconnaît à une  personne d'en jouir soi-même avec 
sa famille, soit en y habitant, soit en y créant des entrepôts pour soi-même. art 141 - La durée est 
de 15 ans, ce terme est renouvelable. 
3. 
Textes législatifs et réglementaires et leur application
 
3.1. 
Textes de base:
 
-
La Constitution du 18 février 2006 (particulièrement son art. 9) 
-
La loi n°73-021 du 20 juillet 1973 portant régime général des biens, régime foncier et 
immobilier et régime des sûretés; 
-
La Loi n°77/01 du 22 février 1977 sur l'expropriation pour cause d'utilité publique. 
3.2. Textes complémentaires 
-
Le Décret du 6 mai 1952 portant concession et administration des eaux, des lacs et des cours 
d'eaux; 
-
le Décret du 20 juin 1952 portant mesurage et bornage des terres; 
-
le Décret du 20 juin 1957 portant code de l'urbanisme; 
-
l'Ordonnance n°98 du 13 mai 1963 relative au mesurage et bornage des terres; 
-
l'Ordonnance n°74/148 du 2 juillet 1974 portant mesures d'exécution de la loi 
N°73/021 du 20 juillet 1973 portant régime général des biens, régime foncier et 
immobilier et régime des sûretés 
-
l'Ordonnance n°74/149 du 2 juillet 1974 fixant le nombre et les limites des circonscriptions 
foncières de la République du Zaïre ; 
-
l'Ordonnance n°74/150 du 2 juillet 1974 fixant les modèles des livres et certificats 
d'enregistrement; 
-
l'Arrêté départemental 00122 du 8 décembre 1975 érigeant en circonscriptions 
urbaines certaines zones ou parties des zones de la ville de Kinshasa; 
 
-
l'Ordonnance n°77/040 du 22 février 1977 fixant les conditions d'octroi des concessions 
gratuites en faveur des Zaïrois qui ont rendu des services éminents à Nation; 
-
l'Arrêté départemental CAB/CE/URB-HAB/012/88 du 22 octobre 1988 portant 
réglementation sur la délivrance de l'autorisation de bâtir; 
-
l'Arrêté départemental CAB/CE/URB-HAB/013/88 du 14 novembre 1988 portant 
création de la commission urbaine et de la commission régionale de l'autorisation de bâtir; 
-
l'Arrête n°99-0012 du 31 mars 1990 fixant les modalités de conversion des titres de concession 
perpétuelle ou ordinaire. 
-
Le Décret du 2 juin 1928 sur les conditions générales de distribution et de transport  
de l'énergie électrique; 
-
le décret du 16 avril 1931 sur le transport de l'énergie d’électrique au travers des 
terrains privés 
4. 
Les différentes catégories de titres immobiliers 
*
Principes 
Le sol est la propriété exclusive, inaliénable et imprescriptible de l'Etat. (Article 9 de la 
Constitution). Le patrimoine foncier de l'Etat (domaine de l’Etat) comprend un domaine public 
et un domaine prive. Seules les terres faisant partie du domaine prive l'Etat sont cessibles et 
donnent lieu aux titres immobiliers selon leur nature. 
*
Certificat d’enregistrement
 
Tout droit de jou
issance d'un fonds n'est légalement établi que par un certificat d'enregistrement 
du titre concède par l'Etat. Il s'agit de concession perpétuelle - art. 80, de l'emphytéose - art. 
Page  52
52
110, de la superficie - art. 123, de l'usufruit, art.132, de l'usage -art. 141 et des concessions 
ordinaires règles par les articles 374 et 375. 
Toute propriétés privée des immeubles par incorporation envisagée séparément du fonds 
légalement établi que par certificat d'enregistrement distinct dont fait annotation sur le certificat 
établissant la concession - exemple: un appartement dans un immeuble à étages - art. 219 al.2 in 
fine. 
*
Location - art. 144 et titre d'occupation provisoire - art.1 54 
Ces deux titres sont préparatoires à une concession foncière perpétuelle, emphytéotique ou 
superficiaire - arts. 94 et 147. 
*
Livret de logeur ou titre équivalent dans une ville. Art.390 
4.1. 
Les différentes catégories de terrains
 
La loi foncière distingue: 
*
Les terres appartenant au domaine public de l’Etat
 
Il s'agit des terres qui
 sont affectées à un usage ou à un service public, en conséquence, elles 
sont incessibles tant qu'elles ne sont pas régulièrement désaffectées - art. 55. 
*
Les terres appartenant au domaine privé de l’Etat
 
Ce sont toutes les autres terres en dehors de c
elles réservées au domaine public. Ces terres 
peuvent faire l'objet d'une concession perpétuelle, d'une concession ordinaire ou d'une servitude 
foncière. Les terres du domaine privé de l'Etat sont soit urbaines, c'est-à-dire celles 
comprissent dans les limites des entités administratives déclarées urbaines par les lois ou les 
règlements en vigueur, soit rurales c'est-à-dire les restant des terres. 
Quelles soient urbaines ou rurales, les terres sont destinées à un usage résidentiel,industriel, 
agricole ou pastorale. 
 
*
Les terres appartenant aux particuliers
 
Dans cette sous-catégorie, sont répertoriées les terres occupées en vertu soit d'un certificat 
d'enregistrement - art. 219, soit en vertu d'un contrat de location - art. 144, soit en vertu d'un 
contrat d'occupation provisoire - art. 156, soit d'un livret de logeur ou un titre équivalent. 
*
Les terres occupées par les communautés locales
 
Il s'agit des terres occupées par les communautés locales en vertu de leurs droits fonciers 
coutumiers. Il n'existe aucun texte qui reconnaît ou accorde aux peuples dits autochtones un 
statut particulier ou des droits spatiaux, car ils sont compris dans les communautés locales 
dans lesquelles ils sont généralement intégrés Il y a lieu de retenir que l'article 207 de la loi 
foncières dispose : « Tout acte d'usage ou de jouissance d'une terre quelconque qui ne trouve pas 
son titre dans la loi ou un contrat, constitue une infraction punissable d'une peine de deux à six 
mois de servitude pénale et d'une amende de cinq à cinq cent zaïre ou d'une de ces peines 
seulement. Les coauteurs et complices de cette infraction seront punis conformément au prescrit 
des articles 21et 22 du code pénal ». Depuis la réforme foncière de 1973, toutes les terres sont 
devenues domaniales. Ce qui a eu pour conscience, la suppression des «  terres indigènes » pour 
assurer une uniformisation du droit foncier. 
 
Page  53
53
 
