Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
.
GRANT NUMBER TF096957 
 
Multi-donor Trust Fund  
Grant Agreement 
 
(Eighth Poverty Reduction Support Development Policy Financing) 
 
between 
 
Socialist Republic of Vietnam 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
acting as administrator of the Multi-donor Trust Fund for Co-financing of the 
Sixth, Seventh, Eighth, Ninth and Tenth Poverty Reduction Support Development 
Policy Financing  
 
Page  2
2
Dated June 8, 2010 
Page  3
3
GRANT NUMBER TF096957 
 
MULTI-DONOR TRUST FUND  
GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated June 8, 2010, entered into between: 
 
Socialist Republic of Vietnam (“Recipient”); and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“World Bank”), acting as 
administrator of the Multi-donor Trust Fund for the purpose of providing financing in 
support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) through the co-
financing of the eighth poverty reduction support development policy financing provided 
to the Recipient by the International Development Association acting in its own capacity 
in accordance with the Financing Agreement (as defined in the Appendix to this 
Agreement).  
The Recipient and the World Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
Article I 
Standard Conditions; Definitions 
 
1.01. 
The Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank out of Various 
Funds, dated July 1, 2008 (“Standard Conditions”), with the modifications set 
forth in Section I of the Appendix to this Agreement, constitute an integral part 
of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
Article II 
The Program 
 
2.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. 
To this end:  
(a) 
the Recipient and the World Bank shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
 
World Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress 
Page  4
4
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the World Bank 
 
shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
 
Section, the Recipient shall exchange views with the World Bank on any 
 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Grant which 
 
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program. 
 
Article III 
The Grant 
 
3.01. 
The World Bank agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equal to nine 
million six hundred ninety three thousand six hundred seventy seven United 
States Dollars  (US$ 9,693,677) (“Grant”) to assist in financing the Program.  
3.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
3.03. 
The Grant is funded out of the abovementioned trust fund for which the World Bank 
receives periodic contributions. In accordance with Section 3.02 of the Standard 
Conditions, the Recipient may withdraw the Grant proceeds subject to the 
availability of such funds. 
Article IV 
Additional Remedies 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension referred to in Section 4.02 (k) of the 
Standard Conditions consists of the following: namely that a situation has arisen 
which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, 
will be carried out.  
 
Article V 
Effectiveness 
 
5.01. 
This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the parties hereto. 
 
Article VI 
Recipient’s Representative; Addresses 
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative referred to in Section 7.02 of the Standard 
Conditions is the Governor, or a Deputy Governor, of State Bank of Vietnam. 
Page  5
5
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
 
State Bank of Vietnam 
49 Lý Thái T
Hà N
i
Socialist Republic of Vietnam 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
VIETBANK 
  412248 
  (84-4) 
3825 
0612 
Hanoi 
  NHTWVT 
 
6.03. 
The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS  
248423 
(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
AGREED at Hanoi, Vietnam, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
Socialist Republic of Vietnam 
 
By: /s/ Nguyen Van Giau 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
acting as administrator of the Multi-donor Trust Fund for 
Co-financing of the Sixth, Seventh, Eighth, Ninth and Tenth 
Poverty Reduction Support Development Policy Financing. 
 
By: /s/ Victoria Kwakwa 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
6
SCHEDULE 1 
Availability of Grant Proceeds 
 
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the World 
Bank may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Grant Amounts.
 
The Grant shall be withdrawn in a single 
tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Grant to this end is set out in the 
table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Grant Allocated 
(expressed in U.S. Dollar)
 
Single Tranche 
9,693,677
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
9,693,677 
C. 
Deposits of Grant Amounts.
 
Except as the World Bank may otherwise agree: 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall open, prior to presenting to the World Bank the first request 
for withdrawal from the Grant Account, and thereafter maintain a deposit account 
in a foreign currency (“Foreign Currency Deposit Account”) on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the World Bank.  All withdrawals from the Grant 
Account shall be deposited by the World Bank into said Foreign Currency 
Deposit Account; and 
 
2.  
The Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Grant into 
the Foreign Currency Deposit Account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in 
the Recipient’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the World 
Bank. 
 
D. Audit. 
 
Upon the World Bank’s request, the Recipient shall: 
 
1. 
have the Foreign Currency Deposit Account audited by independent auditors 
acceptable to the World Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the World Bank; 
 
2. 
furnish to the World Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four 
(4) months after the date of the World Bank’s request for such audit, a certified 
copy of the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the World 
Bank shall reasonably request; and  
 
Page  7
7
3. 
furnish to the World Bank such other information concerning the Foreign 
Currency Deposit Account and its audit as the World Bank shall reasonably 
request.
 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Grant shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures.  If the World Bank 
determines at any time that an amount of the Grant was used to make a payment 
for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
World Bank, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the 
World Bank. Amounts refunded to the World Bank upon such request shall be 
cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is June 30, 2010. 
Page  8
8
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the International 
Development Association (“IDA” )or the international Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (“IBRD”) has financed or agreed to 
finance, or which IDA or IBRD has financed or agreed to finance under 
another credit, grant or loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-
manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear 
reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
Page  9
9
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the World Bank determines that corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Recipient or other recipient of the Grant proceeds, 
without the Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the World Bank to address such 
practices when they occur. 
 
2. 
“Financing Agreement” means the agreement dated July 7, 2009 entered into 
between the Recipient and the International Development Association whereby the 
International Development Association has agreed to provide financing for the Program o 
the basis of: (a) actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program as 
described in Section I of Schedule 1 to said Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s 
maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic policy framework.  
 
3. 
“Foreign Currency Deposit Account” means the account referred to in paragraph 
C
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
 
4. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty, set forth in the Recipient’s 
Socio-economic Development Plan 2006-2010 (SEDP 2006-2010) approved by National 
Assembly Resolution No. 56/2006/QH11 of June 29, 2006, together with the Action Plan 
of the Government to implement the SEDP issued by Prime Minister Resolution No. 
25/2006/NQ-CP of October 9, 2006; the Recipient having expressed its commitment to 
the execution of said Program, and requested assistance from the World Bank in support 
of the Program during its execution in a letter to the World Bank, dated 
May 19, 2009
.
Page  10
10
5. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category 
entitled “Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section II. Modifications to the Standard Conditions 
 
The Standard Conditions are modified as follows: 
 
1. Sections 
2.01 
(Project Execution Generally) 
and 2.07 
(Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits) 
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
 
2. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph I above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services) 
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
3. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 2.04 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph I 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
"Section 2.04. 
Documents; Records. 
The Recipient shall ensure that: 
 
…
(c) 
all records evidencing expenditures under the Grant are 
retained until two years after the Closing date;" 
 
4. 
Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph I above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
"Section 2.05. 
Program Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation. 
The 
Recipient shall: 
 
... 
(b)(ii) 
ensure the preparation and delivery to the World Bank, 
not later than six months after the Closing Date, a completion report of 
such scope and in such detail as the World Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the 
Recipient and the World Bank of their respective obligations under the 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Grant."  
 
5. Sections 
3.05 
(Designated Accounts) 
and 3.06 
(Eligible Expenditures) 
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article III are renumbered 
accordingly. 
 
6. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
Page  11
11
(a) 
The definition of the term "Eligible Expenditure" is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
"'Eligible Expenditure' means any use to which the Grant is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Agreement." 
 
(b) 
The term "Financial Statements" and its definition as set forth in 
the Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term "Project" is modified to read "Program" and its 
definition is modified to read as shown in Paragraph 5 of Section I of this 
Appendix.  All references to "Project" throughout these Standard Conditions are 
deemed to be references to "Program".  
 
