Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
I
NTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. Cable 
Address: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
July 8, 2010 
 
H. E. Mr. Lucien Marie Noel BEMBAMBA 
Minister of Economy and Finance 
Ministère de l’Economie et des Finances 
03 BP 7050, Ouagadougou 03 
Burkina Faso 
 
BURKINA FASO: Administration Capacity Building Project 
(Grant No. H 151-BUR) Amendment to the Development Grant Agreement 
 
Excellency: 
 
We refer to: (a) the Development Grant Agreement no. H 151-BUR (the Agreement) for 
the financing of the Administration Capacity Building Project, dated March 29, 2005, between 
Burkina Faso (the Recipient) and the International Development Association (the Association); 
and (b) your letter dated March 6, 2009 requesting the Association to amend the Agreement. 
We are pleased to inform you that the Association agrees to your request and proposes to 
amend the Agreement as follows: 
a. 
In Section 1.02 of the Agreement, the definition of “Eligible Categories” is hereby 
amended to read as follows: 
“(c) 
“Eligible Categories” means collectively Categories (1) to (4) and 
Category (6) set forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;” 
b. 
In Section 1.02 of the Agreement, the following definition is added in alphabetical order 
and the following definitions are renumbered accordingly: 
“(s) 
“Regions” means collectively the Regions on the Recipient’s territory 
established by Law No. 55.2004/AN dated December 21, 2004, and “Regional” as a 
corresponding meaning. 
c. 
In Section 3.03 of the Agreement paragraphs (c) and (d) are hereby amended to read as 
follows: 
“(c) 
on January 1, 2006, and the first day of each calendar quarter thereafter 
until completion of the Project, deposit in the Project Account the amount required to 
finance the operating costs and other activities relevant to the Project for the next 
quarterly period, as reflected in the Annual Work Plans and Budgets referred to in 
Section 2, Part A of Schedule 4 to the Agreement, for an aggregate annual amount 
approximately equivalent to one (1) million Dollars of the United States of America; and  
Page  2
S.E.M. Lucien Marie Noel Bembamba 
 
2 
 
 
 
July 8, 2010 
 
(d) 
ensure that funds deposited into the Project Account in accordance with 
paragraphs (b) and (c) shall be used exclusively to finance expenditures reflected in the 
Annual Work Plans and Budgets.” 
d. 
In Schedule 1 to the Agreement, the table in Part (A), paragraph 1 is hereby deleted in its 
entirety and replaced by the following table: 
Category 
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated (Expressed in 
SDR 
Equivalent) 
%
of Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(1) Goods 
and 
Equipment 
until March 4, 2010 
432,000
100% 
(2) Consultants’ 
services 
and audits until March 4, 2010 
1,682,000
100% 
(3) Training 
and 
Workshops until March 4, 
2010 
639,000
100% 
(4) Refunding 
of 
Project 
Preparation Advance 
116,000
Amount due pursuant to 
Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement 
(5) Unallocated 
0
(6) Goods 
and 
Consultants’ Services 
including training, workshops 
and audits for the Project 
incurred since March 5, 2010 
1,731,000
100% 
TOTAL 4,600,000
e. 
Schedule 2 to the Agreement is deleted in its entirety and replaced by the New Schedule 
2
attached to this Agreement as Annex 1.  
f. 
In Schedule 4 to the Agreement, Part (A) of Section 1 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“A. 
The Recipient shall establish and maintain until Project completion the Project 
Coordination Unit within the SGPM.  The PCU, under the supervision of the SGPM 
Permanent Secretary, shall be responsible for the overall coordination of the Project (to 
ensure consistency among the activities of each Participating Ministry) and the 
monitoring and evaluation of the Project’s outcomes.  The Recipient shall appoint and 
retain until completion of the Project within the PCU: (i) a full time Project 
Administrator, who shall ensure coordination among Participating Ministries, with 
national budget and with key stakeholders, (ii) a Procurement Specialist, who shall have 
the overall responsibilities of all procurement activities for the Project, including those 
handled directly by each Participating Ministry’s Financial and Administrative Direction 
or Planning and Studies Direction, (iii) a Chief Accountant, who shall have the overall 
responsibility of all financial management activities for the Project, and coach and assist 
the Participating Ministries in their budgeting and financing activities, (iv) an accountant, 
and (v) a part time monitoring and evaluation specialist.” 
g. 
In Schedule 4 to the Agreement, Part (A) of Section 2 is amended to read as follows: 
“A. 
Annual Work Plans and Budget 
Page  3
S.E.M. Lucien Marie Noel Bembamba 
 
3 
 
 
 
July 8, 2010 
 
The Recipient shall furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case no 
later than November 15 of each year, the Annual Work Plan and the Annual Budget for 
each subsequent calendar year, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, 
except for the Annual Work Plan and the Annual Budget for the first year, which shall be 
furnished no later than the date set out in Section 5.02 of this Agreement.” 
h. 
Schedule 5 to the Agreement is deleted in its entirety and replaced by the New Schedule 
5
attached to this Agreement, as Annex 2. 
All provisions of the Agreement which are not expressly modified in accordance with 
this Letter Amendment remain unchanged. 
Please indicate your agreement with the foregoing, by countersigning and dating the 
two original copies of this letter and returning one countersigned original copy to the 
Association.  Upon receipt by the Association of said original copy countersigned by the 
authorized representative of the Recipient and dated, this amendment shall become effective as 
of the date of countersignature of this letter. 
Sincerely, 
 
/s/ Madani M. Tall 
Country Director for Burkina Faso 
Africa Region 
 
CONFIRMED: 
 
BURKINA FASO 
 
By: __/s/ Lucien Marie Noel Bembamba
__ 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Date: ___July 8, 2010
_________ 
Page  4
S.E.M. Lucien Marie Noel Bembamba 
 
4 
 
 
 
July 8, 2010 
 
ANNEX 1 
NEW SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are (i) to strengthen the Recipient’s central government 
resource management capacity, and (ii) to enhance the Recipient’s capacity in the planning, 
organization and monitoring of the implementation of the decentralization process. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective: 
Part 1: Strengthening Central Government Efficiency and Controls
.
Strengthening central government efficiency and controls, by: 
(a)  Strengthening the capacity of selected Recipient’s ministries to undertake longer term 
planning and evaluation of policies;  
(b) Improving deconcentration of human resource management, including through the 
development of information technology tools; and 
(c) Improving the pay management system through the delegation of the processing of 
pay changes to the Regions. 
Part 2. Strengthening Policy Formulation, Coordination and Monitoring in Key 
Recipient’s Ministries Responsible for Decentralization
.
Strengthening the Recipient’s capacity to develop a decentralization road map and a 
medium term (three to five year) decentralization implementation plan, including 
through: 
(a) Support to the definition of policies and procedures to implement decentralization; 
and 
(b) Support to planning, allocation of responsibilities and costing of activities in terms of 
both human and financial resources. 
Part 3. Supporting Project Management
.
Supporting Project management, including inter alia, the operation of the PCU. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by August 31, 2010. 
 
Page  5
S.E.M. Lucien Marie Noel Bembamba 
 
5 
 
 
 
July 8, 2010 
 
ANNEX 2 
NEW SCHEDULE 5 
Performance Indicators 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the performance indicators to be used for the Project 
implementation are as follows: 
Improved resource management 
(i) 
Time needed by the Recipient’s line ministries for 
processing human resources decisions compared to the time previously taken for this 
processing by the Recipient’s ministry responsible for civil service; 
 
(ii) 
Time needed to modify payroll data by the Regional 
directorates of the Recipient’s ministry of finance, compared to the time taken to 
make the same modifications at the central level; and 
 
Improved monitoring and decentralization  
 
(iii) 
Design of a decentralization implementation road map including the estimation of the 
human and financial resources required for this implementation. 
 
