                                     Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                           Report No: ICR2180



              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                               (IDA-H1510)

                                         ON A

                                        GRANT

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.6 MILLION
                           (US$7.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                              TO THE GOVERNMENT OF

                                   BURKINA FASO

                                        FOR AN

                 ADMINISTRATION CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT



                                     April 13, 2012




Public Sector Reform and Capacity Building (AFTPR)
Country Department West Africa
Africa Region
                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective on 4/13/2012)
                     Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
                           501.49 CFAF = US$1

                               FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1 – December 31


                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


CADSS    Cellule d’Appui à la Décentralisation du Système de Santé (Support Unit for
         Health Decentralization)
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CDMT     Cadre de Dépenses à Moyen Terme (Medium Term Expenditure Framework)
CID      Circuit Intégré de la Dépense (Computerized Expenditure Circuit)
CND      Commission Nationale de la Décentralisation (National Council for
         Decentralization)
COGES    Comité de Gestion (Management Committee)
CPPR     Country Portfolio Performance Review
CSPS     Centre de Santé et de Promotion Sociale
DAF      Direction de l’Administration et des Finances (Financial Directorate)
DCCF     Direction Centrale du Contrôle Financier (Central Procurement Directorate)
DCMP     Direction Centrale des Marchés Publics (Central Procurement Directorate)
DEP      Direction des Etudes et de la Planification (Directorate for Planning and
         Studies)
DG       Direction Générale (General Directorate)
DGB      Direction Générale du Budget (General Directorate for Cooperation)
DGCAT    Direction Générale de la Coordination des Affaires Territoriales (General
         Directorate of Coordination of Territorial Affairs)
DGCOOP   Direction Générale de la Cooperation (General Directorate for Cooperation)
DGD      Direction Générale des Douanes (General Customs Directorate)
DGDCL    Direction Générale des Collectivités Locales (General Directorate of Local
         Governents)
DGRE     Direction Générale de la Réforme de l’Etat (General Directorate for State
         Reform)
DGTCP    Direction Générale du Trésor et de la Comptabilité Publique (General
         Directorate of the Treasury and Public Accounts)
DRH      Direction des Ressources Humaines (Human Resources Directorate)
ENAM     Ecole Nationale d’Administration et de la Magistrature (Public Administration
         School)
ENAREF   Ecole Nationale des Régies Financières (Financial Administration School)
FMR      Financial Management Report
FMS      Financial Management Specialist
IDA      International Development Agency
IT       Information Technology
HRM      Human Resource Management
KPI      Key Performance Indicators


                                      ii
MATD      Ministère de l’Administration Territoriale et de la Décentralisation
          (Decentralization Ministry)
MEDEV     Ministry of Economic Development
MEF       Ministère de l’Economie et des Finances (Ministry of Economy and Finance)
MFPRE     Ministère de la Fonction Publique et la Réforme de l’Etat (Ministry of Public
          Service and Administrative Reform)
MS        Ministère de la Santé (Ministry of Health)
PCU       Project Coordination Unit, Prime Minister‟s Office
PER       Public Expenditure Review
PDO       Project Development Objective
PRSC      Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PRSP      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSM       Public Sector Management
SG        Secrétaire Général (Permanent Secretary)
SIGASPE   Système intégré de Gestion Administrative et Salariale des Personnels de l’Etat
          (Integrated system for Financial and Human Resource Management)
SGPM      Secrétariat General du Premier Ministère (Prime Minister‟s Office)
SIGASPE   Système intégré de Gestion Administrative et Salariale des Personnels de l’Etat
          (Integrated System for Human Resource Management)




              Vice President:            Obiageli Ezekesili
              Country Director:          Madani M. Tall
              Sector Manager:            Anand Rajaram
              Project Team Leader:       Bepio C. Bado
              ICR Team Leader:           Gael Raballand




                                        iii
                                                BURKINA FASO
                                     Administration Capacity Building Project



                                                              CONTENT

ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS .................................................................................. ii
BASIC DATA SHEET ............................................................................................................... v
A. Basic Information .................................................................................................................. v
B. Key Dates............................................................................................................................... v
C. Ratings Summary................................................................................................................... v
D. Sector and Theme Codes ......................................................................................................vi
E. Bank Staff .............................................................................................................................vi
F. Results Framework Analysis ............................................................................................... vii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ...............................................................................ix
H. Restructuring (if any)............................................................................................................ix
I. Disbursement Profile.............................................................................................................. x
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design .......................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .......................................................... 6
3. Assessment of Outcomes ...................................................................................................... 10
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome .................................................................... 17
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................................. 18
6. Lessons Learned ................................................................................................................... 22
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ...................... 24
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ..................................................................................... 25
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................................. 33
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ........................ 34
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ....................................................................................... 36
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results .............................................................. 37
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ................................. 38
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ................................... 40
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................................. 41




                                                                       iv
                                BURKINA FASO
                  ADMINISTRATION CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
                              BASIC DATA SHEET

A. Basic Information
                                                                            Administration
Country:                Burkina Faso              Project Name:             Capacity Building
                                                                            Project
Project ID:             P078596                   L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-H1510
ICR Date:               12/01/2011                ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     TAL                       Borrower:                 BURKINA FASO
Original Total
                        XDR 4.60M                 Disbursed Amount:         XDR 4.19M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 4.60M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Office of the Prime Minister
PP 7027, Ouagadougou 03
Burkina Faso
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: None

B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
     Process              Date              Process           Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:         01/30/2003     Effectiveness:          08/25/2005           08/25/2005
Appraisal:              12/02/2004     Restructuring(s):                            06/20/2010
Approval:               03/22/2005     Mid-term Review:        05/26/2008           05/26/2008
                                       Closing:                02/28/2011           08/31/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Medium/Moderate
Bank Performance:                                 Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:

                                                  v
Overall Bank                                         Overall Borrower
                           Moderately Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                         Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                               Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
Potential Problem Project                            Quality at Entry
                          No                                                 Yes (2008)
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
Problem Project at any                               Quality of
                             No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before             Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:     Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                       80                  80
Sub-national government administration                                  20                  20




Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                                 40                  40
Decentralization                                                        20                  20
Health system performance                                               20                  20
Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                        20                  20
procurement

E. Bank Staff
       Positions                            At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:              Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili           Gobind T. Nankani
Country Director:            Madani Tall                          A. David Craig
Sector Manager:              Anand Rajaram                        Helga W. Muller
Project Team Leader:         Bepio C. Bado                        Helene Grandvoinnet
ICR Team Leader:             Gael Raballand
ICR Primary Author:          Gael Raballand & Colum Garrity




                                                 vi
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The project‟s development objective was to improve administration structures and processes in
light of the decentralization policy, which would yield, in the medium-term, measurable impact
on service provision to the citizens of Burkina.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

Strengthen the recipient‟s central government resource management capacity and enhance the
recipient‟s capacity in the planning, organization, and monitoring of the decentralization process.

                                                       Original Target
                                   Baseline Value                       Actual Value Achieved
                                                        Values (from
           Indicator                                                   at Completion or Target
                                                          approval
                                       (2009)                                   Years
                                                         documents)
Indicator 1: Strengthen
central government efficiency
and controls, by

(a) Support to the definition of 90 days              45 days            38 days
policies and procedures to
implement decentralization; and



(b) support to planning,           70 days            45 days            32.75 days
allocation of responsibilities and
costing of activities in terms of
both human and financial
resources
Indicator 2:

Enhance the planning,           0                     A fully costed      The decentralization
organization and monitoring                           decentralization roadmap could not be
of the decentralization process                       roadmap,            prepared under project
                                                      including M&E because of the consultant
Strengthening the Recipient’s                         system is available deficiency. However, the
capacity to develop a                                                     activity was transferred
decentralization road-map                                                 under other Bank
and a medium-term (three to                                               financing in the sector
five year) decentralization                                               ( Local Government
implementation plan,                                                      Support Project,
including through:                                                        P120517)

(a) Support to the definition of
policies and procedures to
implement decentralization; and

                                                vii
(b) support to planning,
allocation of responsibilities and
costing of activities in terms of
both human and financial
resources.

The results framework could not be automatically generated by the system. The indicators below
are from the project‟s Restructuring Paper.

                                          Original Target                     Actual Value
                         Baseline Value
                                          Values (from      Indicator         Achieved at
Indicator
                                          approval          explanations      Completion or
                         (2009)
                                          documents)                          Target Years
Component 1:

Strengthen central    0 Ministries        17 Ministries     Number of      34 Ministries
government efficiency                                       ministries in
and controls                                                which SIGASPE
                                                            has been fully
                                                            implemented

The central government 50% (baseline)     50%               Finalization of Was not
will strengthen its                                         the MALT model completed
ability to manage                                           (training)
financial and human
resources in preparation 0                12                Number of
for further                                                 regions in which 12
decentralization                                            the pay changes
                                                            have been
                                                            processed
Component 2:
                                                                             (Noted above)
Strengthening policy     0                1                 Decentralization Decentralization
formulation,                                                roadmap          Roadmap not
coordination and                                            produced         completed but
monitoring in key                                                            transferred to the
ministries responsible                                                       Local
for decentralization                                                         Government
                                                                             Support Project




                         0                3                 Number of
                                                            operational      3
                                                            manuals prepared
                                                            and disseminated




                                               viii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
        Date ISR
No.                            DO                              IP              Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
 1     05/27/2005         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     0.00
 2     12/08/2005         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     0.51
 3     07/22/2006         Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory              0.70
 4     04/11/2007     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              1.27
 5     12/27/2007     Moderately Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     2.32
 6     06/30/2008     Moderately Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     2.90
 7     01/22/2009     Moderately Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     3.99
 8     07/22/2009     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              4.49
 9     06/30/2010     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              5.02
 10    04/02/2011     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              5.61


H. Restructuring (if any)

                         ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board    Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                           Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                 Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO       IP       in USD
                                          millions
                                                      Streamlined reform agenda in
                                                      line with capacity constraints to
 06/20/2010 June 29, 2010 MS     MS            5.02
                                                      refocus TA and training to most
                                                      needed areas.




                                                ix
I. Disbursement Profile




                          x
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      A landlocked country with a surface area of 274,000 km² and a population of about 13.5
million in 2004, Burkina Faso has scarce natural resources and partly depends on external aid and
income from immigrant workers. At the time of appraisal in 2004-5, Burkina Faso was ranked 175
among 177 countries, according to the 2004 Human Development Index1. A key challenge to Burkina
Faso‟s economy is the persistence of poverty despite relatively sustained economic growth (5.5% per
year since 2000) and the enactment of reforms that followed from the June 1991 approval of the IV
Republic Constitution. A stated goal of the Government has been to improve the revenues and living
conditions of the population living outside the main cities, which represents more than 52 percent of
the poor and more than 80 percent of the country‟s population.

2.       In the 1990s, Burkina Faso enacted a „first generation‟ of reforms that were aimed at adapting
the public sector to a market-based economy, yet did not address the public sector management
(PSM) system as a whole, with the reforms concentrated mainly on technical improvements to the
central administration, not impacting the regional or provincial levels. A „second generation‟ of PSM
reforms began in 1998 with a decision to establish the legal framework for decentralization, the
Textes d’Orientation de la Décentralisation (TOD). The appraisal document notes that Burkina
Faso‟s public administration suffered from top-down processes (planning or budget preparation), and
a lack of a solid results-based approach and that the country‟s strong centralist culture, reflected in
existing structures and systems, impeded efficient service delivery, particularly at the communal level
where most of the actual service delivery takes place.

3.       Around the time of appraisal, the General Local Governments Code 2004 (Code Général Des
Collectivités Territoriales) was passed, which conferred responsibility for primary service delivery to
the local municipalities. The Government aimed to enhance service delivery through
decentralization–recognizing that many incentive and accountability structures were poorly aligned
and that there was a low level of capacity, particularly at the local level. Two of the objectives of the
2004 PRSP highlighted the need for improvement in public sector performance and the 2000 Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) and 2003 CAS Progress Report highlighted the need to enhance good
governance and institutional reform, including building public sector capacity and improving public
financial management systems. The 2003 CAS Progress Report explicitly anticipated the
Administration Capacity Building Project (Projet de Renforcement des Capacités Administratives –
or PRCA project). In 2000 and 2004, the first and second Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers (PRSP)
were formulated in an effort to accelerate growth based on equity, broaden employment and income
generating activities for the poor, and promote good governance. Burkina Faso recognized the role an
efficient public sector can play in attaining its development objectives, e.g., a public sector with more
rationalized structures, efficient mechanisms for public expenditures management (in particular
planning, inter-sectoral and intra-sectoral allocations, timely budget execution, and check and
balances), human resource management (an efficient and dedicated civil service), and monitoring and
evaluation.

4.       At appraisal, the implementation of two parallel decentralization and de-concentration
initiatives–establishment of branch offices for line ministries in the mid-1980s and the creation of
semi-autonomous local governments–were seen to be hampered by a lack of a common understanding
and stalled implementation. The main reforms had been adopted in 1998 and 2000 and seem to have
faced some resistance and a certain lack of guidance to be implemented on the ground. Thus the


1
    Available at: http://hdrstats.undp.org/en/countries/profiles/BFA.html.
                                                          1
PRCA project aimed to focus on these issues through: i) clarification and implementation of the
decentralization reform agenda, de-concentration of some functions, and organization of transfers of
responsibilities and resources for others; ii) de-concentration of responsibilities between core
ministries (budget, personnel) and line ministries, and de-concentration from central offices to de-
concentrated offices and frontline units; and iii) accountability and transparency measures such as
implementation of a staff evaluation policy and support to control institutions.

5.       The projects were designed at a time when several Ministries had adopted sectoral strategies,
such as the strategy to strengthen public finance in the Ministry of Finance, which would be
(partially) implemented by the project.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

6.       The project‟s development objective was to improve administration structures and processes
in light of the decentralization policy, which would yield, in the medium-term, measurable impact on
service provision to the citizens of Burkina.

7.      The project was designed as a Technical Assistance Grant to be implemented over a five year
period (from August 2005 to August 31, 2010) and was designed to be linked to and complement
budget support operations in order to provide support for the administration to build administrative
capacity.

8.       A built-in mechanism of competition from Ministries to get grant was designed, aiming
mainly at building capacity while leaving the sustaining of reforms and financing of recurrent costs
linked to decentralization and de-concentration to the national budget (including through the PRSC
series). The grant did not aim at financing any construction, vehicles or maintenance.

9.       The original project supported reform implementation in five ministries – the four cross-
cutting central ministries (Finance and Budget, Economy and Development, Civil Service and State
Reform, and Territorial Administration and Decentralization), the Ministry of Health and the Prime
Minister‟s office. The five ministries requested support from IDA and they were assisted in the design
of institutional action plans during preparation of the project. The project also supported the Prime
Minister‟s office to strengthen its inter-ministerial coordination role.

10.     The project aimed to be „demand-driven‟ in that technical assistance was made available
according to the demands of each ministry.

11.     The project‟s original key performance indicators are presented in Table 1 below:
Table 1 – Key Performance Indicators
Overall
    Number of line Ministries with satisfactory program budgets and Medium-Term
        Expenditure Frameworks (MTEFs), which are reflected in annual credit allocations,
        aligned with PRSP objectives and the national MTEF, with budget execution monitored
        annually according to priority programs.
    Percent of national budget transferred to and executed by local governments.
Component 1: Support to the Ministry of Civil Service & State Reform
    Number of ministries implementing staff evaluation policies (including defining annual
      result agreements and basing promotions on the results of annual evaluations).
    Number of ministries managing their personnel through a fully operational and de-
      concentrated SIGASPE system (human resources database).

                                                  2
Component 2: Support to Ministry of Finance & Budget
    Number of regions directly connected to Computerized Integrated Circuit (CID)
    Number of controls performed by the Auditing Body (IGF), number of follow-up
      missions performed by IGF, and number of formal communication on implementation
      of recommendations sent by controlled public institutions within one year of control.
Component 3: Support to the Ministry of Economic Development
    Number of regions where regional PRSP is prepared and monitored according to
      procedures and schedule.
Component 4: Support to the Ministry of Territorial Administration & Decentralization
    Number of implementation texts adopted and implemented for the transfer of
      competencies and resources of the decentralization law.
    Percent of elected local government officials, staff of the territorial civil service and
      actors of technical and financial support trained according to capacity building strategy.
Component 5: Support to the Ministry of Health
    Percentage of Health Regional Directorates and Districts (CDPS, CMA, ECD) which
      receive their notice of budget allocation before mid-February.
    Number of contracts with the private sector for health care delivery effectively
      implemented by Central and Regional Health Authorities.
Component 6: Support to the Prime Minister’s Office
   Percentage of agreed recommendations of the completed organizational audit implemented.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority), Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

12.     The project was subject to a Level 1 restructuring which was approved by the Board on June
29, 2010 and signed by the Government on July 8, 2010. The restructuring: (1) revised the projects
Results Monitoring Framework by reformulating the PDO as follows:

Original PDO (based on the original PAD2)      Revised PDO (based on the Restructuring Paper3)
To improve administration structures and       Strengthen the recipient‟s central government
processes in light of the decentralization     resource management capacity and enhance the
policy, which would yield, in the medium-      recipient‟s capacity in the planning, organization
term, measurable impact on service             and monitoring of the implementation of the
provision to the citizens of Burkina.          decentralization process.

(2) streamlined the number of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs); (3) reduced the original six
components to three; and (4) reallocated the remaining resources across few components to ensure
efficiency in the utilization of resources.

13.      According to its Restructuring Paper,4 the project was restructured in order to streamline its
activities to be more in line with capacity constraints of the government, enhance disbursement, and




2
  Burkina Faso Administration Capacity Building Project, Project Appraisal Document (US$7m equivalent)
(Report No.: 29909-BF), February 17, 2005. Washington, DC: The World Bank.
3
  Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring of the Burkina Faso Administrative Capacity
Building Project, June 15, 2010 (Grant Number H151 BUR, March 29, 2005). Washington, DC: The World
Bank.
                                                  3
increase the overall implementation rate of the project. The two most significant risks were seen to be
difficulty in sustaining institutional reform and a lack of political commitment to decentralization
(due to a lack of implementation of the recommendations proposed by the studies carried out at the
beginning of the project). The focus of the restructuring was on creating clear TA exit “gates? where
the technical team could go back to the political authorities for reporting and political authorization to
proceed.

14.     The project‟s closing date was also extended by six months (approved June 20, 2010) until
August 31, 2011. This was requested due to mainly (i) delays in the recruitment of a consultant to
prepare the decentralization roadmap and (ii) the selection of contractors to extend the computerized
systems for processing pay data in the regions.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

15.     The PRCA was not specifically targeted at any predetermined segment of the population or
particular social group, instead it focused on enhancing accountability, rationalizing human resource
management, and modernizing the structures and processes of government in order to improve overall
service delivery and reduce poverty. The project primarily financed consulting services, training, and
process-streamlining. The main beneficiaries were thus the civil servants in the ministries the project
supported.

1.5 Original Components

16.     At the time of approval in 2005, the project had six components: i) Support to the Ministry of
Civil Service and State Reform; ii) support to the Ministry of Finance and Budget; iii) Support to the
Ministry of Economic Development; iv) Support to the Ministry of Territorial Administration and
Decentralization; v) Support to the Ministry of Health; and vi) Support to the Prime Minister‟s Office.

17.      Component 1: Support to the Ministry of Civil Service and State Reform (US$ 0.7
million) was designed to strengthen the ministries role of guiding the de-concentration process,
implement HRM deconcentration (e.g., update and improve the SIGAPSE system and de-concentrate
it to line ministries and possibly to regions, and increase CS performance by working with ENAM
and ENAREF in implementing training programs in evaluation policy).

18.     Component 2: Support to Ministry of Finances and Budget (US$ 2.3 million) financed
the Ministry‟s implementation of restructuring efforts to improve internal efficiency. This included
completion of public account audits, strengthening the links between budget programming and the
PRSP process, strengthening PEM de-concentration through expansion of CID across additional
regions, strengthening internal audit capacity, and strengthening revenue collection.

19.      Component 3: Support to the Ministry of Economic Development (US$ 0.68 million)
through establishment of procedural manuals, establishment of a single methodology for elaborating,
monitoring and evaluating sectoral and local policies, and preparation of procedural manuals and
training of staff in their use.

20.      Component 4: Support to the Ministry of Territorial Administration and
Decentralization (US$ 0.75 million) included adoption and implementation of a new organizational
chart, strengthening of the leadership role of the Ministry in implementing basic guidelines for the



4
 Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring of the Burkina Faso Administrative Capacity
Building Project, June 15, 2010 (Grant Number H151 BUR, March 29, 2005). Washington, DC: The World
Bank, June 15, 2010.
                                                    4
decentralization policy (disseminating the Decentralization code implementing decree), and
strengthening of local governments‟ capacity to fulfill their role by preparing, adopting and
implementing a capacity building strategy for local governments.

21.     Component 5: Support to the Ministry of Health (US$ 1.0 million) financed activities to
implement the decentralization strategy and strengthen the Ministries‟ role as regulator and planner
through activities such as providing support to contracting with the private sector, and strengthening
the management capacity of the Ministry.

22.    Component 6: Support to the Prime Minister’s Office (US$ 0.68 million) focused on
improving internal efficiency and inter-ministerial coordination through implementation of the
recommendations of an organizational audit5.

1.6 Revised Components

23.     A Level One restructuring was approved on June 20, 2010, as the project was restructured
and the six original components were streamlined into three. The revised components are:

24.        Component 1: Strengthen the Recipient’s central government efficiency and controls
           (US$ 2.5 million equivalent, of which IDA US$ 2million equivalent) by

       (a) strengthening the capacity of selected Recipient‟s ministries to undertake longer term planning
       and evaluation of policies; (b) improving de-concentration of human resource management,
       including through the development of information technology tools; and (c) improving the pay
       management system through the delegation of the processing of pay changes to the Regions.

25.     Component 2: Strengthening policy formulation coordination and monitoring in key
recipient’s Ministries responsible for decentralization through a decentralization road-map and
a medium-term (three to five year) decentralization implementation plan, (US$ 560,000) by

       (a) supporting the definition of policies and procedures to implement decentralization; and (b)
       supporting planning, allocation of responsibilities and costing of activities in terms of both human
       and financial resources.

26.  Component 3: Supporting project management including inter alia, the operation of the
PCU.

1.7 Other significant changes

27.    Following the request from the Government, a Level Two restructuring was approved on
February 12, 2011 and the closing date of the project was extended for six months to August 31, 2011.
The extension was requested due to delays in consultant recruitment which delayed the extension of
the SIGASPE to all Ministries and regions.




5
    Results before and after the restructuring are presented in section 3 below.
                                                           5
1.8 Implementation arrangements

28.     The Government provided oversight of the project through a Steering Committee chaired by
the Permanent Secretary of the Prime Minister‟s office and composed of the Permanent Secretaries of
participating ministries. A separate Technical Committee composed of PCU staff and the focal points
from the participating ministries supported the Steering Committee on technical matters and
monitored progress. The Steering Committee was composed of the Permanent Secretaries (SGs) of
participating ministries, the focal points appointed within each ministry, and the heads of the
Directorates of the SG-Prime Minister (SGPM) involved in implementation of the project. The
Steering Committee was supposed to meet bi-annually and the Technical Committee quarterly to
discuss implementation progress.

29.     The project had a PCU that was accountable to the Permanent Secretary of the Prime Minister.
The PCU was responsible for the overall coordination of the project and assurance of consistency
among the activities of each participating ministry and the overall monitoring and evaluation of the
project‟s outcomes. The PCU initially had a staff of three–a full-time Project Administrator, a
Procurement Specialist, and a Financial Management Specialist. When the project was restructured,
an accountant and a part-time monitoring and evaluation specialist were added.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry

30.      Project preparation was conducted between 2003 and 2005. It took nearly two years to
finalize the project design and to bring the project to the Board. Project design was based on two main
principles:

    (i) A „demand-driven‟ process whereby each of the five cross-cutting ministries prepared their
    own institutional action plans to ensure buy-in into the overall project activities; the action plans
    being validated by the PRCA‟s steering committee. The individual action plans of the ministries
    were designed to take into account the activities funded by other donors supporting these
    respective ministries.
    (ii) The project focused on consultancy services, training and process streamlining and would not
    finance “heavy duty? operations (i.e. large investments)6. Equipment, such as cars and computers
    could be provided.

2.2 Implementation

31.     During the first years of the project, implementation progress varied significantly across the
original six components. The project mainly financed consultants, training and computerization of
public sector management systems, principally the integrated administrative management and wage
system for state employees (SIGASPE) and the integrated financial management system
(Computerized Integrated Circuit or CID).




6
 Burkina Faso Administration Capacity Building Project, Project Appraisal Document (US$7m equivalent)
(Report No.: 29909-BF), February 17, 2005. Washington, DC: The World Bank, p.10.
                                                   6
32.     Following the mid-term review (MTR) in 2008,7 it was decided to restructure the project due
to slow implementation, important delays in disbursement, and to adapt the project to changes that
had taken place in the government‟s organizational and strategic landscape since the project was
launched in 2005. These changes to the project included: a) dropping the original Component 3
regarding support to Ministry of Economy and Development (MEDEV), since the government had
merged MEDEV with the Ministry of Finance and Budget (MFB) in June 20078; 2) dropping the
original Component 5 relating to the Ministry of Health (MS) because the ministry was receiving
support from a separate IDA project in health from 20069; and 3) adjusting the project components to
align with new government strategies, namely the new Strategy for Public Finance Management
Strengthening (Stratégie de Renforcement des Finances Publiques – SRFP) and the Decentralization
Implementation Strategic Framework (Cadre Stratégique de Mise en Oeuvre de la Décentralisation –
CSMOD).

33.     While the MTR was undertaken in 2008, the restructuring of the project only occurred late in
the project‟s life-cycle in June 2010 (relative to the original project‟s closing date of February 28,
2011.) At the time of formal restructuring, approximately less than US$ 2 million remained
undisbursed out of the original loan of approximately US$ 7.125 million. As noted above, a Level
Two restructuring was approved in mid-February 12, 2011 and the closing date of the project was
extended for six months to August 31, 2011.

34.      Following restructuring, the project adapted its implementation arrangements to
accommodate the new structure. At closing, the project had the following overall implementation
institutional structure:




                                       Prime Minister’s Office
                                             (SGPM)


    Guidance/
                     Steering                                       PCU         Supervision &
    Approval of
                    Committee                                                   dissemination of
    Annual Action
                                                                                recommendations
    plans
                                          Technical
                                          Committee
                                            (focal
                                      Coordination,               Focal Points Implementation
                                      Monitoring &                            & supervision
                                      Information
                                      Sharing


                                 Program development and
                                 sectoral progress reports          Working
                                                                    Group




7
  Burkina Administrative and Capacity Building Project, Mid-term Review (MTR) May 26-June 18, 2008.
8
  The project financed an „organizational audit‟ leading to the reorganization of the Ministry of Economy &
Development and its merger with the Ministry of Finance & Budget (MFB) in 2007.
9
  Burkina Faso Health System Strengthening & Multi sector HIV/AIDS Project (P093987), US$47.7m,
Approved April 27, 2006, Washington, DC: The World Bank.
                                                        7
35.     Implementation of the project suffered from procurement issues, mainly around the selection,
recruitment; and work output of international consultants. Training in procurement could not lead to
the expected impact because of high turnover of staff. Recruitment of consultants by the Ministry of
Finance was also at one point suspended because the financial proposals made by the selected firms
were well above the estimated costs. The extension of the computerized pay system to the regions
was delayed because the procurement committee of the Ministry of Finance took too much time to
incorporate Bank procurement comments. Further, the recruitment of the consultant to complete the
„decentralization roadmap‟ faced a number of recruitment and selection hurdles, including that the
second consultant recruited produced a paper that was rejected by the Committee in charge of its
supervision. At the end of the project a third international consultant needed to be recruited for this
assignment.10

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation and Utilization

36.      The project‟s design incorporated an integrated management system with the PCU prior to
project effectiveness. The PCU had close monitoring of all the project‟s activities and linked them to
the project‟s objectives and results. The PCU was responsible for coordinating data collection from
each of the ministries to track progress on each of the project‟s components. Overall monitoring was
discussed at the Technical Committee level and presented annually to the Steering Committee. The
institutional action plans that recipient ministries prepared during the design phase of the project also
included monitoring and evaluation. The appraisal document included detailed arrangements for
results monitoring, including target values, data collection and reporting to the responsible ministry.

Table 2: Monitoring of Project Indicators – Timing and Responsibilities11(post Restructuring)

         Project Indicators              Data               Verification            Responsible
                                      collection              Source               Ministry/Agency
                                     (frequency)
     Reduce by 50% the time         Each semester       SIGASPE                Solde/MEF
     taken to change salary data
     in SIGASPE
     Reduce by 50% the time to      Each semester       SIGASPE                DRH/MFPRE
     treat the decisions of human
     resources in the sectoral
     ministries
     The budgeted „road map‟        Each semester       PCU                    PCU Administrator
     including the M&E system                                                  and focal points of
     is available                                                              ministries



     Component 1: Strengthening central government efficiency and controls
     The number of ministries       Each semester       DRH/MFPRE              DRH/MFPRE
     where the SIGASPE has                              DRH/MFPRE              DRH/MFPRE
     been fully implemented
     Level of completion of the     Each semester       -                      -


10
  ISR Mission FRM0003720, September 12, 2010.
11
   Elaboration d’un Nouveau Mécanisme de Suive Evaluation du Projet de Renforcement des Capacités de
l’Administration (PRCA) et Assistance a l’Elaboration du Premier Rapport de Suivi Evaluation. Burkina Faso,
Premier Ministère, Secrétariat General, Projet de Renforcement des Capacités de l‟Administration (PRCA),
Sept. 2010, p. 45.
                                                    8
       MALT model
       The number of regions                      SIGASPE
                                      Each semester                    Regional Budget
       where changes in pay have                  Report of the        Directors
       been processed                             Regional Budget
                                                  Directors
       Component 2: Supporting planning, organization and monitoring of the
       decentralization process
       The future view of          Each year      Decree adopted by    MATD
       decentralization including                 the Council of       UCP
       the full cost of the                       Ministers
       implementation plan is
       developed and approved by
       the Government
       The number of operational   Each year      List of manuals      MATD
       manuals on the skills                      disseminated
       management transferred to                  Survey of recipients
       municipalities produced and
       disseminated

37.     Unfortunately, during the course of the project, project monitoring was made difficult by the
number of activities. Moreover, the PCU did not have a monitoring and evaluation officer and had
therefore difficulties to monitor the project implementation for some activities.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

38.     Concerning fiduciary compliance, audit reports were delivered on time and not qualified.
Fiduciary risk has remained low throughout the life of the project and fiduciary arrangements were
qualified as satisfactory.

39.     The project experienced a number of procurement issues often associated with a
misunderstanding of World Bank procurement procedures and there were recurrent delays in contract
awards. Early in the project there were difficulties in recruiting qualified accountants in implementing
agencies and the PCU often completed the accounting, control, and reporting of implementing
agencies.12

40.     The project experienced delays in disbursement with multiple delays in signing contracts with
consultants. For example, there was a significant delay in recruitment of a consultant to prepare the
decentralization roadmap. Further, the project experienced difficulty in finding qualified service
providers who could extend the computerized system for the management of HR decisions to line
ministries and extend the system for processing pay data to the regions.




12
     Financial Management Supervision Mission, Oct 1, 2005.
                                                      9
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

41.     The Burkina Faso Local Government Support Project , approved in 2011, built extensively
on the work done under the PRCA.13 Similar to the PRCA project, the Local Government Support
Project aims to strengthen the central government‟s capacity for decentralization and the institutional
capacities of municipalities (“communes?) in six regions and to improve accountability linkages
between local policy makers and citizens in these municipalities. The PRCA had sensitized politicians
and civil servants and prepared the country for the decentralization process.

42.     Moreover, the Decentralized Urban Capacity Building Project (Projet Pôles Régionaux de
Développement-- PRD) and the Community-Based Rural Development Project (Programme National
de Gestion des Terroirs--PNGT), which focus on developing capacity in urban and rural
municipalities respectively, has also built on the lessons of the PRCA and benefited from building
capacity of districts and communes.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

43.     This project‟s objectives, design and implementation remain highly relevant to Burkina
Faso‟s development. The 2003 CAS Progress Report explicitly anticipated the project and highlighted
the need to enhance good governance and institutional reform, including building public sector
capacity and improving public financial management systems. At the time of appraisal, two of the
objectives of the 2004 PRSP highlighted the need for improvement in public sector performance.
Further, improving social services and accelerating decentralization are cornerstones of the current
2010-12 CAS.14

44.     The project design, based on a focus on studies and small equipment, and depending on the
coordination level of a broad array of activities with five ministries and the Prime Minister‟s office, as
well as deconcentrated public servants, may have not have fully appreciated the implementation
constraints such as the budget constraints, staff turnover, and lack of capacity.

45.     Strong budget constraints, important turnover among focal points and an overall lack of
capacity in some selected Ministries has delayed the implementation of some components (see below
for more details in the Bank performance section).




13
   Burkina Faso Local Government Support Project, (US$60m Equivalent), Project Appraisal Document,
October 5, 2011 (Report No: 64720-BF), Washington, DC: The World Bank. The project was approved by the
Board on November 1, 2011 and the effectiveness date is March 7, 2012.
14
   Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Burkina Faso for the Period FY10-12 (Report No. 59588-BF),
Washington, DC: The World Bank 2010. It notes “Public administration, though generally well-structured,
lacks efficiency due to cumbersome procedures, unresponsiveness and weak capacity. Civil service reforms that
were introduced in 1998 to improve efficiency are slowly being implemented, however reforms are yet to
reflect the shift toward decentralization in Burkina – incentive and accountability structures remain poorly
aligned and there is no local civil service. Although a nationwide capacity development policy has been created,
it is yet to be operationalized. Capacity development within the public administration would significantly
benefit from better coordination. (para 34, page 16).
                                                      10
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

46.     According to OPCS guidelines, in the case of a revised PDO, the overall rating is normally
assessed according to the percentage of funds disbursed prior to a project's restructuring. In the
present case, since a little over 70% was disbursed prior to the restructuring, the larger share of the
rating would be based on the original PDO and indicators (as done in table 4 below).

47.      However, it is also important to acknowledge that the project had an important impact, which
is difficult to capture and that is described in section 3.4.

48.      A brief summary of the achievements of the project‟s intermediate outcome indicators and
related implementation issues is as follows:

           All ministries and public institutions connected to the SIGASPE.
           The Integrated Financial Management System (IFMIS) was extended to line ministries in
            the capital city and to all regions. The deployment of the in the regions was completed
            with the financing by the project.
           The project helped draft legal and regulatory framework for decentralization and
            devolution of human resources and financial resources to local units and municipalities.
           All 13 regional offices („Directions régionales‟) connected online for pay/salary
            adjustments.
           A significant reduction in the average time needed to modify payroll data using the HR
            software (SIGASPE) from 90 days to 38 days.
           Three books on the management of transferred powers were consolidated into a single
            guide for management of skills in health, primary education, and water and sanitation.
           The project assisted in training supervisors to apply the staff performance evaluation
            system and initiate systematic professional development and training for the core civil
            service, while developing institutional capacities of the key ministries covered by the
            project activities (Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Development, Ministry of Civil
            Service, Ministry of Decentralization, and the Prime Minister‟s office).
           A curriculum was created with ENAREF for numerous trainings.

49.     Importantly, the original project development objectives were met (for more details on the
baseline and targets, see annex 2) and after the restructuring, 1 out of 2 PDO indicators were achieved.

50.    As far as intermediate income indicators, results have been achieved or partly achieved for
the components of the Ministry of Finance, Economic Development and Territorial administration.
The component of the Ministry of health was unsatisfactory and moderately unsatisfactory for the
Prime Minister Office and Ministry of Civil Service Reform.

51.     After the restructuring, the combined component (finance, economic development and civil
service reform) was moderately satisfactory and achieved its PDO whereas despite the fact that the
roadmap was transferred to a new project, the component for the Ministry of territorial development
can be considered as unsatisfactory whereas the component to the Prime Minister office can be
assessed as moderately unsatisfactory since the indicator was partially achieved.




                                                  11
Table 3: Achievement of the PDO and Results until and after the Project Restructuring

       Indicators             Original   Restructured Met      Not met Partially No data or
                                                                         met       other
                                   Project Development Objectives

Number        of      line
Ministries            with
satisfactory     program
budgets and medium
term         expenditure
frameworks
Percent of national
budget transferred to and
executed     by      local
governments
                                   Intermediate outcome indicators
Component            One:
Number of ministries
implementing          staff
evaluation policies.
Component            One:
Number of ministries
managing             their
personnel through a
fully operational and
deconcentrated
SIGASPE system
Component            Two:
Number of regions
directly connected to
CID
Component            Two:
Number of controls
performed       by      the
Auditing Body (IGF)
Component            Two:
Number of follow-up
missions performed by
IGF :
Component            Two:
Percentage of formal
communication            on
implementation           of
recommendations sent
by controlled public
institutions within one
year of control
Component          Three:
Number of regions
where regional PRSP is
                                                 12
prepared and monitored
according to procedures
and schedule :13
Component           Four:
Number                  of
implementation       texts
adopted               and
implemented for the
transfer of competencies
and resources of the
decentralization law.

Component Four: % of
elected     local     govt.
officials, staff of the
territorial civil service,
and actors of technical
and financial support
trained according to
capacity          building
strategy.
Component Five: % of
Health            Regional
Directorates and District
(CSPS, CMA, ECD)
which receive their
notice      of      budget
allocation before mid-
February.
Component             Five:
Number of contracts
with the private sector
for health care delivery
effectively implemented
by Central and Regional
Health Authorities. zero
Component              Six:
Percentage of agreed
recommendations of the
completed
organizational        audit
implemented. Audit just
completed.           Prime
ministry restructured.



                              Project Development Objectives
“Reduce by 50% the
time taken to modify the
payroll            data?
(SIGASPE)

                                            13
Percentage of planned                                                                    NOT MET
decentralization                                                                         This
activities fully costed                                                                  indicator has
                                                                                         been
                                                                                         integrated
                                                                                         with the
                                                                                         Burkina Faso
                                                                                         Local
                                                                                         Government
                                                                                         Support
                                                                                         Project
                                                                                         (effective
                                                                                         March
                                                                                         2012).15

                                 Intermediate Outcome Indicators
The       number      of
ministries in which
SIGASPE has been fully
implemented
Completion levels of the
MALT model (training)
The number of regions
in which the pay/salary
adjustments processed
(Baseline=0)
A future vision of
decentralization
(“Decentralization
Roadmap?), including
full costing of the
implementation      plan
developed and approved
by the Government

Number of operational
manuals produced &
disseminated




15
  Burkina Faso Local Government Support Project (PAD, dated October 5, 2011), Sub-Component 1.1,
“Support for high-level policy making (VDP)? which is the decentralization roadmap process.
                                                  14
3.3 Efficiency

52.     As the PAD notes [p. 59], “the project supported public sector reforms and capacity building
to improve the performance of key public institutions in implementing the PRSP. Thus, much of the
return on investment under the PRCA [was] in the form of better performing public institutions that
employ financial and human resources in a transparent and accountable manner to implement the
PRSP and improve service delivery to the population.?

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Achievement of the overall project objective is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.

53.     Progress toward achievement of the original/revised PDOs was rated as overall as
Moderately Satisfactory. Following OPCS guidelines, Table 5 presents the weight per component
based on their disbursement compared to the total project (without the PPF or 6.4 million in total)
before and after the restructuring. Overall, the project disbursement was quite high.

54.     The rating is applied on a scale from 1 to 6 for each component (HU is for 1 and HS is for
  16
6) . The rating is applied on a scale from 1 to 6 for each component. When all indicators were met,
a component was rated satisfactory with a score of 5; when none of the indicators were met, the
component was rated unsatisfactory with a score of 2. When some indicators were met and others
were partially achieved, the component was rated moderately satisfactory with a rating of 4.
Correspondingly, when a number of indicators were not met and others were partially met, the
component was rated moderately unsatisfactory with a score of 3. Applying this approach, with
weights related to the pre- and post- restructuring phases gives an overall rating for the project.

55.      Due to the positive results of the components to support the ministry of finance and economic
development and territorial development before restructuring and the combined component after
restructuring, the total project score is 3.61 and can then be considered as Moderately Satisfactory.

Table 5: Rating weighted by disbursement and components before and after restructuring

 Components                             Weighing       Rating   Rating     Weighing     Rating     Rating
                                        before                  weighte    after                   weighted
                                        restruct.               d by       restruct.               by
                                        (based on               disburs.   (based on               disburs.
                                        disburs.                ratio      disburs.                ratio
                                        share)                             share)
 1 Support of the Ministry of
                                        0.09           MU       0.27       0.21         MS         0.84
 Civil and State Reform
 2 Support to Ministry of Finance
                                        0.19           S        0.76
 and Budget
 3 Support to Ministry of
                                        0.07           S        0.35
 Economic Development
 4 Support to the Ministry of
 Territorial Administration and         0.13           MS       0.52       0.02         U          0.04
 Decentralization




16
     Not any project component was considered as HU or HS.

                                                    15
 5 Support to Ministry of Health      0.04           U           0.08
 6 Support to the SGPM                0.22           MU          0.66        0.03          MU         0.09
 Total                                                           2.64                                 0.97
 Final total                                                                                          3.61
Note: U is equal to 2, MU to 3, MS to 4, S to 5.


56.     During the ICR/final supervision mission, the Ministry of Finance (MEF) noted that the
“PRCA has been an invaluable contribution to MEF which has seen in the last few years of profound
reforms in public finance consolidation.?17This was corroborated by other Ministries and institutions
that benefited from the project. It gave support to some Ministries, such as the Ministry of Civil
Service, which are usually left out from donor support (despite their key role for public spending
efficiency). According to government counterparts, the project helped in four main areas:

     -   Develop some key legislations and regulations, such as the law defining the resources and
         spending of local councils (adopted in 2006). This was critical to implement a revised budget
         and financial management for local councils (still in place)
     -   Prepare the law on human resources for local councils, which was passed by the National
         Assembly in December 2006.
     -   Prepare the transfer of power to municipalities. The project has been the main instrument to
         prepare the transfer of power and resources to municipalities. The project financed key
         sensitization events (to local officials in districts and municipalities) and even more
         importantly the PRCA financed the finalization and signing of memorandums of transfers of
         power and resources to the municipalities. These protocols are contractual documents that
         specify the respective roles of the State and municipalities and were signed in April 2009
         between the Governor of each region and the 351 mayors of the country.
     -   Develop an operational manual to implement transfer of power to municipalities. The guide
         covers daily issues regarding technical supervision, management of human resources,
         management of financial resources, the role of the community and civil society organizations.
         It was piloted in eight urban and rural communities and was approved by a cabinet decision.

57.     Finally, the Local Government Support Project (effective March 7, 2012) has built on some
achievements and lessons learned from the PRCA, including subsuming the PRCA‟s PCU. Following
the project‟s closing at the end of August 2011, the Government strengthened its overall ownership of
decentralization reforms, illustrated by the Prime Minister‟s direct leadership.18

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development




17
   “PRCA a été d'un apport inestimable pour le MEF qui a connu ces dernières années de profondes réformes
allant dans le sens d'un assainissement des finances publiques.? (MEF summary of PRCA, June 29, 2011).
18
   “Décentralisation: A la recherche d‟un souffle nouveau.? L’Observateur Paalga, January 25, 2012.
                                                   16
58.     As noted above, the project incorporated in its design the objectives of the 2004 PRSP which
highlighted the need for improvement in public sector performance, as well the need to enhance good
governance and institutional reform for poverty reduction. The Government‟s Strategy for
Accelerated Growth and Sustained Development (SCADD) 2011-2015 notes that the preliminary
results of a 2009 household survey show a 2.5% decline in poverty to 43.9%. 19 However,
conclusively attributing these improvements to decentralization policies is very difficult. Still,
Burkina Faso has recognized the link between a more efficient public sector and attainment of
development objectives, including poverty reduction, gender and social development.

59.      While the project did not directly support gender-related activities, many of its activities
indirectly supported women, such as enhancing the government‟s overall staff performance
evaluation policies.

(a) Institutional Change/Strengthening

60.    The project was designed to “fill the gap? to cross-cutting ministries to support institutional
change, capacity development, and the overall implementation of decentralization and de-
concentration of government responsibilities.

61.     The project led to important institutional change (which may not necessarily have been
captured in the project indicators). High officials interviewed during the ICR mission pointed out
some positive impact of the project leading to reform, such as:
    - Outsider view on internal organizational structure and procedures, which helped, for instance,
        to identify weaknesses, such as missing modules in the computerized human resources
        management system or a lack of de-concentrated staff for the Ministry of Public Service.
    - During supervision missions, inter-ministerial meetings were organized, which enabled to
        take some difficult decision on de-concentration of staff for instance or transfer of power to
        municipalities.
    - The project financed training in performance-based management in civil service, which has
        been extremely useful to implement some principles in several Ministries.

(b) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

62.    An important positive impact the project was to underscore the importance of government
communication and coordination across the ministries and layers of government. For example, the
PRCA was instrumental in reorganizing and merging the Ministries of Economy and Finance.
Through the established coordination mechanisms and training mechanisms of the project,
management level civil servants had an opportunity to meet one another under auspices where they
would not normally have interacted across government.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Medium/Moderate




19
  Burkina Faso, Stratégie de Croissance Accélérée et de Développement Durable (SCADD) 2011-2015,
Government of Burkina Faso, December 2010.
                                                 17
63.      Overall, the risk to development outcome is rated as medium/moderate, in line with the
assessment of the overall rating for project outcomes, as: 1) the level of ownership of the
implementation of the various action plans varied, as illustrated by the slow disbursement and the
project‟s Level 1 (changes to PDOs) and Level 2 Restructuring (extension of closing date); 2)
whether or not instituted plans and reforms will “stick? over time. Certainly the merging of ministries,
installation of the HR and IFMIS systems, enactment of laws, and similar results are unlikely to be
rolled back.

64.     Yet, a key risk to development outcomes is the fact that de-concentration and decentralization
necessitates local public servants to change their approach and practices since for the time being, they
often look to the capital for direction, resources, and career growth.

65.     A positive move in this direction should be the implementation of the recently approved IDA
Local Government Support Project which aims at “a gradual shift from existing ex ante controls to ex
post monitoring, as the capacity of communes increase to match their discretionary authority. It will
provide support to a high-level policy making process (Vision Prospective de la Décentralisation-
VPD) and assist the Ministries of Economy and Finance and Territorial Administration,
Decentralization and Security to develop their coordination and managerial capacity.?20


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

An overview assessment of Bank and borrower performance is outlined in Table 1 below:

Table 1: Overall Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance Rating

Parameter           Positive                                 Negative
Project             The original components were relevant    Project was overly complex
Preparation         and aligned with priority country needs  involving too many ministries in a
                    and the Burkina CAS; the project was in  low capacity environment; focus
                    alignment with the government‟s          on studies without funding of
                    poverty-reduction strategy and other     implementation of major
                    policies.                                recommendations could be
                                                             questionable.
Restructuring       The project was subject to a Level 1     Restructuring was indicated when
                    restructuring which was approved by      a mid-term review was
                    the Board on June 20, 2010 and signed    undertaken in 2008. However,
                    by the Government on July 8, 2010. The the project was restructured too
                    restructuring: revised the project‟s     late in its life-cycle (about a year
                    Results Monitoring Framework by          before closing).
                    reformulating the PDOs. The project
                    also had a Level 2 restructuring that
                    extended the closing date of the project
                    from February 28, 2011 to August 31,
                    2011.
Disbursement        Final disbursement was 93% of total.     Disbursement was medium to
                    The project consistently financed papers slow paced, but somewhat
                    and reports prepared by consulting       facilitated after the mid-term
                    firms that had a positive impact (e.g.,  review.


20
   Burkina Faso Local Government Support Project, PAD, October 5, 2011, Washington, DC: The World Bank:
p. 9.
                                                  18
                    merging of two ministries into the
                    Ministry of Finance)
Project             Supervision missions took place             Some of the reporting suffered
Supervision         regularly – over the course of the          from delayed reporting and some
                    project, there were 11 supervision          ISRs before the restructuring were
                    missions (ISRs). From 2008, the             overly positive in terms of ratings.
                    project was supervised from the country
                    office which enabled more continuous
                    engagement.
Monitoring &        M&E improved significantly after            M&E was rated MU during a
Evaluation          restructuring. The project benefitted       number of initial ISRs up until
                    overall from a strong PIU that did not      restructuring (ISR numbers 3, 4,
                    have staff turnover.                        5, 6, & 7)


5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Quality at entry is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.

66.     Quality at entry. The initial Concept Review took place on November 14, 2002 and the
project was signed on March 29, 2005 and became effective on August 25, 2005. Much of this time
was devoted to the preparation of each participating ministry‟s institutional action plan, establishing
the PCU and ensuring that each ministry had an appointed focal point.

67.    In the Bank portfolio, support to decentralization, since the beginning of the 2000s, was
provided through multiple interventions, including programmatic development policy lending (DPL).
However, this instrument proved to be relatively unsuccessful because of political resistance and the
PRCA was conceived as being more able to achieve positive results to support decentralization.

68.     In terms of quality of entry, the project suffered from two issues: 1) ambitious goals in a low-
capacity environment and 2) underestimation of resistance to change.

69.     The project totaled over 130 activities in six years for a total of US$ 7 million, which means
that over 20 activities had to be completed a year for an average of just above US$ 50,000. A
multitude of small tasks was then undertaken and implemented creating pressure for the PCU to have
these activities completed in the six Ministries. That also explains why from the mid-term review, one
component was dropped and the project design considerably simplified.

70.      Some sub-components or activities could have been projects in themselves. For instance, the
project aimed at training all the elected local officials and local civil servants according to agreed
training plans. With 358 local councils, there are hundreds of local councilors and mayors, of whom
many are illiterate and do not speak French. Therefore, it was an immense task, which was one out of
eleven tasks for the Ministry of Territorial Administration.




                                                  19
71.     Pointed out by the QAG review, carried out in June 2008, “there has been strong resistance to
introducing key reforms, i.e., a staff performance evaluation system, and the transfer of competences
and resources to local governments. Resistance to reforms has particularly emanated from trade
unions, whose members prefer the traditional system, which automatically promotes staff after two
years in the job. Resistance to the reforms has also emanated from the executing ministries
themselves, since they are reluctant to lose power because of the devolution of responsibilities to
local governments?. Moreover, special allowances had been paid by the GoBF for priority activities
but the project did not pay these allowances. Distorted staff incentive structures then raised “serious
questions about project sustainability?.

72.      Strategic relevance and approach. Given the project‟s clear link to the PRSPs, the
government‟s decentralization reform strategy and the CAS, it is clear that the project was
strategically relevant. The approach focusing on training and studies with limited equipment and no
“heavy? investments was contradicted after the mid-term review since many sound recommendations
of studies, such as creating regional technical inspections, could not be implemented because of the
project design and focus. The approach should have been questioned to include studies in six
Ministries without financing measures and recommendations with a budgetary impact when, in the
meantime, it was recommended to limit the wage bill and have a strict MTEF. Either the project
would have finance some measures with a budgetary impact (which was ultimately done after the
restructuring) or the project had to be limited to a limited number of studies and Ministries to limit the
budgetary impact.

73.       Ownership. Given the project‟s link and coordination through the SG for the Prime Minister
and links to other ministers and government bodies (e.g., the public administration training institutes
ENAREF and ENAM), the project made concerted efforts to ensure overall government ownership.
Still, throughout the life-cycle of the projects a number of ISRs note that there was varying levels of
ownership on the part of some members of the Steering Committee and Focal Points.

74.      Bank inputs and processes. In a country with low capacity, Bank processes in procurement
for instance have delayed the completion of some studies and the procurement of equipment.


(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Quality of supervision is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.

75.     Project supervision was carried out regularly during the project lifetime. Still, the quality of
supervision is questionable on two main issues: 1) the timing to restructure, and 2) ISRs ratings
before the restructuring.

76.     The project was restructured in June 2010, only eight months before the original closing date.
However, following the mid-term review in June 2008, key decisions were taken to reorient the
project to facilitate the implementation of the SIGASPE in regions or drop the health component
(with the establishment of bi-annual work plans). However, the restructuring level 1 was only
completed two years later.




                                                   20
77.     ISRs appeared to have been disconnected between the project ratings and the project‟s overall
implementation between 2007 and 2009. At the end of 2007, the disbursement lag was close to 2
years, 3 out 6 components were rated as MU21 (the health one was MU before being dropped). From
June 2008, the two remaining components were upgraded to MS without real evidence of progress.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

78.      The overall rating for Bank performance can be rated Moderately Satisfactory. As a relatively
small project on a difficult topic, it did manage to produce a broad number of studies to inform
implementation of the decentralization policy and some important achievements, such as the
Integrated Financial Management System extended to line ministries in the capital city and to all
regions, support to draft legal and regulatory framework for decentralization and devolution of human
resources and financial resources to local units and municipalities and online connection for
pay/salary adjustments of regional offices. And even more importantly, it sensitized and trained local
officials, which led to the beginning of transfer of funds to local administrations.

79.    However, the project suffered from a complex design and supervision overrated the project
between2007 and 2009 and the formal restructuring of the project happened late in its life cycle.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Government performance is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.

80.      The overall level of ownership on the part of the government of Burkina Faso remained solid,
illustrated by the project being followed-on by a much larger IDA decentralization project, the
Burkina Faso Local Government support Project.22Nevertheless, the project experienced long periods
of relative inactivity. The government clearly has a strong commitment to the decentralization reform
agenda and to the corresponding building of local capacities. However, bureaucratic inertia and
political ambivalence are relatively common factors that affect implementation of decentralization
reforms and this may have been the case in Burkina.

81.      The project experienced delays in disbursement and implementation and suffered from
numerous turnovers of focal points in various Ministries. For instance, over a period of six years, the
project have had six focal points in the Ministry of Civil Service Reform but also three procurement
specialists and two financial management specialists.

82.    Moreover, demands from some Ministries could have been „filtered? in order to limit the
number of activities, which made virtually impossible the project implementation.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Implementing Agency performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory.



21
  Support to Ministry of Economic Development, Health and Prime Minister‟s Office.
22
  Burkina Faso Local Government Support Project, Project Appraisal Document, (US$60m), October 5, 2011
(Report No: 64720-BF). The PIU from the PRCA Project, anchored in the Prime Minister‟s Office, is now the
PIU for the Local Government Project.
                                                   21
83.     The formal implementing agency of the project is the Permanent Secretary of the Prime
Minister‟s Office (SGPM). The SGPM worked closely the Project Administrator and following the
project‟s original design (prior to restructuring) managed to coordinate a very disparate number of
ministries, agencies and public servants. Despite effectiveness delays, the government appreciated the
project as illustrated by a related follow-up project. Still, coordination was at times challenging and
the project experienced delays in disbursement, procurement and implementation of some
components, leading to the project‟s restructuring and extension.

84.     The project was well managed by the PCU Administrator who appeared to be the „oil‟ that
kept the project running smoothly.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: The rating for overall borrower performance is Moderately Satisfactory.

85.     The borrower‟s overall performance is rated as moderately satisfactory. The government
demonstrated commitment to the project‟s objectives. The project experienced significant delays in
the procurement process mainly due to a lack of capacity and rapid turnover in some Ministries.
However, the PCU was able to put pressure and support coordination of numerous activities.

6. Lessons Learned

86.     The major lessons drawn from the implementation and outcome of this project include the
following:

Excessive optimism in decentralization and de-concentration commitment. It was taken as
granted that support to decentralization, deconcentration and poverty reduction could be undertaken
in         six Ministries (of which five were cross-cutting ones) and would lead to significant results.
Public sector and governance reforms affect various interests and often face resistance and are not
necessarily acknowledged when designing a project. It had been five and seven years since major
reforms had been adopted in 2005without major implementation. Therefore, the project should
probably have focused on fewer Ministries and activities with greater political salience to lead to
more tangible outcome results. Support to decentralization is de facto a political question, which
should be acknowledged from the beginning.

87.      Focusing on studies, training and IT equipment in a context of serious budget constraint
means that some studies recommendations will not be implemented. Several organizational audits
recommended some structural changes with new de-concentrated structures for instance. However,
since it had a budgetary implication and Burkina Faso was budgeted constrained, some important
recommendations, such as the introduction of regional inspections in the MATD could not be fully
implemented since it was supposed to lead to civil servants recruitment.

88.      A demand-driven project is not a panacea for a good design. Several Ministries requested
to finance several dozens of activities (mainly trainings and IT equipment). In a low-capacity
environment, such requests: (1). make close to impossible their implementation in a 5-year period,
(2). usually lack coordination. As a consequence, dozens of activities are carried out (of which several
do not reach completion) and do not necessarily have a major outcome impact. For instance, some
customs officers were trained on the IT system and on customs transit but the quality of customs work
may not have improved accordingly. Ministries demands need to be filtered in agreement with local
authorities.




                                                  22
89.      Public sector reform requires flexibility, which can be resource-consuming in the
context of a grant. Public sector reforms heavily depend on the political context. Strategic directions
can rapidly change after ministerial changes for instance. This has, for instance, be the case in the
Ministry of Civil Reform: priorities of the Ministry at the time of appraisal changed when a new
Minister was appointed and had an important impact on the PRCA. Therefore, important flexibility is
required for public sector reforms. Although the project was designed with the view to having
flexibility, project restructuring can be resource-consuming and perceived as negative. Therefore,
there should be some ways to explore to have more flexible instruments to tackle public sector
reforms.

90.      Civil servant training and IT equipment do not necessarily lead to civil servant
behavorial change. Despite the fact that the project rightly put great emphasis on staff performance
evaluation and merit-based promotion and numerous trainings were carried out and IT provided in
some Ministries, sound performance management is still in its infancy because of strong resistance
from some unions and civil servants. The assumption that training would inevitably lead to behavorial
change is, in many cases, inaccurate. Changing incentives is key but is more complex than providing
training and explains why the focus should be on one or two Ministries/Institution.

91.     Lack of impact evaluation for cross-cutting public sector reforms, such as
decentralization and de-concentration, hampers impact improvement. Impact measurement of
decentralization or de-concentration is usually difficult to assess in data scarce countries. However, it
should be embedded in the project design (and therefore requires the project to avoid scattering
resources) in order to rigorously evaluate the impact of major reforms, such as decentralization and
de-concentration, in these countries and then lead to better improvement of such reforms.




                                                   23
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

Comments from the Borrower were [received] (See Annex 7) and relevant issues taken into account.

(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                               24
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

     (a) Project Costs by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                  Components                          Appraisal              Spending on       Spending
                                                      Estimate                12/31/2009       at the end
                                                  (in USD million)             (in USD            of the
                                                                               million)          project
                                                                                                (in USD
                                                                                                million)
1 Support of the Ministry of Civil and State Reform           0.70              0.58               4.05
2 Support to Ministry of Finance and Budget                   2.30              1.23
3 Support to Ministry of Economic Development                 0.68              0.45
4 Support to the Ministry of Territorial                      0.75              0.81             0.94
Administration and Decentralization
5 Support to Ministry of Health                               1.00              0.24
6 Support to the SGPM                                         0.67              1.40             1.58
7 Refinancing PPF                                             0.60              0.18
8 Contingencies                                               0.30
Total Baseline Cost                                           7.00              4.89             6.57

 Note: the amount for component 1 is the sum of components 1,2,3 after restructuring and after
 spending after 12/31/2009. 1.37 was spent after 12/31/2009 for the first three components.

     (b) Project Costs
                                                              Actual/Latest
                                       Appraisal Estimate                          Percentage of
            Components                                        Estimate (USD
                                        (USD millions)                              Appraisal
                                                                 millions)
                 Total Baseline Cost                   6.70           0.00
 Physical Contingencies
                                                       0.00           0.00              0.00
 Price Contingencies
                                                       0.30           0.00              0.00
                Total Project Costs                    7.00           0.00
 Front-end fee PPF                                     0.00           0.00               .00
 Front-end fee IBRD                                    0.00           0.00               .00
        Total Financing Required                       7.00           0.00


 (c) Financing
                                                                   Actual/Latest
                                          Appraisal Estimate
             Source of Funds                                         Estimate
                                           (USD millions)
                                                                  (USD millions)
 Borrower                                 0.125                4.00
 IDA GRANT FOR DEBT
                                          7.00                 0.00
 VULNERABLE



                                                  25
Annex 2. Outputs and indicators by Component

The activities of the restructured project
The mid-term review and subsequent project restructuring and extension reduced the original six
components to three (two operational one for project implementation). The restructured components
and corresponding responsible Ministries are as follows:

Component 1: Strengthen the Recipient’s central government efficiency and controls (US$ 2.5m
equivalent, of which IDA US$2m equivalent)
Strengthening central government efficiency and controls, by:

(a) Strengthening the capacity of selected Recipient‟s ministries to undertake longer term planning
and evaluation of policies; (b) improving deconcentration of human resource management, including
through the development of information technology tools; and (c) improving the pay management
system through the delegation of the processing of pay changes to the Regions.

Ministry of Public Service and Administrative Reform (MFPRE)
    Extension of SIGASPE in departments and institutions.
    Evaluation of the new formula for performance evaluation of public servants.
    Design and testing of a system of performance evaluation of institutional structures.
    Simplification of procedures and forms.
    Training Fund.

Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF)
    Devolution of SIGASPE in the regions.
    Study of the integration of computer applications (MEF).
    Finalization and operationalization of management tools previously developed.
    Support for consultants (CIFE).
    Training Fund.

Prime Minister’s Office (Permanent Secretary, SGPM)
    Study on the rationalization of the system of staff motivation.
    Training of the Permanent Secretary‟s office / PM.
    Preparation of manual for monitoring and evaluation of PRCA.
    Communications Strategy (PM).
    Strengthening of the Judicial Court of Auditors.
    Support for ASCE in the fight against corruption.
    Support to the ARMP for the training of actors on the new provisions on public procurement.
    Audit of 2008.
    Establish a monitoring system of government actions.

Component 2: Strengthening policy formulation coordination and monitoring in key recipient’s
Ministries responsible for decentralization (US$ 560,000)
Strengthening the Recipient‟s capacity to develop a decentralization road-map and a medium-term
(three to five year) decentralization implementation plan, including:

      Support to the definition of policies and procedures to implement decentralization; and (b)
       support to planning, allocation of responsibilities and costing of activities in terms of both
       human and financial resources.

      Development of a vision of decentralization and support.


                                                  26
Component 3: Project Coordination

      Support the implementation of the recommendations of the studies.
      Operation of the PCU.


Detailed indicators before and after restructuring

Indicators        Measurement                                                          Result

                  Baseline Value       Progress To Date          End-of-Project Target
                                                                 Value
                   Number Date        Number or       Date       Number or Date
                   or text            text                       text
Number of line     0       01/01/2005 The ministries 12/27/2007 10           01/01/2005 MET
Ministries with                       of Health,
satisfactory                          Primary
program budgets                       Education and
and medium term                       Secondary
expenditure                           education
frameworks: 2                         have
                                      satisfactory
                                      program
                                      budgets.
                                      Several other
                                      ministries are
                                      starting the
                                      process
                                      (Finances,
                                      Energy, Trade
                                      for instance).
Comments: MTEF was approved for all Ministries.
Percent of         0       01/01/2005 The             09/30/2005 +100%       08/15/2010 MET
national budget                       establishment              /baseline              (3% in 2011)
transferred to and                    of a transfer              (0%)
executed by local                     mechanism
governments: 1%                       has progressed
                                      in 2007,
                                      through the
                                      establishment
                                      of 2 general
                                      purpose grants
                                      (re current and
                                      capital
                                      expenditures)
                                      and a
                                      Municipal
                                      Development
                                      Fund.
Comments: The objective is 4% in 2015. It was close to 3% in 2011.
Intermediate
outcome

                                               27
indicator(s)
1. Component       0    01/01/2005 Training of      12/27/2007 25          08/15/2010 NOT MET
One: Number of                       MFPRE staff                                       (due to
ministries                           on evaluation                                     political
implementing                         policy took                                       decision )
staff evaluation                     place and all
policies.                            evaluation
                                     forms have
                                     been
                                     distributed,
                                     Evaluation is
                                     ongoing in all
                                     ministries.
Comments: Policy adopted but in practice no annual results agreements and merit-based promotions.
2. Component        0   01/01/2005 22 ministries 12/27/2007 18             08/15/2010 MET
One: Number of                       are doing so.
ministries
managing their
personnel through
a fully operational
and
deconcentrated
SIGASPE system:
26
3. Component        5   01/01/2005 10 regions are 12/27/2007 13            08/15/2010 MET
Two: Number of                       now equipped
regions directly                     and using the
connected to                         CID.
CID : 13
4. Component        35  01/01/2005 73 completed 12/27/2007 148             12/31/2010 MET
Two: Number of                       in 2009.
controls
performed by the
Auditing Body
(IGF) : 73
5. Component        0   01/01/2005                  12/27/2007             08/15/2010 No
Two: Number of                                                                         information
follow-up
missions
performed by
IGF :
6. Component        0   01/01/2005 60%              12/27/2007 100%        08/15/2010 No
Two: Percentage                                                                        information
of formal
communication
on
implementation of
recommendations
sent by controlled
public institutions
within one year of
control:75%

                                            28
7. Component          0  01/01/2005 13 regions      12/27/2007 100%        08/15/2010 MET
Three: Number of                    (i.e. 100%) for
regions where                       2007.
regional PRSP is
prepared and
monitored
according to
procedures and
schedule :13
8. Component          0  01/01/2005 A certain       12/27/2007 100%        08/15/2010 PARTIALLY
Four: Number of                     number of                                           MET
implementation                      texts have
texts adopted and                   already been
implemented for                     drafted and
the transfer of                     enacted, but
competencies and                    real transfers
resources of the                    are lagging
decentralization                    behind.
law.
Comments: Four decrees taken in March 2009 to operationalize decentralization (health, education,
culture, water).
9. Component          0  01/01/2005 Target values 12/27/2007 100%          08/15/2010 PARTIALLY
Four: % of elected                  for 2007 fully                                      MET
local govt.                         met.
officials, staff of
the territorial civil
service, and actors
of technical and
financial support
trained according
to capacity
building strategy.
Comments: Training on budget carried out in 2007.
10. Component         0  01/01/2005 Since the       12/27/2007 100%        08/15/2010 NOT MET
Five: % of Health                   Ministry of
Regional                            Health is not
Directorates and                    directly
District (CSPS,                     supported by
CMA, ECD)                           the PRCA
which receive                       anymore, we
their notice of                     have no
budget allocation                   information to
before mid-                         update this
February. 30                        indicator.
11. Component         0  01/01/2005 Since the       12/27/2007 23          08/15/2010 NOT MET
Five: Number of                     Ministry of
contracts with the                  Health is not
private sector for                  directly
health care                         supported by
delivery                            the PRCA
effectively                         anymore, we
implemented by                      have no
Central and                         information to
                                           29
Regional Health                   update this
Authorities. zero                 indicator.
Comments: component dropped in 2008
12. Component      0   01/01/2005 The            09/30/2005 100                  08/15/2010 PARTIALLY
Six: Percentage of                organizational                                            MET
agreed                            audit was
recommendations                   completed and
of the completed                  ld to a new
organizational                    organizational
audit                             structure but
implemented.                      staff training
Audit just                        were not
completed. Prime                  carried out
ministry
restructured.
Comments:


Table 1: Revised PDO and Results23
 PDO            Indicators         Refere Targe Indicators Values Rating
                                   nce or t (End
                                   Base-     of
                                   line      proj)    2010    2011
                                   2009      2011)
 Revised Project Development Objective/Outcome:
 “Strengthen the recipient’s central government resource management capacity and
 enhance the recipient’s capacity in the planning, organization and monitoring of the
 decentralization process.?
  Outcome       “Reduce by 50% 90 days 45             64      38 days    MET
 Indicator 1: the time taken to              days     days               A significant
 “Strengthen modify the                                                  reduction was
 central        payroll data?                                            achieved in the
 government (SIGASPE)                                                    average time to
 efficiency     Reduce by 50% 70 days 35              45      32.75      modify payroll
 and            the processing               days     days    days       data in SIGASPE
 controls?      time for HR                                              from 90 days to 64
                decisions in line                                        days in 2010 and
                ministries                                               38 days in 2011
                Secondment         90 days 45         32      39 days
                                             days     days
                Leave without      62 days 32         47      34 days
                pay                          days     days
                Transfer to a      44 days 22         52      35 days
                different                    days     days
                department
                Creating an        85 days 43         24      43 days
                internship                   days     days
                position
                (training)



23
     These are the revised PDOs following the project‟s restructuring in 2010.
                                                         30
 PDO             Indicators          Refere    Targe Indicators Values        Rating
                                     nce or    t (End
                                     Base-     of
                                     line      proj)  2010   2011
                                     2009      2011)
 Outcome         Percentage of       NA        50%    25%    50%              NOT MET
 Indicator 2:    planned                                                      This indicator has
 Enhance the     decentralization                                             been integrated
 planning,       activities fully                                             with the Burkina
 organization    costed                                                       Faso Local
 &                                                                            Government
 monitoring                                                                   Support Project
 of the                                                                       (effective March
 decentralizat                                                                2012).24
 -ion process

 Intermediate Outcome Indicators
 For            The number of        0         17        34       34          MET
 Component      ministries in                                                 All departments
 1:             which SIGASPE                                                 are connected to
 Strengthen     has been fully                                                the SIGASPE
 central        implemented
 government Completion               50%       100%                           NOT MET
 efficiency & levels of the                                                   Trainings were not
 controls       MALT model                                                    carried out
                (training)

                 The number of       0         12        5        12          MET
                 regions in which
                 the pay/salary
                 adjustments
                 processed
                 (Baseline=0)




 For             A future vision     0         1         0        0           NOT MET25
 Component       of
 2:              decentralization
 Strengthen      (“Decentralizati
 the             on Roadmap?),
 formulation,    including full
 coordination    costing of the
 &               implementation



24
   Burkina Faso Local Government Support Project (PAD, dated October 5, 2011), Sub-Component 1.1,
“Support for high-level policy making (VDP)? which is the decentralization roadmap process.
25
   This component was subsumed within the Burkina Faso Local Government Support Project (PAD, dated
October 5, 2011), Sub-Component 1.1, “Support for high-level policy making (VDP)? which is the
decentralization roadmap process.
                                                    31
PDO              Indicators        Refere   Targe Indicators Values   Rating
                                   nce or   t (End
                                   Base-    of
                                   line     proj)  2010   2011
                                   2009     2011)
monitoring       plan developed
of policies in   and approved by
the key          the Government
ministries
responsible      Number of         0        3        3     3          PARTIALLY
for              operational                                          MET
decentralizat    manuals                                              (Guide was
-ion             produced &                                           completed but not
                 disseminated                                         disseminated)




                                                32
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Economic analysis was presented in the PAD Annex 9, Economic and Financial Analysis which noted
that the PRCA supported public sector reforms and capacity building to improve the performance of
public institutions in implementing the PRSP.

The decentralization reforms aimed to improve overall local governance and service delivery. The
project contributed to this through supporting intergovernmental fiscal and administrative institutions,
and enhancing the capacity of public sector servants. In terms of cost-benefit analysis the project
strengthened government administration, leading to better management and improved managerial
efficiency. Despite the fact that these benefits can be important, they are difficult to quantify.




                                                  33
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                            Responsibility/
          Names                           Title                     Unit
                                                                              Specialty
Lending


Supervision/ICR
                                                                            Task Team
Bepio C. Bado              Senior Operations Officer                AFTPR
                                                                            Leader
Begnadehi Claude Bationo   Operations Officer                       AFMBF
Helene Bertaud             Senior Counsel                           LEGAF
Yolande Bougouma-Zagre     Team Assistant                           AFMBF
Wolfgang M. T. Chadab      Senior Finance Officer                   CTRLA
Yang-Hah Chung-Kong        Senior Program Assistant                 AFTPR
Siaka Coulibaly            Senior Economist                         AFTP4
William Dakpo              Procurement Specialist                   AFTPC
Giulio De Tommaso          Senior Public Sector Mgmt. Specialist    AFTPR
Mamadou Lamarane Deme      Senior Financial Management Specialist   LCSFM
Helene Grandvoinnet        Lead Social Development Specialist        SDV
Timothy A. Johnston        Senior Health Specialist                 EASHH
Lewis Kabayiza Murara      Public Sector Mgmt. Specialist           AFTPR
Abdoulaye Kane             Consultant                               AFTUW
Sahr John Kpundeh          Adviser                                  AFTOS
Kolie Ousmane Maurice
                           Financial Management Specialist          AFTFM
Megnan
Oumar Ouattara             Consultant                               AFMBF
Moustapha Ould El Bechir   Senior Procurement Specialist            AFTPC
Tawfik M. Ramtoolah        Senior Public Sector Specialist          AFTPR
Suzanne Rayaisse           Procurement Assistant                    AFMBF
Aguiratou Savadogo-Tinto   Senior Transport. Specialist             AFTTR
Mamadou Yaro               Senior Financial Management Specialist   AFTFM




                                            34
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                     USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                           travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY03                                                                109.94
  FY04                                                                154.64
  FY05                                                                120.07
  FY06                                                                  0.00
  FY07                                                                  0.00
  FY08                                                                  0.00
                          Total:                                      384.65
Supervision/ICR
  FY03                                                                  0.00
  FY04                                                                  0.00
  FY05                                                                  0.00
  FY06                                                                109.97
  FY07                                                                 72.90
  FY08                                                                111.98
                          Total:                                      294.85




                                       35
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not Applicable.




                                      36
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not Applicable.




                                          37
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


Project background

The PRCA has been designed in the context of a change in the Burkina public administration. It was
also implemented in a context of frequent turnover of high officials (Ministers, Permanent Secretaries,
directors and focal points). The PRCA could be at odds with some new strategies being developed.
Despite this, it was able to adapt even though with difficulties at some stages.

Project appraisal

- Project appraisal took place at a time when the beneficiary ministries were developing sectoral
strategies, which influenced the project design. This was the case with the Strategy of Strengthening
Public Finance (SRFP) in the Ministry of Finance or the Strategic Framework for the Implementation
of Decentralization (CSMOD) in the MATD.

- The original project design expected too much from the synergy that should have existed between
budget support granted through PRSCs and the PRCA in the beneficiary ministries. Thus the linking
mechanism between technical assistance and State Budget was too weak.

Project components

Components before and after the restructuring seem to have been well-defined. However, the
component "Support to the Ministry of Health" before the restructuring was seen as unrelated to the
others.

Institutional project management

- The defined organizational coordination was relevant because it ensured ownership of the project by
Ministries (operational management, procurement, financial management by the implementing
agencies). Its effectiveness, however, was put to a serious test because of numerous staff turnover of
focal points.

Results framework

a. Project development objective

- The initial PDO, which was to improve public sector performance by supporting the implementation
of reforms in six Ministries, was too ambitious (for a modest budget).
- The redefinition of the development objective after the restructuring capacity to help central
government to improve its capacity in planning, organizing and monitoring the implementation of the
decentralization process, has resulted in a better alignment and more realistic definition of the PRCA
and Government objectives.

b. Project indicators

- Indicators were too broad and general to monitor efficiently project activities. However, the
restructuring corrected this situation by redefining a new PDO and the development and a better
monitoring mechanism.

The main results achieved by the project

- Despite implementation difficulties of the PRCA, the results as listed in the evaluation reports are
                                                 38
important and valued by the recipient Ministries, some of them even regret the project closure (MEF:
SID DGB DOME etc.. MFPRE: CIOs, HR etc.).


Project impact

The PRCA will have a strong impact on the future administration in Burkina Faso (regarding
structures and procedures).

The main sustainable gains made include the following:
- Establishment of the Regional Directorate of Public Service.
- Reorganization of the Ministry for Finance.
- Capacity-building of ENAM and ENAREF (equipment and training of trainers),
- Extension of the CID.
- Development and commissioning of the lease management software for the tax administration.
- Development and commissioning of a software on tax statistics for the tax administration.
- Extension of SIGASPE to all public institutions and to all regions.

Assessment of Bank Team

Supervisions were done on a regular basis; no-objection requests were always replied to on time.
Training request and even informal advice were always provided promptly.

There were changes in the Bank team, but not of the same magnitude as at the borrower level. These
had no influence on the project implementation.




                                                39
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not Applicable.




                                           40
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

World Bank
- Project Concept Note, Burkina Faso Capacity Building Program,
- Project Appraisal Document, Burkina Faso Administration Capacity Building Project, (Report
   No: 299909-BF), Washington, DC: The World Bank, February 17, 2005
- Burkina Faso: IDA Grant H151 BUR, Administrative Capacity Building Project, Amendment
   to the Development Grant Agreement, S.E.M. Lucien Marie Noel Bembamba, Minister of
   Economy and Finance, dated July 8, 2010
- Restructuring Paper, Burkina Faso Administrative Capacity Building Project (Grant No. H151
   BUR), Extension of Closing Date, January 28, 2011 (Report No.: 59736-BF)
- Restructuring Paper, Burkina Faso Administration Capacity Building Project (Grant No.
   H151 BUR), The World Bank, June 15, 2010 (Report No: 53087-BF)
- Burkina Faso, Country Assistance Strategy for the Period FY10-12, The World Bank, August
   10, 2009
- Project Appraisal Document, Burkina Faso Local Government Support Project, The World
   Bank, October 5, 2011 (Report No: 64720-BF)
- Burkina Faso Burkina Faso Administrative Capacity Building Project (P078596),
   Procurement Plan for period July-December 2010
- Burkina Faso Burkina Faso Administrative Capacity Building Project (P078596),
   Procurement Plan for period 2008
- Burkina Faso Burkina Faso Administrative Capacity Building Project (P078596),
   Implementation Status Report (ISR), Numbers 1-11 and corresponding Aide Memoires from
   Supervision Missions.
- Burkina Faso Burkina Faso Administrative Capacity Building Project (P078596), Mid Term
   Review, May 26, 2008
- Burkina Faso Burkina Faso Administrative Capacity Building Project (P078596), Financial
   Management and Procurement Documents
Government of Burkina Faso
Component 1 : MFPRE
- Audit organisationnel des concours de la fonction publique, Rapport Définitif, Juris Services
   KAM et Associes, Aout 2008
- Premier Ministère, Secrétariat General, Plan de formation pour les ministères cibles par le
   PRCA : Actions prioritaires de formation continue pour le MFPRE, Burkina Faso, , BDPA-
   Institut FORHOM, 28 Janvier 2007
- MFPRE, Audit social du Ministère de l’Habitat et de l’Urbanisme, Rapport final, Janvier
   2011. CIDEM international
- MFPRE, Rapport préliminaire étude en vue de l’élaboration d’un tableau de bord de la
   fonction publique avec mécanisme de mise a jour périodique, CIFDE, Juin 2008
- MFPRE, Etude en vue de la finalisation de l’extension du SIGASPE et de la formation des
   informaticiens du SIGASPE, Décentralisation du SIGASPE au niveau des ministères,
   HORINFO Burkina, Février 2007
- MFPRE, Etude en vue de la finalisation de l’extension du SIGASPE et de la formation des
   informaticiens du SIGASPE, Relecture du SIGASPE et Plan de formation des informaticiens
   et des utilisateurs, HORINFO Burkina, Février 2007
Component 2 : MFB
- Plan de Formation Pour Les Ministères Cibles Par Le P.R.C.A : Actions Prioritares de
   Formation Continue Pour Le MFB
- MFB, Direction de l‟Administration et des Finances (DAF), Audit organisationnel de la
   direction de l’administration et des finances du ministère des finances et du budget, Plan
   d’actions, Panaudit Burkina, Mars 2006
- MFB, Direction de l‟Administration et des Finances (DAF), Audit organisationnel de la

                                               41
   direction de l’administration et des finances du ministère des finances et du budget, Rapport
   de Mission, Panaudit Burkina, Juin 2006
- MFB, Direction des Ressources Humaines, Audit organisationnel de la direction des
   ressources humaines du ministère des finances et du budget : analyse situationnelle, Yons
   Associates, Octobre 2005
- Premier Ministère, Secrétariat General, PRCA, Plan de formation pour les ministères cibles
   par le PRCA : Action prioritaires de formation continue pour le MFB, BDPA – Institut
   FORHOM, 28 Janvier 2007
- MATD, Secretariat General, Étude pour l’appui a la réorganisation et au renforcement des
   capacités des structures centrales et déconcentrées du Ministère de l’Administration
   Territoriale et de la Décentralisation (MATD), CIFIDE, Mars 2007
- Audit organisationnel de la direction générale des impôts du ministère des finance et du
   Budget (MFB), Ber Zan Coulibaly et al, 22 Janvier 2007
- Rapport de l’audit organisationnel de la DCCF, Deloitte Burkina S.A., 2006
- MFB, Direction Générale des Impôts, Direction de l‟Informatique et des Statistiques Fiscales,
   Rapport de conception globale du Projet de développement du logiciel de collecte et de
   traitement des statistiques fiscales pour le compte de la direction générale des impôts, Multi
   Consult, Février 2007 et Rapport définitif DGI
- MFB, Méthodologie d’élaboration périodique de l’annuaire des statistiques des finances
   publiques du Burkina Faso, Rapport final, Lannaya Consult, Avril 2007
- MFB, Elaboration d’un modèle macro-économique a long terme pour le Ministère de
   l’économie et du Développement au Burkina Faso, Rolf Meier, 31 janvier 2007
Component 3 : MEDEV
- Elaboration du schema directeurs informatiques pour le Ministère l’Economie et du
   Développement, Période 2007-2011, Medsoft, Février 2, 2007.
- MEDEV, Secretariat General, Direction des Etudes et de la Planification, Proposition d’outils
   d’aménagement du territoire, Initiatives Conseil International, Tome 1 : Etat des lieux, 2007
- MEDEV, Secretariat General, Direction des Etudes et de la Planification, Proposition d’outils
   d’aménagement du territoire, Initiatives Conseil International, Tome 2 : Problématisation et
   préconisations, 2007
- Premier Ministère, Secretariat General, PRCA, Plan de formation pour les ministères cibles
   par le PRCA, Actions prioritaires de formation continue pour le MEDEV 2007-2009, BDPA –
   Institut Forhom, 9 Mars 2007
- Proposition IAP-MALT Restitution (Excel Sheet)
- MFB, Méthodologie d’élaboration périodique de l’annuaire des statistiques des finances
   publiques du Burkina Faso, Rapport final, Lannaya Consult, Avril 2007
- MFB, Secrétariat General, Direction Générale de la Coordination et de l‟Evaluation des
   Investissements, Mise en place d’un réseau informatique pour la gestion de la Banque
   Intégrée des Projets (BIP), Rapport final, Multi Consult, Décembre 2007
- MFB, Secrétariat General, Direction des Etudes et de la Planification, Formulation d’une
   stratégie de soutien du Ministère Charge de la Planification aux Collectivités Territoriales,
   Rapport final
Component 4 : MATD
- MATD, Secrétariat General, Direction des Etudes et de la Planification, Etude sur
   l’identification de l’externalisation des activités du MATD et l’élaboration des procédures de
   leur contractualisation, Rapport préliminaire, Yons Associates, Janvier 2007
- MATD, Secrétariat General, Direction des Etudes et de la Planification, Etude pour l’appui a
   la réorganisation et au renforcement des capacités des structures centrales et déconcentrées
   du Ministère de L’Administration Territoriale et de la Décentralisation (MATD), Cabinet
   d‟Ingénierie Financière et de Développement Economique, Septembre 2007
- Premier Ministère, Secrétariat General, PRCA, Plan de formation pour les ministères cibles
   par le PRCA : Actions prioritaires de formation continue pour le MATD, BDPA – Institut
   Forhom, draft 06 Février 2007
                                                42
-  MATD, Rapport def, Inspections Régionales MATD
-  MATD, Secrétariat General, Direction des Etudes et de la Planification, Etude pour la
   conception d’un programme de renforcement des capacités des collectivités territoriales et sa
   mise en œuvre, Rapport définitif, Bureau d‟Etudes et de Recherche pour le Développement,
   Janvier 2007
- MATD, Etude d’élaboration d’outils de gestion des finances locales, Rapport final, ADERC,
   Aout 2008
- MATD, Secrétariat General, Direction des Etudes et de la Planification, Elaboration des outils
   du suivi évaluation de la décentralisation, Rapport final, Bureau d‟Etudes et de Recherche
   pour le Développement, Mars 2007
- MATD, Secrétariat General, Proposition d’un mécanisme de suivi évaluation du processus de
   mis en œuvre de la décentralisation, Dr. Thomas Holtkamp et al, Juillet 2005
Component 5 : Ministry of Health (MS)
- MS, Secrétariat General, Etude diagnostique et proposition de schema directeur
   d‟aménagement du centre hospitalier de Bobo-Dioulasso (and other districts), 2008
- Premier Ministère, Secrétariat General, Guide pour l’exercice des compétences et la gestion
   des ressources transférées de l’état aux communes dans les domaines de : La Sante,
   L’Enseignement Primaire et L’Alphabétisation et L’Approvisionnement et Eau Potable et
   l’Assainissement, Avril 2010
- MS : Elaboration du schema directeurs informatiques pour le Ministère de la Sante 2007-
   2011, Tome 1 : Bilan de l‟existant et orientations ; Tome II : Esquisse de scenarios du futur
   système, Medsoft, Mars 2007
- Premier Ministère, Secrétariat General, PRCA, Plan de formation pour les ministères cibles
   par le PRCA : Actions prioritaires de formation relatives aux services déconcentres du
   Ministère de la Sante, BDPA – Institut Forhom, 22 Janvier 2007
- Premier Ministère, Secrétariat General, Département de l‟analyse et des études prospectives,
   Etude pour le suivi des dépenses jusqu'à destination pour le compte du Ministère de la Sante,
   Afrique Horizon Développement, Février 2007
Component 6 : Prime Minister’s Office and Other Project Documents
- Premier Ministère, Secrétariat General, PRCA, Plan de formation pour les ministères cibles
   par le PRCA : Actions prioritaires de formation continue pour le MFB, BDPA – Institut
   Forhom, 3 Avril 2007
- Premier Ministère, Secrétariat General, PRCA, Plan de formation pour les ministères cibles
   par le PRCA : Actions de formation portant sur les fonctions transversales, BDPA – Institut
   Forhom, 22 Janvier 2007
- Premier Ministère, Secrétariat General, PRCA, Plan de formation pour les ministères cibles
   par le PRCA : Actions prioritaires de formation relatives aux services déconcentres du
   Ministère de la Sante, BDPA – Institut Forhom, 22 Janvier 2007
- Premier Ministère, Secrétariat General, PRCA, Plan de formation pour les ministères cibles
   par le PRCA : Actions prioritaires de formation continue pour le MATD 2007-2009, BDPA –
   Institut Forhom, 6 Fevrier 2007
- Premier Ministère, Secrétariat General, PRCA, Plan de formation pour les ministères cibles
   par le PRCA : Actions prioritaires de formation continue pour le MEDEV 2007-2009, BDPA
   – Institut Forhom, 9 Mars 2007
- Premier Ministère, Secrétariat General, PRCA, Plan de formation pour les ministères cibles
   par le PRCA : Actions prioritaires de formation continue pour le MFPRE 2007-2009, BDPA
   – Institut Forhom, 28 Janvier 2007
- Premier Ministère, Secrétariat General, PRCA, Structures de formation aptes a accompagner
   les différents ministères, BDPA – Institut Forhom, 3 Avril 2007
- Premier Ministère, Secrétariat General, PRCA, Evaluation des capacités des institutions
   locales de formation en administration/gestion publique, Yons Associates, Mars 2005
- Premier Ministère, Secrétariat General, PRCA, Etude comparative sur les rémunérations dans
   la fonction publique, CIDEM International, Novembre 2010.
                                                43
-   Premier Ministère, Secrétariat General, PRCA, Elaboration d’un nouveau mécanisme de suivi
    évaluation du PRCA et assistance a l’élaboration du premier rapport de suivi évaluation,
    CIDEM International, Septembre 2010
-   Premier Ministère, Secrétariat General, Rapport d‟assistance a l‟élaboration d‟un Programme
    et d‟un Plan d‟actions pour le renforcement des capacités du Secrétariat General du Premier
    Ministère, Deloitte Worldaudit Burkina S.A. Novembre 2007
-   Premier Ministère, Secrétariat General, PRCA, Etude sur la délégation de crédits au niveau
    périphérique : Modalité de mis en ouvre du dispositif de délégation de crédits au niveau local,
    Rapport définitif, Institut d‟Entrainement a l‟Efficacité et d‟Assistance, Novembre 2006
-   Burkina Faso, Strategie de Croissance Acceleree et de Developpement Durable (SCADD)
    2011-2015, Government of Burkina Faso, December 2010.




                                                  44
                                                                                 4°W                                                                       2°W                                                                                         0°                                                           2°E      This map was produced by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             World Bank. The boundaries,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             any other information shown
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             on this map do not imply, on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OUDALAN                                                                                  the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Group, any judgment on the
                                                                                                                                          MALI                                                                                                                                                                               legal status of any territory,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             acceptance of such
                                                     BURKINA FASO                                                                                                                                                                    Gorom                                                                                   boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                              SOUM                                   Gorom

                                                                                                                                           LOROUM                                 Djibo                                                                                                                      NIGER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Dori
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      14°N
                                                                                            To                                                                                                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                           Mopti                                                       a                                                                                            SÉNO                                       Niamey
                                                                                                                          YATENGA                  g                                                                                                                                                       ig




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             er
                                                                                                                                               n               Titao

                                                                                                                                    te             Ouahigouya           BAM                    SANMATENGA
                                                                                                                           a                                                                                                                                           Sebba




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NAMENTENGA
                                                        To
                                                                                                                       Y                                                Kongoussi                                                                                      YAGHA                                                            To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Dosso
                                                        San                                                    SOUROU                                 Gourcy
                                                                                                                                           ZONDOMA                                                                                                  GNAGNA
                                                                                       KOSSI           Tougan                                                                                  Kaya
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Sirba
                               To                                                                                                                       Yako
                               Ségou
                                                                                                                                               PASSORÉ          KOURE-                                                                               Bogandé           KOMONDJARI
                                                                                         Nouna                            Toma                                  WÉOGO                                                                                                                    bi
                                                                                                               NAYALA                                                  Boussé OUBRITENGA                                                                               Gayéri




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ou
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Boulsa




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 or
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ziniaré




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 G
                                                                                                       Dédougou                                        OUAGADOUGOU
                                                                                                                                         Réo       Koudougou                                             GANZOURGOU
                                                                      BANWA                    MOUHOUN                                                                   KADIOGO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           r m a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     G o u




                                                                                                                                                                                                         Vol
                                                                    Solenzo                                                                                                                                        Zorgo                        Koupéla            Fada
                                                                                                                                               BOULKIEMDÉ




                                                                                                                                                                                                             ta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N'Gourma




                                                                                                                                                                                                             Bla
                                                                                                                                                                          Kombissiri                                                KOURITENGA                                                                    Diapaga
                                                                                                                        SANGUIÉ                                                                                                                                                                    TAPOA                                              12°N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 n
                         12°N                                                                                                                                            Vo                                                                                      GOURMA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ch
                                                                                                                                                                            lta      BAZÉGA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   e
                                                                              e




                                                                                                                                                                                   Ro
                                                                            ir
                                                                         No




                                                                                                              Boromo                                                                 ug        ZO                Tenkodogo
                                                                                                                                                                ZIRO                      e
                                                                                                                 BALÉ                                                                               UN       Manga
                                                                         ta




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BOULGOU                   KOULPÉLOGO
                                                                     Vol




                                            KÉNÉDOUGOU                                                                                                     Sapouy                                        DW
                                                                                        Houndé                                                                                                                ÉO                                            Ouargaye     KOMPIENGA
                                                                    HOUET                                                                                                                                          G
                                                                                                 TUI                                                                                                                   O
                                                                                                                                                                                   NAOURI                                                                                    Pama
                 To Bougouni




                                                                                                                   Dano                    SISSILI
                                                      Orodara
                                                                       Bobo-
                                                                                                                 IOBA
                                                                                                                                                           Léo                                     Po                                                                                                   BENIN
                                                                       Dioulasso
                                                                                               Diébougou                                                                                                                                                                                      To                    2°E     To
                  Téna Kourou                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Djougou                       Parakou
                      (747 m)               Sindou                                        BOUGOURIBA

                                                          Banfora
                                       LÉRABA
                                                                  KOMOÉ
                                                                                                   PONI
                                                                                                    Gaoua                                                                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Tamale
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Sokidé
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BURK INA FASO
                                                          Komoé




                                                                                                                           Volta Noire




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PROVINCE CAPITALS
                         10°N
                                                                                                              NOUMBIEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                  Batié                                                                   GHANA
                                                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                                               Bole
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TOGO                                 RIVERS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                                       0   20      40       60      80        100 Kilometers
                                                      CÔTE D'IVOIRE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RAILROADS
SEPTEMBER 2004




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IBRD 33379
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                       0         20          40               60          80 Miles
                                              To
                                                                                                         To
                                            Bouaké
                                                                                                   Koutouba                                                                                                                                                                                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                 4°W                                                                       2°W                                                                                         0°
