Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24292
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-27120; PPFI-P8710)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 5.5 MILLION
(US$8.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
FOR A
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
June 26, 2002
Environment and Social Development Unit / AFC13
Arica Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Franc CFA (FCFA)
At appraisal (June 1994) 530 FCFA = US$ I
US$ I = 744 FCFA at Completion (December 2001)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1  June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABE          National Environmental Agency
AMAE         Municipal Environmental Management Associations
CENATEL      National Center for Remote Sensing
CIDA         Canada International Development Agency
DNA          National Audit Literacy Directorate
EIA          Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP          Environmental Management Project
GASE         Artists Group for the Protection of the Environment
GEF          Global Environment Fund
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDA          International Development Agency
INFRE        National Institute for Training and Research on Education
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
MEAP         Municipal Environmental Action Plan
MEHU         Ministry of Environment, Housing and Urban Development
NEAP         National Environmental Action Plan
NGOs         Non-governmental organizations
OCE          Committee for NGO Consultation and Coordination
PERAC        Public Expenditure Reform Adjustment Credit
PMAE         Municipal Environmental Action Plans
PNGE         National Environmental Management Program
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SISEI        Environmental Information Management and Monitoring System
SNG          Non-Govemmental Structures
UNICEF       United Nations Children's Fund
Vice President:  Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:  Antoinette M. Sayeh
Sector Manager:  Richard Scobey
Task Team Leader:  Remi Kini



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BENIN
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 12
6. Sustainability                                                                     14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      18
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    21
9. Partner Conments                                                                   23
10. Additional Information                                                           26
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  27
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  30
Annex 3. Economnic Costs and Benefits                                                 32
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  33
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 36
MAP NO. IBRD 26567
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.






ProjectID: P000112                                      Project Name: ENV. MANAGEMENT PROJ
Team Leader: Remi Kini                                  TL Unit: AFTES
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: June 26, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: ENV. MANAGEMENT PROJ                         L/C/TFNumber: IDA-27120;
PPFI-P87 10
Country/Department: BENIN                                              Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: VI - Environmental Institutions
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   05/27/93                              Effective: 05/28/95           06/28/96
Appraisal:  06/26/94                                MTR: 06/01/97              04/01/99
Approval: 05/02/95                                Closing: 12/31/99           12/31/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/TBD
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                       Edward V. K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Antoinette M. Saych                      Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager:      Richard G. Scobey                        Cynthia C. Cook
Teamn Leader at ICR:  Remi Kini                               Adolfo Brizzi
ICR Primary Author:  Remi Kini; Jeffrey G. Lewis
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
There is general agreement that the original objectives were valid, and that a focus on
institutional support, development of a regulatory framework and support for capacity building
was appropriate for the development of Benin's environmental management process at that time.



The Staff Appraisal Report (Report # 13608 of April 10th, 1995, paragraph 3.2) proposed
that the project would pursue the main objective of developing a national environmental
management capacity to:
*   conceive, plan and implement policies and programs,
* monitor and enforce legislation,
* strengthen coordination mechanisms,
* develop information systems,
* promote better integration of environmental concerns into sectoral development programs,
* improve awareness, understanding and knowledge of environmental issues for the various
segments of the population, and
* foster integration of environmental considerations in the education system.
The implementation of the project lasted five years from 1996 to 2001. Original closing
date of December 31, 1999 was extended twice (each extension was for 12 months) to December
31, 2001.
3.2 Revised Objective:
There was no revision of the original objective.
3.3 Original Components:
There were four components identified in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), including:
Institutional Strengthening (US$4.5 Million ): This component would support the
environmental management, coordination, planning, enforcement and monitoring capacity of the
Government through the National Environmental Agency (better known by it's French acronym
"ABE" Agence Beninoise pour I 'Environnement) and support decentralized environmental
management.
Regulatory framework and quality control (U$1.7 Million): Activities supported under this
component would include: (i) definition of procedures and guidelines; (ii) monitoring
implementation of a regulatory framework and of an environmental impact assessment policy; (iii)
preparation of contingency plans, monitoring of quality standards and prevention of environmental
risk
Information, Management and Monitoring (U$1.7 Million): Under this component systems
would be established to develop a common architecture to exchange information between
different structures collecting and retrieving information and meaningfully integrate data collected
by various sources with different standards and methods.
Education, Information and Communication (U$1.4 Million): The SAR states that this
component would be implemented at different levels (trainers, joumalists, public officials, NGOs)
to promote public awareness of environmental issues.
-2 -



3.4 Revised Components:
There was no revision of the components. However, during the July 1997 supervision the
Government requested that the project provides support to the preparation and implementation of
local environmental management activities. This activity became a key sub-component of the
institutional strengthening component, and the implementing agency prepared an implementation
manual to be used by local authorities and civil society organizations for the development of
municipal environmental action plans (plans municipaux d'action environnementale-PMAE). The
focus by ABE on the implementation of the municipal action plans was a significant expansion of
the project activities towards the support of local communities of secondary cities. This
expansion was fully justified due to circumstances and opportunity. Furthermore, the
development of the plans and their implementation represent a significant expansion of the
capacity building role of ABE in the face of the forthcoming decentralization of the state
administrative and institutional apparatus.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Quality Assurance Group did not exist at the time of the project preparation, and no
evaluation of the "quality at entry" for the project was performed. The Project design was
appropriate for what was needed at the time. However, the design lacked any monitorable
targets, and there was no logical framework prepared to guide the project implementation. As a
result, the Staff Appraisal Report provided little detail on how the objectives assigned to the
Project would be achieved. In retrospect, the appraisal team was overoptimistic about the time
needed for planning and implementing the project components, since the activities were not
completed despite two extensions of the closing dates of 12 months each.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Because the B6nin Environmental Management Project (EMP) was intended to build the
national capacity for environmental policy making and implementation, some of its outcomes are
yet to materialize. In particular, the effects of the Environmental Information, Education and
Communication component have been very slow to materialize. There are however encouraging
signs on the outcomes of the remaining components. The sunmmary of these outcomes is as
follows:
Institutional Strengthening
*   The National Environmental Agency has developed reliable and good technical capacity in
environmental management and technical assistance to other government and
non-governmental organizations;
*   Thanks to the EMP, Benin has become a country of reference for environmental impact
assessment in West Africa. Delegations from Burkina Faso, Cote d'Ivoire, Niger, Tchad, and
Togo visited the ABE to learn about their experience in developing a framework for EIA;
*   The Municipal Associations for Environmental Action have become viable civil society
organizations that are very active in local environmental planning of secondary cities.
Following the example of the cities supported by the EMP, several secondary cities
established their own Associations with the aim of helping develop environmental
- 3 -



management plans in their localities;
* The EMP supported the creation of small environmental cells in sectoral ministries in order to
help mainstream environmental issues, especially environmental impact assessment into public
investment programs;
* The EMP helped to build capacity of private sector actors (i.e., individual consultants and
consulting firms) in environmental impact assessment. Of the 26 consulting firms trained in
environmental impact assessment, six have become well-established and recognized good
performers in environmental impact assessment.
Regulatory Framework and Quality Control
* Several implementation decrees for implementing the environmental framework law were
prepared and adopted by the parliament;
* Eleven sectoral guidelines for environmental assessment have been prepared;
* ABE helped conduct the environmental impact assessment studies of major public and donors
supported operations, such as the National Park Management and Conservation Program
(World Bank/GEF), the Adjarala Hydropower dam (multi-donor), a sanitary landfill (Canada
CIDA);
* Transport pollution control through the inspection of vehicle and motorcycle emissions is now
conducted routinely. But the effect on air quality is limited because compliance is far from
100% due to weak enforcement capacity (human resources, and monitoring equipment).
Also, the decrease in air pollution by motor vehicle emission can only be achieved through a
combination of policy measures including investment in public transportation and urban road
infrastructure, quality of fuel and vehicle fleet (age), etc.
Environmental Information Management and Monitoring
* The environmental information system has a website containing a large amount of information
on Benin and is now available and used by local and international users (donors, students,
researchers, etc.) in search of background information for project design or thematic studies;
*   ABE was invited twice to intemational gatherings (Uganda and Switzerland) to present its
experience in the design of an environmental information system;
* The constraints analysis and the coastal zone management master plan developed by ABE is
now used as stepping stone for the design of an integrated coastal zone management
(GEF-funded) project.
Environmental Information. Education and Communication
Increasingly, environmental management topics are included in graduation exams of
primary education. The effects of this component on behavior change can only materialize in the
medium to long-run.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The organizational structure of the implementing agency consists of four technical
departments which denomination matches the project components. These technical departments
include (i) the department of institutional strengthening that includes the General Manager's office
and the Department of support to non-govemmental organizations, (ii) the department of
environmental assessment and studies, responsible for the regulatory framework and quality
- 4-



control, (iii) the department of environmental information monitoring and management, and (iv)
the department of environmental information, education and communication.
The task of reporting on component outputs is complicated somewhat by two main
factors. First, the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system in operation during much of the
project life was not very effective. In fact, it was not until 1999 that an M&E system was put in
place. Deficiencies associated with the software that was supposed to establish the link between
physical outputs and financial inputs hindered the functioning of the system. The departure of the
head of the M&E department in early 2000 was the final blow to the functioning of the system. In
the end, each departmnent managed to keep track of its own achievements (physical and financial).
This had two consequences. The first is the existence of several sources of quantitative and
qualitative data on the results and achievements of project implementation. Second, the yearly
achievements could only be known after the publication of annual activity report, thus
constraining the possibility to make timely adjustments to implementation during the course of the
year. The lack of an effective M&E system is certainly a noticeable shortcoming of the
implementation.
Second, there is overlap between the four components. This problem is particularly acute
for the Institutional Strengthening component, to which all Departments have contributed. To a
great extent, the analysis of outputs presented here follows the ABE Department-based "Results"
categories recently identified by the project impact and completion study. The outputs of the four
technical components are described below.
Institutional Strengthening
As mentioned above, all technical departments have undertaken activities aimed at
capacity and institutional strengthening. However, the Department responsible for the
Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) and Local Government Planning played a very
important role in the development and implementation of Municipal Environmental Action Plans
(MEAP), which constitute the major institutional strengthening activities undertaken by the
project The analysis of the achievements for this Institutional Strengthening component is
presented in two parts: (i) Central Capacity Building - where ABE management (Direction
Generale) played a significant role as well as the four technical departments - and (ii) NGO and
local Government Capacity Building component - which was the responsibility of a specific
technical department.
(a)    Central Capacity Building
This sub-component which constitutes a crucial piece of the project work experienced
noticeable cost overruns. These cost overruns were mainly associated with the public works and
construction of the ABE headquarters, and with the operational costs of the preparation of the
municipal environmental action plans.
In order to reinforce the national capacity to implement the project, a number of working
groups and institutions were established or supported by the project. The National Environmental
- 5 -



Agency (ABE) was created in 1995 and has been the implementing agency for the project. ABE
has played a catalytic role in environmental decision-making processes and has spearheaded the
development of an effective environmental agenda for Benin. Undoubtedly, it has made a very
significant contribution to developing national environmental management capacity and to
supporting the implementation and updating of National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP). It
has also helped prepare most of the technical papers and policy briefs supporting the enactment of
new environmental regulations in Benin. More importantly, ABE has spearheaded the work on
the preparation of the national environmental management program that now constitutes the
backbone of the medium-term expenditure framework of the environment directorate of the
Ministry of Environment, Housing and Urban Development (MEHU).
The National Environmental Agency has recruited and maintained staff in most of the
essential posts. However, considerable delays occurred in recruiting an accountant, and in
replacing the head of the Information Management and Monitoring Department after he left the
Agency. ABE staff are characterized by a high level of professional commitment, energy and
ability. This has greatly contributed to the success of the project. They also have good
networking skills which have facilitated the participation of a wide range of partners and
stakeholders in the implementation of the project.
ABE established a number of Technical Working Groups (Groupes de Travail) which
have contributed to the preparation, review and evaluation of activities and programs. These
groups played an important, though indirect, role in inter-sectoral coordination in the area of
environmental management. Members of the groups come together, on a voluntary basis, to carry
out specific technical tasks. They are senior professionals drawn from the public and private
sectors. Although there has been no systematic analysis of the impact of the groups - which,
depending on the task, tend to meet three or four times a year - it is likely that there have been a
number of benefits. These include:
* The provision to ABE of high-quality local knowledge at a modest cost, and a network of
senior technicians and specialists in environmental management,
* The opportunity to mainstream environment concerns in group members' respective sectors
and institutions, and
* The establishment of a non-conflictual forum to discuss and resolve complex, cross-sectoral
issues.
Another set of institutions that have been established are Sectoral Environmental Working
Groups (Cellules). These groups were created in the sectoral ministries to provide the Focal
Points for the discussion of both environmental aspects of the sector's work and inter-sectoral
coordination. They have had varying success. The success of these Cellules in mainstreaming
environmental aspects into the activities of their respective ministries varied with the technical
capacity of the members and the availability of resources needed to support the operating costs
associated with undertaking or monitoring environmental activities. These cellules will play an
important role in helping sectoral investments comply with environmental regulations, especially
the requirements on environmental impact assessment. Other significant institutional support
outputs from this component include training parliamentarians on environmental issues (e.g.,
- 6 -



legislation), and internal and extemnal training of ABE staff.
The Ministry of Environment Habitat and Urban Planning (MEHU) was established in
1992. It is the parent ministry for the project and its implementing agency ABE. After a difficult
start during which the respective roles and responsibilities of the Agency and Ministry needed
clear definition, the ABE is now considered the executive arm of the ministry. There is effective
cooperation between the Ministry and the Agency, and the ministry has received conceptual,
technical and material support from the project. ABE has provided significant support to drafting
the medium-term Strategic Plan for the Ministry for the period of 2002 to 2006, and has financed
the work of 12 environmental police staff who helped ensure compliance with environmental
regulations. These are staff recruited and trained by the MEHU to help enforce environmental
regulations (they are not part of the national police department).
(b)   Support to Non-Government Organizations and Local Government
Developing Partnership with NGOs
ABE undertook a survey of NGOs or Structures Non-Gouvernementales (SNG), as
referred to by ABE in order to identify those more likely to sustain a viable and effective
partnership in environmental management. The results of the survey indicated that among the 300
NGOs supposedly working on environment-related issues, approximately 100 were potentially
viable. Of these, 13 have been selected by the EMP as direct partners in the preparation and
implementation of the local environmental action plans. A capacity building program covering
several themes of local environmental management (e.g., waste, sanitation, potable water supply,
environmental impact assessment, urban forestry, etc.), NGO management, and participatory local
development planning, was prepared for the selected NGOs. A network of environmental NGOs
has been created, the coordinating body of which (OCE) was provided with a computer and office
space by the EMP. OCE has worked with approximately 200 NGOs in various areas, including
planning training sessions, fund raising, and technical assistance. These NGOs engage partially or
fully in different kinds of environmental management activities, as providers of either technical or
financial assistance to local resource users in forestry, fisheries, soil conservation, etc. They also
provide the same type of assistance to community sanitation, water supply, and recreation services
in small towns.
Municipal Environmental Action Plans (MEAPs) for Secondary Towns
By the mid-term review of the project in 1999, the demand for MEAPs was increased
significantly. By mid-2001, plans had been prepared in 23 communes. Implementation has taken
place in 18 communes and resulted in investment in 108 micro-projects that focus mainly on urban
waste, socio-economic infrastructure and natural resource management. In the absence of formal
decentralized governments, local communities created the Associations Municipales d'Action
Environnementale - AMAE to plan and oversee the implementation of local environmental action
plans. By November 2001 fourteen AMAEs had collected their own contribution - amounting to
FCFA 5 million (10% of total funding needed) each - as local counter-part funding to support the
implementation of the MEAPs. The implementation of these local plans was only possible during
this fiscal year if IDA would support the remaining 90% of the investment cost. This contribution
- 7 -



did not materialize due to lack of time, as the 90-day extension of the credit closing date was not
agreed to by the Bank. This situation resulted in a lot of disappointment and frustration from both
the implementing agency and the beneficiary municipal associations.
The Bank decision not to extend the closing date was based on three reasons. First,
closing the credit on the scheduled date would not affect significantly the development objectives
of the project whose focus is on building capacity and supporting the formulation and financing of
pilot local environmental plans. Second, there was indication that the Government could finance
the MEAPs through the national budget, in line with the transition to budget support for the
Ministry of Environment and the other RERAC ministries. Finally, the extension period requested
by the Government did not seem long enough to absorb the resources involved, and there was not
sufficient evidence to show that the municipal associations would be able to handle the
transactions at the required rate with proper accountability.
Regulatory Framework and Quality Control
This component was subject to significant delays. Although drafted in 1995, the basic
framework legislation for environmental management in Benin was not approved until 1999.
Similarly, Environmental Standards and Environmental Audit regulations which had been drafted
in early 1998 were not legally formalized until 2001. However, these delays did not represent
totally lost time as subsidiary legislation and guidelines were prepared during the hiatus. These,
for the most part, were ready by the time the framework law was enacted. Indeed, this
component achieved most of its objectives, including:
* Establishing regulatory guidelines: preparation of nine implementation decrees for the general
environmental law (environmental impact assessment of investment projects, environmental
audits, establishment of sectoral environmental assessment units, air and water quality
standards, etc.), preparation of technical guidelines for environmental impact assessment
(EIA), and guidelines for sectoral ELA;
* Review and clearance of EIA studies from both public and private investors. EIA
requirements are enforced in almost all major investments, and environmental audits for the
key industrial plants including textile, brewing, chemical plants, cotton gin plants, oil mills
have been conducted;
* Training in EIA (project and sector level) and environmental regulation case studies for civil
servants, NGOs, consulting firms, and politicians (parliamentarians).
Information Management and Monitoring
This component was also subject to delays. This delay was due to two factors. The first
is the fact that part of the high-technology equipment that was needed to support the production
of maps and other topographic analytical and data collection tools were never acquired. Although
this acquisition was discussed and promised to the National Geographic Institute during project
preparation, this information for some reason was not included in the Project Document. Due to
an apparent lack of communication between the National Geographic Institute and the
implementing agency, this was not resolved and the needed equipment was not purchased. The
- 8 -



consequence is that the maps produced are of a lesser quality than those that were supposed to be
produced with the appropriate equipment.
The second factor of delay was the lack of clarity and guidance provided to the
implementing agency regarding the technical details of the implementation of this component. At
the time the project began, the development of Environmental Information Systems was a
relatively new area of expertise in the country, and the implementing agency did not have a clear
idea of where to start: types of data to be collected, standards of methods for data collection,
analysis, and interpretation by participating agencies, institutional arrangements for data sharing,
etc. The flexible design of the project that worked well for the other components of the project
was not appropriate for this particular component because of the novelty of the field, and the lack
of local capacity. Unfortunately, there was a deficiency in supervision regarding this component.
Because of these factors, the activities under this component did not start until 1998, that is,
almost two years after the project started. The departure of the key staff of this department has
also slowed progress in this component. Nonetheless, the component achieved substantial results.
Information Dissemination and Use
The framework for the Environmental Information System was completed in 1998 and the
first Information Bulletin published the following year. The Institutional Charter for the
Information Network was also established in 1998, the initial 36 members of the network were
provided with computers. One hundred network members received training in environmental
information management. By 1999 the Environmental Information Management and Monitoring
System (SISEI) had been established, and in 2001 four CD-ROM were produced with
environmental information, maps, and publications.
A major piece of work in this sub-component has been the preparation of a Littoral
Management Plan. The original "White Book" analysis was produced in 2000. This was
followed by development of a series of reports, an atlas and maps, and a draft Littoral
Management Law in 2001. The preparation of the Littoral Management Plan has been a
substantial multi-sectoral, multi-donor operation that could provide inspiration for other such
integrated activities.
Building an Environmental Database and Preparing Environmental Reports
An initial study of the establishment of an environmental database was completed in 1998.
An Environmental Institutional Profile of the country was produced in 1999 and revised in 2001.
Work on the first State of the Environment Report started in September 2000, and is based on 42
indicators which relate to flora and fauna, water and air quality, land and environmental
awareness. The final version of this Report has been ready since early 2002, and the electronic
version will be posted on the network of integrated environmental information system in June
2002.
The environmental information database was established in 2001. Although not complete,
the database includes 1,300 maps listed by both geographic location and theme, a collection of 36
-9-



thematic maps (1:50,000) prepared by CENATEL (Centre National de Teedtection). A
"library" listing some 300,000 reports is also being developed. There is a constant search for new
data and for new network members, and there is an active Users Group that is supported by ABE.
Education, Information and Communication
This component has tackled the challenging task of increasing awareness, changing
mindset and behavior associated with environmental matters. This requires time, skill and
sensitivity. Dramatic results can not be expected in a short time, and it is not always easy to
quantify the output.
Development and Implementation of an Environmental Communication Plan
Work under this sub-component involved several categories of stakeholders. For
example, 367 members of religious groups, 32 artists from the 'Artists Group for the Protection of
the Environment' (GASE) and 163 radio journalists have received training in relevant
environmental issues. A national hymn for the environment "Sauvons notre environnement en
peril" has been written and recorded. There have been more than 160 radio programs broadcast
covering the environment, three 26 minutes documentary films have been produced as well as one
60 minutes video film. In conjunction with UNICEF and the Ministry of Health 5,000 copies of a
pamphlet on children and environmental health has been produced.
Integrating an Environmental Education Package into Education Curricula
Liasing closely with the National Institute for Training and Research on Education
(INFRE), ABE worked to integrate environmental concerns into the primary, secondary and
tertiary education curricula, and into the functional literacy program. It has been more effective at
the primary and functional literacy levels than elsewhere. A Teaching Manuel in French has been
drafted and tested for each of the six years of the national primary education curriculum. Sixty
thousand (60,000) manuals were produced and sent to approximately 2,000 primary schools. In
support of this, some 6,000 education staff - mostly teachers, but also advisors, inspectors and
school directors - have been trained in the use of the Manual. The approach focuses on helping
students understand local environmental problems and learn about simple and practical steps for
solving environmental problems. At the secondary level a very practical "Problem Solving"
approach is being developed in five basic disciplines. Draft Teaching Manuals have been prepared
and will be finalized in the coming year.
Integrating Environmental Concerns into Agricultural Extension
The intention under this sub-component was to ensure that agricultural extension
messages contained appropriate environmental themes to encourage sustainable farming practices.
It was also designed to reinforce the link between the extension worker and the farmer by
addressing environmental management issues. Through this activity a total of 95 Agricultural
Extension Trainers were trained and approximately 200 rural women farmers were trained to train
others in environmental issues associated farming and small scale farm product processing.
-10-



Unfortunately, the completion and impact study conduction by the Borrower did not undertake a
thorough assessment of these activities. Therefore, no information on their impact is available at
this stage.
Integrating Environmental Concems into Functional Literacy
In collaboration with the National Adult Literacy Directorate (DNA), the EMP introduced
environment-related themes into post-literacy reading materials. The framework environmental
legislation has been translated into nine national languages and 45,000 copies distributed. This
has been supported by the training of over 250 literacy field staff. A national competition was
designed to encourage the preparation of reading materials that include environmental themes in
national languages. This has resulted in the preparation of environmental reading materials in 18
national languages, that can be used in post-literacy follow-up. The final version of these materials
will be produced in the coming year.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
No Net Present Value or Economic Rate of Return calculations were undertaken at
appraisal because such an economic evaluation was not appropriate for the types of investments
envisaged.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
No Financial Rate of Return calculation was calculated at appraisal.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The EMP has made a significant contribution to the development of the country's
institutional framework for environmental management This contribution took two forms. The
first form consisted in putting in place a regulatory framework that provides the legal foundation
for initiating and sustaining environmental protection and management activities. The adoption of
the environmental framework law (loi cadre pour l1environnement) in 1998, and the subsequent
preparation and adoption of eleven implementation decrees that specify the enactment and
enforcement of the framework law constitute the main pillars of this legal arsenal.
The second form of contribution to institutional development is the creation and/or
strengthening of organizations that have increased and improved the country's capacity to use
effectively its human and financial resources for the planning and implementation of environmental
management policies and programs. The contribution in this area includes:
* creation of the national environmental agency (ABE) that is now a key player in policy advice
and technical assistance at the national level;
* creation of environmental small cells in sectoral ministries to help mainstream environmental
aspects into sectoral programs;
* creation of thematic working groups (members from the civil service, academia, consulting
firms) to provide technical support to the environmental agency and the Government on
- 1-



specific environmental management issues;
*   creation of a network of municipal environmental associations that are active in developing
action plans, and raising funds for their implementation; and
*   training of a variety of stakeholders in several environmental management themes
(environmental impact assessment, environmental audit, environmental education, sanitation,
etc.).
In general, the impact of capacity building efforts is usually slow to materialize. However,
several indicators show that some changes are underway that would ultimately result in improved
environmental quality. For example, environmental impact assessment is required for all major
private investments that have the potential to generate significant adverse environmental impacts,
environmental audits are conducted for several industrial plants of the capital city, the ministry of
environment launched a campaign to control vehicle emissions, etc.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There was no major factor outside the control of the Government or the implementing
agency that influenced the implementation of the project activities. However, the departuTe of the
head of Technical Departments, namely Monitoring and Evaluation, and Environmental
Information Management and Monitoring slowed the implementation pace of some of the
activities. Also, the consultation with local communities, the establishment of the municipal
associations for environmental actions, and the mobilization of the local counterpart funds (for the
implementation of the local action plans) took much longer than expected.
In particular, the lack of revenue raising powers and a weak revenue base at the local level
delayed the mobilization of the local counterpart funds needed to finance the municipal
environmental management plans. This delay ended up jeopardizing the implementation of these
plans. By the time the local associations made the funding available, the closing date of the credit
was approaching, and IDA could not disburse the necessary contribution without extending the
closing date. Since the extension of the closing date was not granted, most of these plans were
not financed. The fact that the Bank did not approve the extension of the closing date (see para.
4.2) was beyond the control of the Government.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Perhaps the single most important factor in this respect is the fact that the Govemment
was able to recruit highly qualified professionals to staff the imnplementing agency (ABE). The
Director General has been involved with ABE since preparation. He has national and
international recognition as a professional environmentalist and has provided effective leadership
during the implementation of the EMP. The Government has also shown strong political
commitment to the pursuit of the development objectives of the project, and has adopted
environmental programs that will build on the achievements of the EMP after the closing of the
Credit. This will help ensure sustainability of the project achievements. To date (i.e., six months
after the closing of the Project), all the staff have been retained and the next annual budget of the
Ministry of Environment includes adequate provision for the operations of ABE, including
- 12 -



salaries.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The financial management and accounting system of the ABE was not adequate for some
time. It took a while to put in place an effective accounting system, and the skills of the staff
operating the system seemed inadequate. In fact ABE did not recruit a well-qualified accountant
until early 2001. Until then, the accounts were prepared by the financial controller. It is only in
the last two years that there have been unqualified audits. The statements of expense (SOEs)
were all satisfactory and have always been approved without problem. The delay in recruiting a
qualified accountant was due the scarcity of this expertise and to a very competitive local market.
ABE was not able to offer a salary and benefit package that was attractive enough to compete
with other employers.
The amount of the Special Account was too small to allow effective financial
management, and had to be increased during the course of the project implementation.
Also, the recruitment for the replacement of the two department heads who left the
implementing agency was deliberately postponed. Only one position was filled from intemal
reassignment, but the position for head of the monitoring and evaluation unit was never filled.
The main reason for not filling these positions when they became vacant towards the end of the
project was overhead cost control. In view of the end of the project, ABE was worried that high
operating costs would make the transition to national budget support more difficult. The
Borrower proposed a less costly alternative (reassignment of tasks) which, however, has not been
fully effective. The lack of the monitoring and evaluation specialist has hampered the monitoring
and evaluation of the project activities and achievements.
The implementing agency made the deliberate decision that the municipal associations for
environmental action contribute 10% to the financing of the local environmental action plans,
instead of fmancing the entirety of the plans from the IDA credit This decision was based on the
necessity to help develop the revenue raising capacity of local communities in preparation for the
decentralization process. This otherwise commendable requirement contributed to delaying the
implementation of these plans, because most municipal associations took too long to mobilize
their counterpart funds.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
According to ABE data, there was a cost overrun for the whole project with final costs
amounting to 119% of estimated costs. There was a substantial overrun (over six times as much
as the initial cost) on the costs of constructing the Agency headquarters (FCFA 370,882,225
instead of the expected FCFA 60,000,000) and operating costs (three times as much as the
anticipated costs at appraisal). There are at least three reasons for the cost overrun in the
construction of the Agency's headquarters. First, the Government initially allocated a plot that
was located in a well developed administrative center for which the Government had building
standards that entailed relatively high engineering and construction costs. Second, for reasons
beyond the project control, the Government withdrew the offer and allocated a new plot in a more
- 13-



remote part of the city. This new location required substantial earth works to make the plot
suitable for construction. Finally, there is some evidence that the costs of construction were
underestimated at appraisal. The overrun in operating costs was due to the support provided to
the AMAEs (training, equipment, and investment) because the demand for local environmental
plans was higher than expected.
ABE deliberately limited the use of international consultants, and preferred to rely on local
consultants for most of the outsourced work. This resulted in significant savings. During
implementation the annual rate of disbursements from the IDA Credit grew from 10% in Year 1
to 60% in Year 4. As the Credit was subsequently extended for two years, there are no appraisal
forecasts to support a similar analysis for the last two years. The project used approximately
87.0% of the IDA Credit.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project is "likely ". By providing for the basic right of all to a
clean environment, the 1990 Benin Constitution established the policy and legal foundation for
environmental management in the country. The EMP provided the main vehicle for delivering on
these promises. In fact, the components of the project were designed in such a way that they
address the key pillars of effective environmental management: (i) regulatory framework and
quality control, (ii) environmental information management and monitoring, (iii) education,
information and communication, and (iv) capacity building. Changing public awareness and
behavior toward the environment and natural resources takes time, and it might be too soon to
ascertain the extent to which the project has had a lasting impact on these aspects. However, the
EMP has initiated activities and processes that are likely to endure and bring about improvement
in environmental quality. Following are the elements that support the strong likelihood of the
sustainabiity of the project:
*   Essential tools for effective environmental management, including a general legal
framework and a set of regulations are in place and are currently used by the Government.
For example environmental impact assessment requirements have become an accepted tool
for investment planning, and air pollution control through the monitoring of vehicle
emissions is enforced. Also, several small cells for environmental assessment are
established in key sectoral ministries to support compliance with environmental impact
assessment;
*   A National Environmental Management Program has been prepared as a follow-up to the
EMP. This national program is built around the main axes of the EMP, and constitutes a
major piece in the medium-term expenditure framework of the Ministry of Environment;
*   The EMP and other bilateral donors have contributed to the development of
environmental management capacity at national and local levels - and in both public and
private sectors;
- 14 -



* The demand for investment in local environmental management plans is high in
municipalities, and the AMAEs have shown that they can mobilize local resources to
finance part of these investments. The revenue raising capacity of municipalities will
increase when the full administrative and fiscal decentralization policy is implemented.
Along with the support of the AMAEs, this will increase the local capacity to invest in
improved environmental quality and services;
*   Institutional development geared toward assuring the transition from a temporary project
implementation unit to a line organization of the Ministry of Environment was part of the
project design and implementation. ABE is now an established organization and partner
for the implementation of the country's strategic programs for environmental management.
There will continue to be a demand for the leadership, technical and advisory services for
environmental management in Benin, and ABE has the right technical and institutional
capacity to meet this demand, though the agency may need to upgrade its skills in policy
analysis; and
*   In order to prepare for the end of the project, the Government started to increase
budgetary resource allocations to ABE during the last two years of the project life. The
Agency's operations are continuing six months after the closing of the credit, and the work
for the preparation of the Agency budget for fiscal year 2003 has already started.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Unlike many IDA investments in environmental management in West Africa of the period,
the B6nin Environmental Management Project was not designed as an initial phase of a long-term
IDA-supported investment program in environmental management. It was a "one-shot"
investment designed to establish capacity and enable the country to move forward according to its
own plans and programs. Consequently, it was indispensable to prepare an "exit strategy" that
clearly identifies and meets the requirements for sustaining the externally-funded activities when
the IDA credit closes.
The shift of Bank support toward programmatic lending and public expenditure reforms in
Benin provided a good opportunity to prepare the "exit strategy". Indeed, the Ministry of
Environment, Housing and Urban Affairs (MEHUJ) volunteered to be among the five ministries
that embarked on far reaching reforms of the public expenditure system supported by the Bank.
The lending instrument used for this support is the Public Expenditure Reform Adjustment Credit
(PERAC). In addition to fiduciary aspects (procurement, financial management), the reforms aim
mainly at: (i) improving budget preparation and execution by emphasizing performance budgeting
and strategic resource allocation, and (ii) strengthening the administrative/institutional capacity for
more efficient and timely budget execution and reporting.
Under the PERAC, MEHU has focused its efforts, among other things, on:
* Defining new strategic policy objectives, and revising of the NEAP;
* Setting priorities and reallocating resources to strategic policies and programs (rather than
on budget inputs by economic category);
- 15 -



* Defining a unified, reliable and predictable medium-term sector resource envelop (based
on the macro-economic framework) for priority programs.
The reforms led to the preparation of a National Environmental Management Program
(PNGE) that consolidates and streamlines all publicly funded operations, including
externally-supported projects. This program has seven components, including: (i) Development
of environmental management tools, (ii) Decentralized environmental management plans
(municipalities), (iii) Integrated coastal zone management, (iv) Environmental information,
education, and communication, (v) Integrated solid waste management in three urban areas, (vi)
Control of transport-related air pollution, and (vii) Implementation of global environment
conventions.
These seven sub-programs are the focus of the Ministry's five-year development plan
(2002-2006), and constitute the core of the medium-term expenditure framework of the
environment department. Interestingly, four (sub-programs i-iv) of the seven sub-programs
constitute direct follow-up to the EMP. Clearly, the involvement of the MEHU in the public
expenditure reforms allowed a smooth transition from IDA-funded environmental management
activities to ones that are mainstreamed into the government's core programs financed by the
national budget.
The mainstreaming of the EMP activities was matched by an increase in the resource
transfers from the national budget to the implementing agency (i.e., ABE). During the two years
preceding the closing of the IDA credit, the Government doubled its contributions (counterpart
funds) to the investment and operating costs of ABE, from CFA Francs 400 million in 2000 to
CFA Francs 800 million in 2001.
In fact, the Government started to prepare for the transition early in project
implementation. Counterpart resources more than doubled after the first year of the EMP, from
CFA Francs 30 million in 1996 to 70 million in 1997. This level of contribution was maintained in
1998 and 1999 before increasing to CFA Francs 400 million 2000, and CFA Francs 800 million in
2001. For fiscal year 2002 the contributions decreased to CFA Francs 650 million. However,
this decrease was accompanied by a transfer of some activities from ABE to other departments of
the MEHU. These budgetary resource allocations ensured the continuity of the activities
undertaken under the EMP.
6.3   Remaining challenges
A number of challenges remain that will need to be addressed if the mainstreaming of the
project activities into the Ministry's core investment programs - and in fact the country's
environmental management program-- is to achieve the desired performance. Three challenges
are worth mentioning here.
(a) Adequate Funding for ABE
The budgetary allocations mentioned above are substantial and constitute a good indicator
of the political will of the Government to pursue the activities initiated with the IDA support.
-16 -



However, in the absence of additional funding (external or national budget), some of the activities
currently implemented by ABE will need to be curtailed. ABE spending for 2001 amounted to
about CFA Francs 2 billion. While this was an exceptional year (high spending on durable goods
and equipment), the average investment and operating costs under normal circumstances are likely
to be in the neighborhood of CFA Francs 1.3 billion, all other things being equal. This amount is
more than double the national budget resources allocated to ABE in 2002.
In the long-run, ABE will need to find ways to mobilize resources from other sources to
supplement transfers from the national budget. Discussions are underway to allow the agency to
receive direct payments for advisory services and technical assistance provided in the area of
environmental impact assessment and review. Concomitantly, the Agency may also have to find
ways to (i) reduce its operating costs, (ii) improve planning and forecasting, and (iii) set up a
more effective system for tracking resource management and outputs.
(b) Environmental Enforcement and Compliance
Environmental degradation and pollution are usually the result of production and
consumption activities by a wide variety of actors who tend to ignore the negative externalities of
their actions. They have every incentive to ignore these externalities because intemalizing them
would increase their consumption or production costs (private costs), whereas the benefits would
accrue to society as a whole (social benefits). It is the disconnect between private and social costs
(or benefits) that makes it difficult to curb environmental pollution and degradation without
resorting to specific tools aiming at aligning the behavior of individual resource users with the
collective interest. To a significant extent, the EMP succeeded in creating momentum for
enforcing the regulations on environmental impact assessment. But much remains to be done to
ensure compliance with all the decrees enacted to support the implementation of the
environmental framework law.
Adopting laws, conducting environmental audits, providing training, undertaking
environmental information, education, and communication, and the like will not suffice to induce
widespread environmental stewardship. In order to have a lasting impact, the EMP achievements
will need to be built upon and complemented by an effective environmental enforcement and
compliance framework that ensures that the regulations, and the environmental education,
information and communication services provided are widely used by individuals and communities
to protect themselves and others from negative and harmful environmental externalities. It will be
difficult to move beyond the progress already achieved under the EM without putting in place
credible enforcement and compliance mechanisms. Such mechanisms may consist both of
command-and-control tools, as well as economic instruments (pollution charges, subsidies, etc.).
The first component of the national environmental management program (follow-up to the EMP)
deals with "the development of environmental management tools". It is important that this
component develop activities that focus on the enforcing the regulations that exist (air and water
standards, environmental impact assessment), rather than enacting new laws.
- 17 -



(c) Autonomy
ABE was established by an Act of Parliament. This means that its status can only be
changed through an amendment to the existing Act. This institutional standing has assured the
Agency legally supported autonomy, which has been essential to its effective operation. To a
significant extent, the Agency also benefitted from sufficient political support in its operations.
To some extent, the Agency also managed to secure significant political support, especially, in
instances where this support was needed to ensure private investors' compliance with
environmental assessment requirements. In order for the Agency to continue to be effective in its
operations, it is important that its financial and institutional autonomy be assured in the long-run.
This autonomy is particularly important for the impartial enforcement of environmental
regulations, in particular environmental impact assessment, especially in the public sector.
Financial autonomy will also allow the Agency to maintain its ability to respond quickly to
operational needs, and its flexible planning methods. These advantages will be lost if the Agency
has to rely on unpredictable resource flows and untimely changes in resource allocation during
budget execution, as has been the case during the first year that followed the closing of the
project.
(d) Decentralization
The EMP has allowed ABE to initiate a process of decentralized environmental
management with some success. Through the development of the Municipal Environment
Management Action Plans (PMAE) and the establishment of Municipal Environmental
Management Associations (AMAE), the project has helped put in place useful environmental
management tools and viable local institutions that should be able to help integrate environmental
concerns into community-based planning and implementation at the local level.
However, decentralized environmental management presents very substantial challenges.
Such challenges are even greater in the case of Benin because of the long tradition of highly
centralized institutions and decision-making processes. An additional challenge is the weak
capacity of local institutions in development planning in general, and environmental management
in particular. The technical and institutional sustainability of the project's achievements in local
environmental management will depend on the degree of freedom in administrative and financial
matters that the national decentralization policy framework provides to local governments. It will
also depend on the efficiency and degree of technical support that ABE and other central agencies
provide to local governments in the area of environmental management.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance during project identification and preparation was satisfactory. The
project concept was derived from the country's National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP).
Along with other donors, the Bank provided strong support to the country in preparing the NEAP
that was completed in 1993. The Government then requested Bank help in implementing the
newly developed environmental action plan. The Environmental Management Project (EMP) was
- 18 -



conceived as one of three operations for channelling IDA support to the implementation of the
NEAP. The other two were intended to support development in the forestry sector and improve
management of the National Parks. Both developed as multi-donor investment operations with
the Bank participation.
The Benin EMP was prepared at a time when the World Bank was supporting a series of
national projects to help the implementation of NEAPs. However, unlike a number of other
IDA-supported projects which aimed to implement ambitious environmental management
programs, it was agreed that the B6nin EMP would focus on capacity building. The preparation
of the EMP followed the effective participatory process and stakeholder analysis that underpinned
the preparation of the NEAP. It also relied on many of the technical studies that supported the
preparation of the NEAP.
The Bank's performance at appraisal was satisfactory, and the appraisal team had a skill
mix that was adequate for the task at hand, including a natural resource economist, an institutional
and legal specialist, a specialist in environmental education, a specialist in environmental
information systems, and the head of a regional environmental NGO, in addition to the mission
leader. There was adequate coverage of most key appraisal areas, although in retrospect bringing
in a specialist in financial management would had added value to the output of the appraisal
mission. With insight, it also seems that much more attention should have been paid to the best
way to measure implementation progress and the impact of the project Similarly, the
Environmental Information Management and Monitoring component should have received more
input and guidance at this early stage. Finally, the appraisal team was overoptimistic about the
time needed to implement the project. Even with two extensions of the closing date the
disbursement rate remained at 87%.
7.2 Supervision:
The supervision of the project has been satisfactory. In addition to visits from the Bank
headquarters, the project was supervised by a senior Bank staff member in the Country Office.
The level of technical input was substantial, and appreciated by the implementing agency. The
project supervision team also reacted adequately and quickly to the request of the Borrower to
expand the activities on the preparation of local environmental action plans. It supported the
technical guidelines for the preparation of these plans and reallocated the project funds to meet
the need of this new activity.
There has been a high turnover of Task Managers (four in six years), and at times, this
created some challenges for ABE management as there were changes in style and priorities in the
management of tasks. There were also some delays in providing non-objections, especially on
procurement. Data presented by the Agency indicated that 64% of requests were approved within
four weeks, but 36% of requests required between four and eight weeks before a reply was
received. It should be mentioned, however, that these durations include the time spent in
providing comments and guidance to the Borrower after the Bank received the first request.
Finally, the technical input from supervision was not adequate on monitoring and evaluation, and
on the Environmental Information Management and Monitoring component. This weakness
affected the performance of these components, especially monitoring and evaluation.
-19 -



7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
The overall Bank performance was satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during the preparation of the project was highly satisfactory.
There was ample and continued participation not only from the Government agencies, but also
from the civil society represented by various categories of stakeholders. This level of high quality
participation was due in part to the fact that the preparation of the project benefitted greatly from
the momentum generated by the NEAP process. The NEAP was adopted by the Government in
1993, and the project was appraised two years later. One of the key Government staff members
who led the formulation of the NEAP also spearheaded the project preparation, and later became
the head of the national environmental agency (ABE) that implemented the project. It should be
mentioned, however, that while the preparation process was highly participatory, the planning of
the technically complex component of Environmental Information Management was strongly
driven by World Bank staff due to lack of national capacity in this field.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance was satisfactory, though there were problems
with substantial delays in enacting legislation and an expensive delay in allocating land for the
construction of the ABE building. There was also some initial resistance to the autonomy of
ABE, but this has been overcome, and there appears to be an effective interaction between the
parent Ministry and the Agency.
Although delayed, the laws and regulations which have been enacted by the government
under this project have provided an effective legislative framework for future environmental
management in Benin. This is a significant achievement. The Government performance was
outstanding regarding the provision of counterpart funding. Indeed, the contribution of the
national budget to the project operations increased from CFA Francs 30 million in 1996 to CFA
Francs 850 million in 2001. This increasing support was made to prepare the Government to take
over the financing of ABE (implementing agency) operations at the end of the project.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The overall performance of the implementing agency is satisfactory. The dedication and
enthusiasm of ABE staff is impressive and has certainly contributed to the implementation results.
It should be noted however that the departure of the head of the Monitoring and Evaluation
Department has impeded the establishment and functioning of a unique system for monitoring the
project activities and performance.
The institutional autonomy (budget and contractual status of the staff) of the ABE,
coupled with a flexible annual planning system and the creativity of ABE personnel, has enabled it
to develop new ideas and explore opportunities. This has been important in establishing a system
- 20 -



(formerly a project, but now evolving into a program) which is responsive to the needs of a range
of stakeholders. This has resulted in a significant level of awareness of, and support for, improved
environmental management in the country.
ABE has established a clear position as an important national leader in the field of
environmental management. Its advice and services are increasingly being sought and, with the
substantial help of the project, ABE has become a focal point for environmental management
activity in Benin.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Based on the reasons given above, the Borrower's overall performance was satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
A number of important lessons have emerged from the Environment Management Project:
8.1   Over-optimistic Planning
Although the main focus of the project was on capacity building, and project design was
as simple as possible, expectations were overoptimistic. Even with an extension of two years,
approximately US$ 1.0 million of the credit was undisbursed at closure. Disbursement rates were
particularly low during the early years of the project (10% of anticipated levels for the first year).
This low disbursement rate at start-up seems to be a typical problem with capacity building
projects. This will need to be factored into future project preparation.
8.2   Flexible Planning
The Staff Appraisal Report defines the objectives and the structure of the project, but
provides little detail on exactly what would be done and what results might be expected. While
this complicates somewhat the process of ex-post evaluation, it has given the implementing
agency tremendous flexibility in the development of its work program. In the hands of wise and
experienced project staff, such flexibility can be used to maximize the project's response to local
needs, unexpected opportunities and changing circumstances. Fortunately, this has been a
strength of the project; but the strategy also carries a significant risk should project staff not be
able to meet the challenge.
8.3   Institutional Autonomy and Institutional Development
The framework legislation has ensured the institutional autonomy of the national
environmental agency (ABE). Both the creation of the agency and its autonomy were
recommended by the Government in order to give this organization enough powers to intervene in
the environmental matters of any ministry or sector of the economy. The autonomy of the
Agency, which is based on separate budget allocations and specific contractual arrangements for
the staff (not part of the civil service) was seen as particularly important for ensuring compliance
with the requirements of environmental impact assessment. During implementation, this
autonomy has been important in safeguarding the project against untimely political interference,
-21 -



and ensuring an effective and quick response to operational needs from the ministries and from
local government bodies.
In particular, financial autonomy allowed the Agency to react quickly to demands from
both the Government and other actors. Above all, it allowed a speedy implementation of annual
work programs. AGETUR (Benin Agency for Public Works) which enjoys the same level of
autonomy also shows the same degree of efficacy. These are no new lessons, but the experience
with the Benin EMP reinforces the significant advantages of this kind of institutional arrangement
Four main reasons underpin the good performance of these types of agencies in Benin and
elsewhere: (i) higher salary, (ii) contractual (as opposed to civil service) staff, (iii) clearly defined
outputs and accountability for staff, and (iv) easily enforceable penalties and rewards for staff
performance.
8.4   Partnerships through participation
ABE has developed an effective informal approach to coordination between sectors on
environmental issues. The Agency was initially concerned that the establishment of formal
coordination structures (arguably the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment anyway)
would not have desired impact as sectoral ministries would not want "to be coordinated" by a
peer institution.
The result is a series of mainly informal structures, gathered around ABE, which tackle
specific environmental issues, but which do not directly address inter-sectoral coordination. This
system depends more on professional interest and inherent goodwill than on rigid rules and
regulations. This approach seems to have worked, but it is one that depends as much on mindset
and leadership of the participants as on institutions.
The lesson here is that inter-sectoral coordination can be achieved through indirect means.
In this particular case, the leadership and networking skills of the ABE staff and management
were instrumental in setting up a truly participatory process whereby other institutions and sectors
intervened in the implementation of the EMP, and brought the results to bear on their own sectors
of activity. Though informal, this consultative and participatory process was very helpful during
the preparation of the national environnmental management program, and the updating of the
NEAP.
8.5   Decentralization of environmental management
Benin is embarking on an ambitious decentralization program. This presents many
challenges, a major one being the limited capacity of local actors to manage development
programs. ABE has demonstrated how pro-active and participatory engagement in local
environmental management and planning can help integrate priority environmental concerns into
local capacity building and development agenda. In the absence of a formal decentralized
government system, ABE successfully contributed to the development of the capacity and local
constituency necessary to support the effective management of local environmental resources by
local actors.
-22-



The mobilization and engagement of local stakeholders was a long process which resulted
in some delay in the implementation schedule. But this process resulted in truly demand-driven
local environmental management plans for the implementation of which local populations
contributed financial resources. Other municipalities learned from those who benefited from the
EMP, and developed their own local environmental plans, often with very limited support from
the project. This local level planning process can be applied to other sub-Saharan countries where
fast-growing secondary towns are facing increasing challenges posed by the rapid deterioration of
environmental quality and services.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The implementing agency commissioned a client survey and impact study of the project
activities. The following comments draw heavily on the results of this study that was completed
in 2001. These comments evolve around three main themes: (i) implementation and overall
achievements of the project, (ii) performance of the parties involved, and (iii) recommendations of
measures to sustain the achievements of the project.
(i) Achievements of the Project
The project implementation was satisfactory and the main objectives have been achieved.
Three main factors contributed to the success of the project, including (a) the strengthening of the
institutional and technical capacity of the national environmental agency (ABE), (b) political will
and support from high level political authorities, and (c) administrative and financial autonomy of
ABE. The implementation of all four components of he project was satisfactory and the key
results are as follows:
* The technical capacity of national institutions and a large number of NGOs, consulting firms,
and individuals has been improved in different areas of environmental management;
* The national environmental agency is equipped with competent staff who helped deliver high
quality services, training, and technical assistance;
* The development of municipal environmental action plans was a very important initiative that
helped develop the management and service delivery capacity of secondary cities as they
prepare for a full fledge decentralization process;
* Although their final impact is slow to materialize, the education, information and
communication activities reached a large number of stakeholders and social groups; and
* Environmental impact assessment is now part of the planning process of major investments.
(ii) Performance of Intervening Parties
Government: The Government showed strong support to the project, especially through
the contribution of counterpart funds. Indeed, the contributions far exceeded the amounts
originally planned for. The low turnover of the staff of the key institutions involved in the
implementation of the project also helped to shield the activities against unnecessary disruptions.
However, the long delays in the adoption of the environmental framework law (1999 instead of
-23 -



1997 as originally planned) and associated decrees hurt the timely completion of some activities.
Overall, the performance of the Government is fairly satisfactory.
The World Bank: The World Bank provided invaluable technical and financial assistance,
and the good relationship between the Government and the Bank was much appreciated.
However, delays in obtaining non-objection were detrimental in completing some activities in a
timely fashion. The delays were particularly long for non-objection related to procurement of
goods and services. Overall, the World Bank performance is fairly satisfactory.
The Implementing Agency. The good division of labor, the good qualification and skills
mix of the staff, and the participatory approach used in the planning and implementation of field
activities assured a satisfactory performance of the implementing agency. However, the risk of
low participation of the members of the Technical Working Groups was underestimated. Also,
the failure to implement the monitoring and evaluation framework developed in 1999 was
detrimental to the effective monitoring and evaluation of project activities.
NGOs: In general, NGOs contribution to the implementation of the project activities is
satisfactory. The aim of their involvement in the project was to help create local expertise and
constituency for effective environmental management at the local level. However, the lack of
financial resources and logistics was a serious handicap to using them as efficient intermediary for
interventions.
Local Government Entities: Local populations were actively involved in the formulation
of municipal environmental action plans (PMAEs). In the absence of any formal local government
and service delivery units, they created the municipal associations for environmental action that
spearheaded the formulation of the PMAEs. The executive members of the AMAEs benefited
from training in local development planning. They prepared three-year development plans with
priority actions in the area of environmental management. The project supported the preparation
of these plans through technical assistance, but could not support their implementation due to
shortage of financial resources. In general, the AMAEs lack strong skills in small contract
management for works, which created delays in the implementation of some activities. Problems
with the transparent management and allocation of the financial resources were also recorded in
some AMAEs.
(iii) Recommendations for sustaining the achievements of the Project
* Pursue the institutional strengthening of ABE in the following areas: (i) recruit junior level
staff to assist the heads of the technical departments, (ii) continue training of ABE staff in
order to update their knowledge, (iii) establish an effective monitoring and evaluation system,
and (iv) in order to maximize the synergy between the seven components of the National
Environmental Management Program, re-evaluate the institutional framework for its
implementation;
* Increase the support to the NGOs and the AMAE, especially training aiming at developing
their skills for managing development interventions at the local level. Expand the formulation
- 24 -



of local environmental action plans to other municipalities;
*   Speed up the decentralization process in order to empower local populations for a more
effective implementation of local environmental management plans;
*   Invest in the enforcement of environmental laws and regulations by increasing the number of
environmental police staff, and providing them with effective means for interventions
(operating costs and equipment).
(b) Cofinanciers:
There were no co-financiers involved in EMP.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Communities: The partnership between the project and communities in education,
functional literacy and municipal environmental action plans has been very much appreciated by
the beneficiaries. However, the inability of ABE to secure funding for the implementation of the
Municipal Action Plans in 2001 seems to have done substantial damage to the reputation of the
agency. It is not possible to judge at the moment whether this will also impact on local-level
interest in future initiatives in collaborative environmental management.
NGOs: NGOs are generally satisfied with the project, as they have benefited from a range
of supportive activities and equipment. Some NGOs believe that they should have been more
involved in the planning process of the EMP, but they appreciate the opportunity for dialogue
provided by OCE which is physically situated in the ABE's premises.
Private Sector: The project interacted with two main categories of private sector actors
including (i) individual consultants, or consulting firms, and (ii) operators of industrial plants.
Local consultants and consulting firms were very pleased about the training they received from
the project, and the business opportunities provided by the project. These opportunities were
increased by the fact that the implementing agency decided to get most of the work originally
destined for international consultants done by local consultants. Based on the framework
legislation and the supporting regulations, the project conducted pilot environmental audits for a
few industrial plants (textile, oil mills, cotton gin plants, etc.). The management and staff of these
plants appreciated the hands-on training they received in environmental audits and the formulation
of plant environmental management systems. However, some raised questions about the potential
costs of complying with the new regulations, and their likely impacts on the competitiveness.
Public Sector: The response from many public sector partners has been positive -
especially from the sector where EMP has made specific investments, or supported training
(Ministry of Energy, Ministry of Transport, and Ministry of Environment).
Donors: Donors interested in environmental management, but not directly involved with
ABE appreciated the work of the project. However, some donors expressed concern about
continued lack of clarity between the roles of ABE and the Ministry of Environment. The
-25-



credibility of ABE will enhance the possibility of future donor support for the National
Environmental Management Program.
10. Additional Information
No additional information is available.
-26-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
1. Institutional Strengthening.      The Ministry of environment is better  Thanks to the EMP Benin has become a
equlpped with skal to ensure better  country of reference for environmental bipact
envrnmental management               assessment In West Africa. Delegations
from Burkina Faso, Cote d lvore, Niger,
Tchad, and Togo visited the ABE to leam
from their experience In this ama.
As a result of Its acive role, Benin hosted the
6th Intemational Conference of Franrophone
environmental Impact assessment
specaiaists. The head of ABE was nominated
chairman of the Intematbonal Associatbon of
Francophone Envronmental Impact
Assessment Specalists.
ABE was contracted by the Inter-State
Schools for Rural Engineers (EIER) located
In Ouagadougou. Burkina Faso to develop a
cuniculum on local environmental
management
Of the 26 consulting firms trained by the
EMP on environmental Impact assessment,
sbK are now widey reognized are good
performers and service providers in
environmental Impact assessment.
2. Regulatory Franework and Quality Contro EMP Is helping the Govemment establish  Environmental Impact assessment
and enforce standards In key environmental requbements are followed by al private
management areas                     operators in cases where investments have a
potential for generating noticeable adverse
environmental effects.
ABE conducted environmental Impact studies
for ma,or donor-funded projects including a
sanitary landfill financed by Canada CIDA,
Adjraba dam by the World Bank, and the
natonal parks program (World Bank/GEF.
At least two operatons by pdvate investors
were stopped by ABE because of failure to
comply with the EIA requirements.
Transport pollution control Is now monitored
by the Government to ensure compliance
with emission standards.
Information Management and Monitoring  EMP is sowiy develpIng a data and  The environmental Informaton system
Informabon base that will help the   website containing a large amount of
Government to better plan and monitor  infoffnaon on Benin Is now available and
environmental management acbvties and  used by local and international partners,
outcomes.                            students In search for background
Information for project design and sector
work In Benin.
The constraint analysis and coastal zone
management plan designed by EMP is now
used as a stepping stone for the design of
the GEF-supported integrated coasal zone
management project.
ABE was Invited to Uganda and Switzerland
in 2001 to make presentations in two
intemational workshops on its experience
-27-



with setting up an environmental information
system.
Education, Informaton and Comnunication  Meaningful change in the behavior of natural Increasingly, environmental management
and environmental resource users wil take  topics are present in graduation exams of
time to develop                      pnrTary education.
Output Indicators:
. E     al dts   it are                   Prot:;Med in tut            --       Aalt.ab       EsUlma.t
1. Environrnental Audits, Ath agreed noffns  Draft decret" has been prepared - expected  Envionmnental audts law signed and enacted
and standards, Instituted and systemabtially to be passed by early 2001.  in June 2001. Nine other implementaton
used.                                                                     decrees of the national environmental law
have been prepared and adopted by
parliament.
2. Directives for Environmental Impact  Sectoral guidelines for ELA have been  Sectoral guidelnes for environmental impad
Analysis established, ElAs undertaken as  prepared and published, and sectoral EIA  assessment prepared, and sectoral EA units
necessary and results evakiated.     units have been established in key ministries operational in key ministries (Transport,
(e.g. Transport).                    Mining, and Decentralization).
3. Sectoral capacity for ELA reinforced  The prooess of the "groupes de travail" has  Forty EA specialists trained to support
helped involve a large number of people and  sectoral EA units. Eleven sectoral guidelines
contributed to develop capacity.     for EA have been prepared. OverafU, 60 EA
for investment (public and private) projects at
the national level have been revieed.
4. Sectoral Environmental Emergency Plans Sectorat Environmental Emergency Plans  Emergency and disaster preparedness plans
established.                         prepared.                            prepared for the main cities.
5. Standard environmental nomenclature and Implementation decree signed in June 2001. Decrees related to air, water quality
norms established, diffused and applied.                                  standards, and noise pollution have been
prepared and adopted.
6. Periodic Environmental Reports prepared. The first state of the Environmental Report is First state of the environment (SOE) report
being finalized as part of setting up the EIS  published in 2002. Indude 42 indicators to be
(Envionmental Information System).   updated every five years.
7. A Directory of Environmental Capacity  Done as part of EIS.            The EIS has a website
estabflished.                                                             (www.sisei.netinationauxibenin) containing
the directory of all the rainees of the ABE and
other experts and insbtutions working on
environmental issues in the country. A
network of thirty seven national institutons
contribute/share date to this site. Site also
contained maps and publications on
environment in Benin.
8. NGO training needs identified.    Part of EIS network.                  NGO training needs assessed in
collaboration with the coordinating body OCE
of environment NGOs in Benin. Training on
ten environmental themnes.
9. NGOs included in national and local  Yes (about 300 NGOs).             Survey identified about 300 NGOs involved
environmental discussions.                                                 partially or filly into environmental
management.
10. NGOs activy involved in environmental Implementation of municpal environmental  Not done due to lack of tinme. Local financial
extension activities.                rnanagement plans done by NGOs.      contributions mobilized.
11. Environmnental Action Plans estabished  Six done - implementation under way.  At least 23 municipal environmental action
for some 30 towns.                                                        plans prepared.
12. Environmental Comrunicabon Plan  Plan adopted.                        Sixteen MOUs with public and private media
prepared.                                                                 operators for environmental oommunication
-28 -



activities prepared and signed. Two vkieo
prepared. One hundred and sbxty two radio
broadcast programs. Ninety-five newspaper
artides published In 8 different newspapers.
An associatlon of joumalist for envimnmental
infomiaton created.
13. Environmental Training Plan Prepared.  Implamenttion in progress.     Six environmentl modules for primary
education tested In 150 schools and adopted
In 4000 schools where 60,000 copies of
modules have been dsbtibuted to some 4000
schools. One thousand teachers and their
supervisors have been trained. Thirty-three
teachers specWlized In agricultural and farm
management trained. Forty-five thousand of
textbooks In six natonal languages prepared
for vocational training.
14. Training programme for Agricultural  Yes.                             Training of trainers for 200 women farmrs,
Extension Agents executed.                                                and 95 extension workers traied In the
integration of environmental aspects Into
farming practices farm product processing;
53 vegetable famers trained In environmental
mnanagement
15. Environmental Information Desk   No. Done an other way.               Instead of establishing a formal partnership,
Established.                                                              the Project worked with oumaaists on an ad
hoc basis, depending on issues at hand.
16. Environmental Education Plan     Yes - large number of teachers of primary  1000 teachers, supervisors, and inspectors
Implemented:                         schools have already been tralned.   trained In the use of the environmental
textbooks
17. Environmental concems Incorporated Into In progress                   Six textbooks covering several environmental
adult iiteracy programs.                                                  issues prepared and published in 45,000
copies; six booklets published In the six most
widely spoken languages of the country
End of project
-29-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
:Appraisal  . ActuallLatest  Percentage of
--Estimaite-   Estimate       Apprisal
Proiect Cost By Component             US$ million . US$ mnillion.
1. Institutional Strengthening                      4.50           5.85            130
2. Regulatory Framework, Quality Control             1.70           0.80            47
3. Information Management & Monitoring               1.60           0.64            40
4. Education, Information & Communication            1.50           1.08            72
Total Baseline Cost                                  9.30           8.37
Total Project Costs             9.30            8.37
Total Financing Required              9.30           8.37
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
-Exppedlture Catagory     icr                   Mto     2     - -N.P.       Total Cost
NCO      ~Other
1. Works                     0.00          0.20         0.30         0.00         0.50
(0.00)        (0.20)       (0.30)       (0.00)      (0.50)
2. Goods                     1.40          0.70         0.40         0.00         2.50
(I.10)       (0.50)        (0.30)       (0.00)      (1.90)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         2.40         0.00         2.40
Consultants' Services       (0.00)        (0.00)       (2.40)        (0.00)      (2.40)
Training, Studies                                       2.50                      2.50
()           ()          (2.50)         ()         (2.50)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         1.00         0.40         1.40
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.70)       (0.00)       (0.70)
Total                      1.40         0.90         6.60          0.40         9.30
(1.10)        (0.70)       (6.20)       (0.00)       (8.00)
- 30 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
"rcrmnt- Methodd
xpeidlturCt. :ate...y                                                     N . -  Tta Cost
1. Works                        0.00          0.51          1.21          0.00          1.72
(0.00)        (0.43)        (0.36)        (0.00)        (0.79)
2. Goods                        0.00          0.19          0.94          0.00          1.13
(0.00)        (0.17)        (0.82)         (0.00)       (0.99)
3. Services                     0.00          0.00          3.80          0.00          3.80
Consultants' Services          (0.00)        (0.00)        (3.65)         (0.00)       (3.65)
Training, Studies               0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00          1.72          0.00          1.72
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.93)         (0.00)       (0.93)
Total                        0.00          0.70          7.67           0.00         8.37
._________ _  (0.00)    (0.60)        (5.76)        (0.00)        (6.36)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2vlncludes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
mranaging the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in USS million equivalent)
-Cornponent      -      ::::ApjwaISI  stI mat0. . ......... Adulltates lEstimate :.-
.IVA      Govt     :          U1A      G*Ut      Cot.     IDA   CGovt.  CoF.
1. Institutional         3.50      1.00     0.00      4.08       1.16     0.00    116.6  116.0   0.0
Strengthening
2. Regulatory Framework,  1.70     0.00      0.00     0.73       0.07     0.00     42.9   0.0    0.0
Quality Control
3. Information           1.40      0.20      0.00     0.61       0.03     0.00     43.6   15.0   0.0
Management & Monitoring
4. Education, Information  1.40    0.10     0.00      0.94       0.14              67.1  140.0   0.0
& Communication
-31 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable.
(There is no mention of a Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, or economic costs and
benefits projections, in the SAR of the project.)
- 32 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty           Perfrmance Rang
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
Month/Year     Count   .        Specialty                    Pctive
Identification/Preparation
July 1994                   6    1 Agri. Economist, I Info.         S            HS
System Specialist, I Natural
Resource Economist, 1 Env.
Education, Info. &
Communication Specialist, 1
Biodiversity Conservation
Specialist, 1 Rural Engineer.
Appraisal/Negotiation
November 1994               5    1 Agri. Economist, 1 Env.          S            HS
Lawyer, 1 Env. Information
Specialist, 1 Multi-Donor
Coordinator, 1 Agri.
Specialist
July 1995                   1    Agri. Economist                    S            HS
Supervision
November 1996                2   1 Ecologist, I Economist           S            HS
April 1997                   1   Ecologist                          S            HS
December 1997                3   2 Economist, 1 Env. Specialist     S            HS
March 1998                   2   I Economist, I Env. & Info.        S            HS
Specialist
October 1998                 2   2 Economists                       S            HS
May 1999                     3   2 Economists, I Env. Specialist    S            HS
January 2000                 3   2 Economists, I Env. Economist     S            HS
September 2000               3   1 Economist, 1 Agri. Economist,    S            HS
I Env. Economist
September 2001               1   Env. Economist                     S            HS
ICR
Febmiary 2002               2     1 Env. Economist, 1 Agri.         S             HS
Economist
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle              -    A: tal/Latest Estimate
No. Staff w~ks      |US            '0)
Identification/Preparation              34.50                       72.40
Appraisal/Negotiation                   28.30                       68.70
Supervision                             73.35                      175.26
ICR                                      4.08                        9.78
Total                                  140.23                      326.14
- 33 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                       O H   O SU * M   O N  O NA
OI Sector Policies                     O H   O SU * M   ON   O NA
L Physical                             * H   OSUOM      O N  O NA
LO Financial                           O H   *SUOM      O N  O NA
Ol] institutional Development           * H  O SU O M   0 N  0 NA
L Environmental                        * H   O SU O M   O N  O NA
Social
C] Poverty Reduction             O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
El Gender                        OH    O SU O M   O N  * NA
LI Other (Please specify)        O H   O SU OM    ON   O NA
L Private sector development           0 H   0 SU 0 M   0 N  0 NA
LI Public sector management            0 H   O SU O M   0 N  0 NA
I Other (Please specify)               O H   OSUOM      O N  O NA
- 34 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfictory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                               Rating
O Lending                                          OHS OS OLU OHU
Fl Supervision                                     OHIS OS     OU     O HU
I Overall                                          OHS OS      OU     OHU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                           Rating
n Preparation                                      OHS OS      0 U    O HU
O Government implementation performance            0H5 *5      0 U    0 HU
L Implementation agency performance                O HS OS     O U    0 HU
Ol Overall                                         OHlS OS     OU     O HU
- 35-



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1.    Agence Beninoise pour l'Environment, 1999: Cinq annees de mise en oeuvre du Plan
d'Action Environmental: constats, bilans et propositions pour une amelioration de la politique
environmental au Benin. Cotonou.
2.    World Bank. 1995: Staff Appraisal Report, Environmental Management Project. Report
No. 13608-BEN, Washington DC.
3.    World Bank, 1995 to 2001: Aides M6moires of Supervision Missions.
4.    Dovonou R. 2001: Rapport d'achevement du Projet de Gestion de l'Environment,
Cotonou 58 pp.
5.    Republique du Benin 1993: Plan d'Action Environmental du Benin. Document final.
Cotonou.
6.    Rfpublique du Benin 1998: Loi-Cadre sur l'Environment en Republique du Benin.
Presidence de la Republique, Cotonou.
- 36 -



MAP SECTION






M  A  II
s^dEIT~ ~ ~~~ Ia J  G ~ E R                    3'                          tbrnec;
NIGER  2~~~~~ GER                                          bo,do,EcO
( / G i T}:e Werl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d                   - k C,
CCIT)  TOGOll g  g     $      >                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o,,puoiroo, oo yu
D 1 VO RE  \HANA                             /                m
^ BURKINA       \       WRESERVE    oma.
E0IGUINEA\. ~ ~ ~ ~   Du NGE
EOTGU-\dEA  FASO       \              Kari'MOMa \                           12" 
FASO             Malonville
0   20  40  601  80  100
A'          I           I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
KILOMETERS
Bonikoara
INATIONAL PARK D                     -  Kn -       S gb\\a
Topcmc  _ ~ DFL^PFNDIPe   \   e   --Kan       d
1 9 5 |        2          t    /      ,,    ~~~~~~~~~~                   ~~~~~~~Se9 banS
I /   5              fp rot     T h  ,{Gogounou'          (       NIGERIA
.   iI NGC)U'!t,e    nd            e J,. / /
NATIi,           cu andA    .    inend 
Mcnco  <   9 ATAKORA Pehanka          em-e/Kll\
ToV  =NGOB(RGOU
BENIN
ENVIRONMENTAL                9
MANAGEMENT PROJECT
m GAZETTED FORESTS
TOGO              _,   . :i=   Vu6sse6 P(                  ., HUNTINGAREAS
1 zou                           ' ,ISOHYETS IN MM.
at  j Glazoue_ 32  1t   -PAVED ROADS
GRAVEL ROADS
r- ,.                                      RAILROADS
asso 0  E   }DSQ _ 1000       INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
 AIRFIELDS
,  Dud  ^ \-pTg%W.|itou             DISTRICT CAPITALS
i000                            0                    PROVINCE CAPITALS
7200  _  t Ngbon9\izou  hicon      )o   7 3^  AA,C00  69 NATIONAL CAPITALS
T.c N.tbk L-n           wt -PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
7' 
7'     ToNofl,Aploho 0  Klou6loan       n                      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
>               .                      ~_                                                     /ss
0'
GHANAk LOME-               ATLANTIQUE            -BIGHT O
tn   1  <    ,    .  - ~~~2-, .                                    4,  ,. 0'3o ; .  
NTIQ E~~~~~~~~~~









IMAGING
Report No.:         24292
Type:     ICR



