Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13608-BEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
APRIL 10, 1995
Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
West Central Africa Department
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1 = CFAF 5301
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CARDER                    Centre d'action regionale et de lkveloppement rural
Rcgional Action and Rural Development Center
CENATEL                   Centre National de Teledetection
Remote Sensing Center
CFD                       Caissefranf'aise de developpement (ex CCCE)
DANIDA                    Danish Cooperation Agency
DFRN                      Direction des -brets et des Ressources Naturelles
Forests and Natural Resources Directorate
EA                        Environmental Assessment
EIC                       Education, Information and Communication
EU                        European Union
FAO                       Food and Agriculture Organization
GTZ                       German Technical Cooperation Agency
GV                        Groupement villageois
Villager Group
IGN                       Institut GCographique National
National Geographic Institute
INFRE                     Institut National pour la Formation et la Recherche en Education
National Institute for Training and Research on Education
IUCN                      World Union for Conservation of Nature
MAB                       Man and Biosphere
MEHU                      Xfinistere de I 'Environnement de I llabitat et de l 'Urbanisme
Ministry of Environment, Housing and Urban Planning
MDR                       Afinistere du developpement rural
Ministry of rural development
NEA                       National Environmental Agency
NEAP                      National Environmental Action Plan
NRMP                      Natural Resources Management Project
NGO                       Non-governmental organization
UNB                       National University of 13enin
UNDP                      United Nations Development Program
UNSO                      United Nations Sudano-Sahelian Office
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
The FCFA is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio FF 1= FCFA 100
Exchange rate as of November 1994



REPUBLIC OF BENIN
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
I.    INTRODUCTION
A.    Physical Characteristics                                               1
B.    Economic Situation                                                     1
II.    THE ENVIRONMENTAL CONTEXT
A.    Environmental Resources and Issues                                     2
B.    Institutions                                                           8
C.    Policy and regulatory framework for environmental management          10
D.    The National Environmnental Action Plan                               11
E.    Bank Assistance Strategy                                              13
III.    THE PROJECT
A.    Project Rationale and Objectives                                      14
B.    Summary Project Description                                           14
C.    Detailed Project Description                                          15
1. Institutional Strengthening                                       15
2. Monitoring of the Regulatory Framework and Quality Control        17
3. Environmental Information Management & Monitoring                 17
4. Environmental Education Information and Communication             18
This report is based on the conclusion of the appraisal mission carried out in Benin in June/July 1994,
consisting of Mr. A. Brizzi (mission chief), Mr. L. Mosele (natural resources economist), Mr. F. Rantrua
(environmental information and monitoring specialist), and Mr. G. Sournia (environmental education and
training specialist). Mr. A. Sawadogo, head of the Network for Environmnent and Sustainable Development
in Africa (NESDA) and Mr. M. Bekhechi (LEGEN), assisted the mission for the institutional and legal
aspects. Mrs. B. Khushalani (operations assistant) assisted in the preparation of the cost tables. Secretarial
support was provided by Mmes. A. Vasquez and M. Scheierloh. The peer reviewers are Mr. F. Falloux
(AFTES) and Mrs. B. Lausche (GEF). Mr 0. Lafourcade is the Department Director and Mrs. C. Cook
the Agriculture and Environment Division Chief, for this operation.



IV.    PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A.    Cost Estimate                                                          20
B.    Financing                                                              21
C.    Procurement                                                            22
D.    Disbursement                                                           24
E.    Financial Management, Accounting and Audit                             25
V.    PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A.    General Strategy                                                       26
B.    Project Implementation                                                 26
C.    Monitoring and Evaluation                                              28
D.    Reporting and Supervision                                              28
VI.    BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.    Justification and Benefits                                             29
B.     Environmental Impact                                                  30
C.    Impact on the State Budget                                             30
D.    Risks                                                                  30
VII.   AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                                                       31
ANNEXES
1.     Key Features and Overall Program Objectives of the NEAP                             33
2.     NEA's Organizational Chart and Terns of Reference of the Director                   39
3.     Distribution of Environmental Management Responsibilities                           43
4.     Use of Consultants and Planning of Training Activities                              47
5.    Implementation Schedule and Monitoring System                                        51
6.     Procurement Schedule                                                                59
7.     Project Costs                                                                       63
8.     Disbursement Schedule                                                               67
9.     Supervision Schedule                                                                69
10.    Working Documents in Project Files                                                  71
11.    Table of Content of the Implementation Manual                                       73
Map IBRD 26567 - Environmental Management Project



REPUBLIC OF BENIN
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJET SUMMARY
Borrower:    Republic of Benin
Beneficiary:  National Environmental Agency
Amount:      SDR 5.5 million (US$8.0 million)
Terms:       Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Proiect
Descrinti:  Over a period of four years the project would support the development of a national
environmental management capacity and help the Government implement the National
Environmental Action Plan adopted in June 1993. It would in particular pursue capacity
building and institutional support, including streamlining and strengthening of national
environmental responsibilities, reinforcing policy implementation and coordination
mechanisms, promoting better preparation and enforcement of the environmental
regulatory framework, developing an effective information system and monitoring and
evaluation capacity. The project would also promote public awareness of environmental
issues and the integration of environmental considerations in the education system.
To achieve these objectives, the project would finance investments designed to:
1. Improve the national environimental management capacity through support to the
National Environmental Agency to permit: (a) better definition of environmental
responsibilities for enhanced integration of environmental issues in the design, planning,
and implementation of sectoral policies and programs at central and decentralized level; (b)
implementation of an environmental assessment policy including finalization and adoption
of the regulatory framework, procedures, guidelines, and monitoring mechanisms; (c)
preparation and monitoring of the implementation of contingency plans and quality control,
including the definition of norms and standards; (d) the establishment of an effective
information and monitoring system; and (e) the participation of the civil society in the
decision-making process with focus on support for decentralized environmental planning
and management.
2. Improve the general level of awareness on environmental issues and foster a change in
attitude through: (a) the integration of environmental considerations in the education
programs of the primary and secondary cycles and the production of pedagogic manuals
for the teachers; (b) the preparation of brochures in national languages for the adult
literacy program; (c) the implementation of a sensitization program and local initiatives in
primary and secondary schools; (d) a training program and workshops for public officials,
trainers, journalists, NGOs and special interest groups.



- jj -
Benefits
and Risks:      The project would allow the Government to develop the national environmental
management capacity required to effectively implement and monitor the priority actions
identified in the NEAP. By dovetailing with on-going activities in the country it would
reinforce the environmental perspective of sectoral strategies and strengthen institutions
in their ability to implement programs, monitor compliance with standards and
procedures, implement an environmental impact assessment policy and enforce
legislation. It would also contribute to the formulation of sound environmental
management policies and the implementation of programs and projects which would
better take into account enviromnental considerations as part of the overall development
process. The thrust of the project would be to initiate a process of changes in the way
people understand, deal with, and go about addressing environmental issues. It would
raise the level of environmental awareness of large segments of the populations through
actions across a large spectrum, such as the improvement of existing education, literacy
and agricultural extension programs or through targeted training and workshops for
important interest groups (public officials, media, women's groups, NGOs, etc..). The
project would therefore reinforce the national capacity to identify and tackle
environrmental constraints and favor the participation of the civil society in a
comprehensive education, training, communication effort.
The major risks would stem from the difficulty to coordinate and manage long-range
intersectoral activities and to agree on a sustainable institutional set-up which Would
minimize dissensions and facilitate implementation. However, the proposed approach to
strengthen the intersectoral monitoring and coordination functions through a small but
effective environmental mnanagement agency, while streamlining and clarifying present
environmental responsibilities, and supporting existing structures and the private sector
in the implementation of sectoral programs, should avoid institutional conflicts and ease
management. Although the impact on the national budget for the functioning of such
agency would be minimal, political support and regular budget allocations would be
essential to sustain implementation of the environmental agenda. Another risk derives
from the shortage of qualified local personnel with background and experience on
environmental problems and solutions. To mitigate this risk an important education and
training effort would be undertaken



- jjj -
Costs:
Summary of Proiect Costs
Local      Foreign      Total      % of Base
Project components                                         Exchange               Cost
----- US$ million ----
Institutional Strengthening                        2.3          1.7          4.0        48
Regulatory Framework, Quality Control              0.7          0.8          1.5        18
Information, Management & Monitoring               0.5          1.0          1.5        18
Education, Information & Communication             0.7          0.7          1.4        16
Total Base Cost                                   4.2          4.2          8.4       100
Physical Contingencies                             0.1          0.2          0.3         3
Financial Contingencies                            0.3          0.3          0.6         8
TOTAL COST                                         4.6          4.7          9.3       111
Financing Plan
---------S--------------------------- (US$ million)---------- --- =- =--
_____ _  Local        Foreign        Taxes & Duties        Total
Government                0.5             0.1               0.7                 1.3
IDA                        3.4            4.6                                  8.0
Total                      3.9            4.7               0.7                9.3
Estimated IDA Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year
l______________      FY96          FY97    |   FY98    |   FY99    |  FY2000   I  FY2001
----------------------------------------------US $ million----------------------------------------
Annual                 1.0          1.1          1.6          1.8           1.5          1.0
Cumulative             1.0          2.1          3.7          5.5           7.0          8.0
Internal Rate of Return:         Not applicable
Poverty Cate-orv:                Not Applicable
Environmental Catezory:          C
Map:                             IBRD 26567






REPUBLIC OF BENIN
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
APPRAISAL REPORT
1. INTRODUCTION
A.            Physical characteristics
1.1          Benin has an area of 113,000 km2 and a population of 4.9 million in 1991, 65 percent of
whom live in rural areas. The population is increasing at an average annual rate of about 3.2 percent. Its
geographical distribution is very uneven. Population density varies from 188 inhabitants/km in the coastal
zone to about 14 inhabitants/km2 in the North. As a result, 63 percent of the population is concentrated on
12 percent of the land area. The urban population accounts for 35 percent of the total and is increasing at
4 percent a year (8 percent in Cotonou). Benin is divided into three main climatic zones; sub-equatorial in
the south, with rainfall between 900 mm and 1,500 mm annually; Guinean-Sudanian in the center, with
marked temperature variations and an average rainfall between 1,000 mm and 1,200 mm/year; and
semiarid Sudanian in the north, with rainfall of 900 mm to 1,100 mm/year and high evapo-transpiration.
Plant cover is relatively uniform, in the form of a very degraded savannah woodland extending from the
north of the country to some 50 km from the coast. This savannah is interspersed in places with gazetted
forests. Further south are residual forests, small areas of deciduous and semi-deciduous forest, oil palms
on the sedimentary zones and coconut trces along the coast. Soils are generally poor, mainly ferruginous.
Bottom-lands have a higher agricultural potential, but are generally hard to work.
B.            Economic situation
1.2          The annual per capita income was about US$410 in 1992. Benin's principal resource is its
arable land, which makes it potentially self-sufficient in food in overall terms while enabling it to produce
cash crops such as cotton and palm oil as a source of foreign exchange. The primary sector accounts for
about 40 percent of GDP, more than 70 percent of domestic exports and employs 70 percent of the active
population. The average annual rate of growth of agricultural production throughout the 80s until today
continues to maintain itself at rates above 4 percent. This performance, although remarkable, was largely
achieved through more extensive utilization of available land. The geographical configuration of Benin,
together with the deep-water port of Cotonou and its relatively good road and rail network, allows it to
provide transit services for landlocked countries to its north. The secondary sector accounts for about 12
percent of GDP, essentially in the form of manufacturing, cement production and limited offshore oil
resources. The tertiary sector basically consists of informal but vigorous trading activities.
1.3          Between 1983 and 1987 Benin's economy grew only slowly, partly as a result of a decline
in trade and a collapse of the regional transit traffic, but more particularly as a consequence of the
inefficiency and poor management of the productive sectors dominated by the State.  In 1989 the
Government introduced a program of economic reforms prepared with the assistance of the Bank and IMF.
This program reflected a change in Benin's economic policies, the reduction of the State's role in the
economy and promotion of private sector activities, a balanced management of public funds, and an
improved balance of payments situation. In the same time Benin achieved a remarkable political transition
from a Marxist-Leninist regime to a democratic system and put in place an institutional and policy



framework that permitted to restore growth. Moreover, in order to tackle persistent macro-economic
difficulties and to restore competitiveness, a major external adjustment was decided in January 1994 by the
governments of all CFAF countries to devalue their currency relative to the French franc by 50 percent.
11. THE ENVIRONMENTAL CONTEXT
A.            Environmental Resources and Issues
Introduction
2.1.          Benin still possesses a generous environment, which, if protected and managed with care,
should be able to satisfy the basic needs of its population and provide the basis for sustainable
development. There are no climate changes or physical environmental problems which would, in the short
tern, impair increasing and diversifying production if adequate incentives and sustainable production
systems were available. Nevertheless, increasing deterioration of Benin's environment has become a major
cause of concern for the Government. The country's economy is dominated by agriculture, and although
food security could be achieved and cotton exports expanded with a resulting agricultural growth rate
above 4 percent throughout the 80s until today, this has often been accomplished through more extensive
land use, expanding the agricultural frontier to protected forest areas and rangeland. The competition
between farming, stockraising and forestry, the spread of bush fires, the disappearance of the forest cover
as a source of fuelwood, the decrease of soil fertility, the silting-up of lagoons and the consequent
disappearance of fish resources, are all being exacerbated by increasing demographic pressure. It is
unquestionable that the rapid demographic growth (population almost doubled in the last 25 years) and its
uneven distribution between the north and the south with uncontrolled expansion of the coastal towns raises
very serious environmental concerns. No substantial changes have been introduced in agricultural
production practices while the neglect of the urban environment has led over the years to the degradation of
the living standards in most of Benin's towns which are ill-equipped to host an expanding population.
Industrial activities are still limited and do not cause major environmental concerns; they need, however,
close surveillance.
Human Resources
2.2.          The rapid growth rate of Benin's population results in 56 percent of it being under 20 years
of age, the fertility rate being close to 7 children per woman. This represents a source of dynamism but
also an important challenge in terms of education, health, employment and overall environmental
absorption capacity given present technology standards. Life expectancy is about 50 years and literacy
levels are still low, only 32 percent of adult men and 16 percent of adult women can read and write. These
serious handicaps contribute in ranking Benin in the 150th place in the world according to the United
Nations Human Development Index. Urban population grows much faster (5.2 percent per year on
average) than in rural areas (1.4 percent), showing an important rural exodus which affects mostly
Cotonou. The major ethnic groups are the Fon (40 percent of the population predominantly in the south),
the Adja (20 percent and of the same origin), the Yorouba-Nago (12 percent), the Batonou (8.5 percent),
the Ditamari (6.5 percent) and the pastoralist Peuhl (5.6 percent).



-3 -
Agriculture
2.3.          Food production meets on average Bemnn's overall food needs and almost all of it is
rainfed. Maize is predominantly grown in the southern departments although it is now rapidly expanding in
the northern areas and is the most widely-planted crop (about 450,000 ha), followed by sorghum in the
north (130,000 ha), cassava (115,000 ha), yams (90,000 ha), beans (85,000 ha) and peanuts (100,000 ha).
In most cases food crops are grown in association, and yields are low. Rice production is marginal,
although its consumption is steadily increasing, most demand being met until now by imports. Cotton
cultivation has also expanded rapidly in recent years from a production of 70,000 tons of seed cotton in
1988 to about 178,000 tons in 1992/93 and an estimated bumper crop of 270,000 tons in 1993/94. Yields
are satisfactory (1,300 kg of seed cottonlha), and the areas planted are still increasing. Cotton constitutes a
well-organized subsector guaranteeing a floor price to producers, supplies of inputs, credit, and processing
and marketing of the final product.
2.4.          Shifting slash and burn cultivation is still the most common practice, to the detriment of
the natural savannah. Increasingly, fallow land is subject to bush fires or overgrazed. Constant clearing is
leading to the disappearance of gallery forests and bush. Low watershed seepage and heavy runoff result in
soil losses which, together with riverbank erosion, lead to the silting-up of watercourses and village wells.
Farming is penetrating further and further, including into protected areas, bottom-lands and marginal
zones. Declining soil fertility is the challenge for tomorrow's agriculture, in an economic context in which
access to chemical fertilizers is still limited (basically to cotton). Mineral exports in the form of cereals and
root crops are six times higher than eventual restitutions through fertilizers. Further mineral losses result
from erosion and bush fires. Agriculture is therefore a "mining" activity, and the land is being exhausted in
the absence of sufficiently long fallow periods.
2.5.          In the north, fires are responsible for the destruction of 50,000 ha/year, and land is cleared
for cotton and yams at an annual rate of around 1 00,000 ha. The Karimama district in northern Borgou is
showing clear signs of desertification, and the adjacent Kandi and Banikoara districts to the south are
showing the same symptoms as Karimama a few years ago. Cotton, because of its rapid expansion in
recent years, is often held responsible for the increasing clearing of new land in the north and for the loss of
soil fertility. However, through fertilizer applications, cotton is the only crop which systematically retums
part of the nutriments back to the soil. In the south, demographic pressure has led to excessive
fragmentation and a significant reduction in fallow periods, which, with no improvements in crop practices,
have negative effects on soil fertility.
Land Tenure
2.6.          Small holdings predominate everywhere, along with traditional methods of land
conveyance and allocation. Average farm size is about 1.7 ha for a seven-person family, the average
ranging from 0.4 ha in the south, where only 5 percent of farms exceed 5 ha, to 12.7 ha in the north, with
20 percent of farms over 5 ha. Access to land is extremely difficult in the south, where it is increasingly
common for land to be sold and demographic pressure has led to over-exploitation of agricultural
resources. There has been no real improvement in production methods that would lead to a sustained
increase in productivity. In the north, traditional systems predominate; land is often negotiated and
allocated in symbolic terms but the concession remains precarious. The absence of cultivation practices



designed to promote a sustainable agriculture, has resulted in farmers and stockraisers losing interest in
maintaining and managing their land assets.
2.7.           The current land ownership situation features complex rules and customs that govern
rights to land and water points. Modem legal systems embodying the right to exclusive ownership have
been superimposed on the traditional system deriving from collective ownership. The heavy pressure on
land in the south is constantly giving rise to litigation among neighbors. On the other hand, in the north,
newcomers move into previously uncultivated areas, sometimes in uncontrolled fashion, and are accepted
by the existing population, with or without the sanction of the land chief, to the extent of land availability.
Unless a deed is registered, there is no legal framework for the registration or recognition of customary land
ownership or use. The absence of legislation or of a rural land register, particularly in southern areas where
land availability is increasingly rare, means that the land tenure system does not make for optimum use of
the land. There is a need to adapt Benin's land tenure policy to the various prevailing situations, without
imposing a system alien to local procedures, which are still partly effective.
Livestock
2.8.           Stockraising, with about I million cattle, 2 million small ruminants and half a million
hogs, represents one fifth of agricultural production (9 percent of GDP). About 7 million ha of available
pasture are only partially utilizable in the absence of watering points. Three quarters of this area is in the
northem provinces, where the low utilization of space gives rise to traditional extensive stockraising.
Animal traction has expanded rapidly, particularly in the cotton production zones; it has contributed to the
growth of cultivated areas, sometimes to the detriment of the rational exploitation of natural resources.
Potential animal production in northern Benin is high in terms of pastures, but is limited by poor
management of surface water resources, archaic production systems and increasing competition from
crops. Feed and water problems often result in overgrazing and rapid environmental degradation.
2.9.          The transhumant stockraising is an increasingly heavier burden on the natural pastures.
During the dry season it leads to bushfires and to tree lopping and pollarding, to allow the herds to browse
among the new shoots. The straying of animals into crops also gives rise to conflicts with farmers and
makes any planting of forest species a hazardous operation. Controlling herd movements is a prerequisite
for the integration of forestry into farming systems. While domestic transhumance is relatively well
integrated in the national land use patterns, large-scale cross-border transhumance is difficult to control. It
is extending further and further into the south of the country, where it is responsible for severe degradation
and conflicts. Cross-border transhumance is in principle governed by the Livestock and Meat Economic
Community (CEBV)2 regulations, which allow the free movement of herds between Niger, Mali, Burkina
Faso, Togo and Benin. However, the articles of the agreement are not suited to the ecological and
economric context of cross-border transhumance.
2CEBV in principle governs cross-border transhumance and regulations, which allow the free movement of herds
between Niger, Mali, Burkina, Togo and Benin. However, the articles of the agreement are not suited to the
ecological and economic context of cross-border tranhumance. Togo does not comply and Benin has become the
heaven of Sahelian herds.



-5-
Forests and Fuelwood
2.10.        Although some form of tree cover is found on about 65 percent of Benin's territory, the
natural resources situation shows evidence of advanced degradation. In rural areas the issue is essentially a
matter of changing/eliminating vegetation and reducing soil fertility. The mangrove cover of the lagoon
ecosystem is also decreasing steadily. The deterioration results from the pressure deriving from shifting
agriculture, overgrazing, bush fires and fuelwood collection. Only some 200,000 ha are still covered with
species of economic value, while the bulk of the cover consists of the most open stands, namely woodland
and bush savannah. Some 1.3 million ha (10 percent of Benin's land area) are officially protected as
gazetted forests and about 4,000 ha as reforestation areas. However, areas of significant but unknown size
within these protected areas are being cleared for farming, hunting and stockraising.
2.11.        Fuelwood consumption, currently estimated at 5.2 million tons, is increasing in line with
the growth of the rural population; this has led to significant pockets of deforestation in some areas and to
all-around uncontrolled exploitation. Wood is the principal source of fuel for at least 80 percent of the
population. Currently, the cutting of forest timber is prohibited except from old state-managed teak
plantations (around 35,000 m3), part of which is exported and the rest is insufficient to meet national
needs. The supply of construction poles (about 86,000 m3) from thiinning and clearing exceeds demand.
The growing need for fuelwood is leading to deforestation all around the towns, incipient desertification
(Malanville, Boukoumbd, Ouake) and a shortage of free fuelwood. In southern areas, the problem is
further amplified by the density of the population and the near-complete occupation of the land by crops.
There is also considerable laxity in enforcing fuelwood collection taxes and in checking export permits,
particularly in the Malanville region, from which significant amnounts of wood are taken to Niger and
Nigeria.
Wildlife. National Parks and Reserves
2.12.        About 750,000 ha of national parks and 580,000 ha of hunting zones are under
Government protection along the Benin northern border. The contiguous national parks of the Pendjari and
W together with the three neighboring hunting areas of the Pendjari, Atacora and Djona constitute a vast
and undivided area. It represent one of the largest and richest reserves in West Africa and still shelters large
numbers of wildlife species which have become rare or extinct elsewhere. It extends across the borders of
Benin, Burkina Faso and Niger to constitute a protected zone of about 25,000 km2 and offers good
prospects for tourism development. The park of the Pendjari has been declared a Biosphere Reserve by
MAB-UNESCO in 1986 and has benefited from development projects through the EU (rehabilitation) and
the CFD (tourism infrastructure). Today the Pendjari represents a relatively well known reserve which
attracts a still modest number of about 3,000 tourists per year and where problems of nomadic
transhumance and human encroachrnent are limited. However, with the end of external financing in 1990,
poor infrastructure maintenance and weak control measures together with the increasing population
pressure and poaching, are threatening the results achieved so far. On the other hand the larger bloc of the
W and Djona has been completely neglected, infrastructure and tourism are almost non-existent, poaching
and livestock pasturing are very common, fauna resources were considered important but a recent
overflight by IUCN indicated a severe resource depletion of the Park. Hunting activities have been
permitted in 1990 in the Pendjari and in 1992 in the Atacora hunting zones, but not in the Djona. The
hunting zones are attributed under annual concession contracts to private operators.



- 6 -
2.13.         Both parks are in woodland and savanna area and enjoy, in principle, protection by the
authorities. In practice they are suffering from poaching, grazing, bush fires and encroachment by farmers
and the administration's protection policy has often been ineffective. All these areas are managed by the
Forestry Administration through a decentralized sub-Directorate for the National Parks which also has
control over a number of forestry posts inside the reserves. The Forestry Administration also collects and
manages the revenues generated by tourism and hunting activities through a local fund established during
the previous EU  supported project. Such arrangements have proven their limitations in terms of
involvement of the local communities and associations, incentives to a better valorization of the Parks'
potential, transparency in management, cost-effectiveness of maintenance works and local participation.
Parks' revenues are insufficient to cover the costs but could be reasonably expanded through better
management.   Anti-poaching measures and strengthening of the most sensitive control posts of these two
parks are now being promoted through the Natural Resources Management Project. Wildlife management
pilot operations have also been initiated on two sites bordering the hunting areas with grass-roots
involvement of the villagers in the management of these buffer zones.
Water Resources and Pollution
2.14.         With the gradual thinning or total disappearance of the original tree and shrubs cover, and
the frequent bush fires, water runoff intensifies on unprotected soils, erosion accelerates and water source
and well replenishment declines, thus threatening the hydrological balance. Ever larger proportions of
water reach the lowlands and valleys through soils which have lost infiltration capacity. Water supply in
the north is insufficient and there is a need to develop new water points for livestock and human needs.
With the exception of the principal rivers and lake basins, most rivers are seasonal. The Niger, Oueme and
Mono rivers constitute the main watersheds, the two latter feeding into the coastal lagoon which represents
the source of fish production and revenues for large segments of the population. The potential in this area is
far from being fully exploited, although past ambitious attempts to develop irrigation schemes have failed.
2.15.         Population pressure on the coastal part of the country in the South has generated very
important environmental stress with potential threats of lagoon pollution and decline in fish production.
Benin's fishing activities, with a production of about 40,000 tons per year, provide some 50 percent of
animal protein requirements. Lagoon catch accowuts for two thirds of production. Per capita consumption
has fallen by half in the last 25 years; production is still declining as a result of problems of lagoon salinity,
siltation and over-exploitation. Siltation results mainly from deforestation of nearby watersheds for
fuelwood consumption and for the construction of the traditional fish traps known as the "acadja" fishing
method, which, although being relatively efficient, represents a serious threat to the mangrove ecosystem of
the coastal lagoon. In addition the eutrophication of the lagoon from silting leads to its colonization by the
water hyacinth plant.
2.16.          The sanitary quality of water is poor and disposal of garbage and human waste represents
another threat to water quality. The urban population growth is likely to increase the pressure on already
limited sanitary conditions and increase risks of communicable diseases. According to the World Resources
Report, about 66 percent and 46 percent of the urban and rural population respectively have access to
drinking water and 42 percent and 31 percent to sanitation or solid waste disposal facilities. Water
associated diseases such as malaria, diarrhea and schistosomiasis are endemic and account for high levels
of morbidity and mortality. Improvement in environmental health conditions will require a substantial



improvement in the coverage provided by the water and sanitation services. Monitoring systems to report
and prevent contamination cases are almost non-existent.
Coastal Degradation
2.17.         The coastal ecosystem  experiences an increasing degradation. The urban and port
development which has taken place in recent years along the coastal areas has exacerbated the problem of
beach erosion and pollution. Part of the problem of beach erosion can be attributed to the construction
industry which is causing uncontrolled removal of beach sand, and to the Cotonou port management works
which modified the sand distribution pattern of the tide. However the phenomenon is generalized
throughout the African west coast and has a many more complex and broad causes which are not entirely
known and easy to tackle. Coastal pollution is mainly caused by human wastes and oil spills from ships.
The small off-shore oil extraction platform could also be the cause of pollution concern and should be
subject to close monitoring.
Urban growth
2.18.         Rapid and unplanned urbanization has resulted in the colonization of areas which are
unsuitable for construction and regularly flooded. Lack of land tenure security and of urban development
plans has led to serious inadequacy of basic infrastructure, drainage and sanitation services. The social cost
of this situation is very high in terms of pollution, health standards, capital losses and unemployment.
Waste disposal in the main towns is almost non-existent and it is estimated that 75 percent of the wastes of
Cotonou are not "officially" collected although recently some private firms are helping in the collection and
disposal of garbage. A small part of it is recycled informally but the bulk is dumped in unauthorized
garbage tips which represent a major source of pollution. This is even more worrisome knowing that the
Benin population in 2005 would be close to about 8 million inhabitants of which approximately 45 percent
may be living in urban areas if the present trends are maintained. The FY92 Urban Rehabilitation and
Management project has recently started to help the Government tackle some of the identified constraints.
Energy Sources
2.19.         Energy consumption is mainly derived from hydro-electric sources and fuelwood. The
Nangbeto power plant over the Mono river (60 MW) serves consumption needs of both Benin and Togo.
Fuelwood, however, remains the primary source of energy for most of the population. The pace of
exploitation of fuelwood is not sustainable and causes serious deforestation concerns. Some projects have
been initiated to tackle the problem through tree plantations in the coastal areas and introduction of
improved cook stoves. However, the issue remains one of relative cost of possible alternative sources.
Fuelwood costs presently only account for its collection and transport, no inherent value is attributed to the
resource itself and collection of stumpage fees is not enforced. Off-shore oil production at the Semd oil field
is limited (4,000 barrels/day) and oil is exported unrefined; new potential extraction sites have however
been identified and could be exploited in the future.



- 8 -
Environmental Awareness and Monitoring
2.20.         The notion of environment is still a relatively new concept in Benin and environmental
awareness of the issues at stake has started developing only recently through the NEAP preparation
process, which was initiated in 1991 and was completed in 1993. The definition of environmental concerns
and issues varies considerably from one segment of the population to the other and from the north to the
south of the country. Moreover, information on environmental problems and solutions is rare or difficult to
access. There is no environmental education in schools nor is environmental science taught in the
University. Not only are general education and communication programs lacking, but specific information
and data on the status of the environment in Benin are fragmented and obsolete.  Institutional
communication within Ministries or between the central services and local authorities is minimal.
Moreover, public officials lack the capacity and training to be able to respond in a meaningful way to
environmental considerations, and issues are often debated in the abstract. In addition to specific local
needs including the management of watersheds, forest sites, pasture, etc., there is an urgent nationwide need
for resources inventory, updating existing thematic maps, monitoring erosion, plant cover, population
density, etc.. Only the recent activities of the National Remote Sensing Center (CENATEL) are
progressively catching up with the existing gap. Moreover, the need to establish an effective environmental
information system through the establishment of a network of information exchange, has been strongly
expressed during the NEAP process.
B.            Institutions
2.21.         A new Ministry of Environment, Housing and Urban Planning (MEHU) was created in
August 1991 as part of the reorganization of Government structures. While it is intended to play a
coordinating role in the environmental sector, define the regulatory framework, update national policies and
enforce the legislation, its focus is presently mostly devoted towards urban environmental aspects. MEHU
comprises four Directorates for: Environment, Urbanism and Sanitation, Housing and Construction, and
Land Use Planning. MEHU is operationally weak, lacking resources and trained staff to be able to
implement any meaningful activities. The role of the Directorate of Environment in particular should be
better defined and streamlined with respect to its "green" mandate to avoid redundancy with the Ministry of
Rural Development. Moreover, MEHU's responsibilities combine both environmental and development
issues. This has been a source of conflicts and has raised questions of impartiality since MEHU may have
to police its own actions and those of other Ministries of equal status while its own implementing activities
are not neutral to the environment. MERU also covers a number of agencies as: the National Geographical
Institute (IGN) for the supply of basic maps and the set up of a national geodetic network, the Agency for
Regional Studies of Housing and Urban Development (SERHAU), the Agency for Labor Intensive Works
(AGETUR) which implements the Urban Rehabilitation and Management Project, and the secretariat of the
NEAP.
2.22.        The Ministry of Rural Development (MDR) is responsible for assistance to and regulation
of crop farming, stockraising, fisheries, forestry and hunting activities, as well as agricultural research.
Field level dissemination and implementation of agricultural development policies are the responsibility of
the Regional Action and Rural Development Centers (CARDER) extending the MDR to each department.
Significant institutional reforms are under way in MDR and the CARDERs with assistance of IDA and
other donors. The objective is to develop a vital central tool for planning, monitoring and regulation in
MDR, and to reduce the activities of the CARDERs on tasks normally carried out by the public



administration in areas such as extension, monitoring and evaluation, supervision of rural works and
legislation. The Directorate of Forestry and Natural Resources (DFRN) of MDR has authority over forest
and wildlife management (protection, reforestation, enforcement, training). To this central unit must be
added the decentralized structures which, as part of the CARDERs, consists of a Directorate in each
department, a district-level unit and a representative in each commune. In addition, the national parks,
hunting zones and certain gazetted forests have their own specialized brigades. The DFRN also includes
the National Remote Sensing Center (CENATEL), which is responsible for continuous surveillance of
ecosystems, using remote sensing and thematic mapping to help define rural land use policies. CENATEL
is being presently supported by IDA and GTZ through the FY92 Natural Resources Management Project.
2.23.         The Ministry of Interior, Security and Territorial Administration is in charge of
implementing the reform of the territorial administration, the decentralization process and the supervision of
the local government administration which would entail larger roles for the municipalities in sanitation,
security, road maintenance, waste disposal, etc.. .However, implementation of the reform is still subject to
adoption of the related law by the Parliament. This ministry also regulates land tenure issues and civil
protection in case of natural catastrophes. The Ministry of Plan and Economic Restructuring-coordinates
and monitors the public investment program and the allocation of external resources; it also includes the
Directorate for Regional Planning. The Ministry of Energy, Mining and Hydrology is in charge of the
implementation of the water policy; this includes surface and underground water and its quality control in
coordination with the Ministry of Health; the ministry is also responsible for the implementation of the
energy and mining policy. The Ministry of Health-encompasses responsibilities for the provision of health
services, information, promotion of sanitation and control of hygienic standards.
2.24.         More than three hundred Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) and Development
Associations are registered in Benin and involved in different domains of socio-economnic and cultural
activities. Some of them have become active in the promotion and support of villager groups or grass-roots
initiatives. NGO development in Benin is recent; however, the recent political changes and the new
encouragement for private initiative have led to a remarkable growth of local development associations and
national NGOs that are destined to play an expanding role in the development process. A Council of Non-
Governmental Organizations (CONGAB), a National Federation of NGOs (FENONG), and a NGO
Coalition for Environment and Sustainable Development, were created respectively in 1988, 1991 and
1994 to coordinate NGO activities and promote discussions with the government; however their activities
are hampered by lack of funds and their role and representativeness are not fully accepted by all NGOs.
NGOs intervene predominantly in the areas of natural resources management, extension of small credit
lines, provision of basic health care, training and education, and construction of small infrastructure. The
Ministry of Plan is aware of the necessity to coordinate NGO activities and is setting up a unit responsible
for establishing a roster of NGOs and to promote collaboration. The NEAP preparation process has also
been the occasion for some of the environmentally focused NGOs to work together with Government
services and to be better known.
2.25.         The media and journalists groups play an important role in the diffusion of the information
and the implementation of communication programs. The NEAP process has initiated the constitution of an
environmental desk composed of national joumalists from the press and the television who have benefited
from specific training, which spearheads the preparation of environmental information for the media.
Religious authorities and organizations are well respected and listened to; they have a positive attitude



- 10-
towards the protection of the environment and could be an important vehicle in the propagation and
implementation of environmental programs.
C.           Policy and refulatorv framework for environmental manaaement
2.26.         The country's concem for the protection of the environment started with the national
seninar sponsored by CILSS on the campaign against drought and desertification held at Parakou in April
1985. A number of resolutions were adopted identifying sector objectives; but either action plans or the
resources to implement them were not defined, therefore no real implementation took place. Hence, despite
the Government's recognition of the critical importance of sound management of natural resources,
corresponding policy issues have always been discussed in the abstract. In terms of legislation, a number of
codes were adopted in 1987 for forestry, public hygiene, water, and regulations for the protection of nature
and hunting activities. These laws already show the growing concem of the country for environmental
issues. However, in most cases, they are of a defensive and repressive nature, proved to be difficult to
enforce, and have had only a limited application. Environmental evaluation of on-going or new activities is
almost non-existent and new projects are accepted without adequate analysis of their environmental impact.
2.27.         The major political and policy changes which took place in 1990 together with the
implementation of a successful democratization process represent a fundamental milestone in the revision
of Benin's development strategies and economic refomis. The new Beninese Constitution of 1990 clearly
states that access to a healthy and sustainable environment is one of the fundamental rights of all citizens.
The overall response of Benin to the environmental challenge was initiated in 1991 and built around the
preparation of a National Environmental Action Plan. The NEAP in its conception aimed at defining the
policy and institutional framework to promote sustainable development, national priorities, and the means
to improve implementation capacity. In addition to a number of relevant on-going sectoral activities,
actions would be initiated thereafter to help the Govemment implement and monitor the NEAP together
with complementary programs in agriculture, infrastructure and social sectors. The NEAP preparation
process was completed in June 1993 with its formal adoption by the Government. However, although its
adoption was an important step, the NEAP approach should be viewed as a continuous and evolving
process of awareness raising and integration of environmental considerations within national development
plans and sectoral programs. The Government has been very responsive in causing environmental issues to
become national priorities, it has initiated the review of most of the sectoral policies and is already
implementing or preparing, with IDA and other donors support, a number of projects or initiatives which
fall within the NEAP, and already contributes to its implementation by tackling some of the identified
constraints (see Annex I).
2.28.         Under the NEAP process or in coordination with it, the regulatory and policy framework
has been reviewed and modifications have been proposed. This would be continued under the proposed
capacity building component of this project. The present status of these activities is as follows:
A new forestry code has been prepared in the context of the NRM project and adopted in
1993. It includes the definition and recognition of rights held by rural populations on forest
resources under management plans and the possibility of rehabilitating natural forests with
local participation in the context of management plans and possible revenue sharing
between local communities and the Administration. A new forestry policy has also been
adopted in November 1994.



- 11 -
*     A new environmental code ("loi cadre") has been prepared during the NEAP preparation
process and has been submitted for adoption to Parliament. In the framework of this law,
procedures and guidelines will be defined for implementation of an environmental impact
assessment policy and monitoring of quality standards.
*     A new law for the reform of territorial administration, presently with the Parliament for
adoption, will represent a major step in the decentralization of the decision making process
for important environment-related issues. Similarly, the issue of giving authority to the
municipalities for local collection and management of tax revenues would enhance the
participation of the beneficiaries in the management of urban activities (waste disposal,
road maintenance, sanitation).
The Government is also committed to review the land tenure legislation (the present code
dating from 1965 is not implemented). Pilot operations to better understand the utilization
of and access to land rights under different agro-socio-economic circumstances are
presently on-going through the NRM project.
*     A National Conservation Strategy is being finalized writh the assistance of IUCN.
*     A national sanitation policy is being prepared under the auspices of the Ministry of Health
and MEHU.
*     A national strategy for the integration of the environment in the education system has
recently been prepared in the context of the NEAP.
The revision of most sectoral strategies and action plans is on-going in the context of a
Round Table process.
D.            The National Environmental Action Plan
2.29.         Increasing awareness of environmental constraints, particularly since the change of regime
and of economic policy in 1990, has led the Government to create in 1991 a new Ministry of Environment,
Housing and Urban planning (MEHU) to better address environmental issues, and to request the support of
the international community to help prepare and implement a National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP).
IDA, through a Norwegian Trust Fund, the United Nations Soudano-Sahelian Office (UNSO), Germany
and France have closely followed and supported preparation of the NEAP. The preparation process, which
stands as a model of participatory approach and popular consultation, was initiated in 1991 and the final
report was adopted by the Government in June 1993. The NEAP was prepared by a Preparation Unit,
staffed with national experts and consultants under the "tutelle" of an Inter-Ministerial Coordinating
Committee chaired by the Ministry of Environment. The NEAP is an integral part of the national economic
and social development policy. By its dynamic nature it will need to be adjusted regularly and will
constitute the basis for future programs of assistance planning and definition of investment priorities. A
broad-based consultation process through regional workshops, surveys, thematic studies and national
seminars permitted to better define the environmenital concerns of the various segments of the population
and to have a more refined spatial approach for the different agro-ecological zones.



- 12 -
The Diagnosis
2.30.        The diagnosis made during the NEAP indicates that, generally speaking, the main
environmental problems in Benin are fundamentally linked to the rapid demographic growth, especially in
the south, to pervasive poverty, and to the discrepancy between the pace of natural resources consumption
and their regeneration capacity, especially for traditional energy sources. Moreover, sectoral policies have
until now given only marginal consideration to environmental concerns and very limited enforcement of
existing legislation. The most important underlying cause may be the lack of awareness and information of
the general public on the issues at stake and the inaction of the policy makers. The most visible indications
of environmental degradation are: the shrinkage of forest cover and the threats to biodiversity, the extension
of land erosion under its different forms, the general deterioration of water quality, and an unbalanced
urban development with consequent degradation of infrastructure and services. A study on the economic
impact of environmental degradation was undertaken as part of the NEAP preparation and suggests that a
conservative estimate of the annual cost of environmental degradation could be in the range of 3 percent to
5 percent of GDP or about 15 to 26 billion CFAF (see Annex 1).
The Objectives and the Proposed Strategy
2.31.         The main objectives of the NEAP are to: (a) promote changes in behavior and attitude in
favor of a better understanding and increased awareness of environmental problems; (b) restore the balance
between supply and demand of natural resources and a better conservation and management of the bio-
diversity heritage; and (c) improve the standards of living of the population. The principles behind these
broad objectives imply: (a) the participation of all the main actors and segments of the population (public,
private, NGOs, University) with particular emphasis on groups identified as the key players in the
implementation of environmental policies such as the women and the youth, the policy makers, the media;
(b) a focus on awareness raising, information and training; (c) a long term approach and continuity of the
process; (d) an approach which builds on existing activities, experiences and resources; (e) the sustainable
contribution of protected areas to economic development; and (f) improved donor coordination.
The Action Plan
2.32.        The NEAP policy objectives have been translated into seven priority programs to be
implemented over a 15 year horizon. They are: (a) institutional strengthening, including the creation of an
environmental agency, development of an effective information system, monitoring and evaluation capacity,
adoption and enforcement of legislation and policies to better address environmental concerns,
implementation of an Environmental Assessment policy and preparation of guidelines for the line
Ministries; (b) development and implementation of an environmental education, infornation and
communication program at different levels (primary and secondary schools, trainers, journalists, public
officials, NGOs, private sector, customary authorities) and establishment of a critical mass of
environmental specialists; (c) development of applied and adaptive research on sustainable agricultural
technologies, communal land management, alternative sources of energy, agro-sylvo-pastoral integration;
(d) conservation and management of the bio-diversity through a better knowledge and monitoring of the
existing resources, sustainable management of  protected areas through larger decentralization of
Government responsibilities and involvement of the local communities; (e) preparation and implementation
of a water management master-plan and strengthening of the water quality control capacity; (f)



- 13 -
improvement of infrastructure and services in rural areas and the definition of a land tenure management
policy; (g) improvement of infrastructure and services in urban areas through better planning and
rehabilitation of urban centers, management of waste disposal, sanitation facilities, pollution and coastal
erosion control, decentralization and improvement of the municipalities' capacity to manage locally
collected funds for urban works and maintenance.
2.33.         Some of these programs have already started or are under preparation and the proposed
strategy is to build on those and many other activities to avoid redundancy, overlapping of responsibility
and waste of resources. As implementation of these programs evolves it will be important to assess
progress, review priorities and update required actions as part of a permanent environmental planning
process (see Annex 1 for more on the preparation process and the status of implementation).
E.           Bank Assistance Strategy
2.34.         Lessons learned from previous IDA involvement. IDA support to the preparation of
NEAPs in many African countries has become the catalyst of a process which has initiated public
awareness of the environmental issues at stake and permitted integration of the environment in the
preparation and implementation of development policies. To maintain momentum and fulfill expectations
developed during the preparation process, IDA involvement in assisting translate action plans into actual
implementation of investment programs is essential. Moreover, the intersectoral nature of the exercise
requires that IDA pursue a strong coordination effort among donors and ensure maximum strategic and
institutional coherence with on-going activities. Lessons from most of the recent IDA initiatives in Benin
point to the need for and interest in local community and private sector participation in the preparation and
implementation of development actions and also the decentralization of the decision making process; at the
same time, however, strong national coordination among various types of intervention remains necessary
for overall sustainability and long term development impact.
2.35.         Rationale for IDA involvement. At Government's request, IDA supported the preparation
of the NEAP and played the leading role in donor coordination. The NEAP document represents an
important step for integrating environmental considerations into the overall economic and social
development strategy. IDA has been instrumental during the whole preparation process in helping the
Government promote general public awareness on the environment, maintain a high level of policy dialogue
and initiate new sectoral programs within that framework. The Government has been extremely responsive
in causing environmental issues to become national priorities. It is IDA policy to foster preparation and
implementation of the NEAP and integrate it in Bank's country assistance strategy as part of continuing
dialogue and to ensure macro-economic and sectoral coordination for appropriate assistance and actions.
The proposed project is fully consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy for Benin, last presented to
the Board in May 1994, which specifically aims at drawing attention to the impact on the environment and
the protection of natural resources. As an area of Special Emphasis the strategy proposes to assist the
Governrment to implement the recommnendations of the NEAP and help develop a sound policy base to
foster integration of environmental considerations into sectoral strategies and programs. The proposed
project is part of the IDA lending program in both the High Case and Low Case Scenario of the Country
Assistance Strategy.



- 14 -
III. THE PROJECT
A.            Proiect Rationale and Obiectives
3.1           Rationale.  Within the NEAP long-term  perspective, the project would help the
Government initiate a capacity building effort to better address environmental issues. This would be part of
a multi-donor effort to finance projects and programs which have been generated by or are in line with the
NEAP recommendations and priorities over a 15 year period. In line with the recommended strategy,
proposed activities will encompass the underlying trends and initiatives already started or under preparation
and which already tackle some of the identified constraints. While it is important that environmental issues
be dealt with in a comprehensive manner, it is also essential that responsibility for integrating and
strengthening environmental concerns in program implementation remains with sectoral Ministries.
Moreover, in view of the existing institutional and coordination weaknesses, an important effort would be
pursued under the project for intersectoral aspects of a horizontal nature, to promote capacity building,
awareness raising, training, establishment and enforcement of standards and guidelines.
3.2           Obiectives. The project would aim at utilizing and building national capacity. It would
pursue the main objective of developing a national environmental management capacity to conceive, plan,
and implement policies and programs, monitor and enforce legislation, strengthen coordination
mechanisms, develop an information system and promote better integration of environmental concerns in
the framework of socio-economic development plans. It would also help improve the awareness,
understanding and knowledge of environmental issues for the various segments of the population, and
foster integration of environmental considerations in the education system.
B.            Summary Proiect Description
3.3           Over a four year period the project would implement the following main components:
(a)   Institutional strengthening would support the environmental management, coordination,
planning, enforcement and monitoring capacity of the Government through the National
Environmental Agency and support decentralized environmental planning and action-
oriented initiatives.
(b)   Monitoring of the regulatory framework and guality control through the i) definition of
procedures and guidelines; ii) monitor implementation of the regulatory framework and of
an environmental impact assessment policy; iii) preparation of contingency plans,
monitoring of quality standards and prevention of environmental risks.
(c)   Establishment of an effective environmental information management and monitoring
system that would develop a common architecture to exchange information between
different structures collecting and retrieving information and meaningfully integrate data
collected by various sources with different standards and methods.



- 15 -
(d)   Development and implementation of an education. information and communication
progam (EIC) at different levels (trainers, journalists, public officials, NGOs) to promote
public awareness of environmental issues.
C.           Detailed Proiect DescriDtion
1.    Institutional Strengthening (US$4.5 million)
3.4          This component would aim  at making better use of the national environmental
coordination, planning, enforcement and monitoring capacity of the Government and strengthen a national
capacity that would foster better preparation of national policies, enforcement of the legislation, integration
of environmental perspectives into sectoral strategies and programs, monitoring and evaluation, and
information management. It would also facilitate integration of environmental management in the on-going
decentralization process and larger participation of local governments and NGOs in decision and policy
making. This involves the reviewing and streamlining of MEHU's responsibilities and role and setting up
appropriate mechanisms for addressing environmental concerns at the national level. The intersectoral
nature of the environmental agenda implies that activities falling under its broad framework would be
implemented by several executing agencies according to the nature of the proposed actions and to the
responsibilities already entrusted to the different agencies/Ministries. In general it is envisaged that
implementation of sectoral components for which a clear responsibility already exists, would be undertaken
through the existing structures, line departments and NGOs where appropriate. Thus, problems are
addressed in the context of the activity of which they are part.
3.5          The mandate of the Directorate of Environment within MEHU is very ambitious but the
lack of financial and human resources is a serious impediment to implementation of meaningful activities.
MEHU has also responsibility for housing and urban affairs and has the "tutelle" for the implementation of
action programs and projects. Entrusting MERU with full coordination and enforcement authority for
tasks of intersectoral nature, may cause it to police its own and other more powerful Ministries' actions
while actually being on the same hierarchical level and having a mandate not neutral to the environment.
This may be source of conflicts and raise questions of impartiality. To address this issue and permit the
Government to implement effectively its environmental agenda, a specific working group has conducted
studies and workshops during the NEAP and during project preparation, to propose a realistic institutional
organization. The mandate of MEHU and particularly of its Directorates of Environment and of Land Use
Management would be streamlined and strengthened so to emphasize policy preparation and monitoring
rather than implementation and provide the basis for a more modest but meaningful agenda. MERU's role
would concentrate on (a) defining and following-up the national policy, (b) environmental planning, (c)
preparing and overseeing implementation of the legislation, (d) defining the objectives and standards
related to the sustainable use and quality of natural resources and intervention techniques, (e) authorizing
and delivering permits for the implementation of activities with potential environmental impact, as defined
by the legislation, and (f) international negotiations and representation.
3.6          According to the recommendation of the NEAP, the Government has created in February
1995 a National Environmental Agency (NEA). The Agency is conceived to be endowed with technical
skills but also with political clout. It would be small and focused on key priorities, avoid conflicts and
competition by excluding implementation responsibilities from its mandate. NEA would mainly play a
catalytic role in the environmental decision-making process, spearhead the environmental agenda and be the



- 16 -
instrument of the Government and of the civil society for assessing environmental impacts, monitoring
implementation of the regulatory framework, informing and proposing remedial actions to the political
level. NEA's role will be to address issues of a horizontal nature and help the Government in implementing
environmental policies and legislation, promoting better integration of environmental concerns into sectoral
policies and programs, organizing networking for monitoring and planning, monitoring implementation of
an environmental assessment policy and compliance with standards and regulations, coordinating EIC
programs and studies, raising awareness, coordinating an environmental information system, informing the
Government and the public, facilitating contacts with the media and the Parliament. NEA will also play an
important role in promoting collaboration with the NGO community and local governnents in the
implementation of pilot activities for the conservation of the environment.
3.7          Central oversight of NEA would rest with a Steering Committee. chaired by the Minister
of MEHU and comprising representatives of concerned Ministries, the NGO community, the media
(environmental desk, see para. 3.21), and the private sector. It would ensure overall monitoring, guidance,
and arbitration. It would follow-up progress in NEA's working program, discuss its achievements and
results, promote intersectoral coordination, and sensitize the political level to particular issues. The
Committee would meet every three to four months and would invite representatives from other
organizations to participate in meetings, discussions and working groups on specific subjects. NEA's
Director would provide the secretariat of the Committee and help prepare the documentation to be
examined by it (programs and budgets, progress reports, studies' results, specific recommendations). See
Annex 2 for NEA's chart and Annex 3 for distribution of responsibilities. Internal regulations of NEA and
of the Steering Committee are included in the Implementation Manual.
3.8          The National Council for Sustainable Development, to be created in the aftermath of the
Rio Conference and to be chaired by the President or his delegate, would be the general forum which would
provide the necessary political support in the implementation of the environmental agenda, and high level
coordination in the follow-up of the various initiatives which are being developed (NEAP, social dimension
of development, desertification Convention, biodiversity Convention, Montreal Protocol, Dutch bilateral
Convention for sustainable development). The relevant Minister would present and follow-up the various
matters according to the underlying initiative or Convention to be discussed. For matters related to NEA's
tasks, relevant subjects would be presented by the Minister in charge of Environment.
3.9          A specific capacity building effort would also be targeted in favor of the municipalities and
local Governments which are in the process of being entrusted with decentralized authority on very
important environment-related matters such as local tax collection and management, waste disposal,
sanitation, urban planning, etc.. A small guide on best practices of environmental management would be
prepared for the use of the local Councils of the primary and secondary towns. Small field activities and
pilot initiatives, would also be promoted, mainly through NGOs.



- 17 -
2.     Monitoring of the Regulatory Framework and Quality Control (US$1.7 million)
3.10          The Regulatory Framework and Environmental Impact Assessments An environmental
code ("loi cadre") has been prepared as follow up of the NEAP's recommendations; it has been aproved
by Government and transmitted to the Parliament for adoption. Among other things it would define general
requirements for the establishment and implementation of an environmental assessment policy. One of the
main tasks of the NEA would be to help the Government in enforcing its environmental legislation,
coordinating and supervising preparation of EA guidelines for the different sectors, defining implementation
procedures and standards, and controlling their application. The Environmental Assessment process would
be used as the driving force to organize workshops, build consensus, promote decision making and, in the
end, capacity building. A training effort for local staff in EA methodology and format would be undertaken.
EAs for new investment operations would be carried out at the expense of the sponsor of the project.
3.11          Another major task that would be undertaken as part of a capacity building effort is the
preparation of contingency plans and prevention of environmental risks to help the Government face
unexpected crises or accidents, promptly implement remedial actions and prevent future nuisances. This
includes: (a) flooding, (b) leakage or disposal of toxic materials, (c) contamination, pollution and oil spills,
(d) natural accidents, fires, explosions, etc...This task would include helping the Government to conduct
environmental auditing, and to enforce quality control measures and standards, with particular reference to
drinking water and pesticide use. Workshops would be organized to discuss the underlying strategy,
preparation of preparedness and mitigation plans, and the attribution of responsibilities. At the initiative of
MEHU and NEA, impact assessments and studies would also be conducted on subjects of national interest
which are presently sources of concern: (a) the impact of water releases from the hydro-electric power plant
of Nangbeto on the coastal configuration and downstream human activities (fishing, salt production); (b)
the potential risk of water contamination; (c) waste management policies; (d) pollution sources and
pesticides use. NEA would centralize and analyze EAs and submit recommendations to its governing body,
the Steering Committee.
3.     Environmental Information Mananement & Monitoring (US$1.6 million)
3.12          Environmental Information Management and Monitoring is essential for effective
environmental planning, monitoring and enforcing compliance with regulations, and information of
decision-makers, the private sector, and NGOs. The main agencies concemed with collection and
production of environmental information and maps are MEHU, NEA, the National Geographic Institute
(IGN), the Remote Sensing Center (CENATEL), the Directorate of Hydrology, the Institute for
Agricultural Research, the National University, the Urban Planning and Housing Research Agency
(SERHAU), and the Air Navigation Control Agency (ASECNA). Their role has already been extensively
studied in the context of previous projects and during preparation of the NEAP. Because of the
intersectoral nature of environmental issues, the most important objective would be to develop an effective
coordination capacity that would be able to meaningfully integrate data collected by various sources with
different standards and methods in an Environmental Infomnation System. The need to establish a common
architecture that would enable exchange of information between different structures collecting and
retrieving information and to enhance their analytical capacity has been clearly expressed by a specific
NEAP working group. The project would therefore upgrade existing arrangements, strengthen the
analytical capacity of the different centers to constitute and maintain relevant data bases, and promote the
establishment of an information exchange network that would be organized and promoted by NEA as the



- 18 -
central catalyzing element. However, NEA would not be collecting or constituting new data bases or
competing with existing structures in the network. See Annex 5 for a detailed implementation schedule.
3.13          In addition, a Coastal Zone Management Study would be undertaken in order to better
assess present constraints and risks for the coastal area which represents 10 percent of the territory and
hosts 60 percent of the population, and which is subject to very strong environmental pressures
(uncontroled immigration, human settlements in unhealthy areas, waste disposal and pollution, loss of
biodiversity, coastal erosion, etc..). Future development possibilities and action-oriented activities would be
proposed as part of an action plan. It is proposed to carry out the 1:50,000 mapping of the area and the
specific studies as required. IGN and SERHAU would be the two main actors for conducting the
cartography and the studies respectively. (Terms of Reference in the Implementation Manual).
4.     Environmental Education. Information and Communication (EIC) (US$1.5 million)
Objectives and Strategy
3.14.         Implementation of an effective environmental policy will not be conducive to sustainable
development unless it progressively fosters a change in attitudes and behaviors of the different segments of
the population, each one within his own capacity and activity. Those changes cannot take place unless the
merits and benefits of Government decisions are explained and understood. The success of the
implementation of an environmental policy goes through a process of education, training and
communication. An educated and informed population is in the long term the main factor of economic and
sustainable development since it will be enabled to better manage and protect its forests, soil, biodiversity
and make better use of energy and water resources at the household level. Until now the efforts to include
environmental considerations in education or information programs have been non-existent or marginal.
The media, local NGOs and academic institutions play an essential role of public information and it will be
important that their understanding and capacity is upgraded so that the messages conveyed are appropriate
and that a critical mass of environmental capacity be developed.
3.15.         The main principles underlying the proposed program  are a) implementation of a
participatory approach at all levels; b) improvement of the environmental awareness and understanding of
all segments of the population; c) focus on special groups which play a fundamental role in environmental
management: women, youth, policy makers and the media; d) progressive upgrading of sector capacity for
better integration of environmental aspects in the preparation and implementation of sectoral policies
(agriculture, urban development, energy, health, education). The recent strategy for the integration of
environment into education programs, elaborated during the NEAP process by INFRE3, would be
implemented under the proposed project through present education programs rather than through new
separate curricula.
3 INFRE (Institut National pour la Fornation et Recherche en Education), within the Ministry of Education, is
responsible for the conception and preparation of education programs.



- 19-
Project Activities
3.16.         Integration of environmental considerations in education programs would be implemented
in close collaboration with the FY94 Education Project and would dovetail with the reforms being
promoted in the primary cycle. It would foster better understanding by the teachers of environmental issues
and promote diffusion of environmentally-related subjects through the existing curricula. The project would
support the preparation and production of pedagogic guides for the teachers, for the primary and for the
secondary cycle. The purpose of these guides would be to provide the trainers with the basic knowledge of
(a) the fundamental mechanisms which deternine the Beninese environment; (b) the major national
environmental issues; and (c) possible individual and collective ways to protect the environment. Training
on the proposed approach would also be provided to the education inspectors and teachers' trainers. Such
training would focus on how to use existing curricula as a vehicle to diffuse environment-related issues.
Integration of environmental considerations into adult basic teaching would also be pursued and would
consist in the preparation of brochures and other pedagogic material for the use of teachers involved with
literacy programs and for reading clubs and associations. This material would be mainly devoted to women
and would be produced in the six major national languages.
3.17          An outreach and sensitization program would be developed and implemented in primary
and secondary schools to encourage local initiatives that would raise awareness and prove beneficial for the
environment (school theater, organization of visits, surveys and discussions, realization of small activities
of general interest within the school premises). A pilot phase would be first implemented in a Department
of the North (rural aspects) and of the South (urban aspects), and eventually expanded if the outreach
modules prove successful. Activities would also be linked with relevant activities or projects in the field.
3.18.        Training. An important training effort would be devoted to raise the environmental
knowledge of public officials and of the society in broad terms. It is proposed to constitute and strengthen a
core national environmental capacity within the different sectoral specificity of the Ministries mostly
concemed (environment, health, interior, rural development, industry, water and energy, public works).
Two high level staff knowledgeable on environmnent in each relevant Ministry would be given a short term
training in the domain of their competencies related to environmental issues. An enhanced training program
would also be provided to six staff of the MEHU on environmental planning and management. A common
training course on Environmnental Impact Assessment would also be provided to the samne staff. Training
would be provided by specialized centers, possibly from the sub-region. A second refresher training course
would be provided to the same staff three years later. Continuity of the trained staff on their job would be
essential for effectiveness of this capacity building effort. The staff of the Agency would also be provided
with specialized training on specific topics and would undertake study tours to learn from similar
experiences in other countries. This core of national specialists would contribute to integrate environmental
concerns in the preparation and implementation of sectoral policies and would represent the sectoral focal
point for environmental related matters (See planning of training activities in Annex 4).
3.19.        The training modules for the agricultural extension staff in the field would be reviewed and
strengthened in collaboration with the FY91 Agricultural Services project so that extension messages take
more into account the sustainable use of natural resources. Particular focus would be devoted to upgrading
the level of the subject matter specialists in the CARDERs.



- 20 -
3.20.        A series of workshops on various topics related to environmental issues  would be
organized throughout the project life for about 20 participants each time for some special interest groups
such as: parliamentarians, local authorities, education inspectors and school directors, women associations,
youth groups and NGOs. In turn, specialized NGOs would be encouraged and supported to organize
outreach activities and training sessions through schools, cultural centers, women's organizations. The
project would also support the documentation unit initiated under the NEAP and now established in the
MEHU with some office equipment and additional documentation.
3.21.         An environmental desk has been initiated during the NEAP preparation process and is
constituted by a group of national journalists ftom the press and the television who are interested by or
involved in environmental subjects. The project, in collaboration with the WANAD4 initiative, would
strengthen the group through appropriate training and the provision of some office and audio-visual
equipment for the production of documents, support to communication programs, video cassettes, etc.. This
would go a long way in improving the professionalism and credibility of the national media. Internship with
the foreign press would be promoted as well as encouragement of regular contacts with the various
economic actors and the organization of meetings and workshops. Although the desk would organize itself
into a more structured entity, its members would continue to be employed by their present organization.
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A.            Cost estimate
4. 1          Total project costs over four years, including incremental capital and operating
expenditures, and contingencies are estimated at CFAF 4.9 billion, i.e US$9.3 million at the exchange rate
prevailing in Novcmber 1994 (US$1 = CFAF 530), of which 50 percent is foreign exchange. Estimated
duties and taxes amount to CFAF 352 million (US$0.7 million). Total physical and price contingencies
amount to about CFAF 485 million (US$0.9 million), i.e. about 11 percent of the total costs. Physical
contingencies have been included at the rate of 10 percent on goods and works, 5 percent on operating
costs, and 0 percent on consultant services and salaries. Price contingencies are based on the Bank's
projected increase of international prices and local prices. The rates applied for foreign goods and services
are 2.9 percent in 1995 and 1996, 3 percent on 1997 and 2.7 percent, thereafter. Price contingencies on
local costs are 3 percent in 1995 and thereafter. A Project Preparation Facility of US$200,000 was allowed
to finance preliminary studies, functioning of the NEAP Secretariat and subsequently of the NEA,
preparation of an Implementation Manual as well as preliminary training of key project personnel. Project
costs are summarized below and details are given in Annex 7.
4 The West African Press Agencies Development Project, based in Cotonou, assists in media development and
programs preparation.



- 21 -
Summary of Project Costs
Local      Foreign     | Total    % of Base
Proiect components                                      | Exchange   |           Cost
~~-- USS million-----
Institutional Strengthening                       2.3          1.7         4.0        48
Regulatory Framework, Quality Control             0.7         0.8          1.5        18
Information, Management & Monitoring              0.5          1.0         1.5        18
Education, Information & Communication            0.7          0.7         1.4        16
Total Base Cost                                  4.2          4.2         8.4       100
Physical Contingencies                            0.1         0.2          0.3         3
Financial Contingencies                           0.3         0.3          0.6         8
TOTAL COST                                        4.6         4.7          9.3      lII
B.            Financing
4.2           The IDA Credit of US$8.0 million, would be provided at the usual conditions of the
Association and would be granted for a period of 40 years. In addition to duties and taxes, the Government
would be responsible for paying the salaries of all non-contractual staff and part of the operating cost. All
costs financed by IDA would be net of duties and taxes. France is participating in the financing of the
Information Management and Monitoring component through support to the IGN.
Financing Plan by Project Component (US$ million)
Proiect components                      IDA       GVT      TOTAL
Institutional Strengthening               3.5       1.0       4.5
Regulatory Framework, Quality Control     1.7       -          1.7
Information Management & Monitoring       1.4       0.2        1.6
Education, Information & Communication    1.4       0.1        1.5
Total                                     8.0       1.3       9.3
of which duties and taxes               -         0.7
Financing share %                        86         14
Financing Plan by Disbursement Category (US$ million)
Categorv                          IDA      GVT *   TOTAL
Civil Works                        0.5                 0.5
Vehicles and Equipment             2.0      0.6        2.6
Consult. Services                  2.4                 2.4
Training                           1.4                 1.4
Studies                            1.0                 1.0
Incremental Operating Costs        0.5      0.3        0.8
Salaries                                    0.4        0.4
Project preparation                0.2                 0.2
TOTAL                               8.0      1.3       9.3
* including taxes and duties



- 22 -
C.              Procurement
4.3             All goods, civil works and consultant services financed under the IDA  credit will be
procured in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in its guidelines5. The table below
sunmmarizes the project elements and their estimated costs and proposed methods of procurement.
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arraneements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Category                     ILC        LCB        Other       N.I.F     Total Cost
1. Civil Works
1.1 Civil works/Rural works                          0.2         0.3                     0.5
(0.2)      (0.3)                   (0.5)
2. Goods
2.1 Equipment/Vehicles                    1.4        0.7         0.4                     2.5
(1.1)      (0.5)       (0.3)                   (1.9)
3. Consultancies
3.1 Consult., services                                           2.4                     2.4
(2.4)                  (2.4)
3.2  Training                                                    1.4                     1.4
(1.4)                  (1.4)
3.3  Studies                                                     1.0                     1.0
(1.0)                  (1.0)
4. Service contracts
4.1 Satellite imagery and                                        0.1                     0.1
aerial photos                                              (0._1)                  (0.1)
5. Miscellaneous
5.1 Incremental Operating Costs                                  0.8                     0.8
(0.5)                  (0.5)
5.2 Salaries                                                                 0.4         0.4
5.3 Refinancing of the PPF                                       0.2                     0.2
(0.2)                  (0.2)
Total                                        1.4         0.9        6.6         0.4         9.3
.  ._____________________________      (1.1)       (0.7        (6.2                   (8.
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amnounts financed by IDA credit.
N.I.F.: Not IDA-Financed
5 "Guidelines for procurement under IBRD loans and IDA credits" (May 1992), and "Guidelines for the use of
consultants by World Bank borrowers and by the World Bank as executing agency" (August, 1981).



- 23 -
4.4           Procurenient actions in Benin have overall performed satisfactorily for IDA-financed
agricultural projects. Sample bidding documents have been established for Benin, and a new procurement
code, reviewed by IDA, has been approved by the Government and is expected to be adopted shortly by the
Parliament. There is an adequate number of small and medium size contractors as well as consulting firms
and individual consultants, who meet the appropriate standards of performance. NEA will be responsible
for procurement activities. Agreement has been reached at negotiations concerning procurement procedures
as outlined below as well as the use of Bank's standard bidding documents and the adherence to agreed
standard procurement processing times. An implementation manual satisfactory to the Bank will be adopted
before effectiveness (para. 5.4).
4.5            Civil works and infrastructure. Contracts for the construction of NEA's office would be
procured through LCB 6 up to an aggregate amnount of US$0.2 million equivalent. Works for the
implementation of small pilot activities for environmental management or to help in the implementation of
contingency plans, to be undertaken through NGOs with community participation, difficult to group and/or
scattered, and costing less than US$20,000 up to an aggregate amount of 0.3 million will be procured
through community participation in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4.6           Goods.  To the extent practicable, vehicles, equipment and supply contracts will be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of US$150,000 or more each and procured on
the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) using Bank's standard bidding documents. ICB
purchases are expected to total US$1.4 million. Under ICB procurement of goods, goods manufactured in
Benin will be allowed a preference margin of 15 percent or applicable custom duties, whichever is lower.
For contracts between US$50,000 and US$150,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount of US$0.5
million, local competitive bidding (LCB) procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank will be used.
Procurement of goods for less than US$50,000 per contract and up to an aggregate amount of US$0.3
million will be done through prudent shopping (international or local), on the basis of comparison of price
quotations of at least three suppliers in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4.7           Consultancies  Technical assistance, studies, training and consultants financed by IDA
will be selected in accordance with IDA guidelines for the use of consultants. This includes, inter alia,
audits and accounting services, capacity building for environmental management and for the
implementation of an environmental education, training and communication program, training, monitoring
and evaluation activities, and impact assessment studies. Contracts up to an amount not exceeding US$1.4
million equivalent would be awarded to training institutions acceptable to IDA, according to the training
plan to be presented annually together with NEA's work program (para 5.8). Contracts up to an amount not
exceeding 0.5 million equivalent would be awarded directly to individuals and NGOs reputed for their
experience in the sector, competence and their history of involvement in Benin. Any sole source would
require to be acceptable to IDA. Other consultants, studies and training services, encompassing a wide
range of expertise up to an aggregate of respectively US$2.9 million equivalent, will be procured on the
6 LCB provides that: (a) 45 days minimum shall be allowed between the availability of bid documents and bid
submission deadline date; (b) all bids are opened in public and bidders' representatives shall be allowed to be
present; (c) precise bid evaluation and post-qualification criteria shall be defined in the bid documents; (d) foreign
companies shall not be requested to obtain registration. income tax and social security clearances to participate in
the bidding process; (e) award should be made to the lowest evaluated bidder; and (f) rejection of any lower bid
subject to prior Bank review.



- 24 -
basis of a short list of qualified firms/consultants/institutions. Prior review would be required for contracts
estimated to cost more than US$50,000 equivalent for firms and US$25,000 equivalent for individuals
each. The Bank continues to require prior review for: (a) terms of reference of consultant contracts
regardless of value; (b) all contracts for assignment of critical nature regardless of value; and, (c) any
standard documents that the borrowers intends to use repeatedly. As a condition of effectiveness the
Government will prepare and send to the Bank contracts for the recruitment of external auditors and for the
establishment of an accounting and financial monitoring system to the Bank.  Contract signing between
NEA and a foreign firm for regular short term technical support will be a condition of effectiveness.
4.8           Service contracts for the provision of satellite imagery, aerial photographs and base maps,
up to an aggregate amount of US$0.1 million equivalent, will be awarded through limited international
bidding (LIB) given their specific nature and the limited number of contractors. The established list of
contractors will be subject to prior review by the Bank.
4.9           Operating costs. including travel costs and allowances, utilities, office supplies,
communications, operation and maintenance for office, vehicles and equipment, up to an aggregate amount
of US$0.8 million, given their nature, do not involve procurement.
4.10          Review of procurement decisions. Bank prior review will be needed for all contracts of
civil works and goods estimated to cost more than US$100,000 equivalent; the Bank will however review
the first three LCBs. Bank's prior review will cover advertising, draft tender documents, bid evaluation,
award proposals and draft contracts. Contracts for procurement of works and goods falling below the prior
review threshold, will be subject to random review by the Bank after contract award. Procurement
information would be reported in the annual progress report to be prepared by project management so as to
revise cost estimates and timing of procurement actions including advertising, bidding, contract awards and
completion time for individual contracts, and compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of
procurement. The Consultancies Plan is in Annex 4, the Project Implementation Schedule is in Annex 5,
and the Project Procurement Schedule is in Annex 6.
D.           Disbursement
4.11          Given the Government's limited ability to pre-finance project expenditure and to make
management more effective and expedite disbursements, a special account, denominated in CFAF, would
be opened in a commercial bank in Cotonou, acceptable to IDA, and managed by NEA's Director. Once
the credit becomes effective, IDA would make an initial deposit of US$500,000 equivalent for NEA,
covering 4 months of IDA-financed eligible expenditures. The special account would be replenished
monthly or more often when the total disbursed amounts to one third of the initial deposit, whichever is
sooner. The Director and a financial controller would be responsible for managing the special account and
would be its signatory. Disbursements will be fully documented except for expenditures for operating costs,
training, and contracts costing less than US$100,000 equivalent which will be eligible for reimbursement
on the basis of Statement of Expenditure (SOE). SOE will also be used for services under contracts not
exceeding US$50,000 equivalent with consulting firms or US$ 25,000 equivalent with individuais. All
expenditures above US$100,000 equivalent, will be eligible for direct payment by the Bank.
Documentation of SOEs will be made available for review by Bank supervision missions and auditors.



- 25 -
4.12          The disbursement profile for agricultural projects in Benin suggests that the project would
be disbursed over a period of seven and one half years (see disbursement profile in Annex 8). However,
given the nature of the project which mainly deals with capacity building and institutional strengthening, it
is estimated that the project would be disbursed over six years. All the disbursements of the IDA credit will
be net of identifiable duties and taxes. The disbursement by categories will be as follows:
Allocation and Disbursement of the IDA Credit
Categorv                          Amount             % Financed by IDA
(US$ million)
1. Civil and Rural Works              0.5            100% of foreign expenditures
90% of local expenditures
2 Equipment/Vehicles                  2.0            100% of foreign expenditures
90% of local expenditures
3. Consultant Services, Studies &     4.2                100%
Training
4. Incremental Operating Costs        0.5                 70%
5. Refinancing of the PPF             0.2            Amount due
6. Unallocated                        0.6
Total                     _8.0 _
4.13          A project account in local currency, to be operated by NEA, will also be established in a
commercial bank with an initial deposit by the Government of CFAF 30 million to cover the Government's
contribution to NEA's expenditures. This account will be replenished by the Government to meet the
annual requirement of CFAF 70 million. Evidence of the initial deposit will be a condition of Credit
effectiveness.
E.            Financial Mana2ement, Accountin! and Audit
4.14          In order to ensure rapid and efficient establishment of the accounting and financial system,
an internationally known firm would be contracted as a condition of effectiveness of the credit for a period
of two months to train the project accountant of NEA in preparing regular financial reports and monitoring
activities. Together, they would set up a computerized accounting and budget system to pennit rapid
consolidation of project expenditures and breakdown of costs. NEA will be responsible for keeping records
and/or consolidating the accounts and preparing financial statements, disbursement applications and
records, and withdrawal applications.
4.15          Project accounts would be audited by competent independent external auditors, whose
appointment would be a condition of credit effectiveness. Audited accounts and reports would be
submnitted to IDA not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year. The auditor's report on project



- 26 -
expenditures would include an examination of the documentation substantiating expenditures and a
verification that: (a) project accounts permit identification of all receipts and payments; (b) goods had been
received or work performed; (c) payments had been made; (d) all expenditures had been legitimate; and (e)
the special account has been used appropriately, along with an opinion on the reliability of the SOE
procedures and on whether the goods and services acquired under the project were being utilized in
accordance with its objectives. The auditors would also prepare the "long audit report" including the
management letter revealing possible shortcomings in the staffing, accounting system and efficiency of the
internal control procedures. Assurances on the foregoing have been obtained during negotiations.
V. PROJECT ORGANIZATION. MANAGEMENT AND MONITORING
A.           General StrateEy
5.1          The general principles behind the implementation strategy of the project would be to: (a)
promote a better understanding and tackling of environmental issues by the integration of environmental
concerns in the preparation and implementation of sectoral policies and programs through the existing
structures; (b) decentralize management and make maximum use of the private sector, NGOs and local
communities in the actual execution of actions and studies, while maintaining strong coordination; (c) keep
the pace of implementation in line with capacity building and institutional development; and (d) maintain
great flexibility in the preparation of annual working plans and establish clear monitoring indicators.
B.            Proiect Imnlementation
5.2          NEA would be the implementing agency, however, the intersectoral nature of the proposed
activities would require the establishment of coordination mechanisms with different other agencies,
Ministries and NGOs. NEA would support institutional strengthening and capacity building for some of
these agencies and establish clear working relationships and links. The relationship between NEA and
MEHU would in particular be clarified and the present mandate of the Directorate of Environment would
be reviewed for consistency with its new role. MEHU's environmental role would focus on the permanent
and public tasks which derive from its responsibilities of coordinating, planning, preparing and monitoring
national policy and legislation. In this respect MEHU would have to determine the objectives and strategies
of the main environmental policies, the regulatory standards, and the enforcement rules. MEHU would
delegate implementation and monitoring of the environmental policy to NEA which would seek the
competencies and support of external services, local governments (to be entrusted soon with an official
status), NGOs, and the private sector. The Environmental Code provides the agency with the legal
authority and stature to carry out its mandate as a permanent national structure, hence fostering
institutional sustainability. Annex 3 indicates the matrix of distribution of environmental management
responsibilities.
5.3          NEA's functions would foster the establishment of working groups and the development of
relationships at the technical level through the organization of workshops and meetings with the concerned
structures and implementing agencies. The main tasks that would require strong intersectoral coordination
and consultation with the Administration and the civil society and that would represent the catalytic
elements for a capacity building effort are:



- 27 -
(a)  the implementation of an Environmental Assessment policy including the coordination and
the preparation of standard guidelines and procedures for the different sectors and type of
investments. This activity would be supported by the new regulatory framework defining the
general requirements and conditions for the preparation of EAs and the enforcement policy.
Strong technical coordination would be required with the concerned Ministries and
implementing agencies in this process of consensus building.
(b)  the preparation and coordination of Contingency Plans and Quality Control including the
definition of the underlying procedures and designation of responsibilities for their
implementation (para.3.11). This activity would be carried out in close coordination with the
previous one and would also include the definition and monitoring of norms and quality
standards for a number of activities which would deserve closer environmental analysis and
surveillance (drinking water quality control, waste disposal, industrial emission, water
emission from hydro-electric plants, pollution and other nuisances, etc..)
(c)  the establishment of an Environmental Information and Monitoring System  and the
development of a network of data exchange and communication . This would require to build
upon existing agencies (para.3.12), upgrade their data bases, strengthen their data collection
and analytical capacities, advise on standards to ensure consistency, and coordinate the
establishment of a common architecture for effective and full knowledge and use of available
information. This task would also include monitoring and evaluation of the environmental
indicators and of the Agency's activities.
(d)  the promotion of an Environmental Education, Information and Communication (EIC)
program through the appropriate structures, the organization of specific workshops and the
coordination of a training program for NEA's technical staff and for various other
Ministries, media, NGOs and interest groups on environmental issues and environmental
impact assessments. Preparation of pedagogic material and teachers' guides for the
integration of environmental concerns into education programs would be implemented under
the responsibility of the Ministry of Education through INFRE. Implementation of awareness
raising campaigns and the organization of specific workshops would be contracted to NGOs,
the University, and the environmental desk.
(e) strengthening and improving participation of the civil society in the decision making
process with focus on support for decentralized environmental planning and action-oriented
initiatives.
(f)  updating the NEAP, monitoring its implementation, coordinating environmental activities
and helping prepare policy papers and action plans on environmental-related subjects as part
of a permanent planning process.
NEA would not conduct studies or Environmental Assessments itself, nor would it build up data bases or
implement specific actions. It would rather contract these activities out and ensure that the correct
screening, statutory review and enforcement is carried out, analyze the results and submit its
recommendations to the political level.



- 28 -
5.4.          An Implementation Manual has been prepared by the Government with IDA support and
discussed during negotiations. It defines the various procedures for project implementation (procurement,
disbursement, audits), organizational and management arrangements, the monitoring indicators against
which to gauge project's achievements and impact, contractual arrangements, terms of reference, tentative
work schedules for the different NEA's functions, planning for consultants recruitment and for the training
program. The final adoption of an Implementation Manual acceptable to IDA would be a condition of
Credit effectiveness.
5.5          NEA would be staffed with about eight professionals for the following positions: director,
environmental education and commnunication, workshops and training, information and monitoring systems,
environmental impact assessment and studies, contingency plans and quality control, environmental
planning and NEAP monitoring, NGOs and local government promotion. Support and administrative staff
would include one procurement officer, one monitoring assistant, one financial controller, one accountant,
one administrative assistant, two secretaries. Staff could be from the public sector, seconded or hired on the
private market.
5.6          In February 1995 the Government has taken a new decree redefining the mandate of the
Directorate of Environment, has created NEA, and has appointed its Director. The rest of the staff of the
Agency should be appointed as a condition of Credit effectiveness according to terms of reference and
profiles defined in the Implementation Manual. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
competent staff with qualifications, experience, terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to IDA
would be appointed and maintained. NEA would establish twinning arrangements with a similar agency or
NGO and would look for technical assistance and partnership with an external firm, to be selected through
a short list, for short term periodic technical and managerial support. Therefore, no expatriate resident
technical assistance would be financed under this project, but only short term specific support according to
a work plan to be prepared and approved yearly (a tentative planning for technical support is provided in
Annex 4). To the extent possible, the use of national consultants would be encouraged. The external
support firm, refered to above, should be selected as a condition of Credit effectiveness. Preference would
be given, in the selection, to the establishment of joint-venture mechanisms with local firms for more
sustainable development of capacity building efforts.
D.            Monitoring & Evaluation
5.7           NEA would be responsible for monitoring proper implementation of capacity building
activities and achievement of project objectives. Monitoring indicators and a computerized implementation
schedule would be established for the main functions of NEA and will be included in the Implementation
Manual (see Table of Contents in Annex 11). The same system would be used by NEA to plan its
operations and measure performance, achievements and effectiveness of activities. NEA's monitoring and
evaluation system would cover: (a) NEA's inputs and processing time in terms of staffing, procurement, use
of technical assistance and consultants, workshops, etc..; (b) NEA's outputs in terms of preparation and
implementation of strategies, guidelines, procedures, mandatory reviews, contingency plans, training,
awareness campaign, studies, monitoring activities; and (c) the impact on environmental management
capacity, education and awareness, enforcement of legislation, limitation of harmful activities, policy
implementation, preparedness to emergency situations, monitoring and intervention capacity (see Annex 5).



- 29 -
E.           Reporting and Supervision
5.8          Rzrting. NEA would prepare progress reports, in a form acceptable to IDA, twice a
year. Both reports should be submitted to the Government and IDA within three months after the end of the
period to be covered: September 30 (in succinct form) and March 31 (full report). The annual full report
would include the financial statements, the review of procurement activities and the status of
implementation. It would in particular indicate progress in the implementation of environmental
assessments, enforcement of the regulatory framework, functioning of the environmental information
systern and training. NEA's annual report would be discussed by the Steering Committee for guidance and
recommendations, and once approved would be made public to facilitate access by the society to
environmental information. The annual work program would be presented by December 31 of each year
and would comprise the previsional budget requirement (including counterpart funds) and the training plan.
Assurances in this respect would be sought during negotiations of the credit. A project completion report
would be prepared by the Government and IDA within six months after the credit closing date. Assurances
in this respect were obtained during negotiations. NEA would also be responsible for preparing and
publishing annually (from PY2) an Environmental Status report, containing all relevant information on the
status and evolution of selected environmental monitoring indicators.
5.9          Supervision. Close coordination with the donor commnunity would be sought throughout
supervision so to harmonize approaches and monitor the status of NEAP implementation. A joint mid-term
review would be carried out at the latest two years after the credit becomes effective by the Governnent
and IDA on the basis of a preliminary Government mid-term progress report. Its recommendations, once
approved by the Government and IDA would be implemented as soon as possible. The review would cover
inter alia: (a) NEA's performance, functioning and management; (b) an assessment of the effectiveness of
the institutional set-up and coordination mechanisms; (c) progress made in the implementation of project
activities and particularly the environmental impact assessment policy; (d) financing of new studies and
programs identified dacring the course of the project. Assurances in this respect were obtained at
negotiations. The project supervision schedule is in Annex 9.
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.           Justification and Benefits
6.1          The projects derives from the considerable strategic effort undertaken by the Government
in recent years. Adoption of the NEAP in June 1993 represents a major step in defining the national
environmental policy and priorities. It also acted as the starting point of a series of regulatory/policy
measures and of initiatives aiming at its implementation. The project would allow the Government to
possess an effective and indispensable tool to develop a national environmental management capacity
required to effectively implement and monitor the priority actions identified in the NEAP. By dovetailing
with on-going activities it would reinforce the environmental perspective of sectoral strategies and
strengthen institutions in their ability to implement programs and enforce legislation.
6.2          The thrust of the project would be to initiate a process of changes in the way people deal,
understand and go about environmental issues. It would raise the level of environmental awareness of large
segments of the populations through actions across a large spectrum such as the improvement of existing



- 30 -
education, literacy and agricultural extension programs or through targeted training and workshops for
important interest groups (public officials, media, women's groups, NGOs, etc..). The project would
therefore reinforce the national capacity to identify and tackle environmental constraints and favor the
participation of the civil society in a comprehensive education, training, communication effort.
6.3           Poverty alleviation. Implementation of this project would provide an opportunity to pursue
economic development which is consistent with and depends on protecting the environment and hence
safeguarding people's welfare. By helping development become more sustainable, the project would
contribute to alleviate poverty. As illustrated in the Poverty Assessment for Benin, poverty is closely linked
to the environment in which people live and it determines their behavior in different ways: i) poor people
tend to live in poor environments, ii) poor people do not have the incentives or the opportunities to make
appropriate uses of their natural resource capital, iii) poor environments force people into further
deteriorating actions, thus creating more poverty. The project would contribute to tackling this vicious
circle, which is one of the major issues facing Benin in the years ahead.
B.           Environmental Impact
6.4           This project would be the main vehicle to develop an environmental capacity to address
and monitor the most important environmental issues in the country. It will underwrite establishment of a
national Environmental Assessment capacity. It would also have a beneficial environmental impact by
contributing to a better awareness by the population of the necessity to preserve and manage the
environment as the basis for sustainable development. The environmental category of this project is C.
C.            Impact on the State Bud2et
6.5           The annual cost of environmental degradation to the national economy (Annex 1) has been
estimated to be in the range of 3 percent to 5 percent of GDP or about 15 to 26 billion FCFA. This
provides an indicative order of magnitude against which benefits, costs and impact on the State recurrent
budget could be assessed. Although investments in environment are not expected to yield immediate
returns, time has come for concern about the future generations. By putting in place a legal and
institutional framework for improved environmental management the Government would implement the
initial necessary steps to effectively tackle the degradation process, which would result in public savings in
the medium and long term. NEA, as a public body, would need some recurrent costs allocations from the
national budget as IDA support is progressively phased out. However, given its modest size and also the
possibility to receive other donor support and donations, it would involve only a marginal increase. An
estimated FCFA 70 million per year would be required during the project period as counterpart funds. An
estimated annual amount of about FCFA 120 million would be required to sustain the process after the
project is over.
D.            Risks
6.6           The major risks would stem from the difficulty to coordinate and manage long-reach
intersectoral activities and to agree on a sustainable institutional set-up which would minimize dissensions
and facilitate implementation. However, the proposed approach to strengthen the intersectoral monitoring
and coordination functions through a small but effective environmental management agency, while
streamlining and clarifying present environmental responsibilities, and supporting existing structures and



- 31 -
the private sector in the implementation of sectoral programs, should avoid institutional conflicts and ease
management. Although the impact on the national budget for the functioning of such agency would be
minimal, political support and regular budget allocations would be essential to sustain implementation of
the environmental agenda. Another risk derives from the shortage of qualified local personnel with
background and experience on environmental problems and solutions. To mitigate this risk an important
education and training effort would be undertaken.
VII. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.1          Prior to negotiations the Government has submitted the following documents to IDA:
(a) a draft Implementation Manual;
(b) a decree creating NEA;
(c) a decree redefining the mandate of the Directorate of Environment, within MEHU;
(d) a decree appointing NEA's Director.
7.2.         During negotiations, the Government has assured that:
(a) project accounts would be audited each year by independent auditors satisfactory to IDA
and their reports submitted to IDA for review, at the latest in the six months following the
close of the fiscal year (para. 4.15);
(b) competent staff with qualifications, experience, terms and conditions of employment
satisfactory to IDA would be appointed and maintained (para. 5.5 and 5.6);
(c) NEA would prepare semi-annual progress reports, in a form acceptable to IDA, to be
submitted by September 30 (in succinct form) and by March 31 (full report) of each year.
Once discussed and approved by the Steering Committee the annual full report would be
made public. The annual work program would be presented by December 31 of each year
and would comprise the previsional budget requirements (including counterpart funds) and
the training plan. A project completion report would also have to be completed within six
months after credit closing (para. 5.8); and
(d) a mid-term review would be undertaken at the latest three years after the effectiveness of
the credit, and its conclusions approved by the Government and IDA would be
implemented as soon as possible thereafter. (para. 5.9).
7.3.         Prior to Board presentation the Government has approved the new environmental code
and has transmitted it to the Parliament for adoption (para. 3.10).



- 32 -
7.4.         Conditions of credit effectiveness are as follows:
(a) the deposit of FCFA 30 million, as initial deposit of the Government contribution to
project financing (para.4.13).
(b) the conclusion of a contract with an internationally known firm for the introduction of a
computerized accounting management and monitoring system and related training (para.
4.14);
(c) the selection of competent independent external auditors (para. 4.15);
(d) the adoption by the Government of an Implementation Manual satisfactory to IDA (para.
5.4);
(e) the selection of NEA's competent staff with qualifications, experience, terms and
conditions of employment satisfactory to IDA as defined in the Implementation Manual
(para. 5.5 and 5.6); and
(f) the selection of an external firm, acceptable to IDA, to provide for short term technical and
managerial periodic support of NEA (para. 5.6).
7.5.         Recommendations. Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project
would be eligible for an IDA credit of SDR 5.5 million (US$8.0 million equivalent) to the Republic of
Benin.



- 33 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Key Features and Overall Program Objectives of the NEAP
A.           Introduction
1.           The Agenda 21, which reflects the outcome of the Earth Summit in Rio in 1992,
calls for States to prepare "country driven" sustainable development strategies that prioritize
environmental issues and identify their underlying causes. Although the NEAP preparation process
in Benin had started before the Summit, its final report, adopted in June 1993, has been considered
by the Government as the most appropriate and advanced vehicle to respond to that international
commnitment and to address sustainable development issues. Monitoring of the NEAP and its
regular updating would be part of the responsibility of the Government so to be in line with the
Agenda 21 requirements. The NEAP was prepared by a Preparation Unit, staffed with national
experts and consultants under the "tutelle" of an Inter-Ministerial Coordinating Committee chaired
by the Ministry of Environment. Its relative autonomy has helped the Unit to focus on the task to
be performed and served as key element to permit broader consultation and involvement of the civil
society, and the development of new partnerships. In the same time the strong commitment and
overview by the Ministry of Environment has permitted the NEAP to maintain political clout. The
preparation process stands as a model of participatory approach which has to a large extent been
made possible and promoted by the new democratic environment which is being built in Benin
since 1990/91.
B.           The Preparation Process
2.           Different consultative and analytical tools have been used during the preparation
process:
a)   The regional workshops have represented the principal vehicle of extensive
consultation with the different segments of the population, the implementing agencies
and the beneficiaries, on what "environment" means for them, what the problems to be
solved are and why, and on the proposed local solutions. Five workshops were carried
out, of which four in the main Regions of the country and one in Cotonou specifically
for the urban aspects. Attendance was mainly represented by the beneficiaries or the
people directly affected by environmental degradation, NGOs, the private sector and
the administration. The workshops have been carried out in French and in the local
language.
b)   Village and urban surveys were carried out to complete, refine and test the information
collected during the workshop. Some specific groups were also interviewed which may
have been under-represented or could not express themselves properly during the
workshops.
c)   A documentary research was carried out and a data base was set up containing
relevant summary information on existing documents, reports, and projects covering
environmental subjects.



- 34 -                            Annex I
Page 2 of 5
d)   The inventory of the regulatory and legislative acts and codes with an environmental
content has permitted to assess the scope of the environmental legislation in Benin and
its evolution over time. It also allowed to consolidate and rationalize the different
scattered pieces of infornation and present a synoptic view that would foster the
preparation of an environmental code embodying the different relevant legal texts.
e)   Five thematic groups have been put in place in order to carry out diagnostic and
analytical studies on the following topics: i) environmental planning and economy, ii)
institutional and legislative framework, iii) management of the urban and rural
environment, iv) environmental information and monitoring systems, v) environmental
education, training and communication. Each group was constituted by a core of two
national consultants with the possibility to request for additional expertise as required.
These groups and the preparation Unit were regularly consulting with the NGOs
community, the Administration and the donors.
f)   The national workshop has been a fundamental milestone in the preparation process. It
has permitted to present the first results of the regional workshops and of the thematic
groups to a forum of representatives of the various segments of the population,
Government and private sector. A draft environmental strategy was also proposed. The
feed-back received permitted to complete the thematic studies, finalize the strategy
document, and initiate preparation of the action Plan.
g)   Pilot activities were also initiated during the NEAP preparation to test a number of
actions that may deserve attention and further extension. They also permitted to
provide a touch of realism and the opportunity to show some concrete undertakings to
the public in the following areas: i) compost preparation by the vegetable producers of
Cotonou, ii) waste disposal, iii) Journalist training, iv) preparation of an environmental
lexicon in national languages, v) creation and support to an environmental desk
composed of national journalists, etc..
h)   During the final national seminar, the environmental strategy and action plan was
presented to the public and endorsed. The final report was subsequently adopted by the
Ministers Council.
i)  "Feed-back workshops" were subsequently organized in every Region to convey the
outcome of the preparation process and the conclusions of the NEAP.
C.           The Cost of Environmental Degradation
3            A study on the economic impact of environmental degradation was undertaken as
part of the NEAP preparation and suggests that a conservative estimate of the annual cost of
environmental degradation could be in the range of 3% to 5% of GDP or about 15 to 26 billion
CFAF. These figures should be used with caution given the weak data base existing in Benin and
the difficulty of carrying out an effective cost/benefit analysis of environmental degradation in the
absence of well established shadow prices for the different resources. The environment is mostly
considered as a public good, with no costs related to its exploitation while benefits are entirely
appropriated by the users. Gratuity, deriving from open access to natural resources, encourages
over exploitation and low labor productivity, while the related cost will be suffered by the society.



- 35 -                             Annex 1
Page 3 of 5
Many of the environmental resources considered are not tradable, hence in the absence of a market
price and national accounting procedures, different methods have been developed to assess the
replacement cost or opportunity cost of the degradation of the national resource capital. These
methods are all subject to some degree of controversy and arbitration, particularly in view of the
difficulty to estimate the real social cost to the economy of environmental degradation. However, in
spite of being only indicative, these estimates are essential for the decision maker to understand the
issues at stake and permit their better integration in economic planning and allocation of national
resources.
4.           In Benin, the estimated cost deriving from forest destruction, soil erosion and
losses of soil fertility, which are very much interrelated, accounts for the bulk of the total cost or
about 70%. This seems to confirm that agriculture production has mainly been the result of a
"mining" activity, and that part of past growth may have been achieved mainly through depletion of
the national capital. Pollution, mainly deriving from urban growth and partly from industrial
sources (cement factories), has direct effects on human health. Water pollution and poor sanitation
are directly responsible for the increasing cases of diarrhea, dysentery, malaria and cholera. For the
latter, about 7,000 cases (of which 260 fatalities) were reported in 1991. Overall, about 400.000
cases of illness were related to the poor quality of the environment. The cost of treatment and the
losses incurred by the national economy in terms of people's absence from productive activities
represent an estimated amount of about 3 billion CFAF per year or 14% of the total. Important
economic losses due to flooding occur regularly in urban and rural areas with considerable
damages to dwellings, roads (especially in rural areas), and agricultural production for an
estimated annual cost of about 2 billion CFAF (10%). The decline of fish resources can also be
attributed to some extent to environmental degradation and the value of this loss has been estimated
to be about 600 million CFAF. Finally, although it represent a threat to the national heritage and to
tourism development, the cost of biodiversity degradation and fauna depletion has not been
calculated, due to lack of data.
D.            Overall Program Objectives and Proposed Components
5.            To address the three overall objectives of a) promoting a behavioral change
towards the environment and a greater sensitization of the whole population; b) develop a national
environmental management and monitoring capacity; and c) improve the standards of life of the
population; the NEAP proposes to develop and implement the following priority programs:
1. Education, Training and Communication
* Integration of the environment in the education system
* Training of trainers and of the education hierarchy
* Training of a critical mass of environmental specialists
* Sensitization of political, traditional and religious authorities
* National communication campaigns in local languages
* Support for the local media
2. The institutional and regulatoryframework, environmental management and monitoring
* Creation of a technical structure for environmental management and monitoring
* Preparation and extension of an adequate environmental legislation



- 36 -                             Annex I
Page 4 of 5
* Preparation and enforcement of specific regulations and sectoral directives
* Establishment of an environmental information and monitoring system
3. Improvement of urban standards of living
* Urban planning and management
* Waste disposal and management
* Land tenure
* Coastal erosion and coastal valorization
* Urban quality and aestethics
* Decentralization and financial management by municipalities
* Control of pollution and other hazards
4. Improvement of rural standards of living
* Construction and maintenance of rural roads
* Public works and rural infrastructure
* Elaboration and implementation of a land tenure policy
* Promotion of secondary and tertiary activities
* Support agricultural production, storage and processing
5. Research and Action on land management and rural resources
* Communal/village land management
* Agro-sylvo-pastoral integration
* Bushfire control
* Anti-erosion techniques
* Wood and energy sub-sectors, and renewable energy sources
* Agricultural techniques and technology transfer
* Local initiatives for environmental management
6. Biodiversity conservation and management
* Inventory and studies of Benin ecosystems and species
* Establishment of a biodiversity monitoring system
* Conservation and management of protected areas, natural forests and other ecosystems
* Wildlife management and game ranching
* Creation and management of botanical gardens
7. Water resources management
* Assessment of water resources situation
* Elaboration of a water conservation and management Master Plan
* Implementation of the Master Plan
E.           Status of Implementation
6.           Some of these programs have already started or are under preparation and the
proposed strategy is to build on those and many other activities to avoid redundancy, overlapping



-37-                              Annex I
Page 5 of 5
of responsibility and waste of resources. As implementation of these programs evolves it will be
important to assess progress, review priorities and update required actions as part of a permanent
environmental planning process. Among these, the most important initiatives related to the
environment are:
a) the Natural Resources Management project (NRMP), financed by IDA, CFD, GTZ
and UNDP, promotes sustainable production systems and natural resources management
by organized rural communities on wildlife, natural forests and watershed pilot sites. It
implements land tenure pilot operations. It also aims at strengthening the natural
resources planning and environmental monitoring capacity and reviewing the forestry
and bio-diversity policies and regulatory framework;
b) the Urban Rehabilitation and Management project financed by IDA and France aims
at improving the urban infrastructure of Cotonou and Porto Novo through labor
intensive works and better planning and management of urban growth. It also
implements a solid waste disposal and management scheme and the preparation of plans
to protect the ground water fields from human settlement and pollution;
c) the Fuelwood Plantation project, financed by ADB/OPEC/WFP has embarked in the
plantation of fast growing trees for the fuelwood demand of Cotonou and Porto Novo;
d) the Lagoon Fisheries Development project, financed by GTZ, implements
conservation and management techniques in the lagoon of Cotonou;
e) the Multipurpose Tree Plantations project, financed by UNSO, promotes the use of
species of commercial, ecological, agricultural value;
f) technical assistance is being provided to MEHU by GTZ;
g) a National Parks and biodiversity conservation and management project is being
prepared for possible GEF financing and would support better protection of the national
heritage of biodiversity in the national parks and hunting areas with the participation and
development of the surrounding communities;
h) the Rural Water project (to start in 1995), financed by IDA and DANIDA, aims at
maximizing the impact and sustainability of water services and supply in rural areas;
i) the Population and Health Sector project (under preparation) would support the
adoption and implementation of a national population policy and develop better delivery
of community-based health services.
Numerous smaller projects and operations are being carried out through NGOs and Associations.






- 39 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Organization Chart and Terms of Reference of the Director General of NEA
A.            Or2anigram
Minister's Council
(National Council for Sustainable Development)
Steering Committee
M   ---------- President: MEHU
Members: * Interior, Health, Rural Dev., Plan, Finance,
Industry, Education, Commerce/Tourism,
H                                Energy
Private sector, Env. desk, NGO
U
Director General
N EA                    (Steering Committee's Secretariat)
Env.  Env.- Impact    Env. Educ.    Env. :In,orm.    Administr.
annin    Quality Control  Inf. Comm.  Manag.  Monit.    Finance
4 Env. Directorate
4 Other Ministries &
Working        Working      Working       Working       Public structures
Grou ps        Groups       Groups   \ Groups    4 Local Government
NGOs
Private sector
Media



- 40 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
B.    Terms of Reference of the Director General of the National Environmental A2encv'
The Director of the National Environmental Agency will have overall responsibility for the
management and functioning of NEA. He will represent NEA in all official fora and ensure the liaison with
the various actors involved with the preparation and implementation of the environmental agenda. He will
have to coordinate the regulatory monitoring functions which he has been entrusted with and coordinate
preparation of an annual report on the status of environment. More specifically he will have overall
responsibility for:
*  recruitment of NEA's staff, development of personnel training plans, management, administration,
financial monitoring and reporting;
*  Monitoring and supervising the implementation of the environmental regulatory framework,
identify shortcomings and make recommendations for improvements and more effective
enforcement;
* Helping integrate environmental consideration in the design and implementation of sector policies
and programs, pursue monitoring of the NEAP and other environmental initiatives;
* Advising the appropriate institutions in the design and handling of environmental instruments such
as norms and standards, planning tools, incentives, resource accounting;
* Coordinate the actions of donor agencies, NGOs, private sector and local Governments in the
implementation of activities with environmental impact;
* Coordinate implementation of an Environmental Impact Assessment policy including coordination
of the preparation of procedures and decrees, monitoring their compliance, and evaluation;
* Coordinating preparation and implementation of Contingency Plans;
* Developing working relationship with the civil society, NGOs, the private sectors and local
Governments in the promotion of environment-related programs;
*  Coordinate implementation of an environmental education, training and communication program;
*  Coordinate the establishment and functioning of an environmental information and monitoring
system.
' Terms of reference for the rest of NEA's staff are to be found in the Project Implementation manuel



- 41 -
Annex 2
Page 3 of 3
Qualifications
He should have: a post-graduate degree (preferably PHD or equivalent) in a speciality related to
the environment (ecology, environmental law, environmental planning and management). Minimum ten
years experience in a field related to environmental conservation and management in either public sector
regulatory agency, University, International agency or private sector. Experience in negotiations with donor
agency, particularly related to environmental issues. Good knowledge of the Benin Environmental Action
Plan and its policy framework






REPUBLIC OF BENIN
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
DISTRIBUTION OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES
MEHU   NEA        Steering    Other Ministries  Local       Private Sect.    NGO       Media
Attributions    .     ...                    Committee   & public entities  Governments  (Investors,Cons)
Definition of Objectives and1
Strategies
Elaboration of environ.              E:
policy.
Integration of environment in
sectoral policies
Environ, planning and NEAP    1
monitoring                                                                                                                         w
Depositary of environmental
legislation
Conception, elabor., revision  1     e
of env. regulatory framework
Monitoring enforcement of
legislation & procedures
Evaluation, Arbitration on                     6-
compliance to rules/proced.   _                                                                 _
g1  Primary responsibility
1   Delegated responsibility
E2>  Execution/Implementation
66  Arbitration and recommendation
1i  NEA technical mandate
0



MEHU   NEA        Steering    Other Ministries    Local       Pnvate Sect.  NGO     Media
Attributions                                 Conmmittee  and public entities   Govemments  (Investors,
.Cosf.)
Inventory of classified plants    I
and advisory role
Negoalions, nnitoring                                   ._
envir. atinmat. Conventions
Pon  EA proceuures                                                                          ED_ _ _    __  D____
and appication decrees and
Realisation env. impact se
assessmentt studies
Analysis and nioKnitorD
ccrtprocdures       ) complin
Arbitration & recommr dat.
on procedures     p_
Realisation of studies and                                                                  I
envir. auditing
Evaluation impact studies 
(acordngto procedures)
ArbitSfion & recommn. 
implementation.E.A. policy  I_
CD
L0



MEHU   NEA        Steering    Other Ministries  Local      Private Sect.    NGO      Media
Attributions                                  Committee  and public       Governments  (Investors,
I_____    ________ entities                        Consult.)
Preparat. procedures envir.
contingency plans                                                         _
Preparation. contingency plans       _7    __                                      __
Discussion and approval                          66
contingency plans
Monitor.implem. contingency
plans
Definition of norns and
standards
Prevention and enforcement of
quality control
Monitor. compliance. quality
control measures/norms      _
Evaluation, Arbiration on                       6
compliance to norm/standard
Elaboration of the EIMS policy
Establishment & coordin.               13                       E>                          E>
EIMS network
Preparation. Environ. Status
Report
Arbitration & recomm. on the                    6V
env. status report
CD
0
PX



MEHU   NEA        Steering    Other Ministries  Local      Private Sect.    NGO      Media
Attn.but.ions__                                Committee   & public entities  Governments  (Investors,Cons)
Elaboration of EETC policy    a                                 2
Elaboration of the EETC plan
Promotion of the EETC policy                                                                                >     E>
EETC implement./ monitoring             3                       E>                           IDE>         C>
Preparation envir. awareness  1E>                                                                        IE>      E>
campaigns
Implementation envir.                                                                       ID>           18> IE>
awareness canpaigns.
Production pedagogic material
EETC Evaluation & recomm.            6____
Preparation decentr. envir.                                    1
manag. support program 
Implementaton decentr. envir.                                                  C IE>
manag. support progr.
Local envir. man8 initiative
Preparation of progress                63
reports, budgets and work plan
Approval of progress report,
budgets and work plan_
Preparation Progress Report            0
Financial Management, Admin,
Procurernent
Orientation and recomm. of                      6/
NEA's activities



- 47 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Use of Consultants and Planning of Training Activities
A.     Technical SuDport Planning (person months)
Management and Monitoring
Year I       Year 2        Year 3      Year 4
International              I             I           I
National                              I            I              I
Preparation of Procedures and Decrees
-Year I        Year 2      Year 3       Year 4
Env. Impact Assesnt.
International             3             2
National                  5             3
Public audience
International             1
National                  2
Contingency Plans
International             1            2
National                  2            2
Environmental Impact Assessment
Year I      Year 2        Year 3     Year 4
International               2         2+ 2         1 +  1 + I    I + I
National                    3          3+3        2+2+2    2+2+2
Contingency Plans. Norms & Standards. Quality Control
Year 1      Year 2        Year 3     Year 4
International               3          3 + 3       2 + 2       1 + I
National                    3          3 + 3       3 + 3       3 + 3
Environmental Information and Monitoring System
IYear I       Year 2    |Year 3   |Year 4 |
International              2             I           IaI
National                                1            1          1



- 48 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 4
SuDport to Decentralization
Year I       Year 2       Year 3      Year 4
Inteadtional                  2         I1          I
National                      6           2          2            1
Environmental Education/Communication Program
| Year I       Year2        Year3       Year4
Primaxy program
International                2
National                     7
Secondarv uro,eramr
International                2
National                     4            6
Adult Literacy Program
International                2
National                     2           1            1           1
School sensit.campaigns
National                     4           4            4          4
Extension messages
International                            2
National                                 2
Communication
International                1           1            1           1
National                     2           2            2          2
TOTAL REOUIREMENTS FOR THE USE OF CONSULTANTS (Person months)
Year I        Year 2        Year 3        Year 4
Env. ManafemcnjlMonitor.
- International              15            17            10              5
- National                   21            21            16             15
Env. Education/Communic.
- International              7              3             1             1
- National                   19            15             7             7
Accounting/audits
- International              4              3             2             2
- National                   2              2             2             2
- International              6             14           12              2
- National                   8             13            18             4
Other
- International              1              1             1             1
- National                   4              4             4             4



- 49 -                                Annex 4
Page 3 of 4
B.             Planning of training activities
Tvne of Training                Beneficiaries             Duration          Timing       Place
NEA - Administration
in the sub-
Bank's proced.- disbursement    Director & Fin. Controller  Iweek           1995/96      region
- procurement    Director & Procur. Officer   I week          1995/96     in the sub-
region.
Computer skills                 NEA's staff - 8 pers.     2 weeks           1995/96      local
Management & monitoring         Director & Monitor. officer  1 week         1995/96      local
Financial/accounting procedures    Financ.control. & account.  2 weeks      1995/96      local
Decision makers
Specific environ. themes (Health    About 25 staff. - 2 from  3 weeks/module    1996 and    in the sub-
& env.; Works and impact assess.;  each concerned Ministry '                             region or
Urban planning; Nat. Resources    + 6 staff from MEHU + 4    repeated 3 years    1999    local
mgnt; envir. laws; Envir. & devel.;  from NEA.            later
Envir. impact assessnt.)
Envir. & Developnt.; International  About 20 pers. each time -   1-2 day workshop,  1996/97/98  local
Conventions                     Top officials and        2/year
Parliamentarians
Envir. Management               MEHU/NEA - 3 staff        2/3 weeks         1996/97      abroad
Environm. Imnact Assessment
Principles & regulatory framework  about 60 pers: Ministries,   3 workshops of 3   1995  local
private sector.          days each
Procedures                      about 60 pers: Ministries,   3 workshops of 2   1996     local
private sector           days each
Local Governments
Decentralized Environ. Managnt.   City mayors & municipal   6 workshops (I  1997         local
staff - about 25 pers. per    per Department)
Department               of 3 days each.
Two staff from the Ministries mostly concerned with environmental aspects (Health, Interior, Rural
development, Industry, Water & energy, Public works & transport, Education) would be selected and
given a short term training in the domain of their competencies related to environmental issues.



50 -                                 Annex 4
Page 4 of 4
Education hierarchy
Primary-teachers\pilot phase    60 teachers, 60 advisers,    6 workshops, 2-3   1995     local
30 sch.directors, 50 inspect  days each
Secondary teachers\pilot phase  50 teachers               2 workshops 3     1996         local
days each
Env. education - teachers manual   210 pedagogic advisers &    2-3 days worksh. -  1996  local
primary cycle                   115 inspectors            2 per Department
Env. education - teachers manual   About 65 pedagogic     2 workshops of 3   1997        local
secondary cycle                 advisers & 20 inspectors    days each
Literacy program - use of manuals  About 20 staff of the  3 days            1996/97      local
literacy progr.
Environ. Information Systems
Indicators; Data Bank Managnt.;   About 10 pers. - MEHU   6 modules of I to   1996/97    local
Catalogues managnt; GIS;        NEA, IGN, CENATEL,        2 weeks each
Bureatique.                     Hydrology, ASECNA,
DRA, UNB, SERHAU.   _
Communication
Env. & development;             about 20 staff from the   3 modules of 1    1996-97      local
Conventions; EIA                environmental desk and   week each
Ministerial press attaches
Interest Groups
General & specific environmental   Selected interest groups  2 workshops/year   1996/97/98  local
management subjects            (local authorities, women
groups, Development
Associations,private sector)
NGOs
General environ. subjects       Selected NGOs-about 20    2 workshops/years  1996/97/98  local
pers. each time
Study Tours
Participation to internat.      *  NEA                    3 trips /year     1996/97/98/  abroad
workshops, exchanges with other   *  Public officials.    2 trips /year     99
Envir. institutions             *  Media                  I trip /year



REPUBLIC OF BENIN
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule and Monitoring System
1994         1995         1 996         1997         1998          1999
Estabfshment of NEA
Creation of NEA
Recruitment of the Director
Credit negotiation
Adoption of regulatory framework by government                0      .s
Board presentation                                              O
Recruitment of the staff
Recruitment of extemal. technical support firm
Establishing accounting and financial monitoring system
Recruitment of auditors
Credit effectiveness
Procurement of goods
Adoption regulatory framework by parliament
Establishing twinning arrangements                           _
Environmental impact assessment
Preparation of procedures and decrees                                            -          m       1            1
Implementation EIA policy                                                              I
Monitoring / Evaluation EIA policy                                                     l                  .                   -,
Preparation impact studies for.
'Water release from dam
*Water pollution                                                             -
'Risks of contamination and explosion
*Coastal zone management: 1/ Mapping
2/ Studies                      __      _         _        _      _,
_ dw sPel ~~~~FolftWV
Contingency Plans & qualty control
Definition of norms and standards                                                                - _
Monitoring compliance, quality control                                 _
Preparation contingency plans                                             I_I_
Monitoring compliance contingency plans                                         -         _ _
Assistance & advice implemen. contingency plans & quality control    _          -
Environmental Infonnation & monitorng system
Strengthening intormation centers             I
Procument of equipment
Coordination network operations & info exchange
Project monitoring
Environment monitoring
Preparation Environment Status Report         l             l            l _|    V                         Y2    __*3_|
Y I



1994         1995         1996     1    197 998                1       99    1
S&V,Po, to decentralzatlen__________
Preparation environment management guides                      l           _
Training of municipalities and workshops                       l                     _
Env. support activities INGOs)                                 I__                                       I              _
Enbromw~amgp___
Monitoring implementation of the NEAP
Coordination and monitoring env. planning        ____l___,
En*rawitl ducatio
- Prmaty schools
Evaluation of primary programs
Prep. and diffusion of draft manual for pilot schools
Evaluation of the pilot phase
Prep. final manual for teachers                                                   _
Training & workshops                                                                 _  -
Diffusion                                                                                _
5secondw  schools.___
Evaluation of primary programs
Prep. and diffusion draft of manual for pilot school                                -
Evaluation of the pilot phase                                                                 -
Prep. final manual for teachers                                                                   _    _
Training & workshops
Diffusion                                                                _                              ._*_                          ,
Preparation of guides for adult literacy                                          _
Workshop for adult literacy                                                          _
School environment awareness campaign
Revision of agr. extension messages                                             _
Env6_wMu   abkvssg a.o &WIarW schedmd hI Annex 4)
Training NEA -technicaT                                             _                    _  .   13 durig the pwod
Trairing Govermment officials - tecnical__l__
Training EIA                                                                  _             _
Training for EIS agencies                                                     _       __  -  -  -   (6 durig the perdl
Bank procedures-NEA                                                 _            _
Study Tours                                                                                                                           t o _    per yow_
Training & Workshops NGOs                                                                _              -t -    _       _  t2 per ywl
Training/Workshops interest groups                                         _   _        -_              -            -          2 prve
co
100n



1994          1995          1996          1997           1998          1999
Training ot jounalists & ministerial press ofticers
Workshops                                                       l
Support for envir. Media production / campaign                                                            _
aeporiH
Mid term review - consultants
Mid term review - donors
NEA reporting                                                                                   v   V               V            V      v
Audits                                                                      _                                 
Legend of tMe Ce
Specific task
Task to be completed as condition of credit effectiveness
Milestones
Report and audits
Workshops and training                                   -
Rogular / permanent task                                       -
I-n



Environmental Information System - Implementation Schedule
1Unwt 81.000)
q        -lt_1"  |   0    FHU    }   CEIiATi  I   KUIoiUnt  l C       I                  WB                                Yea of imp.etation
q     tot     q    tot     q    tot   q   tot   q   tot                                      q tot   9   tot   q   tot   q   tot  q  tot  q  c  q  c     q      c      q      c
I Ebpo          Ar MM seies exr of ue,,  _      PMwmst n.h.'
486/66 2 GIMo              10.0        1    10.0                                                                                                   1    10.0        1   10.0
Scren 21'                   4.0        1    4.0                                                                                                    1    4.0         1    4.0
GTrNhup  Cwd WVGA           4.5       1     4.5                                                                                                    1    4.5         1    4.5
Opto mgic Dis               5.0       1     5.0                                                                                                    1    5.0         1    5.0
L_r cadO A3                 6.0       1     6.0                                                                                                    1    6.0         1    6.0
ScrnW codr A3               5.0       1     5.0                                                                                                    1    5.0         1    5.0
48W"6 0,516 Mo Ram          4.2                     1    4.2    1    4.2  1    4.2  1    4.2  1    4.2                 1    4.2  1    4.2          7    29.4        7   29.4
kkJet A3                    3.0                     1    3.0    1    3.0  1    3.0               1    3.0              1    3.0  1    3.0          6    18.0        6    18.0
LgrA4                       2.5                                                       1    2.5                                                     1    2.5         1    2.5
Modw Card                   0.5       1    0.5    1    0.5    1    0.51    0.51               51    0.5  1    0.5  1    0.51           0.5         9     4.5        9    4.5
Numeric tA3                 1.5       1      1.5    1    1.5    1      1.51      1.51       1.51       1.5             1    1.5 1      1.5         8    12.0        8    12.0
UPS                         3.0       1     3.0    1    3.0    1    3.0  1    3.01          3.01       3.0             1    3.0  1    3.0          8    24.0        a   24.0
8.0       1    8.0                                                                                            I       1    8.0         1    8.0
Sub-tota ltjwm.nt                          47.5         12.2          12.2      12.2       11.7       12.2        0.5      12.2       12.2             132.9            132.9
GIS                         3.0       1     3.0    1    3.0    1    3.0  1    3.01    3.01    3.0  1    3.0  1    3.0  1    3.0                    9    27.0        9   27.0
SG8D                        0.5       1    0.5    1    0.5    1    0.5 1    0.51    0.  1              0.5  1    0.5 1    0.5  1    0.5            9     4.5        9    4.5
CMdogu                      1.5       1      1.5    1    1.5    1    1.5  1    1.51    1.51            1.5  1    1.5  1    1.5  1    1.5           9    13.5        9    13.5
ComnmWnont                  1.0       1      1.0    1    1.0    1    1.0  1    1.01    1.01            1.0  1    101         1.0 1      1.0        9     9.0        9    9.0
sursotcu                    4.0       1    4.0    1    4.0                                                                                         2     8.0        2     8.0
Mr iwtor                    1.5       1     1.5                                                                                                    1 1    !         1     1 5
Sub totW quptai d oTftwwe                     59.0         22.2         18.2       18.2      17.7       18.2        6.5       18.2       18.2            196.4            196.4
13 Cort    and r                (a) . workt    (b) 8 n  tion   ebyhnt  nat Ma 15 a rs. (Unit: mm).                                                                ___itwn_t consut__Mm.__pws_ ._nt__mm)
*xhcors (l) la)             17.5    0.25     4.4                                     I          I                     I                    1     0.25    4.4      0.25     4.4
*&.iftqu  (word. XU b)         3.0     0.5    1.5                                                           1          1                       1             5 lo   1. |           0.5    1.5
SGED lb)                       3.0     0.5    1.5              I             C      o distyibjta ccordwg to centers trond ---------.--->            O5      1.5                    0.5    1.5
Ciog"u  Magnt (a)             17.5    0.25     4.4                                                    I                                           0.25     4.4                    0.25     4.41
GIS                         3.0     0.5    1.5                                                                                                   05      1.5                    0.5    1.5
Orgwaten                    4.0       2     8.0             j                                                                                      2     8.0                      2    8.0               1n
SCbwowne                   2.81    2.0    5.6,             1            1          1          1          1          1         1          I        2     5.6   I             I    2    5.6       1_                    1 
Sub oto  13 Tr_rir           11.9             26.9                                                                                                        26.9              4.4          22.5                                     1
O5 wr ton Manwfx
Supply                         5.01      4    20.01 [                                  1          1         1          1                             4    20.0        1    5.0       1    5.01     1    5.0l    1    5.0
Eq*wn,an Mirdwwc             131      2   26.81                          <---- to diaTibuta acoCrdhg to equiment pwdta  _-    >                    2    26.6                 r             j |    1   13.31   1   1331
aulen SPE Om                  2       6    12.0                                                                                                    6    12.0                      2    4.0      2    4.0      2    4.0
-SUWO1 jnft                   s5.0'    4.0   20.0' _________                                                                                         4    20'.0        1    5.0      1    5.0      1    5.0      1    s.ol
Sub tot 15 OM                11.9             78.6                                                                                                        78.6             10.0          14.0          27.3          27.3
Toti 1                                      164.4         22.2          18.2      18.2       17.7       18.2        6.5       18.2       18.2            301.8   1        210.8          36.5          27.3          27.3



Environmental Information System - Implementation Schedule
lunit *1.000)
q     tot      q    tot      qtot    q  Wt   o       a   tot    q   to            o           o           o                 o          q       c       q    YTof q    tao            q 
2 Spolf kW aasWm, A' w soam.e
2~    E tou iment   wd4  softwwa       _ _ _ _ _ _      _ _ _ _ _     _ _ _ _ _     _ _ _ _                _ _ _ _                                           _ _ _ _ _ _         _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _
Level   aplottw            170.0                                                1   170.0                                                                     1   170.0         1   170.0
PrinerAO                     12.0                                                1    12.0                                                                     1    12.0         1    12.0
GPS Memfrinqwiy              11.0                                                3    33.0                                                                     3    33.0         3    33.0
4a6160.o IS4o              4.2                                                                       1     4.2                                             1      4.2         1     4.2
LAdNetwork                  5.0                                                                        1     5.0                                             1     5.0         1      5.0
Eq~utwatw alelvel        10.0                                                                       1    10.0                                             1    10.0          1    10.0
'3PS    navumoii       I ~~~10 1  I__ __ _   __   __  _       3          ____01_        ___    --   __ __    3___         _3__      _   _0                                3     3.01- _  _  _  _      _  _  _   _   _  _  _   _
PA~ tot el aiim.n                                                           3.01    215.01                    19.                         3.2                                         237.2
D~etsss,5.0                    4.                                                            1     4.01                                                        1     4.0          1     4.01
Noell 3.11                    4.                                                             1     4.0  1       .0                                             2     5.0         2      5.0
ITM       MAA                  2.                                     1     2.1                                                                                1     2.1         1      2.1
Sub-toote 22 Equonman wd aoltwwa                                               5.1      215.0         5.0       23.2                                                  251.3             251.3
23Cona*tzricy mmd trinek 1
E231 Trm*-w
ProietMm.gwnmen              17.51    0.5       5.51                                                                                                         o.5     s.s                         1      8.5I
Indcaeors (Ia + 2 (b)        22.5       2.5    55.03                                                                                                         2.5    56.3      2.50    5e.3
Tmlaw da bord                22.5        2    4502    45.0                                                                                                                                       2    45.0
Cornpujtwschrme                3.0      0.5     1.5                                                      2     6.01                                          2.45    7.5          1     1.5      2     5.0
Extractors                    8.0        2    16. 0                                          1     501 1    5.0                                                4    32. 0                  1     4    32.01                 
Sub-total 232 Coraiukwncy                     11.                                                    .0       14.0                                                 140.5               57.5           53.0
Sub-totel ~~naitwicy u~~d onrn*,g   12. 5'.0                                                        14.0                                                  149.5              57.            91.8
24 Swvic. contracts: b-Wannual bimonis frndicatm22s1                                                                                                                                                                   -270              20
kVtWW*NOAA                    1.                                             .                  .0                                                                     0         2      2.0     2    .062 .0                   2      2.
3.0                        5   ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~24.                                                                  a    24.0          2     60       2      6.0      2     60       2      6.0
Sub-total 24                                                                 32.0                                                                                      32050                               .              .050n
25 sneMosvrean*                 23.71       2    47.41              I         < --- -------------   rdig to the equipmentt pwdchmsd ----------->2    47.                                                           1    3.              2.
Subtoti25OM                     11.9             47.4                                                                                                                 47.4                                              23.7           23.7
Totel 2                                         174.9                        37.1       215.0        15.0       37.2                                                  450.2             317.1           99.5            31.7           31.7
3 Nmtu PAW  CBW   Z,. Momt.uinm
33 Conmitancy
International (MM)           17.        1    22 210.0                                                                                                              20.                           7  122.51    5   57.50
MM3.5                                21    73.                                                                                                            21    73.53               1.        5    1.       10    35.0      3     1.
Sub-toti 33                                     253.5                                                                                                                 253.5              10.5           140.0          122.5           10.5
34 Equmpmana   xxveya. mamxwmnwt               100.9                                                                                                                 100.9               60.0           40.9
35 Sarvice contracts
Spot imagaa XS level 2        4.01                                    3    12.0                                                                                3     203    12.0o                      60
aeia views                                                                 64.0                                                                                     64.           1     4.
Sub-total 34                                                                  550                                          5.0                                                           79.0             6.0
Total 3                                         354.4                         85.0                                                                                    469.4             149.5           1586.9        -122.5            10.51
GENERAL TOTAL                                   723.8           22.2         140.3      233.2        33.7        55.4         6.5       18.2        18.2             1251.5             677.3           323.2          151.5            69.51



- 56 -                               Annex 5
Page 6 of 8
The Monitorin2 System
Introduction
1.    A monitoring system will be set up within the environmental information unit of NEA. The
system will enable to monitor the planning and implementation of project activities and measure the
discrepancies between the initial design and the actual realizations of the project. This monitoring
system will be set-up before start-up of the project and will require a three months consultancy for
the initial design and training. This would include the setting-up of a computerized implementation
schedule and the definition of monitoring indicators to be included in the final version of the
Implementation Manual.
Elements of the Monitorine System
2.    The Inputs and the Resources. These aspects would be addressed by the financial and
disbursement monitoring system to be established separately. It would mainly deal with the use of
resources and procurement activities required for the implementation of the project. This would
include equipment, goods and consultant services. The main indicators to be monitored in this
respect are the availability of the inputs with respect to used resources and the standard
procurement processing time (see Annex 6) which would provide an indicator of the performance
of the system. Planning and monitoring of input and resources use would be particularly important
since procurement decisions will Cetermine the proper and timely project implementation. This
monitoring systems would need to be compatible with the project activities monitoring system so to
be able to exchange information and enhance the performance of the system. Off-the-shelve
technology seems more appropriate for that purpose by making use of compatible Data Base
Management Systems (DBMS) and Project planning and monitoring softwa-e.
3.    The Outputs. The first step of the planning exercise consists of identifying separate tasks
that would be hierarchically codified and implemented over a period of time (see implementation
schedule above). Some of these tasks may be stretching over a limited and well defined period of
time, some others may represent the core of a particular function which is permanent. In many
cases the former will lead to the latter. The project will actually help initiate those permanent
functions that constitute the basis of an environmental management capacity.
(a)    Defined tasks can often be measured by the relevant status indicator which
consists in ascertaining, with respect to the initial planning, whether the task has
started, is on-going and achieved to a given percentage, is accomplished, or is late.
PERT or CPM methods enable a simple management and monitoring of these
tasks. Status indicators can also be used as output indicators in cases where the
task has to deliver a specific output such as: preparation of a report, diffusion of
education manuals, adoption of procedures, signature of decrees, workshops,
completion of training activities (see Annex 4), etc... A special attribute (flag)
would be used to indicate that a task must provide an output.
(b)    Permanent tasks would constitute the core of NEA's mandate and will last beyond
the project life. To gauge progress towards the achievement of project objectives it
would be important to assess NEA capacity to successfully implement the project
through performance indicators associated to the different tasks or functions it



- 57 -                            Annex 5
Page 7 of 8
carries out such as: implementation and monitoring of the Environmental
Assessment policy, monitoring compliance to standards, quality control, assistance
in the preparation and implementation of contingency plans, environmental
planning and monitoring, etc.. (see the implementation schedule above).
Discrepancies between expectations and actual achievements would need to be
analyzed to justify the reasons for the delay, the inefficiency or whether the target
was unrealistic.
4.     The Impact. This element would refer to the impact on the environment as a consequence
of project activities or in general terms as part of the environmental monitoring function for
selected global indicators.
(a)    Project impact. The major indicators that would be used to assess project impact
would be in terms of
*  change in behavior or enhanced knowledge of the targeted groups that benefited
from the education, information, communication and training program. Surveys
would be conducted on a representative sample of the people trained or educated to
assess the degree of intemalization and usefulness of the program.
e  expanded availability and usefulness of environmental information. This would be
measured by the capacity of the environmental information network to generate
new relevant products and by the increased number of users;
*  better integration of environmental consideration in sectoral policies. Working
groups recommendations and the annual Environmental Status Report would
report on the necessity to realign sectoral policies and programs.
*  effectiveness of a set of procedures and mechanisms to implement an
environmental regulatory framework (assessment policy, quality control, norms
and standards, contingency plans) aimed at preventing, minimizing, mitigating or
compensating for possible adverse environmental impacts. This would mainly
translate in terms of avoidance of costs, risks and nuisance due to unanticipated
environmental problems. Given the difficulty to forecast or plan possible
constraints or harmful situations, indicators would focus on the performance of
NEA in ensuring and monitoring compliance to the procedures, Government
capacity to enforce legislation, preparedness to emergency situations, etc.. In this
respect, impact indicators and performance indicators (see above) would be alike.
(b)    Environmental monitoring indicators. The Environmental Information System
(EIS) Component of the project will define and measure selected global
Environmental indicators that are relevant for Benin such as: water quality,
pollution sources, evolution of the biomass, coastal erosion, forest cover,
biodiversity. The definitive list of indicators and responsibilities for the gathering
and computation will be defined upon the beginning of the project. The first report
on the Environment that will group these indicators is planned for PY2 and
scheduled to be annual. The system that will be used for managing these indicators
will be similar to the one used to manage the quantitative indicators of the
monitoring system. In addition the Environmental monitoring indicators would



- 58 -
Annex 5
Page 8 of 8
have a spatial component. The same rules for codification will be applied to this
system so to enable a linkage with a Geographic Information System. Although
these indicators would be important to monitor, their evolution would not be
directly related to the performance of NEA in carrying out the project.
Codification of the different elements
5.    Each element of the system can be viewed as a table that describes all its characteristics.
The system will consist of three tables: the input, the tasks and the indicators. They will need to be
codified in order to manage the relationship among each other, and to define the expected indicator
and timing. This codification will be extended to the other NEA's functions in order to enable the
relationship with the other information systems (accounting system and GIS for environmental
monitoring indicators).
Technical asDects
6.    The system should permit easy updating and modification of the planning and of the initial
objectives. It should be set-up in an open-ended way so to be able to exchange data with other
system such as the accounting system and spreadsheets type of software. When possible, reading
data directly in the original format would be preferred to using import/export facilities. The project
monitoring system could be used by the client but also by the Bank. In addition to regular
reporting, data would be exchanged so to get relevant information and facilitate supervision
missions. The data may be sent through magnetic support or through the Intemet network after the
installation of a server in Benin. Using commercial software packages would ensure conviviality,
economy, possibility of updating and communication with other users. Software packages should
be on a Data Base Management System (DBMS). For planning, use of resources and monitoring
status indicators, a Microsoft Project type of software would be appropriate. For monitoring of
perfomiance indicators a Microsoft Access type of software could be used. It is also possible to
provide the monitoring system with a set of filters that will flag the major discrepancies and delays
in the implementation and performance of the project and focus attention on specific topics.



- 59 -                             Annex 6
Page I of 4
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Procurement Schedule
A.            Standard Procurement Processing Time
1. Consultancies
(1) Preparation of the letter of invitation (LOI),  As conditions of effectiveness and/or as per
TORs, instructions to bidders and draft contract    annual work plan
(LOI package)
(2) Forwarding of above documents and short list   Maximum 2 weeks after the agreed date of
to the Bank for no-objection                 completion of the TORs.
(3) Forwarding of the above documents to the  Maximum 10 days after Bank no-objection
short-listed bidders
(4) Time interval between invitation and     Generally 45 days after issue of letter of invitation
submission of proposals
(5) Evaluation of proposals                   Maximum 30 days after closing date of the
submission of the proposals
(6) Forwarding the evaluation of technical    Maximum I week after the date of completion of
proposals and the recommendation to the Bank  the evaluation process
(7) Negotiations                              Maximum two weeks after Bank no-objection
(9) Forwarding of draft contract to the Bank  Maximum 2 weeks after end of negotiations
(10) Signature of the contract                Maximum 2 weeks after Bank no-objection
( 11) Forward conformed copies of contract to the    Maximum 2 weeks after signature of the contract
Bank
(12) Conmmunications to unsuccessful bidders  Maximum 2 weeks after contract signature.



- 60 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of 4
2. Works and Goods
(1) Preparation of specifications and complete  As conditions of effectiveness and/or as per
bidding documents, description of advertising and   annual work plan
request for bids in case of shopping procedures,
etc.
(2) Forwarding of above bidding documents to the   Maximum 2 weeks after the agreed date of
Bank for no-objection                        completion of the bidding documents.
(3) Bid invitation (ICB,LCB), shopping bids   Maximum 2 weeks after Bank no-objection
(4) Bidding limit                             Not less than 45 days for LCB and ICB;
(5) Evaluation of bids                        Maximum 30 days after the closing date  of the
submission of bids
(6) Forwarding the evaluation of bids and the  Maximum I week after the date of completion of
recommendation of award to the Bank          the evaluation process
(7) Award of contract                         Maximum 7 days after Bank no-objection
(8) Signature of the contract                 Maximum 4 weeks after signature
(9) Forward conformed copies of contract to the  Maximum 2 weeks after contract signature.
Bank
(10) Communications to unsuccessful bidders   Maximum 2 weeks after contract signature.
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ..



- 61 -
Annex 6
Page 3 of 4
B.                    Estimated Annual Contractual and Other Payments
(US$ million equivalent)
Project Element         ii Pre-project           Years               Total       Procur.
1     2      3     4          Payments   Method
Credit Timin2 (tentative)
- Board: April 1995       *
- Signing: May 1995          *
- Effectiveness.: October 95      *
Works
NEA's Office
- Design
- Contracting
- Construction 
0.1                              0.1       LCB
Implement. pilot envir. field                           ,                        Direct/
managnt. activities (NGOs)            0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1            0.4       Shopping
Goods
Vehicles
prep. bidding doc.
bidding & contracting
delivery
0.4                 0.3          0.7        ILC
Equipment
Prep bidding doc.
bidding & contracting
delivery
0.4   0.3                        0.7        ILC
0.3    0.2   0.1    0.1          0.7        LCB
0.1    0.1   0.1    0.1          0.4       Shopping
Service Contracts
Aerial Photos, mapping,            0.1                              0.1        LIB
satelite images



Annex 6
Page 4 of 4
Project Element             Pre-project           Years                 Total       Procur.
1      2       3       4       Payments   Method
Consultant services
TOR                                                      _
Short list
Selection & contracting
Consultants                         0.8      0.7   0.5      0.4        2.4       IDA
Training                            0.5      0.4   0.3      0.2        1.4       Consultant
Studies                             0.1      0.4   0.4      0.1        1.0       Guidelines
Miscellaneous
Operating Costs                     0.2      0.2   0.2      0.2        0.8
Salaries                            0.1      0.1   0.1      0.1        0.4       Governt.
PPF refinancing                      0.2                               0.2
Total                                  3.4      2.5   1.8      1.6        9.3
(IDA Financed)                         (3.0)   (2.1)  (1.5)    (1.4)     (8.0)



BENIN
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
%             % Total
Components                                                      (FCFA Million)              (USS Million)       Foreign             Base
Local    Foreign    Total   Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange             Costs
1. INstitutional strengthening                          1,240.9     915.5  2,156.4     2.3      1.7      4.1       42                48
2. Regulatory Framework/Quality controll                 368.5      454.1   822.6      0 7      0.9       1.6      55                 18
3. Information management & Monitoring                   241.3      504.8   746.1      0.5      1.0       1.4      68                 18
4. Education, Information & Communication                375.7      353.2   728.9      0.7      0.7       1.4      48                 16
Total BASELINE COSTS                                      2,226.3    2,227.7  4,454.0     4.2     4.2       8.4      50                100
Physical Contingencies                                    47.4       87.8   135.2      0.1      0.2      0.3       65                 3
Price Contingencies                                      183.1      166.9   349.9      0.3      0.3      0.7       48                 8
Total PROJECT COSTS                                       2,456.8    2,482.4  4,939.2     4.6     4.7       9.3      50                111
_ CD



Annex 7
Page 2 of 4
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Expenditure Accounts by Cornponents - Including Contingencies
(USS Million)
Infonnation
Regulatory      management   Education,
Institutional      framework            &       Information &
strengthening    Quality control     Monitoring  Cormrnunication  Total
I. Investrnent Costs
A. CMI and Rural Works                                     0.5                     -                          -      0.5
B. Vehicles/Equipment                                      1.3                     -          1.0           0.3      2.6
D. Consultant services                                     1.1                   1.0         0.1            0.3      2.4
F Training                                                 0.3                   0.0         0.1            0.9      1.4
G. Studies                                                                       0.7          0.3             -      1.0
H. PPF                                                     0.2                     -            -             -      0.2
Total Investnent Costs                                       3.4                   1.7          1.5           1.5      8.1
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                                                0.4                     -            -             -      0.4
B. Operational Costs                                       0.7                     -          0.1             -      0.8
Total Recurrent Costs                                        1.1                     -          0.1             -      1.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                                           4.5                   1.7         1.6            1.5     9.3
Taxes                                                      0.4                     -          0.2           0.1      0.7
Foreign Exchange                                           1.9                   0.9          1.1           0.7      4.7
(Minor discrepancies may be due to rounding-up)
--_j



REPUBLIC OF BENIN
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Expenditure Accounts by Years
Totals Including Contingencies
Totals Including Contingencies (FCFA Million)              (USS Million)
1996      1997      1998    1999      Total     1996    1997    1998    1999    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil and Rural Works                      92 0      59.0    59.7    60.4       271.0      0.2     0.1      0.1      0.1     0.5
B. Vehicles/Equipment                       763.8      204.0    56.2   298 8    1,322.7       1.5     0.4      0.1      0.5     2.6
D. Consultant services                      4754       371.1   251.5   216.7    1,314.6       0.9     0.7      0.5      0.4     2.4
F. Training                                  222.9     207.5   130.0   174.2       734.7      0.4     0.4      0.2      0.3      1.4
G. Studies                                    79.4     225.9   221.4    18.2       544.9      0.1     0.4      0.4      0.0      1.0
H. PPF                                       1107          -        -       -      110.7      0.2       -        -        -     0.2
Total Investment Costs                       1,744.1    1,067.5   718.8   768.3    4,298.7      3.3     2.0      1.4      1.5     8.1                              Ln
11. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                                   54.4      56.0    57.7    59.4       227.4      0.1     0.1      0.1      0.1     0.4
B. Operational Costs                         98.8      101.8   104.7   107.7       412.9      0.2     0.2      0.2      0.2     0.8
Total Recurrent Costs                          153.2     157.7   162.4   167.1       640.4      0.3     0.3      0.3      0.3      1.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                           1,897.3    1,225.2   881.2   935.4    4,939.1      3.6     2.3      1.7     1.8      9.3
(Minor discrepancies may be due to rounding-up)



REPUBLIC OF BENIN
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Project Components by Year - Totals Including Contingencies
Totals Including Contingencies
Totals Including Contingencies (FCFA Million)             (US$ Million)
1996      1997      1998    1999     Total    1996    1997    1998    1999    Total
1. Institutional strengthening              934.5     433.4   389.6   646.9   2,404.0       1.8     0.8     0.7      1.2     4.5
2. Regulatory Framework/Qualitycontrol      218.2     331.2   252.3    88.7      890.4      0.4     0.6     0.5      0.2     1.7
3. Information management & Monitoring      414.1     239.1   141.0    47.7      841.9      0.8     0.5     0.3      0.1     1.6
4. Education, Information & Communication   330.4     186.3   116.0   169.7      802.4      0.6     0.4     0.2      0.3     1.5
Total PROJECT COSTS                          1,897.3    1,190.0   898.9   953.0   4,939.2     3.6     2.2      1.7     1.8     9.3
(Minor discrepancies may be due to rounding-up)                                                                                                               0
CD
p,
I n 



- 67 -
Annex 8
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of IDA Disbursements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Project Year  Semester     Disbursement   Cumulative  Disbursement  Country
in Semester                 % of Total    Profile
1            effectiveness                                              0%
1                 0.7            0.7           9%          0%
2                 0.3             1.0          13%         18%
2            1                  0.5            1.5          20%         22%
2                 0.6            2.1           28%         30%
3            1                  0.8            2.9          38%         38%
2                 0.8             3.7          49%         46%
4            1                  0.9            4.6          60%         58%
2                 0.9             5.5          72%         66%
5            1                  0.8            6.3          79%         74%
2                 0.7            7.0           88%         78%
6            1                  0.6            7.6          95%         86%
2                 0.4             8.0         100%         94%
7            1                                                          96%
2                                                          98%
8            1                                                          100%






- 69 -
Annex 9
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SuDervision Schedule
proiect     Mision        Activi                                            Skill Reurement                  SW
Year                                                                        __
PYI           1        Review of legal and institutional framework,      - Task manager                 3
organimzation and management, education program,  - Financial/Disbursement      2
accounting system, procurement and disbursm:ent    specialist
arrangements and plan, PYI work plan.            - Environm. educat. specialist    2
2       Review of procurement, establishment of           - Task Manager                 3
info. monit. system, EIA procedures, project launch,    - EIA specialist        2
PY2 work plan.                                   - Procurement specialist       2
PY 2          3        Review regulatory framework, envir. managt,       - Task manager                 2
training, procurement, disbursements, env. education.   - Legalinstitution spec.  2
- Env. education spec         2
2
4       Review of annual activities, training, procurement,  - Task manager              2
financial performance, envir. managt, env.       - Env. information spec        2
communication, studies. Annual work plan PY3.    - Environ. managnt. specialist    2
PY 3          5         Mid-term review
- Progress of the environmental education and    - Task manager                 3
awareness raising campaigns; review of the       - Informat system spec.        2
institutional arrangements and environmental     - Educat./communic.spec.       2
management performance, functioning inform.      - Legal/institution spec.      2
monitoring system, monitoring enforcement of     - Environ. managnt. specialist    2
environmental laws and regulations, EIA policy,
preparation and implementation of contingency plans,
training progr.
- Design, Institutions, Training, Phasing/Scheduling,
Monitoring, Procurement, Accounting, Audit,
Disbursements, Mitigation, Others
- Review of PY 3 activities and PY 4 work plan.
6       Review of activities, procurement, disbursements,  - Task manager                3
financial performance, studies progress, implement.  - Envir. managnt. spec.    3
mid-term review recommendations.



- 70 -
Ann"x 9
Pn?jec                    AtivitV                                           SWcl Reauiremen                  SW
PY4          7         Review of activities, follow up on implement. EIA  - Task manager                  2
policy and contingency plans, procurement,        - Financial analyst             2
disbursements                                    - Legal/instit. specialist       2
8       Review of PY4 activities, disbursements,          - Task manager                   2
procurement, PY 5 work plan, training            - Env. specialist                2
- Training special.              2
py 5           9       Review of activities, envir. managnt disbursements,    - Task Mlanager             2
procurement,                                      - Environl Managnt Specialist   2
- Legal/instit special.          2
10       Review of PY5 activities, disbursements,          - Task Manager                   2
procurement, PY 6 work plan                       - Environmental Specialist       2
PY 6           11      Review of activities, disbursements, procurement  - Task Manager                   2
- Legal/instit special.          2
12       Review of PY6 activities, disbursements,          - Task Manager                   2
procurement.                                      - Environmental Specialist      2
13      Project Completion report                         - Env. Manag. specialist         4
- Education/communication



- 71 -
Annex 10
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Working Documents Available in Project Files
 The National Environmental Action Plan. June 1993
*  Draft Environmental Regulatory Framework. NEAP Secretariat, 1994
* Preparation Report for an Environmental Project in Benin. BRECHE, January 1994
* The Project Implementation Manual
* A Strategy for the Integration of Environment in the Education System. Gbadamassi,
Osseni, Quenum, Zevonou, Labe; Mars 1994
- Report on an Institutional Set-up for the Environment. Laleye, Chabasson; Mars 1994
- Preparation Report on the Environmental Education, Training and Communication
Program. BRECHE, January 1994
- Appraisal Report on the Environmental Education, Training and Communication
Component, Sournia, July 1994.






- 73 -
Annex 1 1
Page 1 of I
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Table of Content of the Proiect Implementation Manual
(a)    Rationale and project objectives
(b)    Project description
(c)    Institutional arrangements
*      Statute of NEA
*      Attribution of the Directorate of Environment
*      Distribution of responsibilities
a      Terms of reference of NEA's staff
*      Organigram
*      Internal Functioning
(d)     Monitoring and Evaluation System
*     Description of the monitoring and evaluation system
*     Reporting system
*     Implementation schedule
*     Indicators
(e)     Disbursements and financial procedures
(f)     Technical assistance and planning of training activities
*     Technical assistance, requirements and terms of reference
     Planning of training activities
ANNEXES
Procurement (standard bidding documents, models of contracts, standard processing time)
*      Equipment
*      Works
*      Consultants
2.     Disbursements
*      Special account
*      SOE
*      Counterpart funding
*      Withdrawal applications
3.     Financing
*      Procedures of internal control
*     Terms of reference of the auditors






M   A I I                                                    3                         / 
NIGER
COTE    IO1.Oh /NIGERIA                                                            |. ol.,"
D   IORE l   __a)  seoec  oh
AT       EOTC"            FASO        \         DLJ vv NIGER   K rimaV                                         12'-
JJ,$           ~~~~~Malanvi'lle9 
fj            0Y           20   4  0 60 E0 o 00
/URKINA              RESERVE                                      KILOMETERS
S / \ g ~~~~~~Banik>oora a$
NATIONAL PARK S          \ j              --'       /      t T       \                   \OE
To.oso    C    DE LA PENDJAR0/                        9     \     t       i? 
-11' j S   v          3  t       A         /       XS^g~~~~~~~~~~S6ban                       \\
/    MatE9/   t    11       (    / Gogounou               ;.  9NIGERIA
,,    angui6ta            0c            J        C /; 
Kobli m -~   nukouneounand\                                           Ia
* NA NGOU  funE ( _<ed_ /
5ATAKO RA Phon                                           EN VIRONMENTA
(A        e769                           Ndo Il             Nikki 
\   zk   ~~~Djougou         <        <              P&&Le  {
[   XIb5.1k,         X          |:         X                        ~~~~~BENIN          
-9                          '        {/                                         ENVIRONMENTAL   9,-
MANAGEMENT PROJECT
L   GAZETTED FORESTS
TOGO                           Bcl         puesse  ; V                           HUNTING AREAS
) ISOHYETS IN MM.
-PAVED ROADS
B             V               Sovalou1  G002
GRAVEL ROADS
0 ,' / WD)cissa >_                                              -1e RAILROADS
%;200              INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
X 4 c s 2Xu e ~~~~~~~~~AIRFIELDS
^   j,di  z  I+S02Ketou                           DISTRICT CAPITALS
I000         XMEY    potr No \\                                   * PROVINCE CAPITALS
I 0   _hion'                   ) 76  NATIONAL CAPITALS
1200      ~~Agbongr6izoun
T, N.t,e                        bodor7                                    PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
-7   Aploh8  Klouekonrn                             -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
LOKOS                    Ze Adi                 T. ;allo
>                                                           Lagos~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oLg~
z                                  Co  6 
.OuLdohCOTONOU                                                                              0
oGHANA         I LOME       G5rond-             'B                       BIGHT OF
Popo                                                                                       _(J
2~~~~~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~BENIN                                              0'
U,                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0'



