Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
A'0V  3 Z G   pl
Report No. 8724-PH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PHILIPPINES
SECOND COMMUNAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CIDP II)
AUGUST 31, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
Asia Regional Office
Tlds document has a resticted dibHuto and may be used by     oy In de perb man  of
dwi offiefad dt  ie ts contents may not otewie be discoed    Wodd Bank *JbobaioL



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(June, 1990)
Currency Unit                            Philippine Peso (P)
P 1.00                  US$0.044
US$1.00                                  P 22.8
GOVERNMENT OF THE PHILIPPINES
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 millimeter (mm)                                    0.039 inches
1 meter (m)                           8              3.28 ft
1 kilometer (km)                      -              0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)                        _              2.47 acres
1 cubic meter (m3)                                  35.31 cubic ft
1 million cubic meters (mcm)          -            810.7 acre-feet
1 kilogram (kg)                                      2.2 pounds
1 cavan                               -             50 kilograms
20 cavans                             =              1 metric ton
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP            Agricultural Development Plan
CIDP           Communal Irrigation. Development Project
cIS            Communal Irrigation System
COA            Commission on Audit
DA             Department of Agriculture
DENR           Department of Environment and Natural Resources
DPWH           Department of Public Works and Highways
DSD            Design and Specification Department
EKG            Equipment Management Department
FIG            Farmer Irrigator Group
FIO            Farmer Irrigator Organizer
FPA            Fertilizer and Pesticide Authority
IA             Irrigator Association
IDD            Institutional Development Department
IFAD           International Fund for Agricultural Development
IDO            Institutional Development  Officer
IPM            Integrated Pest Management
MAFC           Municipal Agriculture ard Fisheries Council
NEDA           National Economic and Development Authcrity
NFA            National Food Authority
NIA            National Irrigation Administration
NIS            National Irrigation System
NWRC           National Water Resources Council
PBME           Project Benefit Monitoring and Evaluation
PDD            Project Development Department
PIE            Provincial Irrigation Engineer
PIO            Provincial Irrigation Office
PPRD           Procurement and Physical Resource Department
PRMD           Personnel and Records Management Department
RID            Regional Irrigation Director
RIO            Regional Irrigation Office
SOE            Statement of Expenditure



FOR OFFICUIL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
SECOND COMUNAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CIDP 1I)
Loan and Proiect Summary
Borrower:          Republic of the Philippines
Loan Amount:       US$ 46.2 million
Terms:             Repayable in 20 years,  including  5  years of grace, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Project
Obiectives:        The project aims to  provide for continuity and improvements
in implementation of the Philippines' ongoing communal
irrigation development efforts, based on experience gained
under the first Bank and IFAD-financed Communal Irrigation
Development Project (Bank Ln. 2173-PH/IFAD Ln. 108-PH). It
would rehabilitate existing systems and extend smallholder
communal  irrigation  services   to   other   new  areas  in
impoverished rural locations where over 902 of the farmers
live below the poverty threshold, thus contributing to the
Government's  goals   of   poverty   alleviation   and  food
sufficiency. The project would also strengthen both the
National  Irrigation  Administration   (NIA)  and  Irrigator
Associations (IAs) throughout the country, in the fields of
management,    financial    administration,    design    and
construction, and operation and maintenance of communal
facilities.
Description:       The proposed  five-year  project,  commencing during late-CY
1990, would be nationwide in scope and would include: (a)
the construction of new (10,000 ha) and rehabilitation and
improvement of existing (15,000 ha) communal irrigation
systems, and provision of adequate service and access roads
and simple IA storage facilities and drying floors, and
erosion control measures in subproject catchments; (b)
development of communal lAs, including training of related
NIA  staff,  coammnity  organizers   and  IA  members,  with
particular  emphasis  on   management,   financial  and  O&M
aspects; (c)    institutional  strengthening  of  NIA in the
field of communal irrigation, including upgrading of NIA's
ability to assess micro-catcbment hydrology; training of
irrigation technicians and designers; improvement of NIA's
communal  accounting   system   and  collection  efficiency;
improvement of the monitoring and evaluation capabilities of
NIA's Communal Irrigation Department; and upgrading of the
physical facilities and equipment of the Provincial and
Regional  Irrigation  Offices;   and   (d)  preparation  and
implementation of agricultural development plans for each
communal scheme financed.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Benefits
and Risks:         The Philippines' communal  irrigation development program is
well-regarded internationally as a very successful effort at
actively involving smallholder irrigation beneficiaries in
the  design,  implementation  and   O&M  of  their  systems.
Through its support for this program, the proposed project
would directly enhance and stabilize the incomes of about
20,000 low-income farm families, by increasing cropping
intensities and output through reliable irrigation and
improved agricultural support services. Indirectly, through
the   institutional   strengthening   components   for   the
beneficiary lAs and NIA, the project would also improve the
incomes of many additional  small  irrigator families in the
nearly 3,000  NIA-assisted  communal  schemes throughout the
country. The investments to be made under the project do
not face any major risks, although implementation could fall
short of expectations in some areas due to sporadic peace
and order problems.   As  the  project is national in scope,
such problems would not seriously affect the overall project
impact. Also, potential difficulties would be eased by the
opportunities  afforded  for   active  farmer  participation
through the IAs, thereby instilling an increased sense of
responsibility on the part of the beneficiaries.
Estimated Cost:                            Local    Foreign   Total
----- USf milIIon--
Irrigation Works                          18.5    1656     84.0
IA Development                            2.4      0.8      2.7
Institutional Strengthening of NIA        4.8      7.0    11.B
Engineering and Administration            4.1      0.4      4.6
Agricultural Development                   0.6     0.8      0.9
Total Base Cost                       29.9    23.6    58.4
Physical Contingencies                     2.6     1.9      4.5
Price Contingences                        38.6     2.9      8.5
Total ProJect Cost /a                 3.1    28.8    64.4
Financing Plan:
IrRD                                      17.9    26.8    46.2
Government/NIA Lb                         18.2       -     18.2
Total                                 88.1    28.8    64.4
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY               1991    1992    1993    1994    1995      1998    1997
~…-                 (USS million) __ …
Annual                 1.4    8.9   12.5   11.1    8.0         J8.      0.5
Cumulative             1.4   10.3   22.8   38.9   41.9         45.7   46.2
Economic Rate of Return: 19U
MaUm: IBRD Mos. 22889 and 22830.
/a Including taxes and duties of about USf2.8 million.
Including about USf2 million of equity contributions from farmer
benefIc tries.
Minor differences In totals due to rounding.



- iii -
PHILIPPINES
SECOND COMMUNAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT tCIDP II)
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ..... .. *** ................              .    i
I.  THE IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR ............................ .    . .. ..........  1
Background ................. .... ....................................  1
History of Irrigation Development .................................   4
Communal Irrigation Subsector............. ........ .. . ...........  6
National Irrigation Administration and Inter-Agency Coordination..  8
Development of Irrigator Associations ....................... ...   9
Support Services for Irrigated Agriculture ....................... 10
Operational Performance of Irrigation Systems         .    ..   11
Irrigation Financing ......... ................   12
Irrigation Cost Recovery ...................... .. ...   12
Government Irrigation Subsector Strategy ...  ........             ................ 13
The Bank's Role in Irrigation Development ......  ................... 14
II.  PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION      ............... O..  16
Project Objectives and Summary Description .......................  16
Rehabilitation and Construction of Communal Irrigation Schemes ...  16
Development of Communal Irrigator Associations (Iks) .............  19
Institutional Strengthening of NI    A ......................... ....  20
Financial Management . .. ....    ........................ .    20
Monitoring and Evaluation    ............................       21
Strengthening Provincial and Regional Irrigation Offices ......  23
Technical Assistance                  ...    23
Agricultural Development ........... .............  24
Incorporation of CTDP I Experience .......................... .....  26
III. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING.       ............     ........ ....... 28
Project  Costs ........................... ............            28
Project Financing  . ......................................  29
Procuremeut ..................     . ................              29
Disbursements .........4    ....    *    ....0...................  31
Accounts and Audits ....................................  32
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited the
Philippines in March/April 1990, comprising Messrs. C. Gunasekara (Task Manager,
Civil Engineer), J. Berkoff (Economist), and E. Boerema (Agronomist) from the
Bank, and Mr. R. Dy (Economist,  Consultant).  Mr. A. Byrne (Financial Analyst)
also assisted the mission from Headquarters.



- iv -
Page No.
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION             .      .................... . .    33
Status of Project Preparation ................................. .         33
Organization and Management                        . . .    33
Implementation and Schedule   .       ............................. .    35
Operation and Maintenance .................................... *..        35
Reporting Requirements .... . .                                           36
Project Supervision Plan ......                          .       .        37
V.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATIOM AND RISKS ........    38
Agricultural Production .........................................         38
Prices and Marketing Prospects .................................          41
Beneficiaries' Incomes                       . . .    41
Economic and Financial Analysis                   ...   42
Environmental Impact                        . . .    43
'Women in Development                       . . .    44
Project Risks                           ... 45
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ............................    46
TABLES IN TEXT
1.1 -   Average Farm Sizes in Irrigation Systems ......................           4
1.2 -   Communal Irrigation Systems by Region .........................           7
2.1 - Project Cost Sunmmary                        .       ....   28
2.2 -   Procurement             ..                 ........ . ............    30
ANNEXES
Annex 1
Table 1 - Climatic Characteristics by Region
Table 2 - Format for Irrigation System Area Assessment at Feasibility
Table 3 - Tentative List of Rehabilitation Subprojects
Table 4 - Tentative List of New Subprojects
Table 5 - Work Carried over from CIDP I
Annex 2
Table 1 - Project Cost Summary
Table 2 - Building Construction Costs
Table 3 - Construction Equipment and Vehicle Costs
Table 4 - Equipment Reconditioning Costs
Table 5 - Office Equipment Costs
Table 6 - Agricultural Support Services Costs



Annex 3
Tabie 1 - Financing Plan and Proposed Loan Allocation
Table 2 - Schedule of Expenditures
Table 3 - Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Table 4 - Schedule of Loan Disbursementr
Table 5 - Estimated Project Cash Flow
Annex 4:    Institutional Development
Annex 5:   Monitoring and Evaluation
Annex 6:   Economic Aspects
Annex 7:    Agricultural Sup,ort Services
Annex 8:
Table 1 - Agricultural Production
Table 2 - Rice Price Structure
Table 3 - Summary Fertilizer I.ices
Table 4 - Financial Crop Budgets
Table 5 - Financial Crop Budgets
Table 6 - Financial Crop Budgets
Table 7 - Financial Farm Budgets
Table 8 - Financial Farm Budgets
Table 9 - Financial Farm Budgets
Annex 9:    Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
FIGURES
Figure 1 - NIA Organization Chart
Figure 2 - Organization Chart for Project Implementation
Figure 3 - Project Implementation Schedule
MAPS
IBRD 22389 - Sample Systems
IBRD 22390 - Climatic Map



I. THE IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR
Background
1.1      The Philippines is well-suited  for irrigation development, which
has been an important factor underlying the country's agricultural growth
over the past two decades. The total area served is now about 1.45 million
ha, out of 3.5 million ha thought to be suitable for irrigation. Some 95S
(1.38 million ha) is in paddy. To place this in perspective, in 1988 paddy
contributed about 302 of real value added in crops, or 172 of total
agricultural output, and about 70Y of this paddy was harvested from
irrigated lands. The following sections describe briefly the natural and
socio-economic conditions prevailing in the Philippines, with particular
reference to irrigated  areas.    The  history  and  present  status of the
Philippines'  irrigation   development,   with   its   unique  emphasis  on
beneficiary participation, are  also  summarized,  as well as Government's
future plans for irrigation sector development and the Bank's role in
assisting this process.
1.2      Natural Conditions.      The  Philippine  archipelago lies entirely
within the humid tropics between latitudes 50 and 200 N and longitudes 1170
and 1270 E. Micro climates within the islands are largely influenced by
altitude (wost islands have narrow coastal plains surrounding mountain
ranges with heights from 500-2,900 m) and the direction of the prevailing
air stream.    The  latter  influences  seasonal  variation  in climate, in
particular the rainfall distribution pattern.    Four main types of climate
are generally distinguished (Map 22390 and Annex 1, Table 1).
Type I:   Two pronounced seasons.    Dry  from  November to April, wet
during the rest of the  year.    The  maximum rain occurs from June to
October during the  prevalence  of  the  southwest  monsoon.   The dry
season lasts from three to six months. All the regions of the western
part of the Islands of Luzon, Mindoro, Palawan, Panay and Negros fall
under this type of  climate.  (Note:    A  dry  month has less than 50
millimeters (mm) of rain). Annual rainfall is from 1,500 to 2,000 mm.
Type II:  No dry season.    Very  pronounced maximum rain period from
November to  January.    In  this  type  of  climate fall Catanduanes,
Sorsogon, the eastern part of Albay, the eastern and northern parts of
Camarines Norte and Camarines Sur, a great portion of the eastern part
of Quezon, Samar, the eastern part of Leyte and a large portion of
eastern Mindinao. Annual rainfall is from 2,500-4,200 mm.
Type IIIs Seasons  are  not  very  pronounced.    Relatively  dry from
November to April and wet during the rest of the year. Regions with
this type of climate are the western parts of Cagayan, Isabela, Nueva
Vizcaya, the eastern portions of the Mountain Province, southern
Quezon, Masbate, Northeast Panay, eastern Negros, southern Cebu,
eastern Palawan and western portions of Zamboanga del Norte and
Zamboanga del Sur. Average annual rainfall is generally some 2,000 to
3,500 mm.



- 2 -
Type rv   Rainfall is more or  less  evenly distributed throughout the
year.   Both  cyclonic  and  northeastern  monsoon  rains  as  well as
thunderstorm rains are experienced without a single dry month during
the year.   Regions  affected  by  this  type  of climate are Batanes,
northeastern Luzon, southwestern part of Camarines Norte, western
parts of  Camarines  Sur  and  Albay,  eastern  Mindoro,   Marinduque,
Romblon, western Leyte, northern Cebu, Bohol and most of central,
eastern and southern Mindanao.
Mean monthly temperatures in lowland areas range from 230C in January to
290C in May/June, with minor variations due to altitude and latitude. Mean
monthly solar zadiation follows rainfall  distribution and daylength and is
thus highest in the dry season with some 550 Cal/cm2/day in Northern Luzon
to 400 Cal/cm2/day in  Central  Visayas.    Evaporation varies from 3.5-4.0
mm/day in the wet season  to more  than  6 mm/day  in the dry season with
occasional peaks of 8 mm/day, with annual rates varying from 1,470 to 2,400
mm.
1.3      In most lowland areas average rainfall is generally adequate for a
single rice crop in the wet season, with the exception of southern
Mindanao. However, rainfall is often not evenly distributed and dry spells
frequently necessitate supplementary water supplies for high yielding rice
crops. Provision of irrigation thus reduces risk and ensures high yield
potential. Irrigation is essential for dry season cropping, even in Type
IV climate zones. Unfortunately, the country lies in an area recognized
as having the greatest frequency of tropical typhoons in the world.
Between 1948 and 1988 an average of 21 typhoons were recorded annually,
mostly in the months of June to December, with highest monthly frequencies
(more than three) in July, August and September. Most of Mindanao (below
latitude of 80N) is nearly free from typhoons, with the frequency of
occurrence generally increasing from south to north, and with greatest
incidence in northern Luzon (averaging about 7 per year). Flood damage to
crops, as a result of typhoons passing over catcbment and irrigation areas,
can  be  serious  and  total  losses  do  occur  occasionally.    The risks
associated with typhoon damage may also limit the incentive to invest and
therefore constrain wet season yields in affected areas. Annex 1 provides
details of climatic conditions in each of the 13 regions.
1.4      The Philippines has  complex  physiographic  patterns.  The entire
country rests on a series of stress lines, along which numerous faulting,
folding and volcanic  activities  have  taken  place.   The extensive earth
movements have resulted in mountain ranges which divide the islands into
small watersheds with short and usually rapidly flowing rivers and isolated
alluvial plains. The areas to be included in the proposed project are
located along small rivers and tributaries of larger rivers as they flow
out of the foothills into the river basins. Individual scheme areas are
mostly level to nearly level, with some undulating and slightly sloping
areas along footsiopes. Many schemes are dissected by creeks which serve
as drainage outlets. Topographically, the schemes are highly suitable for
rice growing and only minor areas, previously not used for ponded or
rainfed rice, require contouring  or  terracing.   To achieve optimal water
management, in particular for direct sown rice, routine and detailed
landleveling is required with greater attention being given to in-field
drainage.



-3-
1.5      The dominant soil  types  are  relatively  young silty clay loams,
clay loams and sandy clays.    These  soils  are mostly derived from basalt
andesites, volcanic rocks and tuffs, and limestones, under intense and
rapid natural weathering caused by high temperature, heavy rainfall and
limited forest coverage. Most irrigable soils are in plains and valleys
with deep alluvial deposits. Where volcanoes are present, as in Bicol and
Southern Mindanao, volcanic ash or tuff material is mixed with these
deposits. The soils in the lowlands are usually heavy textured and well-
suited for paddy production.   On  higher  ground, soils are generally deep
and loamy, with moderate  to  good  internal  drainage.   There are no real
problem soils in the Philippines, except for small spots of saline soils in
Mindanao.
1.6      Eoils in sample communal irrigation  schemes covering about 152 of
the project area were claasified as follows: (a) rice land (502)
-- poorly drained with a shallow water table and of medium to fine texture
with a level or nearly level topography; (b) dual class land (47Z) --
suitable for rice during the wet season and diversified crops in the dry
season. Soils are light to medium textured with restricted drainage and
are formed on level to nearly level alluvial and residual fan terraces; and
(c) diversified crop land (32) -- mostly medium and fine loams with a well
aerated rhizosphere and fairly rich in organic matter, often found on
slightly elevated river terraces. Soils are mostly acid with a pH ranging
from 5.5 to 6.5. The cation exchange caps sty is moderately low to high
depending on intensity and specifics of previous use. Overall, the soils
are highly suitable for rice growing in both the wet and dry seasons,
although about half the area could be used for alternative crops in the dry
season  if  so  desired.      Nutrient  deficiencies,  mostly  nitrogen  and
phosphorous, can be corrected by using appropriate cultural practices
together with supplementary fertilizer applications.
1.7      Socioeconomic  Features.      In   1989,   the  population  of  the
Philippines  totalled about 61 million.   Although the national population
growth rate has dropped from an average of 2.72 during the 1970s to about
2.3Z, demographic pressure on land is already very severe, and relatively
little unexploited cultivable land  remains.    At  least so5  of Philippine
families still have incomes below the poverty level, and some three-fourths
of these live in rural areas where the absolute number of poor have
increased, real wages have fallen, and landlessness has grown steadily.
The beneficiaries of the proposed project, an estimated 120,JO6 people in
20,000 families, would represent a cross section of the rural poor. A
survey in 1989 of 16 sample communal systems proposed for rehabilitation
under the project indicated an average annual household income of about P
16,500 (or a per capita income of P 2,750), equivalent to only about 702 of
the estimated rural poverty income level in 1990 prices. A separate survey
of the population to be served by 12 newly proposed systems, where lands
are currently cultivated with corn and rice under rainfed conditions,
indicated average annual household incomes ranging from only 202 to 402 of
the rural poverty income level.



- 4 -
1.8      Philippine agriculture  is  characterized  by  the predominance of
small farms (702 are smaller than 3 ha) and the pervasiveness of tenancy,
particularly among rice and  corn  farmers.    The  average farm holding ir-
communal irrigation systems ranges from 0.9 ha in Regions I and II to 1.8
ha in Mindanao, with a mean of 1.4 ha. In the larger national irrigation
systems the range is much wider and the national mean 70? larger. Average
farm sizes by region  are  shown  in  Table  1.1.   According to a detailed
technical and economic survey of 28 communal systems proposed for financing
under the project (representing 151 of the project area), the average size
farm was 1.17 ha, ranging from about 0.3 ha to 5.0 ha. Some 40Z of farms
are smaller than 0.5 ha, with another 221 having between 0.5 and 1.0 ha,
23? having from 1.0 to 2.0 ha, 8Z from 2.0 to 3.0 ha, 31 from 3.0-4.0 ha
and the remaining 4S having more than 4.0 ha.
Table 1.1 AVERAGE RICE FARM SIZES IN IRRIGATION SYSTEMS
(ha)
Region               National Systems          Communal Systems
I Ilocos                       0.56                     0.89
II Cagayan Valley               2.81                     0.89
III Central Luzon                2.59                     1.54
IV Southern Tagalog             2.17                     1.60
V Bicol                        0.93                     1.60
VI Western Visayas              1.56                     0.95
VII Central Visayas              2.61                     0.95
VIII Eastern Visayas              0.96                     0.95
IX We-tern Mindanao             4.03                     1.83
X No_chern Mindanao            3.82                     1.83
XI Southern Mindanao            2.79                     1.83
X Central Mindanao             3.65                     1.83
National Average         2.37                     1.39
1.9      It is estimated that about  602  of all farmers in the Philippines
cultivate their own land; 252 are share tenants, paying an agreed
percentage of their harvest; and the rest either rent extra land for their
own use (5Z) or  are  part-owners  (about  1O0).    The Government has been
pursuing an agrarian reform program aimed at the transfer of land ownership
to tenant farmers on rice and corn lands since 1972, when the country's one
million tenanted rice and corn farms covering some 1.5 million ha were
declared land reform areas. A new land reform program (CARP) continues the
earlier reform of rice and corn areas, and also provides for tenure reform
in public and estate lands.
History of Irrigation Development
1.10     Irrigation development  in  the  Philippines  dates  back to early
history. Mountain tribes in northern Philippines built about 25,000 ha of
rice terraces, most of which remain operational to this day, particularly



the famous Banawe rice terraces in Ifugao province. Lowland tribes also
built simple irrigation systems comprising mainly brush dams and earth
canals. During the Spanish colonial era (1565-1898), religious friars
directed the construction of irrigation systems covering some 23,000 he
primarily  in  the  border  provinces  around  Manila.    This  period also
witnessed the development of the zanjera irrigation systems in the Ilocos
region of northern Philippines, built by landless farmers in exchange for
rights to till part of the land.
1.11     The American colonial period (1898-1942) ushered an era of central
government involvement in irrigqtion development.   In 1908, the Philippine
Legislature passed Act 1854, which created an Irrigation Division unuer the
Bureau of Public Works (BPW).    BPW was authorized to constri .t irrigation
systems in response to requests from local goverNments andjor villagers.
In .912, an Irrigation Law was passed authorizing the BPW to manage systems
it had built and to  collect  irrigation  fees.    The Law provided for the
regulation of water rights and formalized the concept of irrigators'
associations (MAs) as a jaridical body authorized to manage communal
irrigation systems. lAs were registered under the Corporation Law (Act
1459) w!th powers to manage their irrigation systems, to elect officials
and to uompel members to contribute to the operation and maintenance of the
systems. The first Government-financed irrigation system was built in
1923. By 1930, the estimated service area of national systems had reached
about 86,000 ha. There are no records of communal and private irrigation
development at that time, but some estimates put the area served at about
100,000 ha. The economic depression of the 1930s, followed by World War
II, temporarily curtailed government support to irrigation development.
1.12     However,  political  independence  (1946)   brought  with  it  the
tremendous challenge of reconstruction from the ruins of war. The BPW was
empowered not only to pursue construction and maintenance of national
irrigation systems, but also to provide assistance to communal systems.
Until the early 1970s, funds for the communals came mainly out of anrual
appropriations ('pork barrel" funds) to members of the Philippine Congress
who represented rural provinces or  districts.   The costs of such projects
were not required  to  be  repaid.    Unlike  the  approach followed in the
national irrigation system areas, where service fees were levied, there
were no irrigation charges in the communal areas because irrigators were
required to   operate  and maintain  their  own systems without Government
assistance.
1.13     Presently,  all  irrigation   systems   in   the  Philippines  are
classified as one of three main types (national systemslNIS; communal
systems/CIS; and pump systems/PIS), as summarized on the next page.
(a)  National Irrigation Systems.    At  present  there  are 137 NISs,
serving  about  614,000  ha.      They  are  built,  operated  and
maintained by the National Irrigation Administration (NIA), a
government-owned   corporation    responsible    for   irrigation
development. Three of the NISs are reservoir systems: Magat and
Upper Pampanga together irrigate about 200,000 ha, with power
generation as added benefit; and Angat-Maasim, which is primarily
for urban water supply, also irrigates some 31,500 ha. The rest



- 6 -
of the NISs are run-of-the-river diversion systems, primarily for
irrigation. Twenty new NISs will bring an additional 80,000 ha
under irrigation by 1990 and a further 70,000 ha by 1993.
Farmers in NISs are charged irrigation fees.
(b)  Communal Irrigation Systems.   CISs are small, mostly run-of-the-
river type, gravity systems, owned and operated by farmer
Irrigator  Associations  (IAs).    There  are  about  6,200 CISs,
averaging 115 ha, and serving about 710,000 ha. Unlike the NISs,
they are built  with  or without  NIA  assistance.   When NIA is
involved,  its  role  is   limited  to  financial  and  technical
assistance in the planning and construction of physical works,
and development and training of the IAs which own the systems and
are  responsible  for  the   maintenance  after  construction  is
completed.  Farmers in CISs  are not charged irrigation fees, but
they  amortize  the  chargeable  costs  1/    of  the  irrigation
investment. In selected areas NIA is also trying out alternative
methods of repayment which are expected to be more effective in
t.covering the chargeable cost (Annex 4, Para 11).
(c)  Pump  Irrigation  Systems.    Privately-owned  PISs  serve  about
152,000 ha. Pump units that cover a service area from 20 to 100
ha  are  operated  and   maintained   by  NIA  at  the  beginning
(previously also the now defunct, Farm Systems Development
Corporation  (FSDC)),   and   are   then   turned   over  to  the
cooperatives. Smaller pump units of less than 20 ha each are
privately owned. The high cost of power has reduced the overall
financial attractiveness of the PISs and has -onstrained their
further expansion. In some areas, farmers groups have asked NIA
to convert their PISs to run-of-the-river communal systems.
Communal Irrigation Subsector
1.14     The CISs range in .ize from as  low  as  15 ha to as much as 4,000
ha, but are generally under 1,000 ha and average only 115 ha. Some 462 of
the systems are concentrated in Region 1 in northwestern Philippines,
although  the  710,000  ha  under   communal  irrigation  are  fairly  well
distributed nationwide (Table 1.2).  NIA estimates that at least 60? of the
areas yet to be irrigated are appropriate for the CIS form of development.
This is a reflection of the rolling and hilly terrain of the country with
narrow plains along the coasts and strips of valleys inland. NIA's
assistance to CISs involves  both:    (a) improvement/expansion of existing
areas, and (b) construction of new systems in areas not previously served
by irrigation.
11  Excludes cost of roads, buildings, overheads, etc.



Table 1.2: COHMUNAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS BY REGION
bJon            Number   Share      Area      Share   Ave. Size
('000)    (Z)    ('000 ha)   (I)        (ha)
1 la            2,872    46.5       130.8      18.4       46
2                  766    12.4       87.8      12.4      115
3                 362      5.9       82.9      11.7      229
4                 555      9.0       58.8       8.3      106
5                 562      9.1       51.7       7.3       92
6                 131      2.1       40.0       5.6      306
7                 100      1.6       23.4       3.3      234
8                  328     5.3       37.5       5.3      114
9                   69     1.1       22.2       3.1      322
10                 184      3.0       49.7       7.0      270
11                 108      1.7       59.4       8.4      550
12                  137     2.2       65.3       9.2      477
TOTAL         6,174   100.0       709.5    100.0       115
la Including the newly-created Cordillera Autonomous Region.
1.15     Official  assistance  to  CISs  increased  rapidly  from  about 30
systems in the late 19509 to over 900 systems in the late 1970s, and about
2,000 systems in the late  1980s.    During the early 1980s, the Government
committed an average of about P 130 million per year to CIS development.
The economic crisis of 1983-85 sharply curtailed this level of budgetary
support, which dropped to about P 80 million p.a. However, since 1987 the
Government has again increased allocations to the CIS program to about P
400 million p.a.
1.16     Although in earlier years Government  did not require repayment of
its contributions to CIS development (para. 1.12), since 1975 almost all
official assistance has been provided in the form of interest-free loans,
payable up to a maximum period of 50 years. In addition, lAs make cash or
in-kind contributions towards construction costs as equity. Earlier this
equity could be either 101 of chargeable construction costs or P 300 per ha
of irrigated area, whichever was  lower.    Since  1985, the IAs have been
required to provide a minimum equity of 10 of the chargeable costs.
1.17     Foreign financing of communal irrigation systems began in the mid-
19709 as components of a rural development projects, mostly supported by
the World Bank, IhAD and the Asian Development Bank. The ongoing Communal
Irrigation Development Project, (CIDP I, Bank Loan 2173-PH and IFAD Loan
108-PH), approved in June 1982, was the first foreign-assisted project to
focus entirely on communal irrigation development based on beneficiary
participation. To date foreign assistance has supported about 85,000 ha of
communal irrigation development in the Philippines.



National Irrigation Administration and Inter-Agency Coordination
1.18     The National Irrigation  Administration  (NIA)  was established in
1964 as a semi-autonomous agency under the then Department of Public Works,
Transportation and Communication. NIA took over the staff and functions of
the Irrigation Division of the Bureau of Public Works (para. 1.11).
Republic Act 3601 established NIA as a Government corporation responsible
for planning, constructing, operating and maintaining all NISs. NIA was
also empowered to investigate and to study all national water resources for
irrigation   purposes;   plan,   construct,   temporarily   administer  and
periodically repair CISs and PISs; and to collect irrigation fees from NISs
and recover chargeable construction costs from CISs and PISs. In 1974,
Presidential Decree No. 552 widened the NIA's responsibilities by giving it
broader powers and authority to undertake related projects (e.g. flood
control, drainage, land reclamation, hydro-power development, domestic
water supply, road construction, reforestation and other activities to
maintain ecological balance), in coordination with other agencies.
1.19     As a semi-autonomous body under the Department of Public Works and
Highways (DPWH), NIA has considerable operational freedom. It is governed
by a Board of Directors appointed by the President, consisting of the
Secretary of DPWH (Chairman), Administrator of NIA (Vice Chairman), the
Director General of the National Economic and Development Authority, the
Secretary of Agriculture, the General Manager of the National Power
Corporation and a representative from the private sector. All of NIA's
Assistant Administrators are Presidential appointees. NIA has matured into
a well-structured agency with its operation carried out through a network
of national, regional, provincial and system-level offices throughout the
country. It is adequately staffed and, with the exception of some items,
has sufficient  construction  and maintenance  equipment.    At its Manila
headquarters, NIA's organizational structure includes four units, each
under  an   Assistant   Administrator:        (a)   Project  Development  and
Implementation; (b) System Operatiorns and Equipment Management, who also
supervises the Communal Irrigation Department (para. 4.2); (c) Finance and
Management; and (d) Personnel and Administrative Services. The first two
departments are technical and cover all phases of the irrigation project
cycle; the latter two departments cover all the support functions. At the
regional level, NIA has 11 offices (RIOs), one for each of 8 of the 13
administrative regions of the country, one responsible for Regions 7 and 8,
one  for  Region  1  and   a   portion  of  the  newly  created  Cordillera
Administrative Region (CAR), and one for Region 2 and the remainder of CAR.
Each RIO is headed by a Regional Irrigation Director (RID), who reports to
the NIA Administrator. Some 100 irrigation system offices (ISOs) are each
responsible for one NIS, or a cluster of NISs, and are headed by an
Irrigation Superintendent (IS). Another 67 provincial irrigation offices
(PIOs), each headed by a Provincial Irrigation Engineer (PIE), are
responsible for communal irrigation systems.   All  ISs and PIEs of a given
region report directly to the RID of that region. At regional level, the
Region Development Council (RDC), comprising the provincial governors,
regional heads of departments and the private sector, serves as a forum for



- 9 -
reviewing development projects in the region (including proposed communal
schemes) and for inter-agency coordination. For agricultural and fisheries
related matters,  there  are   also  National,  Regional,  Provincial  and
Municipal Agricultural and Fisheries Councils  (NAFC, RAFC, PAFC and MAFC).
At each of these levels agreements are reached on joint or collaborative
agency work programs between NIA, DA, DENR and other agencies.
Development of Irrigators' Associations
1.20     Background.  In the  Philippines  there  have always been informal
farmer organizations in communal irrigation schemes for rebuilding simple
structures, regular repairs and O&M.   Formal organizations have also had a
longer history in the Philippines than in many other Asian cou.ntries,
reflecting an early emphasis on private development (e.g. by religious
establishments under the Spanish) as well as formal allocation of water
rights under legislation dating to early in this century. With the rapid
expansion of Government assistance in the 19709, formal organizations were
spread more widely inter alia to provide a framework for farmer-Government
relations.   Such  organizations  have  normally  been  registered with the
Securities  and  Exchange   Commission  as  non-profit/non-stock  entities,
providing them with a legal personality that enables them to enter into
agreements with NIA and to apply for a water permit from the National Water
Resources Council (NWRC). Steps have recently been taken to allow lAs to
be registered as profit-making entities to encourage development of other
associated activities.    NIA  estimates  that  today  functioning  lAs are
present in about 3,000 NIA-assisted schemes covering 140,000 ha. This is
equivalent to about 37? of the area under all NIA-assisted schemes and 202
of all communal schemes.
1.21     While lAs therefore date from  the first Government programs, they
were not initially very involved in design and construction, and no
particular measures were taken to prepare the lAs to assume responsibility
for O&M. Partly as a result, instances occurred of conflicts over water,
poor water distribution/O&M, and low capital repayment. Some IAs failed to
sustain their functions, leading to deterioration of physical facilities
and to unfulfilled farmer expectations.    To address these weaknesses, NIA
undertook from 1976 to 1981 a series of pilot programs with Ford Poundation
assistance to evaluate how farmers could be more actively involved. These
tested the integration of institutional and technical development through
active farmer participation at each stage (from design through construction
to O&M), and evolved the approach that is now generally adopted. A key
role is played by a field worker previously known as the Irrigation
Community Organizer (ICO), or Irrigation Organization Worker (IOW), but
recently renamed the Institutional Development Officer (IDO) who lives in
the project area and acts as a catalyst in generating and sustaining farmer
participation.   At  identification,  the  farmers  are  helped to organize
themselves in an IA. At the design stage, they formulate by-laws, register
the IA, obtain a water permit, secure rights-of-way, approve designs and
enter into a pre-construction agreement with NIA which details cost and
IA's role  in  implementation.    During  construction,  the IA contributes
labor, materials and cash by way of equity payment (equivalent to 102 of
the estimated chargeable cost of construction), monitors material and
construction quantities and quality, and reconciles construction costs.



- 10-
Finally when construction is completed the IA enters into a legal agreement
with NIA, formally taking over the system, accepting full responsibility
for the O&M and repayment of the chargeable portion of the investment cost
less the amount of equity already paid.
1.22     In 1979, a Communal Irrigation Committee which NIA had established
to evaluate the pilot programs and other experiences recommended a major
initiative to integrate institutional and technical development. This was
accepted by NIAs management and supported in 1982 by the Bank and IFAD
under CIDP I.    By  1989,  NIA  employed more  than  800 TDOs (previously
ICOs/IOWs), and institutional development staff had been fully integrated
into the central, regional and provincial offices. Procedures have been
formalized to facilitate the IDO's work and to increase farmer commitment
and awareness. Although at first sight these appear complex. experience
suggests that they are manageable and basically sound. The procedures are
siummarized in Annex 4 and detailed in a manual which is periodically
updated.2/ Systematic training programs for both IAs and NIA staff have
also been developed to support the participatory approach and are discussed
in Annex 4. The approach has often been written up, most recently in a
book edited by Korten and Sy.3/
Support Services for Irrigated Agriculture
1.23     The  Department  of Agriculture  (DA),  through  its  12 regional
offices and its specialized attached commodity agencies, provides extension
services to  lowland  paddy  farmers  in most  areas.    Services are also
provided by input supply traders, colleges and universities, credit
institutions and non-governmental organizations  (NGOs,.   In addition, the
Department of Agrarian Reform and the Department of Environment and Natural
Resources provide extension services to land reform beneficiaries and
occupants of  public  lands,  respectively.    However,  over recent years,
allocations to extension have declined as a share of total Government
expenditures for agriculture, and most of these have been directed towards
salaries and allowances, with little funding available for transport or the
necessary inputs and facilities for farm trials and demonstrations. As a
result, the mostly remote communal irrigation schemes do not usually
receive adequate attention from the extension services, and very few
verification trials  and  demonstration  plots  can  be  seen.   NIA itself
employs and trains Water Management Technicians to assist farmers in using
and maintaining communal systems efficiently. However, in most areas there
is little formal contact between NIA staff and DA's agricultural extension
personnel, although some good informal contacts between relevant IDOs,
WMTs, and AFTs have led to some excellent sck iie performances.
2/       NIA:  "Manual of Procedures for Participatory Projects', 1985, and
'New and Updated Guidelines of the Communal Irrigation Development
Program Implementation', May 1988.
3/       Korten, F.F. and  Sy,  R.Y.  (eds.):   Transforming a Bureaucracy:
the Experience of the Philippine National Irrigation Administration,
Kumarian Press, 1988.



- 11 -
1.24     With  regard  to  agricultural  research,  the  International Rice
Research  Institute  (IRRI),  located   in   the  Laguna  Province  of  the
Philippines, is considered the pre-eminent rice research center in the
world. In 1986, the PhilippAne Government also established its own rice
research institute (the Philippine Rice Research Institute, PHILRICE),
which is presently creating a national research and development network of
research facilities in collaboration with six of the country's 25 state
colleges and universities.    Adaptation  and verification-type research is
carried out by the DA's Bureau of Agricultural Research through its
Regional Integrated Agricultural Research Stations and some experimental
farms but, as with the extension services, budgetary constraints do not
allow the necessary  on-farm  trials.    Consequently,  while adequate crop
varieties and production technologies are available in the Philippines,
they are not  necessarily  adapted  or  transmitted    to the more isolated
locations with somewhat differing soils and climatic conditions. Further
details concerning use of agricultural inputs, mechanization, credit, crop
insurance and post-harvest activities in irrigated areas are provided in
Annex 7.
Operational Performance of Irrigation Systems
1.25     The  performance  of  many  of   the  irrigation  systems  in  the
Philippines falls below expectations.   Despite widespread double cropping,
in 1986 total irrigated area in the NISs reached only 0.8 million ha, of
which 95? was in paddy. The CISs and PISs combined accounted for a total
irrigated  area  of  1.1  million  ha.    In  terms  of  irrigated cropping
intensities recorded to date, NIS reservoir systems exhibited the highest
values, at over 150X; NIS diversion systems, 1312; and communal and pump
systems, 127Z.    The  irrigated  cropping  intensity  for  CIDP  I systems
completed  to  date,  averaged  about  134Z.    Two  of  the  main  factors
contributing to these apparently low irrigated cropping intensities are the
over assessment at the design stage of individual irrigation system service
areas aad water availability.   A recent review of six existing NISs, using
detailed field re-surveys and hydrological re-assessrmants revealed that
actual service areas were about 20Z less than originally estimated. A
comparable adjustment to the CIDP I systems would cause the average
recorded cropping intensity of 134? mentioned above to rise to about 1682.
Consequently, NIA has commenced an exercise to progressively verify and
update existing irrigation system service areas throughout the country.
1.26     Other factors which  also  have  a  substantial  influence in this
context are: the highly variable and generally low, dry season water
supplies; less than adequate system management; and inadequate agricultural
support services, as discussed in paras. 1.23-1.24. Also, flood control
and drainage were not given appropriate emphasis during design of some of
the older NISs. In the case of CISs, the low cropping intensity is partly
attributable to the over assessment of service areas of some systems
relative to the actual extent of irrigated land as well as the available
water supply. For tho most part, however, poor operational performance
reflects inadequate funding and institutional weaknesses on the part of NIA
and the  lAs.    The  most  common  problems  are  deter-orating canals and
structures, silted and defective diversion works, inadequate drainage and
on-farm facilities, and poorly maintained service roads. In an effort to
address the situation, in April 1988, the Bank approved the Irrigation



- 12 -
Operations Support Project (Loan 2948-PH), the first phase of NIA's
proposed nine-year O&h improvement program for the larger national systems.
The proposed Second Communal Irrigation Development Project would help to
deal with problems in CIS performance, through improved evaluation of
system hydrology and service area at the design stage, increased emphasis
on OUM training for lAs, and improved monitoring of the quality of
construction and O&M activities.
Irrigation FinancinR
1.27     In the  past,  combined  interest  on  construction  funds held on
deposit, management fees charged to the Government for construction
supervision,  equipment  rental,   budgetary   support  for  locally-funded
communals, as well as ISF and amortization fees from farmers for communal
construction enabled NIA to finance its operating budget. The investment
program was, by and large, financed by the Government, using foreign funds
and their counterpart  local  funds.    However,  the economic crisis which
began in August 1983, and the subsequent corrective measures instituted by
Government, had an adverse impact on NIA's financial position. During
1984-86, there was a sharp decline in overall irrigation project investment
support by Government. As Government contributions fell, so did the volume
of management fees and interest earnings.    In 1986, in order to implement
its work program, NIA had to draw down on its corporate cash reserves.
Implementation of ongoing projects was slowed down or curtailed; NIA's
staff was cut back; and NIA's general capacity to undertake new projects
and adequately operate and maintain the NISs was reduced. The situation
concerning the O&M of NISs was addressed through Loan 2948-PH (para. 1.26)
and, as the Philippine economy began its recovery in 1986, funding for
communals also increased (para.  1.15).    Finally, under the Comprehensive
Agrarian Reform Program (CARP, para. 1.9), it is proposed that fairly
substantial  budgetary   support   be   provided   to  communal  irrigation
development. Although there is some uncertainty over actual releases, the
funding situation for CISs is likely to improve further.
Irrigation Cost Recovery
1.28     Since 1978, NIA has  been  authorized  to  charge ISF on irrigated
lands within NISs at levels sufficient to finance O&M. Irrigation fees are
denominated in paddy, and farmers may pay either in kind or in cash based
on the Government support price (currently P 5 per kilo, clean, dry paddy -
nominally 14S moisture, but in general neither traders nor NFA test for
moisture content and they often buy paddy at 10 - 121 moisture after a long
dry spell). This has provided a degree of indexation against inflation,
although for many years prior to October 1989 the support price had
remained fixed at P3.50 per kilo. The current ISF rates range from 2 to 3
cavans per ha during the wet season and 3 to 5 cavans per ha during the dry
season, depending on the type of system, e.g. diversion, reservoir or pump.



- 13 -
1.29     With respect to communal systems,  farmers are expected to pay NIA
102 of the chargeable cost during construction and the remaining 902 in not
more than a period of 50 years, at no interest. Although nationwide the
collections are running at only about 6-7Z of obligations, collection
efficiency under CIDP I is about 502 for new systems and 362 for
rehabilitation. The systems are operated and maintained by the lAs after
construction is completed (para. 1.13), and therefore NIA does not charge
service fees for O&M purposes.
Government Irrigation Subsector Strategy
1.30     The  Philippines  has   made   impressive  strides  in  irrigation
development during the past two decades, with success indicated by the
achievement of rice self-sufficiency through much of the 1980s, and by
relatively strong agricultural growth.   During the past decade, and partly
as a result of financial stringency, emphasis has shifted from new large
scale development towards rehabilitation of existing systems, construction
of ne  communal and small  national  systems,  improved OWM and expanded IA
development. The rationale for such a shift in strategy reflected an
assumption that it would yield quicker and higher returns, and have a more
favorable impact on income distribution, than would large scals new
construction. A priori studies indicated that rehabilitation costs per
incremental ton of paddy should average only about 25-502 of the costs of
converting rainfed to irrigated rice production, assuming that yields could
increase by as much as 70X.    Evidence  for  such an impact is still being
assessed and it may well be that some new large-scale irrigation and multi-
purpose projects will in future be justified. Irrespective of the relative
merits of irrigation rehabilitation and new construction in major schemes,
however, new construction of communals will be necessary in poverty
afflicted areas which otherwise would have little access to essential
irrigation services.
1.31     During  the   five-year   period   from   1984-88,  NIA's  overall
achievements in communal irrigation development averaged about 26,400 ha
per year, including about 7,200 ha of new construction and 19,200 ha of
rehabilitation, for a total of 132,000 ha. Of these, about 33,000 ha under
the ongoing Bank/IFAD-financed CIDP I project and about 4,000 ha trider four
ADB-financed  projects   and   a   USAID-financed  Accelerated  Agriculture
Production Program, have benefitted from fairly close supervision and
relatively reliable  funding.    The  other  95,000  ha  of  locally funded
communal schemes have been  subject  to   greater political influence, with
the result that some (but not all) were inadequately prepared and
substandard in respect of quality of construction and cost control. Taking
into consideration this experience, as well as NIA's evolving capacity to
manage more ambitious communal efforts and the likely level of future
budgetary allocations, a reasonable development target for the next five
years would be about 150,000  ha.    Official  targets are much higher than
this and, if staff and resources are increased, NIA may be able to handle a
larger program. However, it now has a demonstrated capacity to undertake
at least the target indicated above, and therefore should be funded to
carry out this volume of work.   The proposed project would cover about 202



- 14 -
of this overall target; other external donors are likely to finance another
20Ss and the Government would fund the remaining 602 from its own resources
(mainly CARP).
The Bank's Role in IrriRation Development
1.32     The Bank has played an  active  role in supporting the development
of irrigated agriculture in the  Philippines.    To date, the Bank has lent
US$ 783 million for 13 irrigation projects; one land settlement and three
rural development projects with irrigation components; and one watershed
management and erosion control project. Eleven of these projects have been
completed. The two most recent loans were for the Communal Irrigation
Development Project (IBRD Loan 2173-PH and IFAD Loan 108-PH, 1982) and the
Irrigation Operation Support Project (Loan 2948-PH, 1988). By 1990, Bank-
supported projects will have irrigated about 490,000 ha (200,000 ha of new
development, and the remainder large-scale rehabilitation and upgrading),
benefitting some 290,000 families and helping to produce more than 2
million tons of paddy (i.e., 22? of total projected rice production or 30?
of  irrigated  production).       Future   Bank  assistance  for  irrigation
development may include support  for  the   Casecnan multipurpose scheme in
northern Lttzon, follow-on irrigation operation support projects for NIA's
national systems, and the proposed second stage communal irrigation
development project. In addition, during FY91 the Bank will be cooperating
with NIA, the DA, the National Economic Development Authority (NEDA) and
other concerned agencies in conducting an in-depth review of current
performance and the future potential for irrigated agriculture.
1.33     Implementation of completed  and  ongoing Bank-financed irrigation
projects in the Philippines has generally been satisfactory, although some
operations have experienced delays because of local funding constraints,
design changes, contractor problems, or peace and order difficulties. The
shortage of local funds was most severe during the crisis years of 1983-86
while contractor problems were more evident in remote areas where large
systems were involved. Project Completion Reports and Project Performance
Audit Reports prepared for nine completed projects (Upper Pampanga River
Irrigation, Ln 637-PH; Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation, Ln 984/Cr 472-PH;
Tarlac Irrigation Systems Improvement, Ln 1080-PH; Jalaur Irrigation, Ln.
1367-PH; Rural Infrastructure Project,  Cr 790-PH; Magat River Multipurpose
Projects I, II and III, Loans 1154-PH, 1567-PH and 1639-PH; and Chico River
Irrigation Project, Loan 1227-PH) indicate implementation delays mainly on
account of lengthy procurement procedures, poor performance of contractors,
frequent typhoons, shortages of materials and inadequate local funding. In
some cases, they indicated less than anticipated water availability due in
part to inadequate hydrological assessment, aggravated by past watershed
deforestation, delivery inefficiency due to inadequate O&M, smaller than
expected command areas, and delays in project benefits due to the slow
progress of agrarian  reform.    However,  the  reports state that, despite
these problems, and lower than expected ERRs, the projects have undoubtedly
contributed to achieving national self-sufficiency in rice production and
the stabilization of the rural population in the project areas, and NIA's
performance in fostering active beneficiary participation in irrigation
development is frequently commended.



- 15 -
1.34     The ongoing Communal Irrigation  Development Project (CIDP I, Bank
Loan 2173-PH of US$71.1 million, and IFAD Loan 108-PH of SDR 10.8 million),
approved in June 1982, was the first foreign-assisted project in the
Philippines to focus entirely on ccmmunal irrigation development based on
beneficiary participation. CIDP I was originally designed to cover 33,500
ha, comprising about 22,800 ha of new area and 10,700 ha of rehabilitation,
at an estimated cost of US$121.9 million. Initial implementation delays
were due mainly to general budgetary constraints during the early and mid-
19808, when   NIA  opted  to  complete  national scheme construction (e.g.,
Magat, Chico River, etc.) as a matter of priority, thereby postponing
completion of CIDP I.    Once  budgetary constraints eased, NIA accelerated
its communal program. Implementation costs in US dollar terms proved to be
much lower than expected, mainly because of the lower peso exchange rate
and  the  fact   that   relatively   more   rehabilitation  work  (vs.  new
construction) was included, as compared with appraisal estimates. In early
1988, the Bank and IFAD therefore agreed to expand the project scope to
cover 65,200 ha (26,900 ha of new area and 38,300 ha rehabilitation), at a
revised cost of US$91.4 million.    The  Bank  loan was reduced to US$ 38.5
million through the cancellation of US$ 20.1 million effective March 3,
1988 and US$ 12.5 effective December 22, 1989 and the closing dates of the
Bank and IFAD loans were extended thrice to December 31, 1990. Full
utilization of the revised loan amount, by this date, is expected. Nearly
1002 of original and some of the new targets have already been met, but
completion of all incremental targets would require several further
extensions. The Government has decided instead to formulate the proposed
second stage project, building on the lessons learned during implementation
of CIDP I. Although there has not yet been a completion study for CIDP I,
a preliminary evaluation of 24 completed systems in March 1989 indicated a
satisfactory ERR of 25.52 at import parity, in spite of the drastic decline
in projected long-term rice prices. Differences in individual scheme costs
and performance suggest that overall benefits could be increased further,
if scheme selection processes were improved. The main lessons learned from
implementation of CIDP I are all reflected in the design of the proposed
second stage project, as summarized below in para. 2.21.



- 16 -
II. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
Proiect Obiectives and Summarv Description
2.1      The  proposed  project   aims   to   provide  for  continuity  and
improvement in the implementation of the Philippines' ongoing communal
irrigation development efforts, building on experience gained to date under
the first Bank and IFAD-financed CIDP project (para. 1.34). It would
rehabilitate existing systems and extend smallholder communal irrigation
services to other new areas in impoverished rural locations where over 902
of the farmers live below the poverty threshold, thus contributing to the
Government's goals of poverty allevation and food sufficiency. The project
would also strengthen both the National Irrigation Administration (NIA) and
irrigators' associations (IAs) nationwide, in the areas of management,
financial administration, design and construction, and operation and
maintenance  of  communal  irrigation   facilitles.      The  project would
specifically  address  poverty   alleviation   by  directly  enhancing  and
stabilizing the incomes of about 20,000 rural farm families through
reliable   irrigation   and   improved   agricultural   support   services.
Indirectly, through the institutional strengthening components, the project
would also improve the incomes of many additional small irrigator families
in the nearly 3,00(0 NIA-assisted communal schemes in the country.
2.2      The proposed  five-year  project  would  be  nationwide  in scope,
commencing during late-CY 1990. It would include:
(a)  construction  of  new   (1,OOO0  ha)   and  rehabilitation  and
improvement of existing (15,000 ha) communal irrigation systems,
provision of adequate service and access roads and simple IA
storage  facilities  and  drying   floors,  and  erosion  control
measures in irrigation systems catchbments, where necessary;
(b) deveto2ment of communal irrigator associations (1As), including
training of related NIA staff, community organizers and IAs, with
particular emphasis on management, financial and O&M aspects;
(c)  institutional strengthening  of  NIA  in  the  field  of communal
irrigation, including improvement of NIA's communal accounting
system and collection efficiency; improvement of the monitoring
and  evaluation   capabilities   of   NIA's  Communal  Irrigation
Department; upgrading of the physical facilities and equipment of
the Provincial and Regional Irrigation Offices; training of
irrigation technicians and designers; and upgrading of NIA's
ability to assess micro-catcbment hydrology; and
td) preparation and implementation of agricultural development plans
for each communal scheme to be financed.
Rehabilitation and Construction of Communal Irrigation Schemes
2.3      The project would provide  for  the construction of new irrigation
works on about 10,000 ha, consisting of about 65 new communal irrigation
irrigation systems, and the rehabilitation and improvement of about 15,000
ha served by about 115 existing systems.   The CISs under the project would



- 17 -
be  run-of-river,  gravity  systems,   ranging   from  about  10-1,000  ha.
Typically they would be served by 1-3 m high ogee or trapezoidal concrete
diversion weirs designed for a 25 year flood frequency, although some CISs
served from large perennial rivers would need only a river intake
structure. In general canals would be unlined, but limited concrete or
rubble masonry lining would be provided in specific sections where
excessive seepage or erosion is likely. Check structures, spillways, silt
traps/ejectors and gated turnouts would be provided as necessary to
facilitate effective system O&M.    Gravel  surfaced service roads would be
constructed along main canals, and link roads would connect each CIS to the
nearest principal road in the  locality.    NIA would endeavour to pass all
link roads constructed under the project to DPWH, Department of Local
Government, or Local Government Units as appropriate, for maintenance,
within one year after each CIS is handed over to its respective IA (para.
6.3 (a)). Farm drainage, would in most cases, be from plot to plot and
then to secondary drains and natural drainage lines. Simple IA storage
facilities and drying floors would be provided where necessary. The
project would also fund erosion prevention in about 302 of the system
catchments, particularly in critical areas in the immediate vicinity of the
system. These measures would provide protection against rainfall run-off
erosion of vulnerable slopes, gullies and embankments, mainly by vegetative
methods such as the planting of vetiver grass. NIA has done some watershed
protection work along these lines in Pantabangan catchment and has planned
such work in some subprojects under the Medium Scale Irrigation Project
(PMSIP),  Loan  1809-PH.    Vetiver   grass  occurs  naturally  in  several
localities from Northern Luzon, through the Visayas and Mindanao, to Sulu
in the extreme south and is known by different names -- Amoras, Moras,
Ilib, Anias de Moras, Rimoras, Muda, Tres Moras, Rimodas, Mora, Giron,
Amoora and Narawasta. However, to ensure farmer access to vetiver stock,
small nurseries will be established at provincial level as necessary.
Broader watershed protection measures would be supported under DENR's
overall national program. NIA's Watershed Management Division in PDD would
liase with DENR for this purpose.
2.4      Initial selection of CISs for implementation is typically based on
feasibility level investigations.    In  the  past  there have been several
instances of incorrect assessment of system areas at this stage, primarily
due to the lack of a clearly laid out approach to feasibility studies.
Most CISs are served from small streams and river tributaries, for which
long-term stream flow records are seldom available. In the circumstances,
stream flow measurements are carried out for about 1-2 years and these are
correlated with rainfall records. On this basis, water availabil,ty at 80Z
probability is determined and applied in system design, taking into account
other existing and planned water requirements. Estimated stream flow data
derived in this manner are also correlated with flow data from nearby
gauged streams over concurrent periods.    While this method is reasonable,
there have been several instances of over-assessment of water availability
in the past. Therefore, after detailed discussion agreement was reached on
a more suitable approach to assess system areas, which would minimize
inaccuracies without unduly increasing the field work required at the
feasibility stage (Annex I, Table  2).    The  need  for a closer review of
procedures actually applied by field staff was also agreed, including
provision of an allowance of about 152 for losses at diversion. The



- 18 -
project includes foreign consultancy support to improve NIA's ability to
assess micro-catchment hydrological potential and yield (para. 2.17).
2.5      Assurances were obtained  at  negotiation,  that:  tl) the project
would  exclude  irrigation   systems   which   have   been  constructed  or
rehabilitated during the past five years except those damaged by natural
calamities; and (ii) schemes  with  more  than  201 land still eligible for
redistribution under the land reform program would be included only after
emancipation patents had been issued (para. 6.2 (a)). Assurances were also
obtained at negotiations that the following agreed selection criteria would
be applied nationwide for all communal irrigation systems (para. 6.2 (b)):
(a)   the expected cropping intensity should be at least 130X;
(b)   the proposed irrigation  system  area  should have soils and
slopes suitable for irrigated crop production;
(c)   there should be no  conversion  of  land use from productive
permanent crops like coconuts and orchards;
(d)   the smallest scheme would serve  at least 20 farmers and the
largest farmer-managed scheme would be not more than 700 ha.
(This lower limit would expand the reach of irrigation
development to smaller and more remote schemes as well as to
smaller groups of farmers, facilitating the organization of
stable IAs.) IAs with systems larger than 700 ha will be
required to engage full-time professional management. No
scheme would be larger than 1,000 ha;
(e)   the average farm size in a  scheme should be not more than 5
ha;
(f)   farmers  should  be  actively  involved  in  preparing their
irrigation project, and should concur with its initial
feasibility design;
(g)   average irrigation development cost  for  each package of no
less than 10 schemes considered at any one time should not
exceed P 18,000/ha for rehabilitation work and f 35,000/ha
for new construction. Subject to this average per ha cost,
ceilings of P 35,000/ha for rehabilitation work and P
70,000/ha   for   new   construction   may   be  considered.
Exceptions to this criterion would be systems in areas
suitable for high value crops, for which ceilings of
P 55,000/ha for rehabilitation work and P 100,000/ha for new
construction would apply, provided the average costs are
maintained as stipulated earlier (1990 prices); and
(h)   the average economic internal  rate  of return (ERR) of each
of the abovementioned packages of schemes should be not less
than 10X.



- 19 -
Development of Communal IrriRator Associations (IAs)
2.6      The project  would  support  training  and  related  activities to
assist the establishment of lAs for CIDP II schemes, and to strengthen IAs
for the communal program nationwide.   The  number of new LAs to be created
corresponds to the number of schemes to be included under the project. It
is assumed that 65 new projects and 115 rehabilitation projects would be
undertaken. lAs would be established early to ensure project completion
within five years.   The  training  schedule corresponding to these schemes
has been phased evenly over the project period. In addition to training
for CIDP II schemes, an allowance has been made for 17 schemes carried over
from CIDP I and for refresher Systems Management Training for each of the
completed CIDP I schemes.
2.7      During the  implementation  of  CIDP  I,  NIA has identified some
problems for which solutions would be sought under CIDP II, includings (a)
a tendency of some lAs to remain excessively dependent on NIA and therefore
to deteriorate once NIA withdraws; (b) the fact that procedures tend to
become  standardized,  rather   than   being   adapted  to  specific  local
circumstances; (c) IA/NIA weaknesses in financial record keeping and
management, which is reflected in poor levels of amortization; and (d)
inadequate coordination with other agencies and NGOs, thereby limiting the
IA's access to agricultural, marketing and other services. For the most
part, these problems are inter-related.   For instance, IA self-reliance is
closely associated with financial performance, and successful IAs often
diversify into other activities (e.g. provision of threshing floors,
storage facilities, marketing, etc.) which depend on their ability to
generate and manage additional funds.    NIA plans to review its procedures
and IA training programs regularly, with a view to ensuring that they are
adapted to local requirements. In particular, with USAID support, a series
of impact and evaluation studies are being undertaken by the International
Irrigation Management Institute (IIMI) in association with local research
and academic agencies. These studies are located in three regions (Region
5 in Luzon, Region 6 in the Visayas and Region 10 in Mindanao), and will
include assessments of the  sustainability  of communal irrigation pr,jects
and lAs, the effectiveness of NIA training programs, and aspects of system
design. Reports of these activities would be furnished to the Bank for
review  and,  in   the   light   of   their  results  and  recommendations,
modifications to present procedures would be agree. and implemented as
necessary (para 6.3 (b)).    Measures  to improve financial perforntance and
coordination with other agencies, and to explore the potential role of NGOs
are discussed in paras. 2.11 and 2.18-2.19.
2.8      Another difficulty which  NIA  has  experienced  is the relatively
high turnover of IDOs, many of whom are only temporary employees since
maintaining too lazge a permanent cadre would create difficulties for NIA
once most IAs have been established.    The IDO is perhaps less critical in
rehabilitation than in new projects since in the former farmers are
familiar with irrigation and there is normally already an IA (although
possibly inactive).    A  pilot  project  on  rehabilitation  schemes would
therefore be implemented under CIDP II, commencing about June 1991, to test
the use of Farmcr Irrigator organizers (PIFO) as an alternative to IDOs



- 20 -
(para. 2.17). FIOs would be selected from among resident farmers, trained
and provided a small honorarium. Being resident farmers, they would remain
in the scheme permanently and therefore would play a continuing role even
after the project  has  been  completed.    This  approach  is now standard
practice in NIA's national  systems.    Terms  of  Reference for this pilot
exercise were submitted prior to negotiations, and assurances were obtained
at negotiations that the pilot exercise would be initiated in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 6.2 (c)).
Institutional Strengthening of NIA
2.9      Financial  Management.    The   project  would  provide  technical
assistance to improve NIA's communal accounting system and collection
efficiency. NIA's financial operations are managed by its Finance and
Management Group (FMG), headed by an Assistant Administrator. This unit is
staffed  with  experienced  and   qualified   financial  personnel  at  the
headquarters in Manila, as well as at the RIO and PIO levels. Among
several other functions, FMG also manages the collection of equity and
amortization payments for the chargeable portion of CIS capital costs from
lAs.   The  chargeable  costs  and  proposed  payment  period are initially
assessed and agreed for each CIS prior to construction. The amount payable
as equity (currently 10? of the chargeable costs) is collected in stages as
construction progresses, based on the level of construction accomplished at
a particular time. Payments may be in labor, kind (construction materials,
etc.) or cash, or  combinations  of  these.   The valuation, collection and
accounting of such payments is done at the provincial level by authorized
financial and implementation staff of  the  PIO.   Payment of the remaining
90% of the chargeable cost commences after CIS completion and turn-over to
the IA, on the basis of a legal contract between NIA and each IA. In
situations where the full amount of equity has not yet been paid at CIS
turnover (which is quite zommon, with equity payment averaging only about
5O0 of dues during construction and reaching an average high of about 80B
at turnover), the balance is added to the remaining 902 of the chargeable
investment cost, and the amortization schedule is adjusted accordingly. It
is not unusual for most CISs, especially in the early years, to be unable
to pay the agreed  installments.    In these circumstances NIA modifies the
amounts due, based on available information and judgments, to a more
reasonable level considered to be within the capacity of the particular IA
to pay. lAs are then billed on these adjusted amounts, which are usually
referred to as the dues for the billed period. Based on the experience of
some 21 new sub-projects completed under CIDP I, for which up-to-date
accounting information is available, payments against these dues average
50?, although in a few cases 1002 of dues, and even aivance payments, have
been made.    The  corresponding  figure  for  some  35  irrigation systems
rehabilitated under CIDP I  is  about  36Z.    While further improvement is
necessary, these results compare very favorably with data from the overall
national communal irrigation program, which indicate recoveries averaging
only 6-72 in 1987 and  1988.    In  selected  areas  NIA is also trying out
alternative methods of repayment which are expected to be more effective in
recovering the chargeable cost (Annex 4, para 11).
2.10     It is apparent  that  although  satisfactory  gains have been made
under CIDP I there is still scope for improving collections of amortization
payments ur!ir CIDP II and for transferring such improvements to the entire
communal irrigation program.   One  of  the  valuable lessons learned under
CIDP I was the importance of maintaining close coordination between FMG and
CIS implementation staff. Very often CIS parameters (area, IA membership,



- 21 -
chargeable investment cost, etc.) change with time due to various reasons,
but these changes are not systematically communicated to FMG, and financial
records are not updated to reflect the latest situations. Also the basis
of recording, monitoring and reporting CIS loan amortization payments
differs considerably among various PIOs.   These factors have resulted in a
weak accounting base in connection with this aspect of FMG's work,
contributing to poor collection performance and making it difficult to
clearly identify areas requiring specific attention.
2.11     Under CIDP II, FMG would play a more active role in the process of
CIS development through formal and systematic involvement in areas of
financial concern, in close coordination with IDD and CID. In particular,
FMG  would  improve   accounting,   monitoring,   auditing,  reporting  and
information updating procedures, relating to the recording, billing,
collecting and financial reporting and control over IA loan amortization
and equity payments, and these improvements should be clearly defined and
uniformly implemented. A mechanism is also needed to ensure that seasonal
payments (per ha irrigated) which individual farmers make to their IA are
adequate  to  meet  system   O&M   expenditures  as  well  as  amortization
obligations to NIA. FMG would also be involved in improvements to be made
in the accounting and financial training provided to IA, IDD and CID staff.
The project includes provision for technical assistance to effect these
improvements to accounting policies and procedures. Prior to negotiations
NIA provided: (a) the terms of reference, detailed work plan and timetable
for a NIA project team assisted by outside consultants (para. 2.17) to
undertake the improvements to NIA's accounting systems and controls over IA
accounts receivable; and (b) details of the plans and participating staff
undertaking financial and accounting training of NIA and IA staff. These
were found to be satisfactory.    Assurances were obtained at  negotiations
that: (i) the financial consultants would be retained no later than January
1, 1991; and (ii) the study would be concluded within 12 months of
contracting the consultants and the results implemented beginning no later
than July 1, 1992 (para. 6.2 (d)).   The regular reporting of the status of
the communal irrigation accounts receivable, including collections of
amortizations and equity payments from IAs under CIDP II, as well as
comparable data of other communal schemes would be reflected in quarterly
progress reports to be submitted to the Bank (para. 2.12 (c)).
2.12      Monitoring and Evaluation.    The  management information systems
(MIS) at both IA and NIA levels would be strengthened under the project
through funding for training and other related expenditures. Support would
be continued for the Project Benefit Monitoring and Evaluation (PBME)
system established under CIDP I (Annex 5). Management information systems
will be of three typess
(a)  Internal IA monitoring and reporting.    The project would aim to
establish simple monitoring and recording systems to help sustain
and improve IA performance, based on the on-going Irrigator
Association MIS (IAMIS) pilot program being implemented under the
USAID-supported AAP.    Perhaps  the  most  critical  area  is in
financial reporting (paras. 2.10- 2.11), but simple forms for
recording water distribution, cropping and other matters are also
being developed. Training in the use of these forms would be
provided to IA officers and committee members under the system



- 22 -
management training (SMT) course, and they would constitute the
basis for IA decision-making and reporting to NIA (Annex 4,
Chapter 1).
(b) NIA's internal MIS for planning and monitoring of institutional
development.    This  has  recently  been  revised  and  detailed
procedures and forms  have  been  developed.    The project would
provide training in this  respect.   Implementation of the system
is the responsibility of institutional development staff at each
level as part of  their  regular  activities.   Briefly, the IDOs
prepare annual work programs which are monitored through regular
monthly accomplishment reports and action plans; the Provincial
Offices consolidate the monthly reports and submit a quarterly
accomplishment report to the Regional Office; the IDD in the
Regional Office is responsible for scheduling and reporting on
training programs on a quarterly basis, and for submitting status
reports to the Central Office in financial status and training
accomplishments (monthly), institutional development (quarterly)
and O&M performance (semi-annually) for all NIA-assisted schemes.
In principle, O&M performance (cropping, water use, etc.) should
be based on regular IA reports drawn from the IA's own internal
MIS. In practice, the IDO concerned may well have to continue to
supplement information provided by the IA until the latter is
appropriately trained.  The  Provincial and Regional Offices also
separately submit annual reports  on  the  status of all communal
irrigation schemes in their jurisdictions, which is used to
update a comprehensive register of communal schemes.
(c)  Reports on  the  implementation  of  CIDP  II  would  be prepared
regularly  at the provincial and regional levels and consolidated
by the Central Office for submission to the Bank, based on
satisfactory  formats  developed  in   the  context  of  CIDP  I.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that such reports would
be submitted no more than three months after the close of each
quarter, and that the reports would include data on the status of
communal irrigation accounts receivable (paras. 2.11 and 6.2
(e)).
2.13     With regard to impact assessment, a project benefit monitoring and
evaluation  (PBME)  system was  establishec.  under  CIDP  I  to  generate
independent feedback to NIA and the Bank on the effects of the project and
the benefits derived. PBME staff located at each of the regional offices
report to a small unit at NIA headquarters in Manila. They undertake
periodic surveys of a sample of both project and non-project schemes,
including:
(a)  Comprehensive     baseline      surveys      prior     to      scheme
implementation,concerning farmer organization, water use, crop
performance and agricultvral incomes.
(b) Seasonal farm management surveys of the same sample of schemes,
undertaken during four seasons following hand-over to the IA, to
record the project's production impact.



- 23 -
(c) Ex-post evaluation surveys, comparable to the baseline surveys and
following the final seasonal surveys, to provide a comprehensive
measure of project impact.
2.14     Detailed manuals and  questionnaires  have  been prepared for each
type of survey and PBME staff have been trained in appropriate interview,
data processing and  related  techniques.    However,  much data of limited
relevance to the primary purpose of the PBME program has been collected,
and it has therefore been agreed that the questionnaires would be reviewed
and revised as appropriate.    Three  other  important lessons which emerge
from CIDP I are that      four  seasons  cover  a relatively short period in
which to establish the project's impact on agricultural practices, and
secondly that the surveys as currently designed give inadequate attention
to the impact of water supply and rainfall on annual performance; and an
in-'equate coverage was made of non-CIDP irrigation systems. Appropriate
mou-ficRtions have therefore been agreed.
2.15     Under CIDP I a sample of  100 schemes was taken, including 12 non-
CIDP assisted control schemes (one in each region). CIDP II would provide
support for the seasonal and ex-post evaluation surveys of those schemes
which are still being  completed.    For  the  future, since the sample has
proved to be somewhat large and difficult to manage, it has been agreed
that only 30 CIDP II schemes would be studied. These would be distributed
throughout the country to provide a reasonable geographical spread, and
appropriate   statistical techniques  would  be  used to select the farmers
who would be interviewed in each  scheme.    After suitable modification to
reflect lessons learned under CIDP I (para. 2.14), the PBME would be
applied to 48 systems (24 CIDP II and 24 locally-funded systems) and the
findings of the resulting reports communicated regularly to the Bank for
information (para. 6.3 (c)).
2.16     Strengthening Provincial and  Regional  Irrigation Offices.  Under
the project the Provincial Irrigation Offices (PIOs), supported by the
Regional Irrigation Offices (RIOs), would be directly involved in and
principally responsible for the organization of IAs and the application of
the participatory approach in the planning, design and construction of
CISs. Substantial support was provided to these offices under CIDP I, by
way of buildings, workshops and quarters; survey, hydrological and office
equipment; and  construction  and workshop  equipment.    However, to cope
efficiently with the volume of communal work, some moderate additional
strengthening of these offices is called for under CIDP II. Specifically,
the project would provide for the construction of 9 PIO buildings, 15 PIE
quarters,  11  equipment  sheds,  renovation   and  improvement  of  7  RIO
buildings;  office  equipment;  and   a   limited  amount  of  construction
equipment, including reconditioning and repair of run-down construction
equipment and vehicles (Annex 2, Tables 2-5).
2.17,    Technical Assistance.   This  component  would  provide  for:  (a)
training  of  engineers,  designers   and   related  staff  in  appropriate
techniques to deal with problems of unstable water ways, boulder and stone
bed loads, heavy bed siltation, mine tailings, etc., which are fairly
frequently encountered in the design, construction and maintenance of small
communal type irrigation systems. The training may be carried out through
study tours to neighboring countries where such problems have been dealt



- 24 -
with, on the job training in such locations or through specific training
programs within the Philippines conducted by individuals with experience in
this field; (b) about 36 months of foreign consultancy support to improve
NIA's ability to assess micro-catchment hydrological potential and yield,
based mainly on rainfall and flow statistics already available and
currently being recorded, and to identify specific areas in which base data
needs  to  be  improved  and   outline  a  program  for  implementing  such
improvements. The consultant would also advise NIA on techniques for
future data gathering, recording and analysis (para. 2.4); and (c) about 18
months of local consultancy support to review NIA's billing, collecting,
accounting,  monitoring  and  reporting   system  in  respect  of  commimal
irrigation  construction   cost   repayments   by   IA;   implement  agreed
improvements and provide on the job training to relevant staff and IA
members (para. 2.11). The pilot FIO scheme (para 2.8) would be supported
wholly by NIA's IDD staff and is not included as a technical assistance
item.
Agricultural Development
2.18     The project would  support  the  preparation and implementation of
Agricultural Development Plans (ADPs) for all communal irrigation systems
rehabilitated or established under CIDP II, including funding to the DA for
the conduct of trials and demonstrations and for incremental technical
assistance, back-up and supervision by provincial and municipal DA officers
(Annex 2, Table 6). The ADPs would be prepared as part of the feasibility
study for each communal scheme, to be included in the turnover package to
the IA (except for the 1991 work program, for which ADPs would be prepared
before turnover of the schemes to the IAs), and their implementation would
start as soon as cultivation commences (para. 6.3 (d)). ADP implementation
would be closely monitored and modified as required to meet changing
conditions and needs.
2.19     The ADPs would indicate present  and future cropping patterns and,
where necessary because of water shortages, they would provide indicative
water schedules for each crop to allow equitable distribution of irrigation
water, especially for the dry season.   They would also provide a situation
description of each watershed and a plan for upgrading, or for conservation
if in satisfactory condition.   Necessary  steps  would be taken to prevent
water supply depletion, irrigation system siltation and water pollution
through such specific measures as reforestation, vegetative soil and water
conservation contouring with a combination grasses (e.g., Vetiver) and
leguminous shrubs (e.g., Leucaena, Glyricidea and on acidic soils Flamingia
congesta). The establishment and maintenance of nurseries for planting
materials (irrigated for Vetiver grass) would be demonstrated. Present
agricultural practices and yields obtained, as well as the level of support
services and any suggestions for improvement, would be outlined. In
preparing the ADPs, the following would be considered:
(a) the need for and type of verification trials to determine the best
combination of crop variety, fertilizer application, method of
establishment, pest management/control, etc.;
(b) frequency and type of farmer training, scheme and field visits by
agricultural extensionists;



- 25 -
(c) seasonal demonstration programs for crop production methodologies,
pest management, mechanization, alternative crops, soil and water
conservation, etc.;
(d) the need for and availability of tractor-hire services and inputs
such as seed, fertilizers, agro-chemicals, and the proposed method
of procuring these most advantageously;
(e) the need for institutional crop production credit and crop
insurance, and the most suitable way to obtain these (e.g. group
schemes):
(f) post-harvest arrangements for transport, drying, storage and
marketing;
tg) the desirability of, and initiatives needed, to form a Compact
Farming Group or Cooperative to avail of group credit and other
incentive schemes which DA and other agencies may make available
(e.g.,  DA's  Livestock  Enhancement  for Agriculture Development
(LEAD) program and Rice Production Enhancement Program (RPEP) and
DENR's agroforestry programs);
'h) proposals for crop diversification, in particular for dry season
crops, inclusive of arrangements for marketing;
Ci) area and yield projections for each crop for the next five
seasons, to be monitored by DA and the IA and, where necessary,
corrected during project implementation; and
Cj)  proposals  for  community   or   group  iaitiatives  for  specific
activities such as rat baiting, snail and weed control/prevention
in  canals,  seed  production   of   a  particular  crop  variety,
construction of drying  floors,  etc., including possible linkages
with appropriate NGOs.
2.20     NIA's IDD would arrange  for  the  joint preparation at provincial
level of each ADP,  by  NIA  and  DA  in  cooperation  with DENR and the IA
concerned.  For  this   purpose,   NIA   has  established  an  Agricultural
Coordination Group within IDD.    Suitably  qualified and experienced staff
would be appointed to this group and necessary resources, transport and
other facilities would be provided to facilitate its effective operation
(para.  6.3  td)).    In  addition,  each  IA would  form  an Agricultural
Production Subcommittee, preferably with one member from each scheme
sector. The Subcommittee would meet at least once a year, well in advance
of the planting season, to make the necessary arrangements for water
scheduling and to review the need for advisory services, credit, inputs,
tractor hire services, etc.   IA  bylaws  would  also  be modified so as to
empower them to operate as profit-making/stock holding entities, thereby
making them eligible for group credit through the Land Bank (paras. 1.20
and 6.3 (e)). Finally, each IA, or group of IAs when there are more than
one in the municipality, would be regularly represented at the Municipal



- 26 -
Agriculture and Fisheries Council (HAPC), to ensure that IA membera are
made aware of the latest available services and incentive schemes and to
afford them the opportunity to make suggestions and discuss the specific
needs of irrigation coommnities (para. 6.3 (d)).
Incorporatiot of CIDP I Experience
2.21      The design of the  project  takes  into account the following key
lessons learned during the implementation of the first Bank/IFAD financed
project (paras. 1.34 and 2.1):
(a) The overassessment of the amount of land actually available
for irrigation under a system, as well as the overassessment
of the available water supply has frequently resulted in
substantially lower than expected irrigated crop intensities.
In this respect, while scrutinizing the results of field
investigations and design work more closely, NIA will also
adopt  an  improved   approach   to  system  area  assessment.
Following the feasibility report stage, each irrigation system
proposal will be reviewed again at the detail design stage and
any substantial negative variation from the feasibility level
findings will be thoroughly scrutinized as a prerequisite to
construction. The project also provides consultancy support
to  strengthen   NIA's   ability   to   assess  microcatchment
hydrological potential and yield (paras. 2.4, 2.17 and 4.4).
(b) Control measures have been introduced to prevent irrigation
system expenditures in excess of initially approved levels
without proper authorization (paras. 4.5 and 6.2 (i).
(c) With the increased development of communal irrigation systems
and lAs throughout the country, the need for simple drying,
storage and IA  office  facilities  has  arisen.   The project
includes provision for these items (para. 2.3).
(d) Several CIDP I beneficiaries have been unable to derive the
potential benefits of their irrigation systems fully due to
the lack of  adequate  agricultural  support  services and the
planned agricultural development of their lands. The project
incorporates a novel grass-roots approach to resolve this
problem, starting with an agricultutal development plan which
will be developed with the participation of the beneficiaries
(paras. 2.18-2.20).
(e) Some CIDP I and other irrigation systems have suffered from an
enhanced level of siltation and related damage mainly during
the first few years following construction often due to the
inevitable destabilization caused during construction, of the
area in the immediate vicinity of the system. In order to
mi.igate against these effects the project includes provision
for erosion control measures where relevant (para. 2.3).



- 27 -
(f) Certain problems, relating to IA development, identified
during CIDP I implementation, would be looked into under CIDP
II and solutions sought (paras. 2.7 or 2.8).
(g) Inadequate involvement of FMG in the process of covunnal
irrigation systems and IA development resulted in a weak
accounting base relating to irrigation system construction
cost recovery and poor collection performance. Under CIDP II,
FMG will play a more active role in this area and the
accounting base would  be  improved.    For  this purpose, the
project includes provision for consultancy services (paras.
2.10, 2.11 and 2.17).



- 28 -
III. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Project Costs
3.1      Total project costs,  including  physical  contingencies and expected
price increases, are estimated at about US$64.4 million, with a foreign
exchange component of US$28.3 million  (44%).    The cost estimate is based on
1990 prices and includes taxes and duties of about US$2.8 million. Civil
works unit costs are based on the actual experience under CIDP I, an analysis
having been undertaken of the costs at completion of 74 rehabilitation schemes
covering 12,880 ha and 31 new schemes covering 7,360 ha. These costs were
adjusted to 1990 prices, taking into account recently approved wage increases
and cement price increases. As a result average unit costs for CIDP II are
estimated at about US$790/ha for rehabilitation and US$1,535/ha for new
construction at 1990 prices.   Equipment  and vehicle cost estimates are based
on the prices of comparable units recently or currently being procured.
Equipment reconditioning costs are based on current NIA experience. The costs
of IA development, training, studies and erosion control are also derived from
current NIA costs.   Construction  design, supervision and administration have
been costed at 12% of civil works and 2.5% of all other costs. Physical
contingencies were assessed at 10% of the cost of irrigation systems, and 5%
of all other costs. Price contingencies, totalling about 10% of total project
costs, assume foreign inflation of 4.9% and domestic inflation of 8%
throughout. Project cost estimates are summarized in Table 2.1 below and
detailed in Annex 2, Tables 1 to 6; Annex 3, Table 2; and Annexes 4 and 5.
Table 2.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total    Local Foreign   Total exchange
million Pesos ----    ----- million US8 -----    CX)
Irrigation Works               421.0  353.4   774.4      18.5   15.5   34.0      46
IA Development                  58.3    8.2    62.6       2.4    0.3    2.7      10
Institutional Strengthening of NIA  98.4  158.2    256.8  4.3    7.0   11.3      82
-. NIA Field Office Support   (71.9) (141.0)  (212.9)    (3.1)  (8.2)  (9.3)   66
- Tech. Assist. A Training    ( S.0)  (s.6)  ( 13.7)    (0.2)  (0.4)  (0.6)    83
- Monitoring & Eval.          (21.4) ( 8.8)  ( 30.0)    (0.9)  (0.4)  (1.3)    29
Engineering & Administration    93.4   10.4    103.8      4.1    0.4    4.5      10
Agricultural Development        12.9    7.0    19.9       0.8   0.3    0.9       35
Total Base Cost            862.0  536.3  1.,217.3    29.9   23.6   63.4      44
Physical Contingencies          59.1   44.4    103.6      2.6   1.9    4.5       43
Price Contingencies             162.4  118.6    271.0     3.6    2.9    6.5      45
Total Protect Cost         893.6  698.3  1,591.9    38.1   28.3   64.4       44
Note: Minor differences In totals due to rounding.



- 29 -
Project Financing
3.2      The proposed Bank loan  of  US$46.2  million would finance 75? of
total project costs, excluding taxes. This would cover 1002 of the foreign
exchange component and 49Z of  local  costs.   This magnitude of local cost
financing is justified by the current budgetary constraints which the
Government faces and the expected rural poverty impact of the proposed
project. The balance of US$18.2 million of project costs would be financed
partly by the Government (about US$16.2 million) and partly by farmer
beneficiaries through their equity contributions to communal irrigation
system construction (para. 1.21).   Details  are provided in Annex 3, Table
1. Budget releases for the project comprising proceeds of the Bank loan
and Government counterpart funds would be channelled through the Department
of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) to NIA in respect of irrigation
development and to DA in respect of agricultural development. Government
intends to explore possible grant cofinancing to support IA Development,
Technical Assistance and M&E. If such financing is secured, the Bank loan
amount would be adjusted accordingly.
3.3      To facilitate project start-up  soon  after  the loan is approved,
expenditures for irrigation and building construction, IA development,
technical assistance, M&E, etc. would have to be undertaken in advance. To
provide for these activities, expenditures of up to US$1.0 million,
incurred after July 1, 1990, would be considered for retroactive financing.
Procurement
3.4      Procurement (Table 2.2) would  follow  Bank  guidelines.  Prior to
tendiering and award, the Bank would review all bidding packages for goods
over US$200,000 equivalent, thus covering about 702 of the total value of
goods.   All  bidding  packages  for  civil  works  estimated  to cost over
US$300,000 equivalent would be subject to the Bank's prior review of
procurement documentation, thus covering about 202 of the total value of
works contracts. Other contracts for goods and works would be reviewed by
the Bank on a sample basis, subsequent to their award. All consultant
selection arrangements and contracts would be subject to the Bank's prior
review. Bank staff have reviewed local procurement procedures and confirm
that they are acceptable.    Also  NIA  has a good record of performance in
the preparation of  procurement  documents.    Assurances  were obtained at
negotiations that the following specific procurement procedures and limits
would be followed for the various project activities (para. 6.2 (f)):
(a) Goods.   Construction  equipment  and  vehicles,  estimated at
US$3.8 million, and replacement parts for equipment and
vehicle reconditioning in NIA's workshops, estimated at US$1.7
million, would be procured through international competitive
bidding (ICB), except that in situations when parts are
required in small batches at different times and locations,
local competitive bidding (LCB) or local shopping procedures
may be used. Office and agricultural equipment, estimated at
US$0.6 million, may be procured through LCB or local shopping
procedures. None of the individual LCB contracts would exceed
US$100,000, and the total of goods procured under LCB would
not exceed US$3.0  million.    Individual  items  or groups of
items  procured  through  local   shopping  would  not  exceed
US$20,000 in value and local shopping purchases would not
exceed US$1,000,000 in total.



- 30 -
(b) Works. (i) Civil works totalling about US$49.6 million are
widely scattered over 75 provinces and about 180 locations.
The small size and wide geographical dispersion of these
works, often in remote locations and difficult peace and order
situations, are unlikely to attract foreign contractors, and
in some cases even reliable local bidders, as experienced
under CIDP I. In addition, a major objective of the project
is  to   encourage   beneficiary   participation   in  project
implementation, to the  maximum  extent  possible.   For these
reasons about 202 of the work will be procured under LCB, and
the remaining 80 would be accomplished through force account
(including small package contracts), for which NIA has the
experience and capability. (ii) Work estimated at US$0.7
million for equipment and vehicle rehabilitation, for which
spare parts (US$1.7 million) are provided as described in
para. 3.4(a) above, would be done through force account.
Further such work estimated at US$2.4 million, including
supply of spare parts would be accomplished through LCB
contracts.
(c) Consultant  Services.    Consultant  contracts,  estimated  at
US$0.5 million, would be awarded in accordance with Bank
Cuidelines for the use of Consultants.
Table 2.2: PROCUREMENT /a
CUSS million)
Not            Total
Expenditure category               ICB     LCB      Other    applicable       cost
Civil and agricultural works        -       9.9      39.7          -          49.6
(6.9)   (27.8)         C-)       (34.7)
Equipment and                       3.8     0.6         -          -           4.4
vehicles                         (3.0)   (0.5)                              (3.5)
Reconditionifrg of O&M              1.7     2.4       0.7          -           4.8
equipment                        (1.3)   (2.0)    (0.6)                     (3.9)
IA development, training,           -         -       0.5        5.1           5.6
consultants, and M&E                                (0.3)      (3.8)         (4.1)
Total                         5.5    12.9      40.9         5.1          64.4
(4.3)   (9.4)   (28.7)       (3.8)        (46.2)
/a  Includes physical and price contingencies.   Figures in parentheses are
amounts to be financed by the Bank.



- 31 -
Disbursements
3.5      Disbursements would be made  at  the  rate of 10OZ against foreign
eychange expenditures for imported equipment and vehicles, OOZ of the ex-
*ctory cost of such items manufactured locally and 802 of expenditures for
items procured  locally  and  equipment  reconditioning.   Disbursement for
civil  works  would  be  on  the   basis  of  701  of  total  expenditures.
Disbursement for IA development, technical support, training, and M&E would
be 752 of total costs.       The proposed allocation of the loan proceeds is
given in Annex 3, Table 3.
3.6      Reimbursement   applications   for   expenditures   on  irrigation
development prepared by  NIA  and  agricultural  development prepared by DA
would be consolidated by NIA  and  forwarded to the Bank for reimbursement.
Disbursements for LCB civil works contracts would be through reimbursements
to NIA on the basis of contractor payments and certification of work
completed. Statement of Expenditure (SOEs) would be used for disbursements
against expenditures on civil works contracts less than US$300,000, civil
works under force account, O&M, institutional development, technical
support, training, agricultural work, and engineering and administration.
In addition, SOEs would be used for minor expenditures on equipment and
materials costing up to US$200,000 equivalent, the direct purchase of which
are justified by  their  small  and  frequent  nature.    Since there is no
provision for a Special Account, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the threshold for disbursement applications would be US$20,000 equivalent.
NIA has the institutional capability to maintain related records in a
satisfactory manner, and supporting documentation would be made available
for review by visiting Bank missions.
3.7      Disbursements are expected to  be  concluded by December 31, 1996,
one year after project completion, to allow adequate lag time for releasing
contractors'  retentions  and  processing   withdrawal  applications.    An
estimated schedule of disbursements is given in Annex 3, Table 4, which
also includes a comparison with the Philippines standard disbursement
profile for  the  agriculture  sector.    Although  the country agriculture
sector disbursement profile indicates about an 8-year period for full
disbursements, it is expected that the proposed loan would be disbursed in
6-1/2 years from project commencement for the following reasons:
(a) CIDP II constitutes the continuation of an already ongoing
program.
(b) the project would provide retroactive financing from July 1,
1990 (para. 3.3), thus facilitating a smooth transition from
CIDP I to CIDP II;
(c) the disbursement profile for CIDP I, based on its revised loan
amount   compares   favorably   with   the   standard  country
disbursement profile for 8  years.   Although the disbursement
period for CIDP I would be about eight years, it has been
calculated that almost one year was lost due to delays in
finalizing co-financing arrangements at project start-up. The
early and mid-1980's were also exceptionally difficult in
terms of shortages of local funding. CIDP II would face less
serious problems because NIA has completed most of its major
undertakings, and Government is now placing greater emphasis
on communal irrigation development;



- 32 -
(d) the project comprises a large number of small irrigation
systems which are easy to design and construct under the
authority  delegated  to  a   large  number  of  regional  and
provincial offices, and in respect of which NIA staff now
possess considerable experience;
(e) a large number of irrigation systems would be implemented
simultaneously by small contractors and independent force
account crews in different provinces;
(f) all investigations, feasibility studies, detailed engineering,
cost estimates and draft bid documents, for the entire work
program under CIDP II up to December, 1991 would be completed
and submitted for Bank review, as a condition of loan
negotiations, and this would permit early project start-up.
Detailed work programs for subsequent years would be similarly
finalized and submitted for Bank review by June 30 of each
preceding year; and
(g) the project would not suffer land acquisition delays (para.
4.8).
Accounts and Audits
3.8      NIA's  accounting  policies,  systems,  procedures  and  financial
reporting of communal irrigation scheme transactions would be improved
under  CIDP TI  (para.  2.11).       Computers  would  be  introduced where
appropriate to improve billing and facilitate the updating of accounting
records and preparation of regular and timely management reports to reflect
the status of  IA  accounts  receivable  data.    Separate project accounts
indicating the various sources of monies received, and expended (by project
component) would be maintained by NIA and DA. Annual financial statements
summarizing the transactions in the project accounts would be prepared in
accordance with formats agreed with the Bank under CIDP I, and would be
audited by the Government's Commission on Audit (COA). After audit by COA
the project's annual financial statements, together with the auditor's
report and opinion on the financial statements, and COA's separate opinion
on SOgs and certification of expenditure on force account works, would be
sent to the Bank by NIA within nine months of the end of each fiscal year.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations concerning the aforementioned
accounting and auditing arrangements (para. 6.2 (g)).



- 33 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Status of Project Preparation
4.1      The work to be executed  during  the  latter part of CY 1990 would
consist of a continuation of ongoing CIDP I activities involving the
completion of 17 systems and start-up activities for CIDP II. Detailed
engineering, cost estimates, etc., for this work have already been prepared
and were reviewed at appraisal. Against the target area of 25,000 ha to be
developed,  systems  covering  about   29,000   ha  have  been  tentatively
identified. During CY 1991, work would commence on the development of
about 44 systems covering about 6,000 ha, comprising about 2,800 ha served
by 21 new irrigation systems and 3,200 ha served by 23 rehabilitation
irrigation systems.   Feasibility  studies  have  been  completed for 41 of
these proposed systems; of these, 28 have been fully evaluated and 25
satisfy the requisite criteria and have been accepted for inclusion under
the project. There are sufficient numbers of additional systems for which
feasibility work has been done to make up any shortfall in the 1991
program, but these require firming up, evaluation and compilation. The
detailed program of work for CY 1991, based on systems satisfying the
agreed criteria, and finalized detailed engineering and related cost
estimates together with draft bid documents for equipment and vehicle
procurement, were prepared and submitted to the Bank for review as a
condition for loan negotiations  (para.  6.1).    For  subsequent years,  a
detailed work program, finalized detailed engineering and related cost
estimates, together with funding proposals and draft bid documents for
equipment and vechicle procurement, would be submitted for Bank review by
June 30 of each preceding year (para. 6.3 (f)).
Organization and Management
4.2      NIA  has  extensive  experience   in   the  planning,  design  and
construction of irrigation projects, and has pioneered the participatory
approach to communal irrigation development in the Philippines. NIA would
be responsible for the project, which would be managed by the Officer-in-
charge of CID, who reports to the Assistant Administrator for Operations
and Equipment Management. Although CID is presently an informal unit of
NIA, the necessary approvals are being sought for its establishment as a
regular  department.     The   Project   Manager would  handle  day-to-day
implementation of the project through NIA's network of PIOs and RIOs, and
coordinate project-related functions of other NIA departments and other
agencies, exercise overall control of project funds, and be responsible for
the preparation and submission of quarterly progress reports to WiIA
Management and the Bank.  The Project Manager would also oversee the entire
communal  irrigation  subsector  and would  therefore  be  able  to ensure
adherence to agreed irrigation system selection criteria and standards.
NIA's Watershed Management Division will assist CID in the implementation
of erosion prevention measures in irrigation system catchments.



- 34 -
4.3      The procedures in place under  CIDP I for preparation of proposals
and their evaluation by NIA and the Bank are described below. These
procedures have been gradually improved over the years aud are now
reasonably satisfactory. With the additional safeguard to be introduced
under CIDP II at the construction design finalization stage (para. 4.4),
performance  should  be  further  strengthened.    The  PIOs  would  be the
principal functionaries of  the  projects.    They  would maintain lists of
potential communal irrigation development sites based on requests from
prospective beneficiaries, and would carry out socio-technical profile
studies for the purposes of initial review and selection. Thereafter, the
P'.Os would field NIA's IA development staff and, with support from the RIOs
and in close consultation with beneficiaries, would prepare feasibility
level proposals, designs, estimates and economic evaluations for selected
irrigation systems. These would be reviewed by the RIOs and then submitted
to the   Project  Manager  for  final  approval,  in  consultation with the
relevant departments at NIA  headquarters.    In  this respect, the Project
Development Department (PDD) would be responsible for overall preparation
and  analysis  of  economic   viability;   the  Design  and  Specifications
Department  (DSD)  for   engineering   design;   the  Equipment  Management
Department (EMG) for equipment specifications, supply, and supervision of
equipment O&M; the Procurement and Physical Resource Department (PPRD) for
procurement;   the   IDD   for   institutional   development,  agricultural
coordination and M&E; the Personnel and Records Management Department
(PRMD) for training; and FMG for financial aspects.
4.4      Detailed  engineering  and  finalization  of  cost  estimates  for
systems which satisfy the Project Manager's review would be undertaken by
the PIOs, under the supervision and with the assistance of the RIOs,
particularly for irrigation systems with relatively complicated structures,
or other complex features.    Per  NIA regulations, items exceeding certain
levels  of  cost  and   complexity   are  finalized  at  NIA  headquarters.
Assurances were obtained  at  negotiations  that  prior  to finalization of
construction-level designs and implementation, NIA would submit for Bank
review full evaluation reports for irrigation systems estimated to cost
more than   US$350,000  each,  and  summary  reports for irrigation systems
costing up to US$350,000 (para. 6.2 (h)). As an additional safeguard, any
irrigation system in respect of which a substantial negative change is
observed at the construction design finalization stage, such as an increase
in estimated cost or decrease in service area/benefits or a combination of
these factors (of more than 15Z) would be fully re-evaluated by the Project
Manager and reviewed by PDD and other relevant NIA headquarter departments.
The Bank would be kept informed of such cases and of the results of the re-
evaluation. Irrigation systems selected through the above process would be
eligible for implementation.
4.5      NIA has recently introduced  control  measures at the work program
submission and budget release stages to ensure that initially approved
expenditure levels are not exceeded in the course of irrigation system
implementation without the Project Manager's having obtained prior approval
from NIA's  Senior  Management.    NIA would  continue  to implement these
measures throughout the project period (para. 6.3 (g)).



- 35 -
4.6      On the basis  of  irrigation  systems selected for implementation,
PIOs would prepare work programs to be reviewed by the responsible RIOs and
then approved by the Project Manager for release of funds. Implementation
of the approved construction program and organization and training of lAs
would be carried out by PIOs, assisted and supervised by RIOs. One IDO
supervisor would assist each RIO in supervision of institutional work. At
PIO level, one IDO would be assigned to each irrigation system under 200
ha.    Additional  institutional  workers   would  be  assigned  to  larger
irrigation systems or to those with a large number of unusually small land
holdings.  The RIOs  and  PIOs    have adequate technical and institutional
staff at present. Also, NIA has a continuing program to recruit and train
temporary institutional staff, as needed.
Implementation and Schedule
4.7      Project implementation has been  planned  to  take five years with
provision for retroactive financing from July 1, 1990 (para. 3.3). Bid
invitations for construction equipment, vehicles, spares required for
equipment renovation, and office equipment would be issued soon after loan
effectiveness, so that the award of supply contracts can be made during
1991. In order to facilitate the timely commencement of construction
activities, all preparatory work would be completed within the year
preceding construction.   Preparatory work  would  include IA development,
field   investigation,   preliminary    design,   consultation   with   the
beneficiaries, finalization of designs and cost estimates, and preparation
of tender and contract documents and force account work programs on groups
of irrigation systems covering about 6,000 ha in 1990, 8,000 ha in 1991,
6,500 ha in 1992, 3,500 ha for 1993, and 1000 ha in 1994. An estimated
schedule for project implementation is provided in Figure 3.
4.8      In the past,  some  national  irrigation  systems have experienced
land acquisition delays. However, such problems have been negligible under
CIDP  I  because  farmers  themselves   own  the  irrigation  system  after
completion of construction and therefore the Government or NIA does not
"acquire" land in the usual  sense.   Rather, the farmers 'contribute" land
to the IA, of which they are members, sometimes against their equity
contributions. Secondly, farmers participate fully in all stages of design
and construction of  the  irrigation  systems.   Various alternative system
layouts are discussed in farmers' meetings, and the layout finally adopted
is acceptable to the farmers. By the same token, once a layout is adopted,
it is very difficult for any community member to refuse to provide land to
the IA. Finally, if any system has land acquisition problems which cannot
be satisfactorily resolved, it can be dropped in favor of another, as the
size of the subsector affords a large scope for selection.
Operation and Maintenance (O&M)
4.9      After construction has been completed  and the final cost has been
reviewed and reconciled together with the IA, NIA would turn over the
system to the IA, usually within about 6 months of construction. At that
time  the    IA would  contract  with  NIA  to  pay  back  the  chargeable
construction costs (para. 1.29).    As  previously  outlined (paras. 1.21 -
1.22 and Annex 4), before operations begin, lAs would receive training in



- 36 -
O&M and record keeping, fee collection and system supervision (FMT). After
operations have begun they would receive further training in water
management and crop production (SMT).   With this training, and reduced but
continued guidance from the IDO as needed, the IA would take charge of all
irrigation  functions:    water  allocation,  system  maintenance, conflict
resolution, and fee collection.    During  this initial settling-in period,
the IDO would also facilitate assistance from DA extension agents, input
suppliers and sources of credit.
4.10     In most  cases  lAs   would   employ  ditch  tenders  to  inspect
structures, canals and ditches regularly and to attend to minor items of
maintenance work such as clearing debris from canals and structures, and
minor earth work repairs. IA members would form work groups to deal with
more substantial earth work repairs, desilting operations, etc.. The labor
contributed by IA members for such work would be unpaid. Additional O&M
expenses, as well as repayments of irrigation system construction costs to
NIA, would be met from members' fees collected by IAs, either in cash or in
kind.    Major  repairs  beyond  their  technical  and  immediate financial
capability would be referred by the IAs to NIA for assistance. The amount
incurred by NIA for such major repairs would be charged to the IA
concerned, and would be capitalized as an addition to the loan for
construction of the  system.    For  the  purposes  of analysis, the annual
average O&M cost has been estimated at P 240 per ha, including materials
and supplies; salaries of gatekeeper/water tender, ditch tenders and
honoraria and travelling expenses for IA officials; equipment hire; and
miscellaneous expenses.   In  practice,  O&H  costs vary substantially from
scheme to scheme.
ReportinR Requirements
4.11     The following reports would be submitted regularly to the Banks
(a)   Quarterly project progress  reports,  including  data on the
status of communal irrigation accounts receivable, within
three months of the close of each quater (2.12(c) and
6.2(e).
(b)   Seasonal PEME reports, within six  months of the end of each
cultivation season (Para. 2.15 and 6.3(b)).
(c)   Audited annual financial statements of the project, together
with the auditor's report and opirion on the financial
statements, and the auditor's separate opinion on SOEs and
certification of expenditure on force account works, within
nine months of the end of each fiscal year (Para 3.7 and
6.2(g)).
(d)   The Borrower's  contribution  (Section  II)  to  the Project
Completion Report, within three months of receipt from the
Bank of its Sections I and III.



- 37 -
Proiect Supervision Plan
4.12     The mix of specialities, frequency and duration of missions likely
to be needed to ensure adequate project supervision and facilitate timely
identification and addressing of any problems which might arise would be as
tabulated below:
Mission   Timing    Speciality and Duration (Weeks)            Total
No.    (Mo./Yr)   Engr.  Agr.  Ec.   Sc.  Me.  Fn.   Staff   Staff Weeks
1   *   12190        2      2    1      -   -     -        3           5
2        5/91        1      1    -      -   1      1       4           4
3       11/91        2      -    1      2   -     -        3           5
4        5/92        1      1    -      -   -     -        2           2
5**   11/92          2      2    1      2   1     1        6           9
6        5/93        1      -    -      -   -     -        1           1
7       11193        2      1    -      -   -     -        2           3
a        5194        1      -    -      -   -      -       1           1
9       11/94        2      1    1      1   1     1        6           7
10        5/95        1      -    -      -   -      -       1           1
11       11/95        1      1    -      -   -     -        2           2
12***    6/96         2      2    2      2   1     1        6          10
Totals                18     11    6      7   4      4                  50
Notes.
Engr. - Engineer                  Sc.  - Sociologist
Agr.  - Agriculturist            Me.  - H&E Specialist
Ec.   - Economist                 Fn.  - Financial Analyst
* - Startup Implementation mission
** - Hid-term review mission
- Final review mission and initiation of project completion report
process.



- 38 -
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Agricultural Production
5.1      Present  Crop  Production  and  Technologies  Used.    In existing
communal schemes farmers generally grow two crops of rice if water
availability is not constrained. However, many older schemes are in a run
down condition.   Consequently  there  is  inadequate water delivery in the
dry season, and water cannot be made available in a timely manner. Wet
season crops in some locations suffer from inadequate drainage and as a
result suffer crop losses or severe yield depression, often combined with
deterioration in quality.   In  recent  years several schemes have suffered
unexpected dry season water shortages, due to unusual seasonal variations,
causing severe losses when this occurs before crops reach full maturity.
Where water shortages are anticipated, farmers attempt to grow early
maturing crops, such as mungbean on residual soil moisture from the
previous wet season crop.    However,  a  substantial  area is usually left
fallow during the dry season. A few schemes in Region 1 grow garlic which
is a high value, but labor intensive, crop under either rainfed or
irrigated conditions. In Region 3 there are some schemes where farmers
presently grow rainfed onion (sometimes with supplementary water from
shallow wells). Most new schemes proposed to be constructed grow only
rainfed crops, mostly rice,  and  some  corn  in  Regions  2,  7, 8 and 11.
Rainfed rice is mostly bunded and water is retained on fields as long as
possible.
5.2            Land preparation is usually  of  a high standard.  Adequate
attention is given to land levelling, but in some areas drainage requires
substantial improvement (both in-field and within and outside scheme
boundaries), in particular when direct seeding of rice is practiced. In
communal schemes, which are usually fairly isolated and where often
adequate labor remains available, transplanting remains the most common
method of crop  establishment.    The  Idapog"  method  (l  to 2½ week old
seedlings raised on plastic sheets or banana leaves), with fairly close
spacing and a high number of seedlings per hill, is preferred. However,
young seedlings are susceptible to golden snail damage and farmers have
recently been returning to planting conventional, 6-7 week old, seedbed
raised, seedlings. Most fields are transplanted at random, although some
of the better informed farmers have adopted line transplanting which
facilitates mechanical (hand weeder) weeding between rows. Direct seeding,
which is a low cost method of crop establishment due to its low labor
requirement, is likely to become more  popular.    However, high seed rates
are needed and when there is insufficient rainfall there is a need to
flush.    Also,  there  is  often  severe  snail  damage,  particularly  in
waterlogged  depressions  within  individual  fields.    Where  higher cost
transplanting is done (usually where labor shortages occur) plant-densities
are often insufficient to allow high crop yields (in particular when
inadequate N-fertilizer is used).
5.3      The benefits from using fertilizers are generally well known among
farmers. Recommendations, usually of 6-8 bags (50 kg each) per ha of NPK
and urea, are generally made by DA extension personnel, with refinements
sometimes on the basis of a rather crude soil test. Nonetheless, actual
use is much less, particularly in areas where risks are high (typhoons or



- 39 _
witer shortages), and whore the average farm size is small. Farmers with
small farms, require most of their produce for home consumption and are
often not considered creditworthy, as a result they only apply small
quantities of fertilizer, or none at all. The use of other agro-chemicals
is often only based on the perceived needs when severe damage has been
observed. Herbicides are mostly used for direct seeded crops and where
broad leafed weeds become a  problem.    Snails are sometlmes controlled by
expensive chemicals when collecting them is consideree teo cumbersome and
ducks (which feed  on  smaller  snails)  are  not  available.   Rat baiting
campaigns are often not organized and insect control is usually done when
much damage has already  occurred.    IPM  technologies are, however, being
introduced and there is already considerable awareness of its benefits
within the farming communities.    The  execution of a well thought out ADP
(paras.2.18-1.20) would substantially assist farmers in using the correct
crop production technologies and inputs in the required quantities in a
timely manner. This in turn would result in greater crop production.
5.4      From  the  36  sample   schemes   (13   new  construction  and  23
rehabilitated) the overall present land use was extrapolated for the 25,000
ha project. The wet season cropping intensity is 882 due to substantial
areas of pasture and fallow land. About 441 of the project area is cropped
with irrigated paddy in the wet season (almost all in schemes scheduled for
rehabilitation). Some 732 of this irrigated wet season area is planted to
a second crop of irrigated  rice  in  the  dry  season.   Thus, the present
irrigated cropping intensity in the currently irrigated area alone is about
173!, while the total cropping intensity is 141! (Annex 8, Table 1), which
includes some 7,500 ha of corn and 1,450 ha of onion, garlic and mungbean.
5.5      Future Cropping Pattern.  In the  absence of a project there would
be a decline in the irrigated rice area in both seasons due to further
irrigation system deterioration. This would lead to a comparative increase
in rainfed rice, corn and mungbean, while a small increase in areas of
vegetables (inclusive of garlic and onions) would occur. With the project,
almost all farmers expressed a strong desire to double crop rice where
possible. Farmers presently specializing in high value vegetables would
continue to do so, in the dry season, and only a slight expansion is
expected.    Due  to  dry  season  water  constraints  the  annual cropping
intensity would be limited to about 177! on average, some five years after
completion of each scheme (Annex 8, Table 1). This significantly higher
cropping intensity, than has been achieved in the past can be expected in
view of the improvements and additional care which would be exercised under
CIDP II in assessing service areas and water availability, as well as the
substantially improved scheme selection criteria and other controls which
would be applied (paras. 1.25, 1.26, 2.4, 2.5, 2.17, 4.4 and 5.4). However,
there will be a considerable number of schemes where both lower and higher
cropping intensities could be expected depending on status of watershed,
dry season streamflow and operation and maintenance standards, and there
would also be considerable variation from year to year.
5.6      Yields and  Production.    Survey  results  in  36  sample schemes
established present rice yields of 2.2 t/ha for rainfed rice, 3.0 t/ha for
irrigated wet season rice, and 2.8 t/ha for irrigated dry season rice.
Despite a higher yield potential in the dry season, due to higher solar
radiation levels and the relative freedom from flood and wind damage, dry
season yields are low.   This  is  mainly  due to inadequate water supplies
which results in abandoned crops or low yields due to water stress.
Rainfed corn and mungbean yields are also low at 1.4 and 0.8 tonsiha,



- 40 -
respectively. Without the envisaged improvements through the project, crop
yields would increase only slightly since no spectacular breakthrough in
genetic potential is envisaged.   Only  minor changes in crop varieties and
yield potential can be expected, mostly due to better adaptation to local
situations.   In  the  absence  of  the  project,  deteriorating irrigation
infrastructure would largely offset any likely gains in crop production.
Since benefits from crops other than rice are expected to be minimal, these
crops have not been included in the financial and economic analyses of the
project.
5.7      The yield projections allow for  the  period needed for farmers to
fully adjust to the new or improved irrigation facilities. including
achieving full farm area utilization, which is estimated at five years
after  individual  scheme   completion.        Projections  take  account  of
achievements under CIDP I and the significant improvements in scheme
selection criteria and design to be adopted under this project. This would
result in relatively more dependable irrigation systems, which in turn
would enable farmers to make investment decisions (mostly input purchases
and timing of land preparation and crop establishment) with substantially
less risk than  before.    This  would  induce  greater  fertilizer use, in
particular when farmers are able to avail of affordable crop production
credit. Average wet season rice yields, on the entire project area, are
estimated at 3.5 tlha. This is substantially below the potential yield of
available early maturing, semi-dwarf varieties which have considerable
resistance to diseases and some pests and which respond well to fertilizer
applications. Some farmers already achieve yields of 5.0 to 6.0 t/ha in
most seasons. Reasons for the rather low yield assumptions for the wet
season are:   (a)  the  frequent  occurrence  of  typhoons, which can cause
serious damage, depending on the stage of crop development during their
occurrence; and (b) the large number of small farms (62Z of all sample
scheme farmers with less than 1.0 ha covering 27Z of the total area) who
may not be able to apply the necessary inputs to achieve high yields due to
creditworthiness problems.
5.8      Dry season rice is expected to be grown on 65Z of the scheme area.
Despite the higher yield potential, achievements under the first project
have not been spectacular, mostly because of insufficient water supplies
and farmers applying insufficient fertilizer.    In view of improvements to
scheme selection criteria under this project, dry season rice yields are
projected at 3.7 tlha    although,  with assured water availability, higher
yields of 4.5 to 5.0 t/ha could be expected when the necessary inputs and
crop husbandry measures  are  applied.        Farmers specializing in growing
garlic, onions and corn would continue to grow these crops with only a
slight expansion in area. Yields are expected to increase from 2.25 to 3
t/ha for garlic, from 15.0 to 17.5 t/ha for onion and 1.4 to 3 tlha for
corn due to  the  provision  of  reliable  irrigation.   Corn, mungbean and
vegetables would be grown where opportune, mostly on residual moisture when
there is inadequate water for a second rice crop. Vegetables are normally
grown when there is a  lucrative  market  nearby.   Since the area of these
non-rice crops is not expected to change significantly and their projected
yield increases are also not appreciable, they have not been considered in
the financial and economic evaluation of the project.
5.9      Annual rice production would  more  than  double from about 71,000
tons at present to about 147,500 tons in the future, while corn production
would decl4ne from 10,500 tons to 1,500 tons. Garlic and onion production



- 41 -
would increase by 600 and 3,750 tons, respectively. Hungbean production is
expected to increase from 200 tons to 1,000 tons and some 1,200 tons of
vegetable production is anticipated.   Area, yield, production and cropping
intensities are presented in Annex 5, Table 1.
Prices and Market Prospects
5.10     Prices.  Bank projections of  world  prices of Thai 52 broken rice
indicate a decrease from US$197 per ton FOB Bangkok in 1990, to US$168 per
ton in 1995, and a further decrease to US$166 per ton in 2000 (in constant
1985 prices).   This compares  with  an  average 1989 farmgate price in the
Philippines of about P 4.14 per kg (US$ 180/ton).
5.11     Farmgate fertilizer prices used  in  the farm budgets and economic
analysis are based on the Bank's price projections for urea, triple
superphosphate (TSP) and potassium  chloride  (HP).   Fertilizer prices are
expected to increase at varying ratas between 1990 and 1995: urea by 552
from US$87 to 135 per ton; TSP by 52 from US$97 to 131 per ton; and HP by
42 from US$69 to 72 per ton, i- constant 1985 prices. Between 1995 and
2000, urea prices are expected to decline by about 7Z to US$125 per ton;
TSP to rise by 82 to US$141 per ton and MP to increase slightly to US$73
per ton.   Since  import  liberalization  in  1986, local fertilizer prices
follow world trends, and the industry is now highly competitive.
5.12     Market Prospects.    The market  for  rice  in  the Philippines is
estimated to grow at about 2.82 p.a. during the next ten years. This is
based on the assumption of a population growth of 2.52 p.a., an income per
capita growth of 32 p.a. and an income elasticity of 0.1. Based on the
1989 rice demand of about   6.3  million  tons (9.7 million tons paddy), by
the year 1995, the total demand would be in the order of 7.4 million tons
rice, or about 11.4 million tons paddy; and by 2000, about 8.5 million tons
rice or 13.1 million tons paddy.    The project is expected to supply about
52 of the incremental demand between 1995 and 2000. Further details are
provided in Annex 6.
Beneficiaries' Incomes
5.13     Benefits and Beneficiaries.  The proposed project would contribute
to the government goals of poverty alleviation and food sufficiency. The
main benefit would be higher cropping intensities and yields in 180 small
irrigation systems which would in turn increase production and expand
employment. The incremental paddy production due to the project is about
81,000 tons valued at  $12  million  at  the  1990  price.   The project is
nationwide in scope and impact.
5.14     The project  would,  through  increased  production and consequent
employment, directly benefit about 20,000 farm families or 120,000 persons
in the service area. Most are smallholders: 932 cultivate farms of less
than 3 ha; 852 cultivate farms of less than 2 ha; and 622 of the total
cultivate farms of 1 ha  or  less.    An  estimated 902 of the farmers live
below the poverty line.    Estimates  of  incremental incomes are presented
below.    The  project   would  generate  employment  opportunities  during



- 42 -
implementation and thereafter through OEM, on-farm and related off-farm
activities. The incremental direct employment as a result of the project
has been estimated at about 700,000 man-days of labor.
5.15     Farmers' Incomes and Payment Capacity.  To determine the impact of
the project on the individual farmer, detailed financial analyses of crop
and farm budgets were conducted on typical models based on data from 36
sample irrigation systems.    These  systems--drawn  from  29 provinces and
comprising about 22% of the total project area--were selected to be
representative of the entire service area in terms of climate, system size,
region, type of investments (new or rehabilitation), etc. Seasonal crop
budgets (rainfed, wet-season irrigated and dry-season irrigated) were
prepared for paddy only, the dominant crop in the project area. Annex 5,
Tables 5, 6, 7, presents a summary of farm budget analyses for eighteen
indicative farm models based on type of investments; 1 ha, 2 ha, and 3 ha
sizes; and type of tenure (owner-operator or lesseeltenant). The farm
models cover three cropping types with and without the project: irrigated
rice to irrigated rice; rainfed rice to irrigated rice; and rainfed corn to
irrigated rice. The budgets reflect the net cash position at the end of
the year, taking into account the financial gross value of production, farm
inputs including hired labor, production loan repayments, land tax, and
amortization of  construction  costs.    The  results  of  the budgets show
generally low on-farm incomes. However, estimates of present and projected
net farm incomes (in 1990 prices) show that farmers co-uld realize higher
net incomes in the  with-project  situation.    For  the whole project, the
average incremental income would be about 1 12,500 per farmer. Average
annual incomes for typical  1 ha,  2  ha  and  3  ha  farms would be about
1 9,100, 1 18,000, and P 26,900 respectively.
5.16     An estimation of the benefits that individual farmers receive from
irrigation--comparing the production of a rainfed rice farm with an
irrigated one--indicates an average increment of 24 cavans (1,200 kglha)
in the wet season alone, and a total of 80 cavans (4 tons) of additional
paddy from both seasons.    Net  revenue  from the additional production is
estimated at about P 20,000 per ha. This illustrates the contribution that
irrigation has to the incomes of farmers and suggests adequate gains to
justify capital cost amortization. From the results of the farm models and
assuming that two-thirds of the household income is derived from farm
activities and the rest from off-farm work, it appears that all farmers
holding 1 ha farm currently receive yearly incomes below the estimated
poverty line for the rural areas of P 24,000 p.a., or less than US$200 per
capita for a family of six.    Net  farm  incomes would increase due to the
project (although not dramatically) and would be stabilized because of
improved reliability of water supply, thereby raising the overall income
situation of the farm families.
Economic and Financial Analysis
5.17     Analysis of the economic viability  of the project was carried out
by comparing the proposed investments and incremental O&M costs with the
expected incremental benefits derived from the projected performance of the
36  representative  systems.    The   with-project  costs  consist  of  the
inivestments incurred over five years and the recurrent O&M costs during the
30 year life of the project, including allowance for minor rehabilitation
of the systems every  five  years.   Physical contingencies and engineering
and  administration  expenses were  included   in  the  analysis.    Price



- 43 -
contingencies and taxes were  excluded.    All  costs  and benefits were in
constant 1990  prices.    The  projections  reflect  an  expected irrigated
cropping intensity cof 1772 (Annex 8, Table 1) by full project development
(Year 2000). Crop yields were assumed to be 132 higher in the wet season
and 421 higher in the dry season in the with-project situation. All
benefits and costs were adjusted to reflect the prevailing relative
economic scarcities/abundance of factors of production in the Philippines
according to the following assumptionss
(a)   the opportunity cost of unskilled labor was estimated at 522
of the prevailing market rate;
(b)   project inputs that  consist  largely of imported components
such as equipment and spare parts were valued at their
border price.    Prices  of  non-traded  goods and services,
i.e.. construction prices were adjusted to border prices
using the corresponding conversion factors; and
(c)   present and projected  (1995  and  2000) farmgate prices for
traded commodities, namely rice and fertilizer, were derived
from the Bank's Commodity Price Forecasts of January 1990,
adjusted for quality, freight, insurance, port handling,
local transport, and processing costs and trading margins.
With the above assumptions, and a project evaluation period of 30 years,
the economic rate of return (ER) was estimated to be 192, and the
financial rate  of  return was  estimated  at  23Z.    Further details are
provided in Annexes 6 and 8.
5.18     Sensitivity tests were carried  out  to  determine how the project
ERR would respond to increased costs and/or decreases and delays in
benefits. The results, summarized in Annex 6, Table 6, indicate that
attractive economic returns would accrue in spite of substantial negative
changes in these variables.    Estimates  were  also made at export parity
prices, for illustrative purposes, to demonstrate the possible impact if
Philippines were to shift from being a marginal rice importer to a regular
exporter. Under such circumstances the ERR would drop to a low 8Z and
would rise to levels of 10t and 15Z only if world FOB rice prices increased
by 62 and 192, respectively (Annex 6, Table 4). Increases of 102 to 15X in
future CIF rice prices would increase the ERR from 19? to between 21? to
23Z. Switching values were estimated at the discount rate of 102 (Annex 6,
Table 7). The switching value test shows that incremental benefits would
have to decrease by 432, or be delc.yed by five years, or capital costs
increase by 862, for the net present value (NPV) of the project, discounted
at )0Z, to fall to zero. A decrease of 121 in the cropping intensity, from
the base case of 177? to 156?, produces a NPV of zero at a 10 discount
rate, indicating that project benefits are quite sensitive to variations in
cropping intensity. However, since actual cropping intensities appear to
be higher than the relatively low values recorded by NIA (paras. 1.25 and
1.26), and in view of the safeguards that would be taken under CIDP II to
improve service area and water availability assessments (para. 5.5) and
NIA's demonstrated implementation capability under CIDP I, negative changes
of a magnitude which would adversely affect project benefits are unlikely.
Environmental Impact
5.19     The project involves  small,  run-of-the-river systems spread over
the country.    No  major  earth  movement,  water  regulation  or storage,



- 44 -
deforestation or drainage will be involved. The project includes provision
for dealing with project-related erosion-prone micro-catchments, using
vegetative erosion prevention measures, such as Vetiver Grass contouring.
Any unanticipated adverse environmental impact would be very minor and
would be dealt with in the course of normal subproject design and
construction. The project would advocate the introduction of integrated
pest management, which would reduce the use of pesticides appreciably. In
addition, extension advice for fertilizer and herbicide application would
be based on guidelines issued by the Philippine Fertilizer and Pesticide
Authority and only relatively small incremental amounts of agro-chemicals
would be used as a result of the project. The use of herbicides would be
reduced through improved water control, and the potential for any adverse
effects, from the use of these agro-chemicals would be even further diluted
by the very widespread and dispersed nature of individual irrigation
schemes. The project would not finance any chemicals for weed or pest
control. In addition by raising incomes and creating employment in rural
lowland and foothill areas, the project would contribute significantly
towards stemming the ever increasing out-migration of poor farmers from
these rural areas to uplands and coastal areas, where such migration has
caused the most serious environmental problems--resource depletion and
erosion in the uplands, and degradation of near shore fisheries--thereby
providing indirect but important environmental benefits.
5.20     Under  other  Bank-supported  projects,  wate4 hed  management and
erosion control measures are being undertaken to help ameliorate siltation
problems  in  irrigated  areas.    With  respect  to water  borne diseases
prevalent in some locations in the Philippines, successful programs to
reduce the incidence of scaistosomiasis and malaria through drainage,
chemical controls, health education and curative medicine have been
financed by previous and ongoing Bank-supported projects. Through its focus
on O&M in irrigated areas, the project would improve drainage, reduce water
logging and promote the development of some otherwise unused portions of
land, thereby contributing further to reducing such diseases. With DENR
cooperation specific watershed management and erosion controllprevention
measures would be recommended and taken (paras. 2.18 and 2.19).
5.21     The project would be executed  by  the NIA with the cooperation of
DA and DENR for the agricultural and watershed components, respectively.
NIA's  Environmental  Cell  is  closely   linked with  the  Department  of
Environment and Natural  Resources.    Quarterly  progress reports would be
submitted  by  NIA  during  implementation  (para.2.12).    Any  unforeseen
environmental issues would be identified and the proposed solutions
described in these reports and addressed accordingly.
Women in Development
5.22     As in the case  of  many  Asian  cultures, although Filipino women
increasingly participate in numerous non-domestic development activities,
through which they contribute substantially to the household income, men in
the Philippines are generally viewed as the key income-earners with primary
responsibility for the protection and well-being of the family. The wife,
however, is generally the custodian of family financial matters, and close
consultation between husband and wife is the normal rule. Legally married
couples have the conjuigal right to any property they own. In the event of
the death of one spoutse, and in the absence of a written will and testament
left by the deceased, the surviving spouse administers the property, of



- 45 -
which one-half devolves upon the surviving spouse and the other half is
divided equally among the children.    In  rice production, women have very
well defined roles, generally participating in transplanting, weeding and
harvesting.   Plowing  and  harrowing  during  land  preparation  are tasks
primarily attended to by men.
5.23     Since NIA embarked upon  the  participatory approach to irrigation
development, much attention has been given to reaching out to irrigator
communities  and  inspiring  them  to   take  an  active  interest  in  the
development of their land and water resources and to assume responsibility
for such investments.   Over  the  years  NIA  learned from experience that
female community workers were generally more readily received in the rural
communities and proved to be more effective in irrigator community
organization work than male  counterparts.    In line with this experience,
currently nearly 60X of NIA's 870 community organizers are women, and more
women would be employed as  this  work  expands.   Of some 20,700 total NIA
employees, about 20X are women.    In  the  past women seldom held official
positions in IAs or were registered as farmers. But this trend is changing
fairly rapidly and preliminary indications are that currently about 52 of
IA officials and 6Z of registered irrigators are women. About 50% of labor
for specific tasks such as transplanting, weeding and harvesting is
provided by female  rural  workers.    Hence,  rural  women in the communal
irrigation schemes are progressively increasing their contributions to
household incomes and their degree of participation in the management of
such income, and thus gradually elevating their position to that of a more
equitable partnership.
Project Risks
5.24     The investments to be made under the project do not face any major
risk. However, implementation could fall short of expectations in some
areas due to sporadic peace and order problems. As the project is national
in scope, such problems would not seriously affect the overall project
impact.  Also, potential difficulties  would  be eased by the opportunities
afforded  for  increased  farmer  participation  through  the  lAs, thereby
instilling an increased sense of responsibility on the part of the
beneficiaries. The implementation of this project will follow programs of
work, prepared for  each  project  year.    Some  past projects have fallen
behind schedule, due in part to delays in finalizing details of the annual
work programs. In order to avoid such recurrences, NIA will finalize and
submit for Bank review by June 30 of each preceding year, programs of work
incorporating all relevant aspects, in respect of each project year (paras.
4.1 and 6.3(f)).



- 46 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1      As a condition of loan negotiations,  NIA furnished to the Bank for
review the detailed project work program for CY 1991, based on irrigation
systems satisfying the agreed selection criteria, and finalized detailed
engineering and related cost estimates, together with draft bid documents
for equipment and vehicle procurement (para. 4.1).
6.2      At negotiations, assurances were given by Government that:
(a) in the selection of communal irrigation systems to be supported
under the project, NIA would ensure that: (i) irrigation
systems which have been constructed or rehabilitated during the
past five years would be excluded except those damaged by
natural calamities; and (ii) schemes with more than 20Z of land
still eligible for redistribution under the land reform program
be included only after emancipation patents had been issued
(para. 2.5);
(b) NIA would apply agreed selection criteria and design standards
nationwide for all communal irrigation systems (para. 2.5);
(c) NIA would initiate a pilot project to test the use of Farmer
Irrigator Organizers (FIOs) in the development of IAs in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank (para. 2.8);
(d) NIA would: (i) retain consultants no later than January 1,
1991, to review and recommend improvements in the financial
accounting and management of CISs; and (ii) ensure that the
study  is  concluded within   12 months  of  contracting  the
consultants and that the results are implemented beginning no
later than July 1, 1992 (para. 2.11);
(e) NIA would submit to the Bank regular progress reports on the
implementation of CIDP II no more than three months after the
close of each quarter, and would ensure that such reports
include data on the status of communal accounts receivable
(para. 2.12 (c));
(f) agreed procurement rules would be followed for the various
activities to be supported under the project (para. 3.4);
(g) NIA and DA would cause its regional and provincial offices to
maintain separate accounts, which would be collated by the
Project Manager. After audit by COA, the project accounts,
together with the auditor's comments, as well as the auditor's
opinion on the certification of expenditure on force account
works, would be sent to the Bank within nine months of the
close of each fiscal year (para. 3.8); and
(h) prior  to  finalization   of   construction-level  designs  and
implementation NIA would submit for Bank review full evaluation



- 47 -
reports for irrigation systems estimated to cost more than
USS 350,000 each, and  summary  reports  for irrigation systems
costing up to US$ 350,000 (para. 4.4).
6.3      Additionally, understandings were aeached with Government that:
(a) NIA would endeavour to pass to DPWH, Department of Local
Government   or   Local   Govenment   Units   as  appropriate,
responsibility  for   the   maintenance   of   all  link  roads
constructed under the project within one year after each CIS
has been turned over to the respective IA (para. 2.3);
(b) Reports of the impact evaluation studies, relating to IA
development, currently being carried out with USAID assistance
will be furnished to the Bank for review and, based on their
recommendations, modifications to the present IA development
procedures would be agreed and implement.d as necessary (para.
2.7).
(c) after suitable modification to ref'ect lessons learned under
CIDP I, NIA's project benefits monitoring and evaluation system
(PBME) would be applied to 24 CIDP II and 24 locally funded
systems and the findings of the resulting reports communicated
regularly to the Bank for information (para. 2.15);
(d) to ensure the satisfactory agricultural development of the
communal schemes to be implemented under the project: (i)
agricultural development plans (ADPs) incorporating a watershed
management/development component, would be prepared as part of
the feasibility study for each irrigation system and form part
of the turnover package to the IA (except for the 1991 work
program, for which ADPs would be prepared before turnover of
the schemes to IAs); (ii) ADPs would be implemented as soon as
cultivation  commences  (para.   2.18);   (iii)  IAs  would  be
regularly represented on the respective MAFC for their area;
and (iv) thr Agricultural Coordination Group in NIA's IDD would
be staffed by suitably qualified and experienced personnel and
provided  with  the   necessary   facilities  and  finances  to
coordinate the preparation and execution of individual scheme
ADPs (para. 2.20);
(e) IA by-laws would be modified to empower them to operate as
profit making/stock holding entities, thereby making them
eligible for group credit through the Land Bank (para. 2.20);
and
(f) NIA would submit a detailed work program, finalized detailed
engineering and related cost estimates, together with _unding
proposals and draft bid documents for equipment and vehicle
procurement, to the Bank for review by June 30 of each
preceding project year (para. 4.1); and
(g) NIA would implement measures to ensure that initially approved
expenditure levels are not exceeded in the course of the
implementation  of  each   irrigatiou   system,  without  prior
approval of NIA's Senior Management (para. 4.5).



- 48 -
6.4      Subject  to  the  above  assurances,  the  proposed  project would
constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$46.2 million to the
Republic of the Philippines. The loan would have a tenm of 20 years,
including a grace period of 5 years at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate.



-49- -NX
PHUPPINES
SEC-ON COMAL RRgaTION ODElBfT PROJECT
Climatic Charaterirstles bW Relon
Teuwll rafnll       _  _IMonthly raifnall                        Aver
e ry        Wet s n                Drlrg_o            no. of
TIT  of  Annual season  _easn   MoIbt       Mx.   Iin. Mi          lx.m   typhoons
Region             eat                                                                                      per yer
I. Iloco                 )                                                                               7.2
III. Central Luon               I X    2,000  1,700    8Q0   Jan-Sep        0   27m   Oct-may  100    6)
;V. S. Tagalog   )                                                       (25)M  (1716))  (2)  8-2
CMR. Cordllleua r
II. Cagay n V  ll y M)        I ll    2,200  1,SQ0    80    Jon-ov  800    175  De-May  160   20)
(25)   (20)            (20)  (6))
) 7.2
I. S.Tpagalg  (E)              XV    8,500  2,600    700   May-ec  4S0    250  JanApr  200  150)
II: Cagayan Valley (E)                                                  (20)   (16)            (16) (15))
VI. W. Visaye                   I    1,600  1,400    400   Jm-Nowv  850    200  Dec-May  126   20   8.8
(20)   (15)            (15)  (S)
VII. Central Visay"            X      2,000  1,600    400   Jun-Dec  210    185  Jan-ay  115   55   1.4
(16)   (15)            (18) (11)
V. Sicol                  ) X       4,000  2,600  1,400   Oct-Mar  (500   260  Apr-Sa    250  150   8.8
VIII. E. Visya                                                            (27)  (14)            (20) (15)
X. W. MISiasa         n              1,500  1,000    500   Jun-W.v  80         175; De-Ma   125   40   1.4
X. K. Illnde"              }(19)   (12)                                                       (10)  (6)
XI. S. Mindene              It & TV  4,200  2*,00  1,400   Oct-r  (500   2C0  Apr-Sa   80   170   0.2
(26)  (16)            (21) (15)
XII. Central Mind111_           IV    2,000  1,60       85    Apr-0_   250    175  Ja-Mar  125    0   0.2
(19)   (5)             (10)  (6)
/o Figures in parwethesli are nume of rainy day per  onth.



PHILIPPINES
SECOND COMMUNAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Format for Irrigation System Area Assessment at Feasibility Stage
1               2              8              4              6               6              7                  8             9
Gross        Excluded/       Currently       Additional    Total           Corrected     Area Irrigable      Design        Updated /d
Area         Unirrigable     Irrigated/      Irrigable     Area            Total         Based on Water      Service       Servico Area
(Based on    (Based on       Irrigable       Potential     Available       Available     Availability /c    Area              (Date)W
maps,         Maps, etc.)   (Based on       (Based on     for Irrig.      for Irrig.    x K2 /b             6 or 7a
etc.) /a                     Maps, etc.)    Maps, etc.)  3 + 4            6 x K         wet      Dry        whichever
(Based on      (Based on     Season  Season      ie less
Maps, etc.)   Maps, etc.)      (a)    (b)
Ll
Notes:
* B aed on available maps  nd minimal field work.
, and Kg to be dtoerined based on past experience.
Diepndeblo supply Is supply at 80X probability.
dUpdated upon completion and at suitable Intervals thereafter.



- 51 -
ANNEX 1
Table 3
Page 1 of 5
PHILIPPINES
SECOND COMMUNAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LIST OF SUBPROJECTS
Rehabilitation
Region          Province              Subproject Name          Area (ha)
Cordillera      Abra                 Cayaman                       47
AdMi".                               Kavayan                       21
Region (CAR)                         Malibcong (Sample)            35
Benguet             Palina Poen                   67
Ifugao              Burnay                        40
Bocos                        60
Kalinga Apayao      Malubibit                    106
Lagac                       104
Subtotal                                     480
1               Ilocos Norte         Sales                       200
Kaduyungan Karay (Sample)    40
Pideng Taartarabang         233
Danao (Sample)               50
Bago                         50
Tanap Avis                  170
Besang Cabalayangan         150
Diniega                     259
La Union-           Malicnao (Sample)             70
Antaguing Sa Jose (Sample)   64
Dalagdac                     15
Ken Dennis                   12
Nagsabaran                   18
San Felipe                  200
Ayaon Este                    84
Lower San Isidro             24



- 52 -
ANNEX 1
Table 3
Page 2 of 5
Region          Province               Subproject Rame           Area (ha)
Pangasinan          Cameing                        69
Sapid                         42
Ngayaongaoan (Sample)         90
Vargas                       145
Sober                         30
Masidem                      500
Subtotal                                    2,989
2           Cagayan                  Santor Langagan (Sample)    273
Punti                         70
Isabela                  Del Pilar Extn               230
Namnaua                       60
Nueva Vizcaya            Banganan                     200
Sn Fernando Bagwumbig         80
Quirino                  Maria Clara (Sample)         100
Villa Hermosa                 60
Subtotal                                    1,073
3           Zambales                 Cabangan                      200
Marangla                     300
umaya                         79
Bunga                        122
Upper Salaza                 600
Upper Prenza                  89
Nueva Ecija              Inasan (Sample)              226
Galvan                       360
Bulalakay                    700
Santor                       1S0
Tarlac                   Lab                          479
Bulacan                  Prenza                       830
Anilao                       300
Subtotal                                    4.435



- 53 -
AMNEX 1
Table 3
Page 3 of S
Region          Province              Subproject  ams          Area (ha)
4               Mindoro Oriental    Papandungin                  263
Malaya&                      375
Aguas                       100
Aurora              Kaagidtahan                  200
Subtotal                                         938
S               Albay                Betts-Bonga tztn (Sample)   172
Apud RaNis zxtn             215
Camarines Norte     Minasag                       90
Camarines Sur       Carangcaag (sample)          260
Yabo Prancia                200
Catanduanes         Supang Datag                  60
Panganiban                  300
Masbate             Tubing-Gabi                   27
Umwas Gaid                  113
Matang-Tubig                  65
Sorsogon            6abap (Sample)               151
Subtotal                                   1.653
6           Antique                  Libertad                     58
Fragante                     92
Tigm=zale                    57
Igbobon                     140
Capis                   Qulasan                       60
Mianay                        70
Cala-Agus (Sample)          100
Nagba                        80
Ilas Exta                    80
San Roque                    50
Balucuan                     80
Rating                       55
Majanlud                     8S



- 54 -
ANNE I1
Table 3
Page 4 of 5
Region          Province              Subproject Name          Area (ha)
Negros Occidental   Ilaya Nabulao                 45
Maricalum                     60
Lina-On                       30
Iloilo              Marapal                       80
Camabugan                    90
Lipata                       95
Igbaras (Sample)            190
Aklan               Bulabod Rosario              161
Cabauigan-Tambuan            87
Libang (Sample)              40
Lilo-An Malandayon          192
Subtotal                                   2.077
8           Southern Leyte          Hingatungan Salvacion         54
Hinbangan-Panian              73
Bugasong                     69
Hingatungan                 124
Northern Leyte          Buri-Pitogo (Sample)         250
San Juan                     44
Northern Samar          Nenita                        80
Irawahan                    320
Western Samar           Pampang                       65
Subtotal                                 1,079
9           Zamboanga del Sur       Ayala                        187
Dagohoy (Sample)             80
Talisayan                   100
Boloran (Sample)            400
Subtotal                                     767
10          Bukidnon                 Bonacao-Namn  (Sample)      400
Subtotal                                     400
11          Davao del Norte         Gabuyan (Sample)             230
Limbasn (Sample)            130



- 55 -
ANNEX 1
Table 3
Page 5 of 5
Region          Province             Subproject Name           Area (ha)
Davao del Sur       San Isidro                   250
New Cabasagan               195
Mabini Barayong             140
Davao Oriental      Baganga (Sample)             270
Subtotal                                  1,215
12              Cotabato            Paco-Binoligan (Sample)      150
Tinagasan                   100
Sultan Kudarat      Lutayan                     204
Sangay-Paril                250
Subtotal                                    704
Total                                    17,810
Notes Subprojects will be individually evaluated and may be replaced
where necessary.



-56-                        ANNEX1
Table 4
Page 1 of 5
PHILIPPINES
SECOND COMMUNAL IRRIGATION DEmELOPMENT PROJECT
LIST OF SUBPROJECTS
New Construction
Region              Province               Subproject Name          Area (ha)
Cordillera
AdMan. Region
(CAR)              Abra                   Bayabas                        45
Vayangan (sample)             50
Dilong                        25
Ampalioc                      25
Anonang                       15
Balaat                        15
Banbanilag                    15
Kalipugan                     10
Mountain               Masablang                    120
Dmnnal No. 1                  86
Burayok                       78
Benguet                Sayangan                      40
Bolo                          22
Tacay-Yan-Bol-Bolo            20
Banao                         12
Ambajat-Loacan                10
Ifugao                 Pinto (Sample)               205
Kalinga Apayao         Ammalingan (Sample)          260
Sub-total                                      1.053
1                  La Union                Gumot (Sample)                34
Upper Agpay                   25
Upper San Isidro              15



ANNEX 
Table 4
Page 2 of 5
Region             Province               Subproject Name          Area (ha)
Pangasinan            Telbang                       55
Sta. Rita                    85
Ilocos Norte          San Juan Bagut               136
Ilocos Sur            Nagcavitian                   44
Cervantes                   150
Sub-total                                        544
2                  Cagayan                Buyun-Nababalayan             80
Isabela               Cabesera 25 & 27 (Sample)   100
Quirino               Upper Tucod                   70
Disimungal                    30
San RAMos                    50
Sub-total                                        330
3                  Zambales               Balintawag                   270
Tarlac                Tangbao                      160
Pampanga              Tugtugan (Sample)            211
Bulacan               Mandile                      210
Upper Bubulong Malaki        110
Sub-Total                                        961
4                  Batangas               Lawayi                       171
San Juan                    300
Tinga                       100
Soro-Soro                   100
Tangub                      100
Quezon                Katakian                     163
Anibavan                      84
Lipata                        78
Aurora                Dikapizisan                   90
M)ligaya                     200
Mindoro Occidental    Pinagturilan                 350



- 58 -
ANNE 1
Table 4
Page 3 of 5
Region              Province               Subproject Name          Area (ha)
Mindoro Oriental       Palabiga-Manihala            100
Lapog                        200
Sub-Total                                       2,036
5                  Albay                   Camalig-Lotmon               650
Camarines Norte        Pinagwarsan                  120
Palali                        70
Camarines Sur          Kaanunangan                  150
Catanduanes            Mambang                      110
Banaga                        95
Sorsogon               Buhatan                      100
Esperanza                     83
Sub-Total                                       1.378
6                  Aklan                   San Jose Naisud              160
Laserna                      100
Antique                Durog Patnongon               80
Guinbangaan                   80
Iloilo                 Tubungan                     200
Negros Occidental      Hinobaan                     120
Bacus                         40
Bungahin                     131
Sub-Total                                         911
7                  Cebu                   Anopog-Sagay (Sample)          32
Negros Oriental        Valencia (Sample)            314
Sub-Total                                        346
8                  Northern Leyte          Rizal                        100
Balaquid                     120



- 59 -                    ANNEX 1
Table 4
Page 4 of 5
Region             Province               Subproject Name          Area (ha)
Southern Leyte        Mahayahay                      83
Western Samar         Hiikaan Karanas                50
Osmena                        70
Roxas                        150
Northern Samar        Palale (Sample)               227
Eastern Samar         Lawaan                         50
Sulat                        240
Bunacan                       70
Sub-Total                                     1,160
9                  Zamboanga del Norte   Piakan (Sample)               180
Sub-Total                                       180
10                 Agusan del Norte       Guinabsan (Sample)           130
Agusan del 5ur        Lower Anao                    200
Eukidnon              Bunacao                       240
Camiguin              Lot-Lot                        30
Misamis Oriental      Danao                         120
Hisamis Occidental    Lawaan                         70
Surigao del Norte     Anislagan                      50
Sub-Total                                       840
11                 Surigao del Sur        Cayale                       170
South Cotabato        Bleboy (Sample)                60
Polomolok                    150
Suli-Blucon (Sample)          75
Balitan                       90
Colombosing                  100
Sub-Total                                       645
12                 Cotabato               Badiangon (Sample)           138



- 60 -                      ANNEX 1
Table 4
Page 5 of 5
Region              Province               Subproject Name          Area (ha)
Lanao del Sur          Kianodan Mapuling            300
Sultan Kudarat         Iaranayan                    250
Maguindanao            Nituan                       100
Kauran Eztn                  100
Bayog                        150
Langkong                     200
TLmbaluan                    150
Sub-Total                                      1,388
Total                                       11,772
Note: Subprojects will be individually evaluated and may be replaced
where necessary.



PHILIPPINES
SECOND COHMNIAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LIST OF SUBPROJECTS
Onsoing Work Carried Over from CIDP I
Area to be
Service       generated
Region       Province             Subproject Name    Rehab./New Constr.  Area (ha)    under CIDP 11
II       Cagayan                Visitacion                  Rehab.            1,409             50
I1       Nueva Viscaya          Bagabag                     New               1,900            300
IV       Quezon                 Amro                        New               1,092            800
V        Albay                   Prisa Left Quinale         Rehab.              825            500
V        Camarines Norte        Matogdon                    New                 785            500
V        Camarines Sur          Korit                       New                  85             50
VI       Negros Occidental      Bingig                      New                 210            100
VI       Capiz                  Badbaran                    Rehab.            1,100            900
VII     Southern Leyte          Budloy                     New                 146             50
X        Agusan del Sur         Kasilayan                   New                 400            250
X        Bukidnon               Katutungan                  Rehab.              750            600
XI       Davao del Sur          Unifanm                     New                 400            100
I        South Cotabato         Pangi Right                 New               1,000            450
XI       South Cotabato         B0 - 7                      Rehab.            1,520             50
XII      Lanao del Sur          Bulod                       New               1,000            850
XII      Magindanao              Simuay                     New                 470             50
XII     LLano del Norte         Marauding                   New                 936            250
Total Area       14,028          5,850



- 62 -
ANNEX 2
Tabl 10 
PHILIPPINES
SECOND COVMUNAL IRRIOATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ProJect Cost Sumary
a 'lo                     usl  000            X Foreign   X of total
Item                   Local   For ign   TotRl    Local  For egn  Tot l   Exchange    Base Costs
A. SRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT (ID)
Irriastion Work.
Weirs and :ntakes           140,44S   140,445   280,600  6,160    6,180  12,320           50
Main and lateral canals    168,689   188,680   297,626   7,177       5,872  18,049        46
Access and se-vice roads      4,488     6,695    11,158      196       294     469        60
Off-ftar drainage             1,683        278     1,689      s9        12      81        1S
On-tarm drainage             1S,244     2,690    17,934    869         118     767         15
Erosion control              19,380     8,420    22,800      85        150   1,000        15
Ounkhounes                    6,8S2     4,282    10,654      280       197     467        40
IA warehouses and drying
floors                     10,800      7,200    18,000     474       816     769        40
Surveys and maps             i8,640    11,180    24,800      598       409   1,068        45
Remining CIDP I work         48,400    43,400    86,800   1,904      1,904   3,607         SO
Land acquisition              2,000          -     2,000      se         -      se         -
Subtotal                 420.966  835.484   774.400  18.464    15.C01    .96           4S           68
IA Dovelopment
Farmer training               6,712        748     7,468     294        88     827         10
Related staft training
and spn.                   49,606     6,512    68,118   2,178        242   2,417        10
Subtotal                568.818    6.268    62.578   2.470        274   2.745        10            6
NIA Field Office Support
Buildings                    24,068    16,044    40,110   1,056        704   1,769        40
Office equipment              1,558     4,675      6,288     e8        205     278        76
Construction equipment and
vehicles                   18,295    54,886    78,181      602     2,407   8,210        76
Reconditioning existing
equipment                  26,082    65,408    98,440   1,229      2,969   4,098        70
Subtotal                71.952   141.018   212.964   8.1568    6.185   9.841         es           16
Technical Assistance and
Tcnaiel training               228      4,882     4,560      10       190     200         96
Consultancy - hydrology       2,786     4,104      8,640     120       180     800        60
Consultancy - financal        2,052       228      2,280      90        10     100         10
Subtotal                 6.016     6.664    18.680      220       80       00        68            1
Monitoring and Evaluation      21.441      6.569    80.000     940       875   1.816        29            2
Ensineerino  Suoervislon
and Administration           98.808    10.878   108.776   4.090        456   4.652         10           8
Base Cost (ID)                669.092   628.804 1.197.89#  29.846    28.171  52.517         44           98
Physical Contingencies         68,218    44,0a8   102,248   2,658      1,981   4,484         48           7
Price Contingencies           149,188   117,446   266,579   8,515      2,678   6,888         46          10
Total Cost (ID)               876.489   889.782 1.668.221  86.414    27.976   8.890          44         119



- 63 -
ANNEX 2
Table 1
Page 2 of 2
a                    _000  M  tow             x Foreign  X of total
Item                   Local   Foreign    Toitl    Local   Foreign   Total    Exchange    Base Costs
B. AGRICULTURAL DEVELOP MT (AD
Demonstrotion Plots and
Verification Trials           2,218        248     2,4S4      97        11     108        10
Nurseries                       1,600          -     1,600      70         -      79         -
Farmer Training                 1,758        92      1,848      n          4      81         6
Office Suppies and Materials     498        12B       616      22         6      27        20
Knapsack Sprayer                  248        248       486      11        11      21        s0
Soil Test Kit                      46        46         SO       2         2       4        s0
Mobile Grain Dryer                959     1,081      2,040      42        46      90       65
Computer with Printer             987     1,118      2,100      43        49      92        58
Motorcycles                     1,807     4,098      5,400      57       160     287        78
Transport Allowances/01M
Motorcycles and per diem      8,080          -     8,960     185         -     185         -
Base Cost (AD)                 12.877     7.047    19.924      S65       809     674        85            2
Physical Contingencles            987       8e6      1,892      41        10      S7        28            -
Price Contingencies             8,818      1,127     4,449      t6        27    19         26            -
Total Cost (AD)                17.127     8.SB9    2C 688    664         856   1.0B7        84            2
Total Base Cost (ID A AD)    681.969   585351 1.217.820 29.911    28.400  68.8S1           44          100
Physical Contingencies         59,160    44,897   108,548   2,594      1,947   4,542        48            9
Price Contingencles           152,447   116,572   271,919   3,598      2,9W1   6,494        45           12
Total Proiect CoUt *ID A       AD   UILI    IUJZL  DIJLZ   MJ haLlII a       AL=           4           aL
Note: Minor difference, In totals due to rounding.



PHILIPPINES
SECON COMMUNAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Building ConstructionlRenovation Costs
Regional Office           PIO               PIE           Equipment
Renovation          Buildings         Quarters           Sheds            Site           Total
Cost               Cost              Cost              Cost     Development       Costs
Region     No.    (P'OOO)    No.    (P'000)   No.    (P'000)   No.    (P'000)          (P'000)        (0'000)
1         1       5,000      1        260      -          -      -           -            -         5,260
2         -           -      1        700      2      1,100      -           -       1,000          2,800
3         .           -      -          -      1        550      1         350          250         1,150
4         -           -      2      1,450      5      2,750      2         700          500         5,400
5         1         300      -          -      -          -      -           -            -           300
6         1       2,000      1        100      2      1,100      -           -          250         3,450
7
8         1       1,100      1        800      -          -      3       1,350            -         3,250
9         1       2,000      1        100      1        550      -           -            -         2,650
10         1       5,000      1        700      2      1,100      2         700          250         7,750
11         1       5,000      -          -      1        550      1         350         250          6,150
12         -           -      1        700      1        550      2         700            -         1,950
Total       7      20,400      9      4,810     15      8,250     11       4,150       2,500         40,110



- 65 -
ANNEX 2
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
SECOND COMMWNICAL IRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Construction Equipment and Vehicle Costs
Item               Quantity           Unit                   Total Cost
Cost
(Nos.)           (US$)           (US$'000)      (9'O0O)
Dump Truck, 4.5-6.5 Cu.M         68         37,380.00          2,541.8        57.953.0
Concrete Mixer, . Bagger         49          2,520.41            123.5         2,815.4
Concrete Vibrator                23          2,100.00             48.3         1,101.2
Electric Generator, 20 RVA       12          8,400.00            100.8         2,298.3
Electric Welder                  28          2,239.29             62.7         1,430.1
Spare Parts                       -                  -           332.5         7,582.6
Total                                               3,209.6       73,180.6



- 66 -
ANNEX 2
Table 4
PHILIPPINES
SECOND COMMUNICAL IRIUGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Equipment Reconditioning Costs /a
Item               Quantity           Unit            Total Cost
Cost
(Nos.)           (US$)             (000)
Utility Vehicle, 4 W/D          33             96,336           3,179.1
Pick-up Truck, 314 T            49            80.153            3,927.5
Crawler Excavator               62           296,718           18,396.5
Crawler Tractor Dozer           87           462,418           40,230.4
Motor Grader                    12            427,733           5,132.8
Dump Trucks                    101           223,502           22,573.7
Total                                                     93,440.0
La 30Z of replacement cost.



- 67 -
ANNEX 2
Table 5
PHILIPPINES
SECOND CO)QUNICAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Office Equipment Costs
Item               Quantity           Unit                  Total Cost
Cost               _
(Nos.)           (US$)           (US$'000)      (P'000)
Facsimile Machine                 36        1,303.75            46.94       1,170.12
Desk Calculator                  134          263.13            35.26         804.00
Manual Typewriter, 27             67           285.37           19.12         435.84
Manual Typewriter, 18'            6?           218.36           14.63         333.59
Steel Cabinet                    240           87.00            20.88         476.00
Micro-Computer                    79         1,535.06          121.27       2,765.00
Blue Printing Machine              6          861.67             5.17         117.85
Photo Coping Machine               6          958.33             5.75         131.00
Total                                                     269.01       6.233.4



PHILIPPINES
SECOND COWUNAL. J |IMTION DEVELOPMENT
Agricultural SuPgort Services Costs
(W uUU)
Items of Work                   Uhit            Year       1991      1992        1993       1994        1995      Total
Cost          No. of      (42)       (52)       (38)        (36)       (12)       (180)
P           Schemes
Demonstration Plots and
verification trials   4,000/Scheme/Yr.                 168.0     376.0       528.0      672.0       720.0     2,464.0
Nurseries                  10,000/Scheme                   420.0     520.0       380.0      360.0       120.0      1,800.0
Farmer Training            3,000/Scheme/Yr.                126.0     282.0       396.0       504.0      540.0      1,848.0
Office Supplies &
MateriAls              1,000/Scheme/Yr.                 42.0      94.0       132.0      168.0       180.0        616.0    0
Knapsack Sprayer (180)    2,700/Scheme                     113.0     140.4       102.6        97.2       32.4        486.0
Soil Test Kit   (180)      500/Scheme                       21.0      26.0        19.0        18.0        6.0         90.0
Mobile Grain Dryers (60)  34,000 Province               1,020.0   1,020.0           -           -           -     2,040.0
Computer Printer (60)      35,O00/Province               1,050.0   1,050.0           -           -           -     2,100.0
Motorcycles  (180)         30,000/Scheme                 3,000.0               2,400.0                             5,400.0
Transport Allowances/
OAM Motorcycles
and per diem            3,000/Schemes/Yr.                210.0     470.0       660.0      840.0       900.0      3,080.0
TOTAL                                            6,171.0   3,978.0    4,618.0    2,659.0    2,498.0    19,924.0



- 69 -
ANNEX 3
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
SECOND COMKUNAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financina Plan and Proposed Loan Allocation
(US$ million)
Item                        Total Cost     IBRD       Govt/NIA
Civil and Agricultural Works          49.60        34.70       14.90 /a
Equipment including
reconditioning, vehicles             9.20        7.40         1.80
IA development                         3.22         2.40        0.82
Training                               0.35         0.25        0.10
Technical assistance
- Hydrology                          0.35        0.25         0.10
- Financial                          0.11        -            0.11
Honitoring and Evaluation              1.57         1.20        0.37
Total                            64.40        46.2        18.2
la About US$2 million of this vould be equity contributions from farmer
beneficiaries against irrigation system construction costs.



Schedule of Prolomt Eanaditurea  is
Itbe                                          1990      1Wl       1M       1W99      1994    1995         To-ta    1990    1991   1992      1999    1994    195    TotI
Irriastio Systms.
V,.iro NW Intakese                           8,826            too88 06208  100,206   66,480   85928    87864.      146  1,9818   4.862    4,1      8.8 55   1,888   18,M
ibn & Latiral Camls                           -2   62,416  111,978   106,79"    91,568    8,6511   401,468           -  2l256    4.619    4,274   8.a88     1.480   15.91
Serwic. £ Accea 8a.                              -    2,079     4,259     8,886     8.428    1,861     15,048        -     668    177       fi5      18 lt     1       150
ff-arm Daine l                                          841       704       68       5s        225      2,4f7        -     1i       29       25       22       8       99
bn-Pam Orina                                    -    8.109    6,665       6,464     5,506    2,888    24'141         -    182      276      269      214      89      970
E..a.n C=nrl                                     -    8742       8 6      8,144     7'S,6    8,148    80,788         -    1in      846      826      266      118    1.255
Bn _haea                                      829    1,840   a8e97    8862S    8,1U1          128      18,649       26     57      161      141      121      4a      850
IA Vareleouo A Drying Fir.                      -    4,         6,08S     7,680    4,794         -    z2i.68         -    il       249      815      186       -      90
Survey aNW  bp                               8,27    82498        091    7,500    7,628      8187      82,97       145    186      884      800      296     120    1.884
Remaining CD2P I  r                              -   5006   80,892    6.864         7,895    79       18 ,628        -  2.882  1,.24        274      287      801   4,498
Land Aqi-tioen                                   -               '01        S60    L 062       s7e   2.se2                  -    ~26         28       41       4       lOfi
Subtal                                     ?13   175w   !671          252805   2164       948118881              NY   7IU    W 1   1510          8,271   851   6I5
Irrietiaen fAsoiation Oewloea.et
Formar Training                                148    1,959    2,384    2,046       1s,6     1.068  o o488 e               es                82                       68 40  B
Related Staff Tr. A Suporvision                      la        14"       117711U o"          2
Subtoal                                    1.787    W.578   UW         TE,sw     371                             17N
NIA Field Office S9eort
ubildicna                                       -   1S0 66    19,744   15,728          -         -    4S.555         -    557      sis      629        -       -   2o000
Office Eqlun                                           .084    8,422          -        -         -      7,266              is168   141                                S" - 80
iRbe     anrt A Vehicle                              46,946    6,067                                   65,034        -  19       1871         -         _           86
Reanii     Gus 'sting Equip.                 -1 011    2j4.M                                       MAN               1,2J    j-.f    jj.                  __=-i
Subt.tel9.5                                                  W-           W      W                                                       .1
Technicel Assistanco to NIA
Techncam  Tra itI ne                                    972    1,624      1 827   186m          -      4,791        -     41       67       7        78        -     258                o
COn  ta4b drlogW                                -    1,228      4.110    8,078         -         -      8.406        -     52        c       2         -       -      845
Crnaultnc-finclm1 -                                                                    _UR  _4          2  246       _     S1                         -       -
Subotl                                        -     64                  ;it       ;3§-               lids-A 14                 -A4 -le 
lMonitorina and Evaluation
Personnel a Service.                                  6,178    6,674      7,211    7,0    8.416        86,268       -    265  275   289               02     817   1,446
Eqipmt                                         -      140         -         -         -        -        140        -6--6
Stengteni  DIP P2D*                             -     1,641     2,475     1.970        -         -       .084;       -     70      102       79        -       -      251
xtrtl on VA*                                    m 1I   R.60  Si.=                           IL=                                                  t           SI 
Agricultural Support Servwies
Demnstration Plets & Verification Trails        -       196       474        9       9i9    1,145       8,524               a 6     20       59       86      48      188
itbra.rt                                        -       490      6o5        517      m29       191      2,882        -     21       27       21       21       7       96
Faore  Training                                 -       140       s89      818       706       819      2.821       -       8       14       21       27      S1 
Office  teies l     Matorials                   -        47       11S       172      256       274        842       -       2        S        7        9      10       88
Knapeech Srayer                                 -       128       169       185      187        49        618       -       5        7        3        6       2       25
SolI Tet" Kit                                   -        24        S1       25        25         9        114       -       1        1        1        1       1        5
itbile Grin Dryer                               -    1.146      1,241         -        -         -      2 886       -      49       81        -        -       -      100
Computer uRrter                                 -    1,171      1,286         -        -         -      2,487       -      so       82        -        -       -      102
iorcycllo                                       -    8,8i60         -    8,182         -         -      6,520       -    145         -      122
Tr n2eprt A l1ncea/      4otrcyclee and per 
Subtoaul                                                                                              A69
Taut ProJec.   Cle.  M9no1 dife1ec  ;n te, due to ronding.
Lg Inludow contingencis  Minor di1'fornco in tobsl- due to rounding.b 



- 71.-
ANNEX 3
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
SECOND COMMUNAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Category                         Amount           Z of Expenditure
(US$ million)         to be financed
(1)  Civil and agricultural          33,000,000         702
works
(2)  Goods and equipment              7,000,000         100Z of foreign
reconditioning                                     expenditures, 1002 of
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 80? of
local expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(3)  Technical assistance             4,000,000         75?
(IA development,
training, consultants
and M&E)
(4)  Unallocated                      2.200.000
Total



- 72 -
ANNEX 3
Table 4
PHILIPPINES
SECOND COMMUNAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Loan Disbursements /a
Cumulative                Philippines Standard
IBRD Fiscal             Disbursements /b           Disbursement Profile for
Year   Semester           US$ million   X            the Agriculture 3ector (Z)
1991       2                1.4        3.0                     2
1992       1                5.2       11.2                      4
2              10.3        22.3                     8
1993       1               16.4       35.5                    13
2              22.8        49.4                    19
1994       1               28.7       62.1                    27
2              33.9        73.4                    37
1995       1               38.4       83.1                    44
2              41.9        90.7                    52
1996       1               44.4       96.1                    60
2              45.7        98.9                    68
1997       1               46.2      100.0                    7.
2                 -           -                    88
1998       1                  -          -                    96
2                 -           -                    99
1999       1                  -          -                   100
La  Expected Loan Closing Date is December 31, 1996
Lb Assumes that for expenditures incurred during any semester, 25Z of the
related disbursements would be processed during that semester, 502 during
the next semester, and the final 25X during the 2nd semester following the
semester of the expenditures.



PHILIPPINES
SECOND COMMUNAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Proiect Cash Flow
(P million, current prices)
Calendar Year             1990       1991       1992       1993       1994        1995        1996         Total
Cash Outflow
Irrigation Component    9.787    317.543    429.904    388.000    292.744    128.243            -       1,566.221
Agriculture Component        -       6.952      4.872       6.117       3.837      3.888        -           25.666
Total                 9.787    324.495    434.776    394.117    296.581    132.131           -       1,591.887
Cash Inflow
IBRD Loan                    -    122.180      271.49    307.370    249.870   159.360        49.280     1,166.820
Govt./NIA                9.787    202.315    163.268       86.747     46.711  (27.229)    (49.280)         425.067
Total                 9.787    324.495    434.776    394.117    296.581   132,131            -       1,591.887
Notes Minor differences in totals due to rounding.



- 74 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 9
PHILIPPINES
SECOND COMMUNAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Institutional Development
INTRODUCTION
1.       NIA pioneered the participatory approach to communal irrigation
development, involving the use of Institutional Development Officers (IDOs)l/
to strengthen farmer participation in the development and management of
communal irrigation schemes. Pilot projects were started in 1976 with Ford
Foundation assistance and by end-1980 these extended to each of the twelve
regions. Their success led to support for the approach under CIDP I and by
1983 it had become standard practice for all NIA-assisted communal programs.
The approach has been written up in numerous publications, most recently in a
book edited by Korten and Sy. 2/
2.       Figures 1 and 2 illustrates how communal irrigation is organized in
NIA. At the center, the Communal Irrigation Department comes under a Manager
(for locally-funded, CIDP and other communal programs) who reports to the
Assistant Administrator (Operations). Staff are organized in three groups
(engin.ering, farmer assistance, and administrative and financial), with
institutional development the responsibility of farmer assistance staff.
Staff from the Institutional Development Department (IDD) are integrated with
the work of the latter and may work interchangeably on Loth communal and
national irrigation matters. Farmer assistance staff are further divided into
sub-groups fors (i) farmers' assistance and training, (ii) monitoring,
evaluation and statistics, and (iii) feasibility studies. These provide
technical guidance to regional staff who administratively report to the
Regional Director. An Institutional Development Division in each region
provides direction and guidance to Provincial offices which, headed by the
Provincial Irrigation Engineer, are responsible for implementation. At each
level, institutional staff are integrated within NIA's regular organization
and, although there was initial friction between traditional engineering staff
and the new IDO cadre, this has now much abated as the latter has become
established and accepted.
3.       The IDO is the principal field worker, acting as a catalyst in the
generating and sustaining farmer participation. He or she is fielded after
preliminary investigations are completed and the proposed sub-project is
definitely included in the development program. In principle, the IDO is
located in a scheme full-time through planning and construction, and part-time
during the first year of O&M. In practice, this varies depending on staff
1/ Previously termed Irrigation Community Officers (ICOs) for permanent
staff and Irrigation Organization Workers (lIOWs) for temporary staff.
The rapid expansion of the program has entailed recruitment of
substantial numbers of temporary staff who now account for the
majority. Senior supervisory staff are normally permanent.
21 Korten F. P. and Sy R. Y. (eds.): 'Transforming a Bureaucracy: The
Experience of the Philippine National Irrigation Administration",
Kumarian Press, 1988.



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 9
availability aud local requirements. Generally, at any one time, each IDO has
one core project where he or rhe live and one part-time project. IDO
involvement is perhaps less critical in rehabilitation than in new projects
since farmers are familiar with irrigation and there is normally an Irrigator
Association (IA) in place (though perhaps inactive). Consideration is
therefore being given to use of Farmer Irrigator Organizers (FIOs) on
rehabilitation schemes as an alternative to IDOs. FIOs are selected from
among resident farmers and trained appropriately. This approach is uow
standard practice in national systems and a pilot exercise is included under
the project to test it in communal irrigation.
4.       Over the past fifteen years or so, detailed procedures have been
developed to guide staff in planning and implementing communal programs with
the relevant manual 3/ periodically updated. Institutional aspects are
integrated closely with the tec.inical and other aspects at each stage of
project implementation. They are highly formalized to provide a full legal
basis and increase farmer commitment and awareness. Sub-committees are set up
for each major task and the aim is to involve all IA members directly in some
capacity. Although the procedures appear complex, experience suggests that
they are manageable and sound.
IA DEVELOPMENT
S.    Participatory Procedures.  On being assigned to a village, the IDos
first task is to help identify potential leaders. This is undertaken through
both formal and informal discussions. Elections are not usually held until
the by-laws have been formally agreed and adopted. Potential leaders are
appointed as officers (chairman, secretary, treasurer and sector (turnout)
leaders) and together comprise the IA committee. Working sub-committees
established at the pre-construction stage include those for:
-    By-laws, to review the NIA standard by-laws and recommend
modifications and needed to reflect local conditions.
-    SEC Registration, to apply for registration with the Security
Exchange Commission (SEC) so that the IA has a legal personality
and can enter into agreements with NIA and other agencies.
-    Water Permit, to apply for a water permit from the National Water
Resources Council (NWRC) so that the IA has the right to use, the
authority to allocate and distribute, water.
-    Right-of Way, to negotiate ROW on behalf of the IA from both its
members (normally as part of the IA's equity) and any others
involvid.
-   Membership, recruit and screen farmers for membership to the AA.
31 NIA: "Manual of procedures for Participatory Projects*, and 'New and
Updated Guidelines of the Communal Irrigation Development Program
Implementation', May 1988.



- 76 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 9
-    Survey and Design, to review the surveys and designs, make
suggestions and assist NIA in presentation and discussion with
farmers by sector.
-    Manpower Inventory, to establish manpower available to assist in
construction.
6.    Prior to design of the facilities, a general layout is prepared by NIA
and a 'walk-through' is conducted with the farmers in each sector. Farmer
suggestions are taken into account and the general layout is presented to the
IA general assembly. If necessary, further surveys are undertaken before the
final plans and the 'scheme of development' are presented for approval by the
IA general assembly and submission to NIA's Regional and Central Offices.
7.    Once final designs are approved, detailed estimates and an annual
program of work are prepared as a prerequisite for release of funds. The
latter covers schedules for procurement and delivery of materials, equipment,
manpower and finance. The program of work is presented to the IA for
suggestions and, with these taken into account, submitted for NIA's approval.
lAs are encouraged to participate in the bidding process, canvassing among
potential bidders and attending bid opening, etc. Whenever possible, IAs or
local farmers are encouraged to take on 'Pacquiao' or small labor contracts.
Their participation in small package contracts, however, is unusual in view of
licensing and bonding requirements.
8.    With the design and program of work finalized, some two to four
preconstruction conferences are held to agree ont (i) implementation
procedures and schedules, (ii) the IA's role and participation, and (iii) the
formation of construction working committees. Policies and systems for
construction are prepared and agreed; a Memorandum of Understanding (MOA) is
drawn up stipulating the rights and obligations of NIA and the IA during
construction and O&M; and a certificate is prepared by NIA confirming that the
requirements prior to construction have been completed. Each of these is
signed by NIA and the IA.  NIA also undertakes the first 'IA Viability
Evaluationb to assure itself of the IA's capabilities.  Assuming these
measures are satisfactorily completed, construction sub-committees are
mobilized which may include those for:
-    Canvas, Bidding and Procurement, to assist NlIA in bidding and
procurement matters.
-   Manpower and Placement, to help in hiring labor and defining work
arrangements, including labor rrovided by IA members.
-    Quantity and Quality Control, to monitor the quantity and quality
of delivered materials and the quality of the work undertaken by
contractors and NIA.
-    Cost Control (Reconciliation), to check the status of chargeable
cost and equity generation at regular intervals (usually every
month).



- 77 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 9
-    Farmers' Counterpart (Emuity), to prepare and monitor a program for
generating farmer equity contributions -- at least equal to lOS of
total cost -- in the form of labor, cash, materials or rights-of-
way.
9.    The aim is for the IA t   lay a major role by providing needed manpower
and local materials, and helpinq in the planning and decision-making process
throughout construction. Prior to project turnover; a test run of completed
facilities is held jointly by NIA and the IA; a further 'walk through, is
undertaken; an inventory of facilities is prepared; and claims on technical
deficiencies are jointly investigated and, if found justified, a report is
prepared. Repairs and stabilization arising out of the latter are not charged
to the IA loan (if they are due to a typhoon or similar catastrophe, the
Government may have access to special funds for this purpose).
10. Before formal handover to the IA, a pre-O&M Conference is held to
identify O&M needs and responsibilities; appoint O&M personnel from among IA
memberslemployees; review by-laws and organizational structure; and reactivate
or establish standing O&M sub-committees. Depending on requirements, the
latter may include those for audit and inventory; education and training;
complaints and grievances; agriculture; irrigation management; finance; and by
laws.
11. Turnover takes place within six months of project completion. Financial
turnover entails IA acceptance of the total chargeable costs incurred, the
amortization schedule, and the equity generated (documents include the Final
Statement of Chargeable Cost, the Financial Turnover Agreement, the
Amortization Turnover Agreement and the Summary of Chargeable Cost).  Physical
turnover entails the transfer and acceptance of the facilities for O&M
(documents include the final statement of project accounting giving actual
items of work and corresponding costs, the list of facilities, photographs of
completed works, and a project 'as-is' layout). Before entering into the O&M
stage, a further IA 'Viability Evaluation' is undertaken and a 'Communal
Project Accomplishment Report' is prepared on completed technical and
institutional activities. In selected areas NTA is also trying out
alternative methods of cost recovery which involve a one time payment
equivalent to the di-counted value of the amount to be amortized. NIA expects
this approach to be more effective in recovering the chargeable cost in
certain areas.
12. At the start of O&M, membership is updated, the organization of O&H
personnel is decided (if necessary elections are held to replace officers
involved at earlier stages) and the by-laws may be revised. A system
management plan is prepared comprising the proposed cropping plan; a basic
water distribution plan; a 'water crisis' management plan; a maintenance plan:
a conflict management plan; a personnel duties and responsibilities plan; and
a farm-level facilities development plan. These plans are reviewed and if
necessary revised for approval by the IA general assembly. They are
subsequently monitored by the Irrigation Management Committee and, if
necessary, changes are made on a season-by-season basis. In addition to
system management, a Financial Management System has to be established
comprising arrangements for irrigation fee collection, amortization payments,
and regular review and audit of IA financial records.
13. Further IA Viability Evaluations are undertaken after each of the first
two seasons and thereafter at regular intervals based on IDO reports, minutes
of review and planning sessions, IA records and standard forms. The ID0 is



- 78 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 9
normally withdrawn after two seasons provided the IA is viable although he or
she may continue in contact with the IA on an intermittent basis.
14.   Once the IA has fully paid the chargeable cost, which it is free to do
in advance of the due date if it wishes, it is issued with a Certificate of
the Ownership of the System signed by the NIA Administrator, attached to which
are the record of payment and an amortization reconciliation.
15.   IA Training.  Initial pilot experimental work and experience to date
have resulted in a clearly formulated approach to IA training in support of
the participatory approach. Training focuses on assisting the IA in
developing capacities to manage their organization, finances and O&M
activities. Corresponding to these, three basis courses are scheduled at
appropriate stages of IA formation and project implementation:
_    Basic Leadership Development Course (BLDC).  A 3-4 day course given
immediately after the IA is established to its directors, officers
and sector leaders. It emphasizes the process of IA development,
group dynamics, interaction and feedback, and skills needed in
leadership. It thus provides an essential introduction to the
participator- approach.
-    Financial Management Training (FMT).  A 3-4 day program provided
before the project is formally handed over, given to the IA's
directors, officers and finance conmittee members. It is designed
to assist it in the efficient management of the IA's finances.
-    System Management Training (SMT).  A 4-5 day course given to the
director, officers, service committee members and sector leaders
just before the scheme is handed over.   The course is designed to
assist the IA to develop capabilities in the efficient management
of irrigation O&M and to develop actual plans for the O&M of their
system.
16.   Modules have been developed for each of these courses which have evolved
after very considerable experience. For instance, during the period January
1987 through June 1989 a total of 1,111 IA trainings were carried out,
involving 31,842 participants, an average of about 30 per batch. A total of
1,168 trainings involving 35,185 participants were programmed for 1989 alone.
17.   Training objectives, guidelines and basic modules are prepared by the
central office which also allocates funds and trains a core group of trainers
in each region (the Regional Core Group or RCG). The RCG adapts basic
materials as necessary, trains the provincial core groups (PCG), and evaluates
both training and post-training performance. The PCG conducts the training
courses, with assistance from the RCG, after carrying out a bench-mark survey
and training needs analysis in each IA.
18.   Resolution of Problems Identified under CIDP I. During the
implementation of CIDP I, NIA identified a number of problems relating to the
organization and development of lAs. These need to be examined and rectified
under CIDP II. These problems include:



- 79 -
ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 9
-    IA Self-Reliance.  NIA*s objective is to help establish self-
reliant and self-sustaining TAs fully responsible for their own
facilities and activities. There are, however, indications that
the intensive participatory approach may occasionally have an
opposite effect, leading to unhealthy dependence on NIA and to a
gradual deterioration in the IA's performance if NIA's involvement
is not continued.
-    IA Organization.  Organizational and procedural arrangements have
generally proved satisfactory but there is a tendency for them to
become routine rather tnan being adapted to specific circumstance.
Examples where this is significant include adoption of by-laws, the
establishment of committees and the sub-division of the command
area into sectors.
-    Financial Aspects.  Weaknesses are evident in this critical area,
as reflected in poor levels of amortization payment and record
keeping. In part this is related to NIA's own procedures so that
improved coordination between NIA divisions is necessary, as well
as modifications and improvements in training and monitoring.
-    Coordination with Other Agencies.  NIA has coordinated to varying
degrees with other Government agencies at the local level but the
results have been mixed, and IA access to agricultural extension,
credit, marketing, transport and similar services is often
inadequate. In some areas, there has been a limited attempt to
involve NGOs in supporting lAs but possible role has yet to be
fully determined.
19.   These aspects are often inter-related.  In particular, IA self-reliance
and independence can be associated closely with financial performance.
Successful lAs often appear to be those which have diversified into other
activities, using the IA structure and the cooperation it fosters to generate
resources and action in complementary investments (e.g. in threshing floors,
storage facilities, marketing, etc.), all of which are closely related to an
ability to generate and manage additional funds. Moving too fast and on too
large a scale into such areas carries a risk that the primary IA focus on
irrigation O&M will be over-shadowed by financially more ambitious activities.
Nevertheless, steps have been taken to allow TAs to be registered as profit-
making entities with the Securities antd Exe-hanue Commission (SEC) and it is
hoped that this will help sustain and develop their performance in the future.
20.   Under the ongoing USAID-supported Accelerated Agriculture Project (AAP)
a series of impact and evaluation studies are being undertaken by the
International Irrigation Management Institute (IINI) in association with local
research and academic agencies. 4/   These studies are located in three
regions (Region V in Luzon, Region VI in the Visayas and Region X in
Mindanao), and will include assessments of the sustainability of communal
irrigation projects and IAs, the effectiveness of NIA training programs, and
4/ See the report of the Seminar-Workshop on the Review of Irrigation
Research methodologies, held at PCARRD in Los Banos in January, 1990
and sponsored by IDMI, NIA, PCARRD and USAID.



- 80 -
ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 9
aspects of system design. The reports of these activities will be furnished
to the Bank for review and, in the light of their results and recommendations.
modifications to present procedures will be agreed and implemented as
necessary.
21.   As already stated (para. 3), NIA will also undertake a pilot
investigation of the potential for employing FIOs in place of full-time IDOs
in rehabilitation schemes where an IA is already in existence. TOR will be
agreed at negotiations and tentative provision is made in the cost estimates.
22.   The other problems mentioned above are discussed elsewhere in this
report -- financial aspects in para 2.11 and coordination with other agencies
and the potential role of NGOs in paras 2.18-2.19).
NIA STAFFING AND STAFF TRAINING
23.   Staffing for CIDP II.  NIA follows the participatory approach
irrespective of the source of funds for its communal activities so that the
large program proposed (Section 1.30) will require employment and training of
a substantial staff establishment. In anticipation of this, NIA had employed
about 870 IDOs at end 1989. Further recruitment is in progress and NIA
estimates that more than 1,000 IDOs will be required by 1992 if its ambitious
targets are to be achieved. This estimate discounts the possibility that the
FIO pilot program will have an impact although clearly IDOs numbers would send
to be lower to the extent that this is successful.
24.   CIDP II will take up only a relatively small proportion of total staff
time although, since the project area covers the country, relevant staff will
be widely distributed. It would be neither possible, nor desirable, to create
a separate CIDP II cadre so staff will be employed inter-changeably at the
regional and provincial levels on CIDP II and other programs. Estimates of
the incremental number of IDOs engaged on CIDP II schemes must be based on the
equivalent number required rather than identification of specific individuals
since, where convenient, a particular IDOs will be involved in both CIDP II
and non-CIDP II schemes. Similarly, staff at the provincial and regional
levels will supervise all institutional staff within their respective
jurisdictions. Such staff are crucial to successful implementation of the
CIDP II though project schemes will account for a relatively small proportion
of the total program. Because of this, and in order to strengthen the
communal program as a whole, it has been agreed that costs of provincial and
regional supervision will be fully funded under CIDP II. At the national
level, the IDD has responsibility for controlling and monitoring the
institutional development program (Annex 5, para 6). In addition a small unit
in CID will be responsible for project implementation including submission of
regular progress reports (Annex 4, para 9).
25.   CIDP II Training.  NIA has developed a strong program of staff training
to complement that given to the IAs already described. IDOs are given four
types of basic courses:
-    Field Exposure.  A 7-day program included as part of the
recruitment process to orientate and assess prospective IDOs. NLA
allows for a drop-out rate of one in three (three individuals are
trained for every two that are recruited).



- 81 -
ANNEX 4
Page 8 of 9
-    Pre-Deployment.  A two-week live-in training program on concepts,
policies and guidelines relating to the participatory approach.
This may be divided into two separate sessions, comprising pre-
construction and construction modules.
-    'Facilitator' Training or training of trainers, conducted in each
region each year for newly recruited IDOs to provide them with the
skills necessary to participate in training programs and to join
the 'Provincial Core Groups'. The modules last respectively 5 days
for BLDC, 5 days for the FMT and 7 days for the SMT.
-    Staff Development.  In addition to these basic training activities,
a 3-day staff development training session is undertaken annually
in each region for all IDOs to correct deficiencies and update
their knowledge of revised procedures and materials.
26.   In addition to organized training courses, there is a well-developed
system of regular coordination and review meetings. At the provincial level,
monthly meetings comprising all technical and institutional staff evaluate
progress of projects under implementation and the performance of completed
systems. At the regional level, there is a quarterly review and planning
conference which reviews, assess and plans the overall regional program.
Although these meetings have functioned reasonably well, they are to be
reviewed to assess whether any modifications are required for implementation
under CIDP II>
27.   In developing the staff training component to be funded under CIDP II, a
similar approach has been taken to that adopted in estimating the staff costs
themselves. In respect of training of IDOs, an amount has been allowed
corresponding to the staff required for CIDP II schemes, recognizing in
practice that individual staff will not be separately assigned to CIDP II. At
the provincial and regional levels, however, in order to strengthen the
communal program as a whole and because it is not possible to separate out
specifically that element associated with CIDP II, it has been agreed that
costs of the staff development and quarterly review and planning meetings will
be fully funded under CIDP II.
COST ESTIMATES
28.   Staff Costs.  Annex 3, Table 1 presents estimates of staff costs under
CIDP II based on the approach described above.  The assumptions on which the
table is based need some elaboration (the detailed assumption are presented in
the footnotes to the table)s
-    lAs to be organizedlstrenathened.  It is assumed that 65 new
projects and 115 rehabilitation projects will be included under
CIDP II, with the start-up program as indicated in the footnote to
the table. There is a bias towards the early years with no further
schemes started in the last 18 months to ensure completion within
five years.
-    IDO numbers.  Deployment of ID0s corresponds to the lAs to be
organizedistrengthened. It is assumed that an IDO is involved in



- 82 -
ANNEX 4
Page 9 of 9
each scheme for 2.5 years but on average he/she will be responsible
for two schemes. In other words, an IDO will spend the equivalent
of 1.25 years full time on each scheme.
Regional and Provincial Supervision.  As stated, the full costs of
the Supervising Irrigation Association Officers (SIAO) at the
regional level and the Provincial Supervisors at the provincial
level have been included.
Central Supervision.  This covers staff responsible for
implementation of CIDP II in Manila, together with the costs of two
special activities to be financed under the project (the pilot PIO
program and the evaluation of the factors affecting IA self-
reliance and sustainability).
29.   Training Costs.  Annex 4, Table 2 summarizes training costs to be funded
under CIDP II. IA training costs correspond to those required in respect of
the schemes to be constructed/rehabilitated under the project. The schedule
has been phased evenly over the five years rather than directly in relation to
the schemes coming into the program since there will inevitably be some
slippage. In addition to training for CIDP II schemes, an allowance has been
made for four rehabilitation and eight new schemes carried over from CIDP I
and for a refresher 'System Management Training' for each of completed CIDP I
scheme. As for staff training, the numbers of IDOs to be trained correspond
to those allowed for in Annex 4. Table 1, while (as stated above) the staff
development and quarterly review and planning training will be fully funded
under the CIDP II.



- 83 -
ANNEX 4
Table 1
PHILTPPINES
SECOND COMMUNAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Staff Costs: Institutional Develoament 1990-95
(w0ow Pesos)
1990    1991      1992      1998      1994      1996    Tot.. I
IDOs /
Salaries and Allowancme       1,184    4,158    4,212      8,240    2,822        918    16,984
Travel                          126      462       468       860       268       102     1,778
Supplies                         18       46        47        86        28        10       178
Sub-total                    .L27    4.ee      4.727    ae         3eo8      _L0_30    17.938
Provincial Sup rvision 
Remuneration                     -    8,618      3,618     8,618     8,618     8,618    18,090
Travel                           -       568       568       563       Su6       663    2,815
Supplies and aterials            -        80        80        80        80        80       400
Sub-total                      -    4.261      4.261     4.281     4.261     4.261   21,805
l q_onrl Sup rvtoton g/
Rmuneration                      -       907       907       807       907       907     4,636
Travel                           -       216       216       216       216       216     1,080
Supplies and Materials           -       144       144       144       144       144       720
Sub-total                      -     1.287     1.267     1.267     1.267     1.267     6.3s5
Central Offiee Supervision I/
Remuneration                     -       130       s8o       1S0       180       130       650
Travel                           -        48        48        48        48        48       240
supplies and Materials           -        12        12        12        12        12        8o
Special Activities
(t) FlO Pilot Program           -        72        86        88         -        -       264
(ii) IA Evalustion               -         _ -            -              -        -         -
Sub-total                      -       262       286       286       190       100     1.214
Orand Total                   1.278  10.456    10.451    9.450 W      8324    6.748   48.792
9a-:
a/ Aesutna for CIDP II:    1900   10(    1992   1998  1994   1095  Total
I" to be orani zd       -12       22      12      14  --1         -     -a
IAs to be strngthened     sO      80      26      22      7       -     115
No of IDOs                21      6o      69      69    42       12    ".e.
y  Provincial Supervisors for 67 provinces at P4,000/month (salary), P?OO/month (travel),
P100/Month (supplies).
2   One SOO Supervisor at PS,600/month (salary), P1,500/month (travel), P1,000/month (supplies plus
clorktal toslst&nico).
gJ Sptifit costu of CIDP II Cstbr  Office Staff and fIO pilot program.



- 84 -
ANNEX 4
Table 2
PHILIPINES
SECOND COMWUNAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IA and Staff Trainina Costs: Institutional Develoseent 1990-96
('000 Pesos)
1990     1991      1992       195      1994      M199      Total
Former Trainiag /
CIDP I W: FMS                    -      100         90         -         -          -       190
SiUT                -       800       494       494        390       403      2,171
CIOP II:    BLDC               laS      248        136       158        S6          -       731
FUS                 -       473       565       428        405       135      2,026
SMT                 -       646       670       494        468       1S6      2,340
Total                    135    1.767     1.980      1.574     1.818        694     7.458
Staff Training
Field Exposure                    183       58          -         -          -         -       191
Pro-Deployment                     99       48         22         -          -         -        199
Fatilitators                        -      13O        122        57         1S         -       324
Sub-total                281      234       144         57        15          -       e0l
Staff Dve lopment g/
Sub-total                  -      757       757       7L7        767        767     3.765
Quarterly Review A Planninn e/
Sub-total                  -      772       772        772       772        772     8 86
Total                    231    1.762     1.N73      l.t8      I          1.529     8.826
Notes:
3/ BLDC - Basce Leadership Development Course/Group Dynamics (after IA organization).
FUS - Financial Management Systems Seminar/Cost Reconciliation (bdfore start of construction).
SiT - System Management Training (after system completion).
M Carryover from C1OP I, 17 systems.
g/ Total costa of *tff devolopment and quarterly training program.



- 85 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 4
PHILIPPINES
SECOND COMMUNAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation
Management Information Systems
1.        Management Information Systems (MIS) at both IA and NIA levels would
be strengthened under the project through funding for training and related
expenditures.
2.        Internal IA Monitoring and Reporting.  IAs are fully responsible for
the O&M of communal irrigation schemes. By analogy with the Irrigation
Management Information System (IMIS) being tested out for national systems
under the IOSP (Ln. 2954-PH), a program has been initiated under the USAID-
supported Accelerated Agricultural Project (AAP) to develop and introduce on a
pilot basis an !A Management Information System (IAMIS). This is a simple
monitoring and recording system that is an integral element of system O&M.
Three basic reporting forms are proposed:
(a) IAMIS Form 1: 'Record of Farming Activities and ISF Collection'.
This is to be updated each week throughout the crop season by the
sector leaders for submission to the "System Management Committee
(SMC)H. The data provided are consolidated by the SMC. and provide
a simple picture to IA management of cropping progress (e.g. for
paddy the nursery, puddling, transplanting, establishment and
terminal drainage stages) and financial performance.
(b) AIMIS Form IA: 'Summative Record of Farming Activities and ISF
Collection'. This form is to be prepared by the IA head at the end
of each season, and provides the detailed basis for completing Form
2 (see below). Essentially it consolidates all the information
received on a weekly basis using Form 1.
(c) IAMIS Form 2: 'Seasonal O&M Performance Assessment'. This form is
to be completed by the IA head and submitted to the Provincial
Irrigation Engineer (PIE). It summarizes the information on
cropping and ISF collection derived from Form lA; presents a simple
income and expenditure account, including income derived from
sources other than ISF collection; and calculates the IA's financial
viability on both an ISF basis and also on a basis that also takes
other income into account. The form is reviewed by the PIE before
being submitted to the Regional Irrigation Manager.
3.        Training in the use and implementation of these forms is provided to
IA officers and committee members in the Financial Management (FMT) and
Systems Management Training modules (Annex 4, para. 15). The system aims to



- 86 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 4
syetemize the IA's record-keeping and establish a regular seasonal report to
NIA on performance.
4.        The AAP is confined to three regions (Regions V, VI and X).  The
IAMIS pilot program is being implemented in a total of 18 CISs (6 in each
region) as well as being introduced in a number of national systems (covering
about 4 IAs in each of 3 NISs). The program was initially scheduled over the
period 1989-91 and inter alia is being evaluated by the on-going IINI
supported research programs (Annex 4, para. 20).
5.        Pending the outcome of this evaluation, it is expected that IA
training will include training on IAMIS as a matter of routine.  The project
will fund these activities in relation to carryover CIDP I and CIDP II schemes
under its regular training allocations (Annex 4, Table 2). The extent to
which the IAMIS system will be introduced in practice will depend on the
outcome of the AAP pilot program.
6.        NIA:  CIS Monitoring and Reporting.  NIA's internal monitoring and
reporting system for communal irrigation has recently been revised and
detailed procedures and forms have been developed.11 Implementation of this
system is the responsibility of institutional development staff at each level
as part of their regular activities. The system can be summarized as follows:
(a) IDO Level. By end-September, under the guidance of provincial IDD
staff, each IDO prepares trn annual program of work covering the IAs
for which he/she is responsible. This is monitored by a monthly
action plan for the following month, and a monthly accomplishment
report for the preceding month, which the IDO submits on a regular
basis to the PIE.
(b) Provincial Level: By mid-October, the Provincial Irrigation
Engineer (PIE) consolidates the plans of the individual IDOS into an
annual Institutional Development (IDP) Report for submission to
Regional Irrigation Manager (RIM) and the IDD in Manila, which is
monitored through a quarterly IDP accomplishment report.
(c) Regional Level: The regional offlce submits a quarterly summary IDP
report to Manila comparing targets with actual outcome for both CISs
and CIPs. A detailed status report is submitted quarterly for CIPs,
and seasonally for CISs, providing information on the status of IA
development and of O&M respectively (the latter ideally be based on
the IAMIS Form 2). In addition, more detailed quarterly training
and training accomplishment reports are prepared, and the regional
office reports monthly by radio on training activities and financial
status.
1I   NIA:  Planning and Monitoring Formats for Institutional Development
Programs in Communal Irrigation Systems/Projects, October 2, 1989.



- 87 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 4
7.        The Provincial and Regional Offices at present also separately
submit an annual report on the status of all communal irrigation schemes in
their jurisdictions (not only for NIA-assisted but also for other public-
assisted and private schemes). This is used to update a comprehensive
register of communal schemes. The accuracy of this data is very variable.
The submission on NIA-assisted schemes will in future be based directly on the
revised institutional development reports but, for other schemes in particular
private schemes which do not have direct, information will continue to come
from a variety of uncertain sources.
8.        At first sight, this reporting system appears fairly complex and
there have been teething problems as provincial and regional staff become used
to the new procedures. Nevertheless, once the system is in place, it should
prove manageable although this should be kept under review. IDD staff are
responsible for the new system, and no allowance has been made in addition to
those already covered by the IDD estimates. The project will support its
implementation through its funding for: (i) central, regional and provincial
supervisory staff, (ii) regular staff development and quarterly planning
sessions, and (iii) IDO and IA training and development (see Annex 4, Tables 1
and 2).
9.        CIDP TI Reporting:  Regular reports will be prepared at the
provincial and regional levels on implementation of CID? II and these will be
consolidated by the Central Office for submission to the Bank. Satisfactory
reporting formats have been developed in the context of CIDP I. Where
appropriate, these reports will include information from NIA's internal MIS.
However, by their nature, CIDP II reports will be prepared only so long as the
project is under implementation in contrast to NIA's MIS which will be
permanent.
The Proiect Benefit Monitoring and Evaluation (PBME) System
10.       The project benefit monitoLtng and evaluation svstem was established
under CIDP I in order to generate independent feedback to NIA and the Bank on
the impact of the project and the benefits derived therefrom. The objective
was to learn from experience gained under the project. PBME staff are located
at each of the regional offices, reporting to a small office in Manila, to
undertake regular surveys of a sample of both project and ncn.-project schemes.
These surveys comprise three main types:
(a)  Comprehensive Base Line Surveys prior to implementt ion.  Subjects
covered include such matters as farmer organ4zation, water use, crop
performance and agricultural incomes. The aim is to provide an
objective base on which to subsequently judge the project's
performance.
(b) Seasonal Farm Management Surveys for the sample are undertaken for a
total of four seasons following hand-over to the IA to record the
project's impact on crop production and related aspects.



- 88 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 4
(C) Ex-post Evaluation Surveys, comparable to the base line surveys, to
provide a comprehensive measure of the impact of the project.
11.       Detailed manuals and questionnaires have been prepared for each type
of survey and PBME staff have been trained in appropriate interview, data
processing and related techniques. The amount of data collected has, however,
been considerable and some have had only limited relevance to the primary
purpose of the PBME program. It has been agreed that the questionnaires will
be reviewed and revised as appropriate. Three other major lessons which
emerge from past experience are first, that four seasons cover a relatively
short period over which to establish the project's impact on agricultural
practices; secondly, that the surveys as currently designed give inadequate
attention to water supply and rainfall and to the impact that these can have
on a particular year's performance; and thirdly, that non-CIDP projects have
been inadequately covered. Modifications will therefore have been agreed to
rectify these problems.
12.       Under CIDP I, a sample of 100 schemes was taken for CIDP I,
including 12 non-CIDP I schemes to act as a control (one in each region). The
balance were all constructed or rehabilitated under the project. The status
of the survey program reflects the stage reached in the implementation of the
project and, to date, although a number of ex-post evaluation surveys have
been carried out, no reports have been finalized. CIDP II will continue to
support this program so that it can be completed. For the future, since the
sample has proved to be somewhat large and difficult to manage and, it has
been agreed that a smaller sample of 24 CIDP II schemes and 24 non-CIDP
schemes would be studied. These would be distributed throughout the country
to provide a reasonable geographical spread, and competent statistical
techniques would be used to select the farmers to be interviewed in each
scheme.
13.       Table 1 summarizes tue surveys that are scheduled, including those
outstanding from CIDP 1. Table 2 summarizes the cost estimates for PBME staff
during the course of CIDP II.



- 89 -                                ANNEX 5
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
SECOND COMMUNAL IRRIGATION Dr ELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Scheduled of PBME Surveys /a
No. of
Activities                       Sample                   Year
Projects   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
A. PBME I (CIDP I) Sample Proiects
1.  Remaining EPE works /b                 32      17     15       -      -       -
2.  O&H (after EPE) Jc                     24      24      -      24      _      24
B. CIDP II Projects /d
1.  Beucbmark Surveys (BMS)                24      12     12       -      -       -
2.  O&M Monitoring (OMK)                   24       -     12      24     12       -
3.  Ex-Post Evaluation (EPE)               24       -      -       -     12      12
C. Locally Funded Projects le
1.  Bencbmark Surveys                      24      12     12       -      -       -
2.  O&M Monitoring                         24       -     12      24     12       -
3. Ex-Post Evaluation                      24       -      -       -     12     12
Total Projects to be Surveyed If    104        65     63      72     48     48
'a Covers PBME sample projects only.
Jb Remaining surveys from PBME I (CIDP I) sample subprojects.
/c Selected 24 sample projects from PBME I (12 foreign funded and 12 locally financed
projects) with completed BMS, OMM and EPE.
/d New projects under CIDP II.
le Locally funded projects with same implementation schedule as CIDP II.
/f Excluding remaining works for EPE, the regular sample subprojects for PBME are as
followss
1.  For O&M (after EPE)              24
2.  For CIDP II projects             24
3.  For control (locally funded)    24
72



PHILIPPINES
SECOND COMMUNAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PBME Cost Estimates
1991         1992          1993         1994          19;5          Total
A. Personnel Services
1. Salaries/Wages          3,096,030    3,096,030    3,096,030    3,096.030    3,096,030        15,480,150
2. Employees Benefits      1,264,540    1,264,540    1,264,540    1,264,540    1,264,540         6,322,700
3. Traveling Expenses      1,174,080    1,174,080    1,174,080    1,174,080    1,174,080         5,870,400
Sub-Total          5,534,650    5,534,650    5,534,650    5,534,650    5,534,650         27,673,250
B. Supplies/Materials
1. Office Supplies           108,000       108,000      108,000       108,000      108,000         540,000
2. Fuel and Oil              332,640       332,640      332,640       332,640       332,640      1,663,200
Sub-Total             440,640      440,640       440,640      440,640       440,640       2,203,200
C. Office Furnitures/
Equipment                    123,500          -            -             -             -           123,500
Total              6,098,840    5,975,290    5,795,290    5,975,290    5,795,290         30,000,000



-91 -
ANNEX 6
PHILIPPINES
SECOND COMMUNAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Aspects
Rice SUPply and Demand
1.        Paddy production in the 1980s registered sustained increases, except
for the drought years of 1983 and 1987 when it declined by 13.12 and 7.6Z
respectively (Table 1). During 1988-89, paddy output grew by 5.02 and 5.4
respectively.
2.        While rice supply was adequate for most years, the Philippines has
been intermittently involved in rice exports and imports (Table 2). In 1980,
net exports reached about 263,000 tons; in 1981, 95,000 tons. The 1983
drought led to imports in 1984 of 188,000 tons. As rice supply was short in
1985, a total of 538,000 tons was then procured. With a bumper crop in 1986,
the country unloaded some 111,000 tons in 1987, primarily as repayment-in-
kind of an Indonesian rice loan transacted a year earlier. The 1987 drought
led to an import of 181,000 tons in 1988, and typhoon damage in late 198C
necessitated the importation of about 220,000 tons in 1989. Import
autLorization for about 200,000 tons out of a planned 400,000 tons has at
present been made for 1990, to offset the effect of the current drought as
well as low beginning stocks.
Inudividual Sample System ERRs
3.        The ERRs of the 36 sample systems range from about 6? to 502.
Res.lts at export parity prices are also provided for illustrative purposes,
although Philippines is not presently expected to become a regular rice
exporter (Table 8). In respect of the 23 sample systems for rehabilitation,
the ERRs range from 6.41 to 38.32 (with an average ERR of 21.4?. The ERRs for
the 13 sample systems for new construction range from 8S to 50.5? (with an
average ERR of 17.81). An analysis of the frequency distribution of ERRs
(Table 9) shows that about 8? of the systems have ERRs of less chan 10?; 53?
have ERRs between 10X and 252 and 392 have ERRs over 25Z.



- 92 -
ANNEX 6
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
SECOND COMMUNAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Paddy Production, 1980-89
Calendar          Production           Growth Rate
Year               ('000)               (X p.a.)
1980                7,646                     -
1981               7,911                    3.5
1982               8,334                    5.4
1983               7,295                  (12.5)
1984                7,829                   7.3
1985               8,806                   12.5
1986               9,247                    5.0
1987               8,540                   (7.6)
1988               8,971                    5.0
1989               9,459                    5.4
Source: Bureau of Agricultural Statistics. Rice
Statistics Handbook. October 1989.
Department of Agriculture, Rice Situation,
Policies and Action Plan, February 1990.



- 93 -
ANNEX 6
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
SECOND COMKUNAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RiLe Supply and Demand
(*000 ton)
Supply                             Demand
Stock    Prod-                   Feed &            Use             Stock
Calendar   Begin.   tion     Net    Total   Waste    Food    Per    Total       End.
Year     Year      la      Imp.             /b      Total   Cap.   Demand    Year
1980       1,885   4,801    (263)  6,423    323      4,453   92.2    4,776    1,646
1981       1,646   4,975    ( 95)  6,526    334      4,582   92.5    4,916    1,611
1982       1,611   5,254    ( 1)  6,864    352       4,646   91.5    4,998    1,866
1983       1,866   4,607    ( 40)  6,433    309      4,632   89.0    4,941    1,491
1984       1,491   4,965     188   6,644    333      5,164   96.8    5,497    1,147
1985       1,147   5,597     538   7,282    374      5,153   94,3    5,527    1,755
1986       1,755   5,878       2   7,635    393      5,224   93.3    5,617    2,017
1987       2,017   5,425    (111)  7,331    363      5,394   94.0    5,757    1,575
1988       1,575   5,701     181   7,457    381      5,559   94.7    5,940    1,518
1989       1,518   6,015     220   7,753    402      5,871   97.7    6,273    1,479
1990       1,479
Source: BAS
la Net of seed requirement of 75 kglha.
/b 6.51 of total rice production



- 94 -
ANNEX 6
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
SECOND COMMUNAL IRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Economic Benefits and Costs la
(ptO0O)
Benefits    Benefits                                           Net
With      Without      Incremental   Capital    O&M      Incremental
Year     Project      Project      Benefits       Cost lb   Cost      Benefits
1990      56,233       56,233            0          189          0       (189)
1991      54,048       54,207         (159)      56,850          0    (57,009)
1992      55,716       52,436       3,280        47,897        180    (44,797)
1993      63,224       50,491      12,733        26,571        448    (14,286)
1994      72,111       49,903      22,208         8,668        798     12,742
1995      75,758       47,142      28,616             0      1,118     27,498
1996      78,973       47,121      31,852             0      1,102     30,750
1997      80,863       47,364      33,499           551      1,987     30,961
1998      82,044       47,746      34,298            95     2,335      31,868
1999      82,542       47,988      34,554            19     2,827      31,708
2000      80,947       48,217      32,730            19      1,485     31,226
2001      80,947       48,217      32,730             0      1,065     31,665
2002      80,947       48,217      32,730             0        607     32,123
2003      80,947       48,217      32,730           551      1,884     30,295
2004      80,947       48,217      32,730            95      2,284     30,351
2005      80,947       48,217      32,730            19      2,808     29,903
2006      80,947       48,217      32,730            19     1,485      31,226
2007      80,947       48,217      32,730            19      1,065     31,646
2008      80,947       48,217      32,730            19        607     32,104
2009      80,947       48,217      32,730           551      1,884     30,295
2010      80,947       48,217      32,730            95     2,284      30,351
2011      80,947       48,217      32,730            19      2,808     29,903
2012      80,947       48,217      32,730            19      1,485     31,226
2013      80,947       48,217      32,730             0      1,065     31,665
2014      80,947       48,217      32,730             0        607     32,123
2015      80,947       48,217      32,730           551      1,884     30,295
2016      80,947       48,217      32,730            95     2,284      30,351
2017      80,947       48,217      32,730            19      2,808     29,903
2018      80,947       48,217      32,730            19      1,485     31,226
2019      80,947       48,217      32,730             0      1,065     31,665
Economic Rate of Return (ERR):                     about 192
Net Present Value (NPV) at 1O0:                    90,564
Net Present Value (NPV) at 152:                    23,977
/a   Overall for 36 sample systems, at import parity.
Lb   Indirect project capital costs were allocated to the 36 systems on the
basis of area coverage; capital costs from 1997 onwards are replacements
for motorcyles.



- 95 -
ANNEX 6
Table 4
PHILIPPINES
SECOND COMKUNAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Economic Benefits and Costs /a
(P-000)
Benefits    Benefits                                          Net
With      Without      Incremental   Capital    O&M      Incremental
Year     Project      Project      Benefits       Cost Lb   Cost      Benefits
1990    40,207         40,207             0         189          0        -(189)
1991    38,338         38,538        -(200)      56,875          0     -(57,075)
1992    38,536         37,113        1,423       47,897        169     -(46,643)
1993    41,944         35,566        6,378       26,571        415     -(20,608)
1994    44,975         34,277       10,698        8,668        719        1,311
1995    45,959         32,871       13,088            0     1,005        12,083
1996    47,740         33,030       14,710            0        990       13,720
1997    48,851         33,264       15,587          551     1,802        13,234
1998    49,610         33,679       15,931           95     2,290        13,546
1999    48,861         33,914       14,947           19     2,760        12,168
2000    49,805         34.167       15,638           19     1,427        14,192
2001    49,805         34,167       15,638            0        951       14,687
2002    49,805         34,167       15,638            0        507       15,131
2003    49,805         34,167       15,638          551     1,771        13,316
2004    49,805         34,167       15,638           95     2,215        13,328
2005    49,805         34,167       15,638           19     2,697        12,922
2006    49,805         34,167       15,638           19     1,427        14,192
2007    49,805         34,167       15,638           19        951       14,668
2008    49,805         34,167       15,638           19        507       15,112
2009    49,805         34,167       15,638          551     1,771        13,316
2010    49,805         34,167       15,638           95     2,215        13,328
2011    49,805         34,167       15,638           19     2,697        12,922
2012    49,805         34,167       15,638           19     1,427        14,192
2013    49,805         34,167       15,638            0        951       14,687
2014    49,805         34,167       15,638            0        507       15,131
2015    49,805         34,167       15,638          551     1,771        13,316
2016    49,805         34,167       15,638           95     2,215        13,328
2017    49,805         34,167       15,638           19     2,697        12,922
2018    49,805         34,167       15,638           19     1,427        14,192
2019    49,805         34,167       15,638            0        951       14,687
Economic Rate of Return (ERR):                about 82
Net Present Value (NPV) at 102:               -19,106
Net Present Value (NPV) at 15?:                41,787
la   Overall for 36 sample systems, at export parity.
lb   Indirect project capital costs were allocated to the 36 systems on the
basis of area coverage; capital costs from 1997 onwards are replacements
for motorcycles.



- 96 -
ANNEX 6
Table S
PHILIPPINES
SECOND COMMUNAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proiect Financial Benefits and Costs 1a
(9'000)
Benefits    Benefits                                          Net
With      Without      Incremental   Capital    O&M      Incremental
Year     Project     Project       Benefits      Cost lb   Cost      Benefits
1990      59,391     59,391              0        198         0          (198)
1991      59,391     59,391              0     98,684         0      (98,684)
1992      64,842     58,840          6,002     64,061       138      (58,197)
1993      81,662     58,360         23,302     34,800       325      (11,823)
1994     100,435     57,963         42,472     10,370       555       31,547
1995     109,892     57,523         52,369        539       642       51,188
1996     115,634     57,345         58,289           0      674       57,615
1997     118,510     57,205         61,305           0    3,036       58,269
1998     119,870     57,103         62,767           0    3,774       58,993
1999     120,259     57,023         63,236           0    4,144       59,092
2000     121,005     56,953         64,052           0    2,227       61,825
2001     121,005     56,953         64,052           0    1,162       62,890
2002     121,005     56,953         64,052           0      674       63,378
2003     121,005     56,953         64,052           0    3,036       61,016
2004     121,005     56,953         64,052           0    3,774       60,278
2005     121,005     56,953         64,052           0    4,144       59,908
2006     121,005     56,953         64,052           0    2,227       61,825
2007     121,005     56,953         64,052           0    1,162       52,890
2008     121,005     56,953         64,052           0      674       63,378
2009     121,005     56,953         64,052           0    3,036       61,016
2010     121,005     56,953         64,052          0    3,774        60,278
2011     121,005     56,953         64,052           0    4,144       59,908
2012     121,005     56,953         64,052           0    2,227       61,825
2013     121,005     56,953         64,052           0    1,162       62,890
2014     121,005     56,953         64,052           0      674       63,378
2015     121,005     56,953         64,052           0    3,036       61,016
2016     121,005     56,953         64,052           0    3,774       60,278
2017     121,005     56,953         64,052           0    4,144       59,908
2018     121,005     56,953         64,052          0    2,227        61,825
2019     121,005     56,953         64,052           0    1,162       62,890
Financial Rate of Return (PRR)s                   about 23Z
Net Present Value (NPV) at 1Os                    222,090
Net Present Value (NPV) at 152:                     85,660
la Overall for 36 sample systems.
lb Indirect project capital costs were allocated to the 36 systems
on the basis of area coverage.



- 97 -
ANNEX 6
Table 6
PHILIPPINES
SECOND COMMUNAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis
Financial                Economic
Rate of Return          Rate of Return
(2)                      (Z)
Base Case                                    22.8                       18.6
Capital Costs
Up lox                                     21.0                       17.0
up 152                                     20.2                       16.3
up 202                                     19.5                       15.6
Incremental Project Benefits:
Down 102                                   20.8                       16.7
Down 152                                   19.7                       15.8
Down 202                                   18.7                       14.8
Delayed one year                           19.4                       16.0
Delayed two years                          17.0                       14.1
Delayed three years                        15.2                       12.6
Combination of:
Capital costs up 12 and
Incremental Project Benefits
delayed by one year                        18.0                       14.7
Capital costs up lOZ
and Benefits with Project
delayed by one year                        18.2                       15.3



- 98 -
ANNEX 6
Table 7
PHILIPPINES
SECOND COMMUNAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMELf PROJECT
Switching Values
(At Import Parity)
Base                    At ERR of
Item                           Case             15X              10l
Absolute Values
Cropping Intensity (2)            177              168             156
Yield (tonlha)
- Wet Season                      3.5             3.2              2.7
- Dry Season                      3.7             3.3              2.7
World Rice Price
5 broken, FOE
Bangkok                           240             216              189
Benefits with
Project Delay (Yrs.)                0                2               6
Incremental Project
Eenefits Delay (Yrs.)             0             1.5                5
Per Cent 2 Chanmes
from Ease Case
DS Area                             -              -11             -27
Yields  WS                          -               -9             -24
s DS                           -             -10              -26
CIF Price                           -               -9             -20
Benefits with Project               -               -6             -14
Incremental Project
Benefits                          -             -19              -43
Production
Cost Before Labor                  -             +24              +55
Labor Cost                          -            +110             +260
Capital Costs                       -             +25              +86



-99 -                             ANNEX 6
Table 8
PHILIPPINES
SECOND COMMUNAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sample Systema Summary Data
1.   Proportiou of Total Systems:  20X
2.   Proportion of Total Project Areat 222
3.   Representation:  36 samples drawn from 28 provinces
out of total 75 provinces
4.   Average System Sizes  155 ha
5.   System Size Range:  15-400 ha
6.   Size Distribution:
Small (Less than 100 ha)            s   13 systems
Medium (100 to less than 250 ha)   s    16 systems
Large (Over 250 ha)                 s     7 systems
7.   Average Farm Sizes  1.2 ha



ANNEX 6
Table 9
PHILIPPINES
SECOND COMMUNAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Individual System ERRs
Economic Rate of Return
Subproject                          import Parity-      Export FPrity
Rehabilitation
Danao                                        21.0                  1.2
Kadayungan-Karay                             21.0                  1.9
Nalicnao                                     16.0                  7.3
Antaguing-San Jose                           37.7                 36.2
Malibcong                                    23.0                  2.2
Ngayao-Ngaon                                  6.4                  0.8
Maria Clara                                  38.3                 16.2
Santor-Langagan                              27.3                16.5
Inasan                                       28.4                20.9
Betts-Bonga                                  26.3                  8.2
Carangcang                                   32.2                 16.6
Gabao                                        33.9                 12.3
Cala Agus                                    14.5                  8.5
Libang                                       14.0                  8.1
Igbaras                                      11.3                  6.9
Buri-Pitogo                                  26.4                  9.5
Dagohoy                                      19.1                 11.0
Boloron                                      11.2                  5.7
Ronacao-Namam                                33.8                 10.2
Limbaan                                      15.5                  7.9
Gabuyan                                       9.1                  3.5
Baganga                                      32.5                 18.9
Paco-Binoligan                               14.6                  5.6
Weighted Average                         21.4                10.3
New Construction
Wayangan                                     27.6                  9.1
Gumot                                        13.1                  9.3
Pinto                                         8.0                  C-)
Ammalingan                                   15.4                 (9.8)
Cabisera                                     28.6                 13.2
Tugtugan                                     18.2                 10.0
Anopog-Sagay                                 10.3                  2.6
Valencia                                     18.4                 10.0
Palale                                       13.0                  6.4
Piakan                                       50.5                 15.3
Guinabsan                                    14.3                  5.3
Suli-Blucon                                  25.0                 12.4
Bleboy                                       18.0                 (8.2)
Weighted Average                         17.8                  5.0
Overall Project                          18.6                  7.9



- 101.                           ANNEX 6
Table 10
PHILIPPINES
SECOND COM(UNAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Frequency Distribution of Individual System ERRs
ERR Range (2)                No. of Systems        I Share         Z Cum.
Import Parity%
Less than 5
5 to less than 10                    3                  8.3             8.3
10 to less than 15                    9                 25.0            33.3
15 to less than 20                    7                 19.5            52.8
20 to less than 25                    3                  8.3            61.1
25 and over                          14                 38.9           100.0
Total                           36                100.0
Export Parity:
Less than 5                          9                 25.0            25.0
5 to less than 10                   13                 36,1            61.1
10 to less than 15                    7                 19.4            80.5
15 to less than 20                    5                 13.9            94.4
20 to less than 25                    1                  2.8            97.2
Over 25                               1                  2.8           100.0
Total                           36                100P.



- 102 -
ANNEX 6
Table 11
PHILIPPINES
SECOND COMUNAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
National Parameters
Opportunity Cost of Capital (NEDA)                      152
Shadow Wage Rates  Rural Unskilled La                 0.52
Standard Conversion Factor                            0.82
Consumption Conversion Factor                         0.84
Transport Conversion Factor                           0.78
Imported Equipment Conversion Factor                  0.60
la Latest estimate is 0.60, but for the remote communal
4ystems 0.52 is more appropriate.



- 103 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 7
PHILIPPINES
SECOND COMMUNAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Sutport Services for Irrigated Areas
A4ricultural Extension
1.       The  Department  of Agriculture  (DA),  through  its  12 Regional
Offices and its specialized attached commodity agencies, provides extension
services to lowland rice growers in most areas. There are, however, also
services  provided  by  tracers   (in  particular  for  agrochemicals  and
ferti-izers), colleges and universities, credit institutions and non-
government agencies (NGO). The Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR) and the
Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) also provide
extension services to its specific clients (land rtform beneficiaries and
occupants of government  lands  respectively).    At municipal level (1,583
municipalities) DA employed in 1989 some 14,487 extension workers ((1,578
Municipal Agricultural Officers (MAO) and 12,909 Agricultural Production
Technicians (APT)).   The  average  number  of  farm families per extension
worker was 242 and ranged from 138 in Central Mindanao to 407 in Central
Visayas.  DA usually places one  APT for three barangays (villages), but in
some irrigated areas in Central Luzon, the density is as low as one APT per
barangay with an average of 165 farm families (e.g. Nueva Ecija province).
DAR technicians, at a ratio of  1:108 beneficiary farm families deal mostly
with administrative procedures  of  land  reform  beneficiaries.  Following
DA's reorganization under EO 116 of January 1987, DA was decentralized and
APT's became generalists, and thus deal with all concerns of the farming
community such as crop production (rice, upland and specific treecrops),
livestock  and  fishery  production,   farm   management,  soil  and water
conservation, home economics, rural youth, etc.
2.       Extension expenditures have  declined  in  the  last  few years in
relation to total Government expenditures for agriculture from more than
1.5? in 1985 and 1986 to 0.99? in 1987 and 0.762 in 1988. This indicates
that operating costs (transport, and necessary inputs and facilities for
trials and demonstrations) have declined significantly since salaries and
allowances  increased  substantially.    APTs  have  in  recent  years been
redeployed to devote most of their time to upland farmers. APTs, usually
insufficiently qualified, inexperienced and lacking practical training in
the full range of activities they must cover, are supported by Agricultural
Development Specialists (ADS) at provincial and regional level. ADS now
also function more as generalists, (e.g. the ADS for crops covers all types
of crops and is not necessarily a rice or treecrop specialist). Most
regions, however, continue to use their specific specialists in their
specializations. Inadequate renumeration (in relation to other lower level
government workers), transport or allowances do not provide adequate
incentives for staff to provide frequent and adequate services to most more
distant farming  communities.    Very  few  of  the mostly remote communal
irrigation  schemes  receive   the   necessary   attention  from  extension
technicians and very few verification trials and demonstration plots can be
seen. Improvements in agricultural support services are anticipated under
the project (Chapter II).



- 104 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 7
3.       NIA employs  and  trains  Water  Management  Technicians to assist
farmers in using and maintaining communal systems efficiently. However,
there is little formal contact between NIA staff and DA's agricultural
extension  personnel  in  most  areas.    At  municipal  level  there  is a
coordinating mechanism, the Municipal Agricultural and Fisheries Council
(MAFC) that can be used for establishing improved coordination and
cooperation between agency and local government personnel dealing with
communal irrigation  schemes.    The  proposed  project would substantially
address the problems of agency coordination, and in making improvements to
agricultural  production  in   communal   irrigation  schemes  through  the
preparation and subsequent implementation of an Agricultural Development
Plan for each scheme proposed for Bank financing.
Agricultural Research
4.       Since rice is, and will  continue  to  be  the major crop grown in
scheme areas due to its present profitability and farmer familiarity with
the crop, research focus is on this crop. The International Rice Research
Institute (IRRI), located in Laguna province, and which employed until
recent! some 2,200 scientific and support  staff (of which about 70 senior
scienti. s are  internationally  recruited)  is  considered the pre-eminent
rice research center in the world. (Recent budget constraints necessitated
laying off about 500 staff).   IRRI  developed and released the first semi-
dwarf high yielding rice varieties in the mid-1960s and most varieties
presently popular with Philippine farmers originate from IRRI's breeding
program. Additionally, IRRI has made major contributions to agronomic,
plant nutrition, and pest control/management aspects of rice production.
In 1986 the Philippine Government established its own national rice
research institute (the Philippine Rice Research Institute (PhilRice)). It
has taken over the major rice research station in Central Luzon at Maligaya
in Nueva Ecija province, where its headquarters is being established and
which is presently provided with expanded facilities (with a JICA grant of
US$16.0 million). PhilRice is further establishing a branch station at
Midsayap in North Cotabato, and it has made arrangements with six of the 25
state colleges and universities (SCUs) to become the institute's regional
Research and Development (R&D) centers. These are the Mariano Marcos State
University (Region 1), Benguet State University (Region 2), Visayas State
College of Agriculture (Region 8), Central Mindanao University (Region 10)
and the University of Southern Mindanao (Region 12). PhilRice had in 1989
some 250 staff of which about 60 are scientists.
5.       DA's Bureau of Agricultural  Research (BAR) administers research,
through the Regional Directors of Agriculture, conducted at the Regional
Integrated Agricultural Research Stations (RIARS) and some experiment
farms. This is mostly adaptation- and verification-type of research, both
on-stations and on-farms. Budgetary constraints do not allow adequate on-
farm trials and  the  project  will  therefore    provide  for this type of
verification research to ensure that farmers in more isolated schemes would
be able to obtain advise on improved technologies (variety, method of
establishment, fertilizer requirements, pest prevention/control, timely



- 105 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 7
harvesting,  etc.)   which   would   lead   to   higher   productivity  and
profitability. Available crop varieties with high yield potential are
generelly satisfactory, but are not necessarily adapted to the more
isolr-:- locations with somewhat differing soil and climatic conditions.
Add"; ral verification work is required tot (a) prevent snail damage to
you-, .!adlings; (b) to establish the correct water management technologies
(witl e phasis on  in-field  drainage)  for  direct  seeded  rice (which is
becoming more popular and which substantially reduces labor input); (c) to
establish the most beneficial fertilizer combinations, nutrient rates and
method and time of application; and (d) to establish threshold levels for
pest and disease incidence above which it becomes necessary to introduce
controls (integrated pest management (IPM) technologies). Where dry season
water shortages occur, the most profitable alternative crops, together with
the appropriate agronomic practices should be established, verified and
demonstrated. Again, adequate crop varieties and production technologies
are available, but these require adaptation to the local situations.
Agricultural Inputs
6.       Seed.  Seed rates for all  methods of crop establishment are high,
ranging from 80-150 kg/ha mainly due to poor germination, seedling damage
during transport and transplanting, snail damage after planting, in
particular in low lying areas for both transplanted and direct seeded rice,
and farmer anticipation of calamities such as drought or floods. Seed of
recently released and recommended varieties is multiplied through a
satisfactory system of seed production and many farmers in particular in
national irrigation schemes) are able to obtain certified seed from DA-
registered seed growers at a premium of about 602 above the NFA support
price (P 8/kg for seed in 1989).   Many of the more isolated areas in which
most communal schemes are located are inadequately covered. Therefor,
farmers mostly continue to use retained seed or they purchase a desired
variety  from  a neighbor.       The  1989-90  dry  season  Rice  Production
Enhancement Program (RPEP) provides participating farmers in irrigation
areas with 45 kg/ha of certified seed of the latest recommended and
available varieties (which is inadequate for direct seeded rice crops).
This program is greatly assisting in providing the farming community in
irrigation areas with the latest high yielding, fertilizer responsive and
pest/disease resistant/tolerant varieties.   With improved water management
and rice seed storage it is anticipated that seed application rates will
reduce substantially for transplanted rice but to a lesser extent for
directly seeded rice. Agricultural Development Plans (ADP) for each scheme
are to indicate the nearby sources of seed supply in the future.
7.       Fertilizers.      The   country's   annual  fertilizer  consumption
increased steadily from about 492,500 ton in 1972 to 819,600 ton in 1980
and 1,236,900 ton in 1987. About 662 of the fertilizer used in 1987 was as
nitrogen in the form of urea and ammonium sulphate, with most of the
remainder as NP or NPK compounds/mixtures, and some 88,300 tons as potash
(K) fertilizer. In irrigation areas the most commonly recommended rates
are 90 kg/ha N, 30 kg/ha P205 and 30 kg/ha K20 (90-30-30). However, only
farmers  with  reliable  production  prospects,   who  are  not  likely  to
experience damage from floods, drought or high winds will use or exceed



- 106 -                      ANNX
Page 4 of 7
these rates. Eligibility for crop production credit is a major factor in
fertil4zer use, in particular, on farms with less than 1 ha of land. The
average fertilizer use within 28 sample schemes was 41 kg/ha N, 13 kgiha
P205 and 10 kg/ha X20 (41-13-10).   With reliable water supplies and little
climatic risk it is expected that fertilizer use rates will average
70-30-20 and the better farmers (in terms of agronomic practices) on
suitable soils will use rates of about 120-30-20. In 1988 there were some
626 registered/licensed fertilizer and agro-chemical dealers in the country
and these have an additional  329  outlets.   Supplies are usually adequate
and price differentials generally only reflect additional transport costs.
In the 1988-89 and 1989-90 dry seasons, when rice imports were needed,
government fertilizer subsidy schemes (RPEP) were available to farmers in
irrigation areas. When new communal schemes have been completed farmers
would automatically become eligible for these subsidized fertilizers when
made available.    Nitrogen  losses  are  generally  high  from top-dressed
fertilizers and research and demonstrations should aim to identify and show
correct time and method of applications to minimize these losses. In
particular, soil incorporation of basic N-fertilizer for the location and
soil type.
8.       Agrochemicals.  A wide range of Fertilizer and Pesticide Authority
-approved pest and disease prevention/control chemicals is available
throughout the country from registered/licensed dealers. Surveys in sample
communal schemes indicate that farmers use from 0-1.5 l/ha insecticide and
from 0-1.0 1/ha) herbicide. Recently there have been no major outbreaks of
pests and diseases, due to a considerable extent to the use by farmers of
resistant/  tolerant  seed  varieties.    The  most  serious  pest  is  the
"introduced' golden snail. Expensive molluscides are available (but seldom
used).    Suitable  recommendations   for   cultural  practices  have  been
formulated  to  prevent  excessive  damage  however.    Using  good surface
drainage and 4-6 week old seedlings for transplanted rice, and for direct
seeded rice, the manual collection of snails in combination with good
surface drainage and possibly flushing befcre permanent flooding, would
prevent most damage. The use of ducks is also encouraged. IPM techniques,
with properly established threshold populations, are now taught and
demonstrated by extension agents and there is already evidence of reduced
use of chemicals  when  and where  IPM  is  used.    Increased use of this
technology, with treatment only when threshold pest populations are
exceeded should reduce production costs, stabilize yields and minimize
adverse environmental effects. With the popularization of direct seeding,
the use of herbicides  becomes  necessary.    However, only  Fertilizer and
Pesticide Authority (FPA) - approved chemicals are available and farmers
through the DA extension service, are instructed in their proper use to
avoid toxicity problems. Rodent damage should be prevented on a community
basis with properly timed baiting, or control programs. A reduced agro-
chemical use is expected if IPM technologies and community prevention/
control programs can be successfully established in each scheme. A high
standard of maintenance of common facilities (canals, drains, roads, right
of way, etc.) is imperative to prevent snail, rat and other pest
infestation. ADPs will indicate suitable preventive measures which should
be implemented in a timely manner.



- 107-                        ANNEX7
Page 5 of 7
Mechanization
9.       Threshing rice is  now  mostly  undertaken  with  locally made and
developed threshers which are highly efficient and cost effective, although
in outlying areas where such facilities are scarce, hand threshing remains
common.    Land  preparation  is  partly  undertaken  by  traditional means
utilizing carabao with plow and harrow and increasingly now by handtractors
(either plowing or rotavating, mostly the latter) with the final smoothing
of the plant/seedbeed by carabao and a smoothing implement. Within the
sample schemes 252  of  farmers  used  mechanical  land  preparation.  With
greater reliability of, and Increased production in the future there would
be substantial increased mechanization for land preparation. In some areas
farmers already have invested in low-lift pumps to provide suipplementary
irrigation if land is above command levels, or for pumping water out of
drains in times  of  irrigation water  shortfalls.   Adequate sprayers are
available within most areas for pest/disease prevention/control. Lack of
access roads or suitable paths to rice fields prevents mechanized haulage
of threshed grain.   This  frequently  results  in very high manual haulage
costs and sometimes delayed threshing or transport which leads to grain
losses and deterioration of grain quality. Under the project, many schemes
are to be provided with improved field access.
Agricultural Credit
10.      While  government  funds  were  previously  available  for  direct
lending to producers, in 1986 these were converted into a guarantee fund to
support loans granted to farmers by the private banking system (including
rural banks) -- the Comprehensive Agricultural Loan Fund (CALF). There
appears to be little evidence that credit availment among small farmers has
increased. DA's Livelihood Enhancement and Agricultural Development (LEAD)
program has also not had much effect since its thrust is not specifically
on small rice farmers. However, IAs are making use of the program, mostly
for non-rice growing activities for their members (fishponds, poultry and
duck holding,  etc).    DA's  Rice  Production  Enhancement Program (RPEP),
operating during the 1988-89 and 1989-90 dry seasons in irrigated areas, is
proving very popular. Under RPEP 4 bags (200 kg ha) of fertilizer and 45
kg/ha of certified seed is made available in exchange far 3 bags (150
kg/ha) clean and dry  palay.    Most  farmers however, particularly for wet
season crops, continue to use informal credit at higher interest rates.
Various studies have concluded that farmers find informal credit more
readily accessible and convenient, as it is usually available with other
services such as transport, drying and marketing, which make the interest
rates less usurious.   The  availability  of affordable credit is essential
ror increased and sustained rice production and fortunately the Land Bank
in particular has made more credit available to smallholders in recent
years (about P 1 billion in 1989).    From  1991 onwards the Land Bank will
provide smallholder crop production credit only to members of DA registered
cooperatives. However, NIA is making arrangements with the Land Bank to
allow lAs also to become eligible for group credit for crop production and
enterprise loans.



- 108 -
ANNEX 7
Page 6 of 7
Crop Insurance
11.      Crop Insurance.  The  Philippine Crop Insurance Corporation (PCIC)
has operated since 1980. Of the 1.6 million rice farms in the country from
112,000 to 160,000 farmers (only some 9-101) have annually insured their
rice crop. These farmers had an average rice area of 1.6 ha, which is
about average for Philippine  rice  farms.    In  1986  some 432 of farmers
taking insurance were fully self-financed.   The insurance cover averaged P
3,400 to P 3,600 per ha between 1986 and 1988 at various premium rates
depending on risks. Premium rates for rice in 1988 averaged 112 of the
insured amounts. Of this the farmers share was 2?, and in the case of
borrowing farmers, the lending institution's share was 1.5Z and the rest
was a government subsidy (as share of premiums and PCIC operating
expenditures). In late 1989 individual Visayas farmers were insuring crops
at a premium of P 120/ha for a coverage of P 6,000/ha with the first 10Z of
a claim being  deductible.    This  indicates  that  there are considerable
variances in policies depending on risk assessment in the different
regions. Causes of crop losses, averaged over the three year period
1986-88 were: typhoon/flood 58X; drought 15?; pests and rats 18?; plant
diseases 7Z; and others 2Z. Average payment for damage was L 1,046/ha over
the same 3 years which makes crop insurance a worthwhile investment against
the  considerable  risks   to   partial   crop   failure,  particularly  in
typhoon/flood  prone  areas.       Lending  institutions  sometimes  require
participation in the crop insurance scheme.
Post-Harvest Activities
12.      Harvesting, Threshing,  Drying,  Storage  and  Milling.   Paddy is
harvested by sickle and is now mostly threshed mechanically. Frequently
the grain contains a moisture content of 18-25S and thus requires drying,
particularly when harvesting occurs during wet weather, which is often the
case for early harvested wet season crop palay (September/October) and in
late harvested dry season  crops  (April/May).    Drying  to a safe storage
moisture content of 14? is  required.    Sun-drying is the cheapest method,
but it contributes to losses and quality deterioration due to wind, rain,
birds, and vehicles running over paddy on sealed roads or on mats along
roadsides. The use of mechanical dryers, possibly with the exception of
those using rice husks or other organic waste materials as fuel, has so far
not been economically viable due to the high cost of other fuels. The
National Post-harvest Institute for Research and Extension (NAPHIRE)
estimates, that at least 95? of total paddy dried is by solar drying. The
National Food Authority (NFA) acquired. in support of its grain price
stabilization function substantial facil4t.ies for post harvest operations.
It accounts for 41? of the country's mechanical drying capacity, some 222
of its storage capacity, and 3? of its milling capacity. Since NFA's
market share is in the range of 5-6? of total production (4.622 in 1989),
drying and storage facilities are grossly underutilized. This situation
should improve as more use is made of the Quedan Fund, which guarantees
credit against stocks of agricultural produce held in bonded warehouses.
NFA's  warehouse   capacity   utilization   in   NFA's  warehouse  capacity
utilization in 1987 and 1988 was 43Z and 29? respectively, mainly due to
the inadequate and improper timing of funds for procuring rice. Installed
total drying capacity is estimated at 991 on/hour, while the total rice
milling capacity is estimated at about 7,150 ton/hour, indicating the
distinct need for solar drying in rice growing areas.



- 109 -                      ANNEX 7
Page 7 of 7
13.      Rice milling is almost totally  (972) in hands of private industry
with 12,272 registered operators in 1987). Some 57Z of paddy production is
milled by small, sometimes mobile mills, with low (50-60Z) recovery rates
of generally poor quality (high percentage broken and undermilled) rice.
More modern mills achieve recovery rates from 65-702 depending on the
quality of palay while there are also varietal differences. Post-harvest
losses provided by PhilRice range from 10-37Z due to harvesting (1-3Z)
handling (2-7Z) threshing (2-62) drying (1-5Z), storage (2-6Z) and milling
(2-10Z). Various studies are ongoing to reduce these high losses.
14.      Marketing.  Generally  paddy  moves  from  farmers to rice millers
through middlemen such as assemblers-wholesalers and commission agents.
However, due to farmer indebtness paddy is often given directly to
retailers. A substantial portion of small farmers' harvest is custom-
milled in small inefficient, sometimes mobile, mills for home consumption.
NFA data show that in the period 1975t76-1988189 farm prices were at par
with official support prices in 7 out of 14 years. In other years farm
prices were 3-182 lower than support prices. NFA procurement activities
were heaviest in Central Luzon.   From  1985-89 the support price for paddy
remained at P 3.501kg, but farmers selling wet paddy often received only P
2.60-2.80/kg,  partly  due  to  drying/cleaning  losses,  but  also  due to
profiteering by middlemen.   From  October  1,  1989  the support price was
increased to P 5.00/kg. In late 1989 farmers were offered B 4.60-P 4.80/kg
for dry clean paddy by middlemen, with deductions for moisture and
impurities. Based on late 1989 world market prices the new support price
for paddy of B 5.00/kg, the government subsidy is about 252 at import
parity price and 502 at export parity price.



- 110 -
ANNEX 8
Tablo 1
PHILIPPINES
SECOND COMUNAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Aaricultural Production
Crop Area. Yields. Production and Cropping Intensities
Present                  Future Without              Futuro With
Crop              Produc-  Crop              Produc-  Crop              Produc-
area     Yield   tion      area     Yield   tion      area     Yield   tion
(ha)      (t)    (t/ha)   (ha)      (t/h.)    (t)    (ha)      (t/ha)    (t)
Rice
Rainfed               7,260  2.2    15,290   7,600    2.8   17,260            -       -         -
W.S. irrigated       11,000  8.0    83,000  10,000    8.0   81,000   25,000    8.6          87,500
D.S. irrigated        8,000  2.8    22,400   7,000    2.6   18,200   16,260    8.7    60,125
Subtotal                        71,850                    66,450                      147,626
Corn
Rainted a             7,600  1.40    10,500   9,000    1.45   13,050          -        -        -
Irrigatat(d.s.)           -     -         -      800    2.50      750       500    8.00     1,500
Garlic (d.s.)
(irrigated)            400  2.25        900     460    2.86    1,066        500    8.00     1,500
Onion lb                  800 15.00    12,000      850   16.00   18,800       900   17.50    15,750
Mungbean  b               250  0.80       200      800    0.90      720     1,000    1.00     1,000
Vegetables L                -     -         -      100    6.00      500       200    6.00     1,200
Total Cropoe
Area (ha)            85,200                   86,000                     44,850
Project Amn (ha)       25,000                   25,000                     25,000
W.$. C.I.                  88                       se                        100
D.S. C.I.                  68                      56                          77
Annual C.I.              i7                        TR                         m
W.S. irr.-C.I.             44                       40                        100
D.S. irr.-C.I.             85                      38                          77
Annual 7rr.-C.I.           7                        711                        7
La Two crops per year.
b Dry season, rainted with supplemontary Irrigation In future.



- 111 -                           ANNEX 8
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
SECOND COMUNAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rice Price Structure
(At constant 1990 prices)
1990      1995       2000
Import Parity
1 US$ per metric ton:
Export Price, 5Z broken, FOB Bangkok          285        243        240
Grade differential (less 20X)                 (57)       (49)       (48)
ocean freight and insurance                    15         15         15
CIF Price, Philippine Port                  243        209  lb   207
209
In Pesos per metric ton:
CIF Price, Philippine Port                5,540      4,774     4,720
Economic farmgate price ja                    3,896      3,350      3,310
Financial farmgate price /a                   5,000      5,000      5,000
Export Parity
In USS per metric ton:
Export Price, 5Z broken, FOB Bangkok            285        243        240
Graded differential (less ZO)                   (57)      (49)       (48)
FOB price, Philippine Port                      228        194  /c   192
In Pesos per metric ton:
FOB price, Philippine Port                  5,198      4,432     4,378
Economical farmgate price la                  2,719      2,255      2,222
Financial farmgate price La                   5,000      5,000      5,000
la  652 milling recovery rate; average for 36 representative communal
irrigation systems.
lb Precise value of US$209.4 per ton.
Ic Precise value of US$194.4 per ton.
Source: Bank, Commodity Price Forecasts, January 26, 1990.



-112 -
ANNEX 8
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
SECOND COMMUNAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Fertilizer Prices
(At constant 1990 prices)
1990      1995      2000
Urea:
In US$ per metric ton
Export prices, bagged, FOB Indonesia          125       194        180
Ocean freight and insurance                    20        20         20
CIF price, Philippine Port                  145       214       200
In Pesos per metric ton
CIP price, Philippine Port                3,306     4,879     4,560
Economic farmgate price (P/kg nutrient)        8.76     12.16      11.48
Financial farmgate price (P1kg nutrient)       9.48     13.07      12.33
Triple Superphosphate:
In USX per metric ton:
Export price, bulk, FOB US Gulf               140       189        204
Ocean freight and insurance                    20        20         20
CIF price, Philippine Port                  165       209       224
In Pesos per metric ton:
CIF price, Philippine Port                3,648     4,765     5,107
Economic farmgate price (P/kg nutrient)        9.79     12.22      12.96
Financial farmgate price (P/kg nutrient)      10.61     13.16      13.94
Muriate of Potash
In US$ per metric ton:
Export price, bulk, FOB, Vancouver            100       104        106
Ocean freight and insurance                    15        15         15
CIF price. Philippine Port                  115       119        121
In Pesos per metric ton:
CIF price, Philippine Port                2,622     2,713     2,757
Economic farmgate price (P/kg nutrient)        5.49      5.64       5.72
Financial farmgate price (P/kg nutrient)       6.60      6.80       6.87
Notes Average for 36 representative communal irrigation systems.
/a Financial price would be lower than the economic price in 1990 due to
lower acquisition costs by Philippine importers.
Source: Bank. Commodity Price Forecasts, January 26, 1990.



- 113 -
ANNEX 8
Table 4
PHILIPPINES
SECOND COMMUNAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Finnncial Crop Budgets: Rehabilitation
Irrigated Paddy/Irrigated Padd2
(At Full Development in 1990 Prices)
Present           Future Without         Future With
Irrigated            Irrigated            Irrigated
WS        DS         DS          WS        DS         WS
Yield (t/ha)           3.0       2.8        3.0        2.6        3.5        3.7
Price (P/t)         5,000      5,000      5,000      5,000      5,000      5,000
Gross value
of Prod (P/ha)     15,000    14,000      15,500    13,000      17,500    18,500
Production
Cost (P/ha) /a       4,680     4,545      4,845      4,575      6,280      6,405
Net Value of
Production
(Plha) lb          10,320      9,455     10,155     8,425      11,220    12,095
la Excludes interest, land tax, water charge, IA contribution, hired labor, and
landowner's share in the case of lessees.
lb Before deduction of items in footnote la.



- 114 -
ANNEX 8
Table 5
PHILIPPINES
SECOND COMUNAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Crop Budgets: Ulev Construction
Rainfed Paddy/lrrigated Paddy
(At Full Development in 1990 Prices)
Present           Future Without            Future With
Rainfed               Rainfed                Irrisated
VS                    WS                   WS       DS
Yield (tlha)              2.2                  2.3                 3.5        3.7
Price (Pit)             5,000                5,000               5,000      5,000
Gross value
of Prod (Plha)        11,000                11,500              17,500    18,500
Production
Cost (P/ha) La          3,760                3,920               6,355      6,480
Net Value of
Production
(iIha) lb              7,240                 7,580              11,145    12,020
/a, /b As per Annex 4, Table 4.



- 115 -
ANNEX 8
Table 6
PHILIPPINES
SECOND COMMUNAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Crop Budgets: New Construction
Rainfed Corn(lrrigated Paddy
(At Full Development in 1990 Prices)
Present           Future Without        Future With
Rainfed Corn          Rainfed Corn        Irrigated Rice
WS        DS         WS          DS       WS          DS
Yield (tIha)           1.5       1.3        1.7        1.5        3.5        3.7
Price (Pit)         4,000      4,000      4,000      4,000      5,000     5,000
Gross value
of Prod (jIha)      6,000      5,200      6,800      6,000     17,500    18,500
Production
Cost (ibsa) la      2,250    12,305       2,410      2,465      6,355      6,480
Net Value of
Production
(RIha) lb           3,750      2,895      4,390     3,535      11,145    12,020
La, lb As per Annex 4, Table 4.



PHILIPPINES
SECOND COMMUNAL IRRIGTION DEVELOPMENT PRRJECT
Financial Form Budoet: Rehabilitation
Irrigated Pedteirrlaat.d Paddy
J MA                                 x A                                    a MA
rrosenz  WOreN   ruero r      L      rreeno   r  ue   ruWmue   &nc-   rreons                                "WIre   r.h  °C
Without   Wih    mental    Wthou    With    =mentalmental
0.75    -070      1.00              1.60     1.40      2.00               2.26      2.10     8.00
0:80  0.60  0.90           1.20     1.00      1.60               1.80      1.50     2.40
Yl1idy(~/as                8.00      3.00     S."0              8.00     3.00      8.50               8.00      3.00     8.50
->"t   0           2.80     2.60     8.70              2.80     2.60      8.70               2.80      2.60     8.70
rr  ::P*fi  ~2.25             2.10     8.50              4.50     4.20      7.00               6.75      0.80    10.50
_ S          ~~1.68    1.80     2.06              8.86      2.60     5.92               5.04      8.90     8.60
Toutl Productn             8.98     8.40      .468             7.68    6.80    12.92                11.79     10.20    19.88
Av. Farget Price (P/ton)   5,000    5,000    6,000                 5,000    5,000    5,000              5,000     5,000    5,000
Gross Val"te of
trode       enon  )Cost   19,860   17,000   82,800             89,300   84,000   64,600             56,960    51,000   96,9000
- 96        8,510si  8.892    6,280             7,020    6,784   12,560               30,160   101767    1,710
-ro    053 2,727    2,288    5,124                   5,454    4, 57    10,248             180,60   10 ,76  18,710
Total Prd  cost         6,287    5.680   11,404            12,474   11,860   22,80               16,711    17,040   84,212
Hlrd Labor (Total)              -        -        -                175      175      850                700       7oo    1,050
NotVolu          uctIon
DOT         ~~taxes,
n                         13,418   11,820   20,896            26,61   22,48S   41, 442              89,59    88,260   616
Less:  Interest        ~189      225      570               878      450    1,140                 567       675    1,710
7~~         160IS    160      200               820      820       400                480       480      600
.rg.M       ~169      I58      225               888      816       450               507       474       675
lACootributW A        112       75      150               224      150       800                886       225      450
npcst  Owner                 12,768   10,702   19,761   9,049    25,891   21,229    89,152   17,928   87,649    81,408   68,208   26,797
Lees: Landowner's
sare jf                     4,918    4,250    8,076       -     9,625    8,600    18,160         -   14,788    12,760   24,225        -
Not Incoe  LesseO             7,671    6,462   11,676   6,224    16,656    12,72o    28,002   10,278   22,912    18,656   83,978   16,822
'A   10tlPnt  Jr       l ix os; l         - mount I eseum  at SOX of production cost for
In,40%  nruiem ot03 SOXitrhI
Le                 v       Assead value                 or ,000rh .  nfed Ilnd  P8,000/ha for
nimprov Irrlr ted land and P 0000/ha for ITIProed ir        u r  ted to
0.9 caan  ar for  rra td Ia   at 10 co   ot       ; none or ragt     prvemnt
/c  0.6 8 ven  an for rr gated Is  at 101  ol oct on; none for re nf
7! 25% OT' grs vaYllue o ' production; including tennnts.



PmIPPIKNES
SECOND COMMUNAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FInancial Faor Budeets New Construction
Ralnfed PaddY(Irriasted Paddy
I NA                                 2 HA                                    a HA
rro enu    ru ure ut**urs  &ncre-  rr on    ru          -t         nere- Freenr -         r rrr  lre - -ncrs-,T
Without  With    mental     W thIt   tr~ mnaWIthoutWth                               mta
Crop  r   h.
ral"'      4                0.eo     0.86      .                 1.60     1.70      2                  2.40      2.55     a
RirrTested - VS                 -        -      1.00                 -        -      2.00                  -         -     8.00
-DS                   -        -     0.70                  -        -      1.40                  -         -     2.10
Y1e1faetfot/- to               2.20     2.80         -              2.20     2.80         -               2.20      2.80        -
.rigated - Ds                  -        -     8.60                  -        -      8.60                  -         -     8.60
- OS                  -        -     8.70                  -        -      3.70                  -         -     8.70
Prodacti on (tonA
Ra 1st -§ d   ;1.78                    1.96        -              8.52     8.01         -               5.29      5.67        -
-!ohn                                            -                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10.5
-ul                -         -    2.69                  -        -      6.18                 -          -     7.77
Total Prod (ton)           1.76     1.06      6.00              8.52     8.91    12.16                5.28      5.87    18.27
Ave. Farugato Price (P/ton)   s,000    5,000    5,000              5,000    Stew      5,000              6,000     5,000   5.000
Or.*  t*u, ot,f
Pro.utoafr) C,oa0    9,775   80,4so                           17,600   19,550   60,900             28,400    29,825   91,350
Lz 3 Product on Cost
rilgaed:WS             3,000    8,882         -             6,016    6,664   1271                 9,024      ,9 
1*47gated   DWI                             8 6,85                 -        -   12-10                9             -   19,086
61         -        -   ~~~~~~4,536            --             9072                   --   138,06
Tota  Prboduction Coat   8,000    8,882   10,891             6,016    6,664   291,7862             9,024     9,996   82 678
Hired Lbo*r;(Total1)  Cost-                                        140      140       85                 560       560    1,050
N*tbolu* o  P"ductlns
and water chare            6,792    6,448   19,659             11,444   12,748   88,78               16,916    18,769   57,627
Loes:  Interet lb                89      188       545               176      266    1,090                 267       899    1,685
7a                 120      120     2K63                240      240      400                860        860      600
IXtqrnCthoF  /d            -        -      22S                  -        -       460                  -         -      75
IAContributlW f            -        -      10                  -        -       800                  -         -      450
Net Income:. Owner
Operator                    5,588    6,190   18,489  12,249    11,026   12,240    86,526   24,288   16,109    18,010   64,207   86,2s7
Less: Landowner's
share a                     2,200    2,444    7,618        -     4,400    4,866    16,225        -    6,600      7,881   22,809        -
Net Income Lessee             8,ss8    8,746   10,627   7,060      6,626    7,865    21,808   18,051    0,580    10,679  81,480   20,761
/a From Pro30ct Ft Io
A    10% IProet File  six Month;  laso                     a t is     at lu of production cost for
a   nX Tt, 40X  'or r re *i I t  lt and soX for future WIth.
/c of  isesed Avssessd value is P     a       he or re oted land P8,000/ha for
unimproved  l         land nd P1Q,,  f/ha for mproved irr aw l.                                                                                x
/d Farmers p    nt ror the chargoabb   cost of irrigation con  o      n/impr ovement:
0.9 cavan/ 2 for irr iated land at 100% collection; none for ra nd.
!  0.6 covan/ha for ir gated land at 100X collection; none for rainted.
26X of gross value of production; including tenants.



PHIIUPPINES
SECOND COMIIWAL  RoIGATZON DEVELOPM     EC
Financial F   B1et; :  Now ConihVruction
1 HA                                2 HA                                      NA
rresam   W uua   ryare  n           rro.ns    r                          rresonu ruuts -rr=-             -
Crop A ha
C lRap,n=    8n)  -W RS     8                                    1.70   1.70         -              2.65      2.66        _
P y- S      u.:        .:    1.00               1.30    1.        2.00               1.95      1.96     8
Irrigated Paddy  a-                                                                                                     I:- .0  -S.
-DS           -        -     0.70                 --              1.40                 --    2.10s
Rainfed Corn       1.50    ~~~1:3                      1.50    1.70         :1.5                      1.70
Stot    |         i 868~~3'  1 678                    1  88    1 t68                       1.88      1. 768
Irriated Pay -                 -8       -    3.60               1        1        8.50                            -    8.50
-DS            -        -    8.70                  -        -      8.70                 -         -    3.70
Produ   on (ton)
Rarnfs Corn    - Ws         1.26     1.44                       2.68     2.80         -              8.64      4.82
- PS        0.64     u.s         -1.66                   1.06        -               2.52      2.94        -
Irrigated Paddy -              -      :!    8.- s.7.00 -                    -                                          10.60
@toi porQ Pro      n)     2.12     2.4      2.9               4.24     4.64    12.13               6.86      7.26    10.27
Ts    ad ;,Prod  ton         -        -    8.09                  -        -        -                  -         -        -
v     a 0rco              4,n  4I8g8 4:  o:o                  4  00   4t coo   46 ;0               46 oo8    : o°o8   4:SSS
Gros Valu, of Production (P)
Poducti       0:,480    9,680       -            16,98!0  198,0         -             26,440    29,U0         -
ft        I ai  -C  t       480       gem   a88 4680        16,9600  19,a80   600900             25,440    29,040   91,850
n     Corn    A    1 49 2 2 046          -             a 29     4 WS         -              5,786    6 144         -
Irrigated Paddy  DS        1a 6s                              -        - 80                        -         -  19,086
9               ~~~4,561                             92                    -             18,606n
Total                   8,410    8,650   10,891             6,620    7,8     21,782             10,230    10,650   82,678
Metb  url ott Production
and w tXr chargie     ' 5,         6,080   19,669            10,140   12,060   89,118             16,210    18,090  56,677
Les:Hred Labor                                      - -                   -      80                 40        420    1,050
Lose: ~~r~~st 4~       102      146-     545               24       29      1,00                806       486    1,685
120L  L 120      2m0               240      240       ON                860 460            60
lid                  ~~~225                                450                 --               67
!t 1  l            -        -      15                  -        -      800                  -         -      40
Not I.....i  Own,r Oserat    46 48    5 764   18,489  12,676    9,696   1, 526   86,29   25,000   14,          16       54 ,27   87,
Ls:Landown-er s sear  -   2,120   2,42      7612       Si      ,4       ,4      1,2                ,6       720 2,8 
Not incom LeSs               2,729   8,844   10,827   7,46       5,456   6,688   21,308   14,615    7,764    9,612  81,429  21,817
fj trom rrojecs re I e
n10 t ino     or six month*; lo  amount 1 ass   *t 801t of production cost for
present, 4*or uture w I  out an 50X ror uture w                                                                                        v 
2X of  s od value.  Asessed  value    P6,000/ha lor ra nEed lnd  P8,000/he for
unimpoved  rrioted lnd an  P10000/h  formpro ad trra      an~
ud FarersI p       o    0 0rga  .cost of o       ton Co  ructlOn iprovement:                                                                   
0.6 sf cvan/ha for rr g t and at 1   col  on; none for r Infed.
2o  gross value o production; inc tding tenants



- 119 -
ANNEX 9
PHILIPPINES
SECOND COMMUNAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data in the Project File
1. Identification Mission Report, June 7, 1989.
2. Preparation Assistance Mission Back-to-Office Report, September 8, 1989.
3. Pre-Appraisal Mission Aide Memoire, November 23, 1989.
4. Appraisal Mission Aide Memoire, April 10, 1990.
5. Feasibility Report Volumes 1 to 3, NIA, November 1989.
6. Consultant's Report (Economic Evaluation) Volumes 1 to 5, R. Dy, May 4, 1990.
7. Project Costs, Sets 1 to 3, May 1990.
I



PHIUPPINES
SECOND COMMUNAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NIA Organization Chart
| NA BOARD OF DIRECTORS
CENTRAL OFFICE                            Executive Committee   p - .---ADMINISTRATOR                          .......         Corromisshn on Audit
DEPUTY ADMINISTRATOR
Corporate Plannng Staff                  Putilic Afflairs & Information Staff
_ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ f________    -I
Assistant Administrator                        Assistant Administrator                     Assitant Administrator                         Assistant Administrator
tor  ImPretmi 'entation                    Equfr Operatnsen                             Finanoe & Management                           Administrative Services
oSperat ProjectDs
project    _ J       Construction           Institubonal             Systems             ControlWrship            Treasury          Personnel & Record      Procurement & Physia
Development Dept.         Management Dept       Developmenl Dept        Management Dept             Dept                Deprtmtent         Management Dept.           Resources Dept
PrqectInvetiation            Construttior                              | 2 Operation                                                           Tranting &            Procuremenvt Drvtion
S     limng   .           Assistance |nion                              Accounting           Cash Division            Divison               Propr Division
Land Resource                                      Dvso
Uss & Economics   Contracl  Divkion     |     Repair &            Foreign Loans           Revenue            Personnel Division        Building Facities
Divtsion               Administration          Irigator              lmpvemn                 Accountig             enier iaon
Division            Origanitsion       |eDDvision                B    t Derna                                         ds               Gen
Plan Formulation                        iResarh &Budetc1iison                                                                    angemntGeneral Service
Wal RDeo      sDsign                               Epe   Pj
oec t              {Speci qatons Dept  |                            anagement Dept  Group
IEquipmen Planning II                                 alon &
C              I I   a                                                     Diisoionsn
Design Divsion           D            I         d        Dept.
IEuipmjent    l         Assikted) nAui &ion
DvSion                                        A.tilizLiigtitiono
I  Divislon   1 1 a ReoiLgsi                Other Special           W  lngmen                                Conftras Dbsion|
Architecture &       & Rep DLoistic           Othr SPecialh
Dretting Division    Speca Equnpment                                 S        D                       
..............  ........................................................................ ....... ,...... F 7 ....................................................................................................
FIELD OFFICES                                                                           Re&nal
Enginee= ng               Equipment             SystemManagement                Insttbuioal     |          Finance &               Administrative
| Divsions     ||Management Divisons ||             Dsions         | |Developrnut Diisions  FManagement Divisions                  CDivisns
FoPqerSs                                                                             k |  Povncial  oy Funded  S
lntgaton Offices



PHILIPPINES
SECOND COMMUNAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
Organization Chart for Project Implementation
Administrator
Assistant Administrator               Assistant Administrator                Assistant Administrator               Assistant Administrator
for Project Devntopment                   for Operations &                             for                          Adminis r
& ImplementaDv on                  Equipment Management                   Finance & Magement                     Administrative Services
r        | ~~Spedal Projects
Institutional                                 Manager                                     Equipment
Development                         Communal Irrigation Department                        Management
Department                                (Project Manager)                               Department
Regional Irrigation
Offices
Provincial lrrigation
Offices
btiOnE(-_O..                                                                                                                 Ia
2ECOh,.



PHILIPPINES
SECOND COMMUNAL IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
(Cumulative %c
1990         1991         1992         1993       1994           1995
PROJECT ACTIVMES                             _  _                     1                   -__
___.___  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4
Buikings                                     _-                      30           70           100
InEUEE-1
50          100
Equipment Procurement                                     -           r   -  -  "-I
Equipment Rehabilitation                                   -    -    3             )8                        0
IA Development                                        -              25 -_                      70 Tog
TechnioDJ Training                          l20                                   5-0           80          100
C-onsuftancy--- 25710
Irrigation Works:                                                         -  -                 .I
24           58           82           96            0
Feasibility Studies^m  "a 24* M.  . t.4U                                                   ..... . 6   _ 2    +
Mapping, Design & Cost Estimates'               -2 82                                    9           .00
Organize FA work and Award Contracts'              e t       24i12i        32 4_
Construction                                       -12                                                             1 m-m         m0    
Monitoring & Evaluation a                                                 -  -  - T     -    T       -     - 1
Engineering, Supervision & Administration       -  -  -  -  -       -     -      -
Agricultural Support Services                _                             -  -      -  -            -  -      -     -  i
71~~~~~~~~~~
mnm,,ns u..i e " 1991 Program (6.000ha)                     1994 Program (3,00ha)                                             L
.,..'.|4 I@.IUSt1992 Progm (8.000ha)                        1996 Program (1.OOOha)
.m-..-...mm 1_993 Program (6,SOOha)



InRRI  22 i89z
1 24,    PHILIPPINES                           128
CLASSIFICATION OF PROVINCES                                               SECO,ND COMMUNAL IR  GATION
BY GEOGRAPHICAL REGIONS                                                             DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
R.co°   SAMPLE SYSTEMS
!ILOCOS              NI wESTeRSIV15A'AS                                      IO1
20        1 llocos Nonrw           38 Akian                                                                                                                   a
2 tIocos Sur             3 , Capu                                                                          A       lNvv Sy5tt-nns
Ita UnIon               40 Ant.que                                BATANES
-; Pangasman             41 IlodLI Rehabilitation Systerts
COR01tLLERA ADUINISTRAIIVE 42 Negros CocidentR                                                                                 i
REGION (CAR:               43 GuimarAs                                                                              Province  Capitals
5 Abra          R 11  CENTRALVI sAaiS
I, alut4ga;Apairy        4u CNeburos Ortenlal                                                              *      National Capital
8- IfogWo                46 Bobo]
'I Benguet               47 Siquqor                       IAOA        s                                           Provinc e  Rtoundari-s
I  C\GAGAN VALLE'      1 I. EASTfRN VISSYAS
I0 natAes                 411 Northeri Samrar                                                                      Region  Boundaries.
11 Cagaan                 4') Western Samar                    ;
12' Isbeta                '0aE.1ttee Sanur                     c        a      T                                   International Boundaries
1 1 Nueva Virca',a        ; I te'te                       Vl 1n    lbu
14 Quinno                 52 Sotlem rteyte                       \ 
2   CENTRAL LUZON             5'3 filiran                                 a  08a
I S Noesa ECaI     i 5  WESTERN MINDANAO                                '       A
1  ' lIlac                i.4 Zamaboanga del None              Ao
17 Zanbalares             -5 ZamboangadelSur  SaAF.          _o                                                       100        200 e otn
1s  Pamp nga              St, Bosili n                     e
1) Bataan                S57 Sulu                                                                    MILrES o       .o       106      iso      200
16   0 Bolacan               s58 Taftitav'i             U.gSe.                                                                                            t
1t     NATIONAL CAPITAL         NORTHERN MINDANAO           i
REGION 'NCR;               59 Strigao del Norte
SOUTHERN TAGALOG          EbO Catnigonr
21 Aurora                 6 1 Agusan del Norte           1      or IJ
22 Quezon                 f,2 Misamis Oriental                             L L      Z     O N
2 iRio.                   6.3 Misamnis Occkdental          1I
24 Casae                  64 Bukidnon               otga.    - i
25 Laguna                 65 Agusan del Sur o,ANlI*9`4° 4
26 Btiangas          I SOUTHERN MINDANAO                   2
27 Mar,nduque             66 Sufigao del Suz                 T        .    ,St.Cnax
28 Mindoro Oriental                   Iental        i ,  i \
29 Mindorm Ocrldental     68 Davao del Norte                      -         -c       - '
30 Raombibon              b9 Doaao del Sut                  tu c                e.. '- i                        CATANDUANES
I 1 Palawsn               70 South Cotabato                                                      P ill A
\  BICOL               'I CENTRAL MINDANAO                -
32 Camaines Nore          71 Lartao del Norte
33 CamnIrint Sur          72 Lanao del Sur             Manibuan         .                            . e
34 C.antnduones           73 North Cotabato                                                            -   olooson
35 Aiba)                  74 Magutndanuto                  I           V
it, Sotsagon              75 Sultan Kudarat             MINDc)R'
37 Miasbate                                                         R'
{   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~orboi,  I                                                               r  -w   - ''~O n^
104ctno P sE   '          SAMAR,
Ntanbat.
-  r       .>                 X ,, -             1
12'-
VI                                       A
PANAY
PALAWAN                                                          )CtBU  V
V  I S A Y A S                     A B A OHO3L----
*u                                        -Z    -mb,         cot;xbain         ~          : NE Ol
.~~                                       ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~ 'G O            VII'i   ivia.  CrSu'IPaoa
.l                                                          .             /d
' A  S.qyI3ot t o  Nian,ti     A tAni
clot- ~        ppcte          
sx < SULU
ND  0  t,  5 I A  120'                                       I?4-11A 
TZiA    8u   u  smboansa  Cotr*;e liabon                        199t
'-._~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                -  :                  o.sa
toe   J oo,ta..l 
.          12rv                                              12XP                                               12n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eht
.s. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     JS -  HI.



113RI)  ',i 2',
116                      ~~~~~~~~                                     ~~~~120  124  Pa!I'II~
SECOND COMMUNAL
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJL(--E-
CLIMATE
___  w   poounced seasons: 1)r~ fr,itu  se  ~
L   ci`Zlw  H. B-6                               Apri   et during the rest ot t .e year.
20         60                                                               NoamOs sorrrE  |     draXimyul rsason with a very pronounced
500 - - -                             ~~~~~~~maximm  rainfall from  Ntov. Ito Det-
BATANES       =Seasons not very p ronounced relatively (in
400 ;      _.         \            3^TANES    |   | S{?Sfrom  Nov. to April andl wet cutiring the
I(Xa                                                t  _.rest of the year.
oo0     .   . .           \           *,       |   } Rainfall morte or les- eveol) dikt`hlUtt-ti
a Province C-apit.ld
®Naticnal Capital
Provlnce [joundlaries
N8UEVA ECIIA-                                 J                   (E:  \° rg iRegion Bl3undarie-s
400              _ \77 V^g:09 Tabt t                          -   International 13otondarit,
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1~E Ar0 .         C
300~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
200    !-              0F s2\OA@4i^ti b              _      _   W 0
16                                                                       O  N    100                                       1
loo                                                                  1,,:\  o0  '°
o J r MAM I I ^ S iO^lD   -   \ < t>(air~~~Dt         100,        _
CATA'DUANFS
400                                                             it't-tlil
12                     00 _
MAMJIAS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~R                                 su.
< 4 > A, ol I   \t AEWl                                2  li      
*        '~~'-.t    /h  tPuerto Prmflcn                                  NERS l-                                00 ^ o
8-s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N 
f571 fi41 do/,wao-
il vl~         -                       Z  VIBANGA BEL SUR
300~~~~~~~0
aonl~+luIur  A2 0000           /5zohgo~- @200
e 1  0 0              / L  10     -                               (ll
2j \    . .O.E 300TER   S 11
S -                      iau  8,tU            j F M ^ M ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  I           I         r,X          
KoLOME1TERb a             2o .n    MlI,
N D O F r S I1A    6ItES 0                                                      50     fall  1I)    2110
I  t210  1214                               ('I



