Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5769 
Operation Name 
Fourth Programmatic Fiscal Management and Competitiveness 
Development Policy Loan 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General public administration sector (50%); Other domestic and 
international trade (50%) 
Project ID 
P116214 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF PERU 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Jr. Junín 319 
Lima 1 
Peru 
Tel: (51-1) 427-7095, 426-9452 
Fax: (51-1) 428-2101, 426-
1823 
aamezaga@mef.gob.pe 
Date PID Prepared 
June 7, 2010 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
June 30, 2010 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
September 14, 2010 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
This proposed Development Policy Loan for US$100 million is the fourth and last in a programmatic 
series of Fiscal Management and Competitiveness Development Policy Loans (FMCDPL). The 
FMCDPL series, along with parallel Development Policy Loans (DPLs) in the areas of social policy and 
environment, were designed in close partnership with Government of Peru (GoP) and in line with its 
policy program– as outlined in the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS). The GoP stated a clear vision 
for (i) building on recent economic successes to achieve higher growth and better social outcomes; (ii) 
constructing a better social contract between the government and citizens based on effective social 
development; and (iii) modernizing state institutions. This FMCDPL programmatic series has been 
prepared at the request of the GoP to support Peru’s reform program. 
 
In the context of global uncertainty, the Peruvian authorities seek Bank funding to buttress market 
confidence. The GoP seeks to strike an appropriate balance between protecting the outstanding results in 
debt management and maintaining flexibility to respond to a volatile global environment. 
 
Peru faced the global economic crisis after a period of broad-based rapid economic growth. Before the 
global economic crisis, Peru displayed one of the strongest growth performances in the Latin America 
and the Caribbean region, with growth accelerating from 6.4 percent in 2005 to 9.8 percent in 2008. 
Sound macroeconomic management during the boom years created the fiscal space needed for 
countercyclical policies to soften the impact of the global economic crisis. The GoP maintained a 
prudent fiscal policy through the commodity boom period, running fiscal surpluses in the three years to 
2008, with the overall budget surplus peaking at 2 percent of GDP in 2008. The authorities saved 
resources into a fiscal stabilization fund, which saw its balance increase from US$314 million in 2005 to 
US$1.8 billion in 2008 (around 1.4 percent of GDP). The authorities also brought public debt down 
Page  2
from 38 percent of GDP in 2005 to 24 percent in 2008. Public external debt decreased from 28 percent 
of GDP in 2005 to 15 percent in 2008. In parallel, the Central Bank (BCRP) accumulated net 
international reserves which increased from US$14 billion in 2005 to US$31 billion in 2008
—close to 
five times the stock of short-term external debt and 11 months of imports of goods and services. 
 
Despite the magnitude of the challenges generated by the global economic crisis, financial and exchange 
rate stability were preserved.  From mid-September to late October 2008 net international reserves fell 
by US$3.3 billion, or close to 10 percent of holdings. However, the central bank avoided sharp 
fluctuations of the exchange rate. The global economic crisis also had a relatively limited impact on the 
Peruvian financial sector, which did not rely heavily on short-term external borrowing or on exotic 
asset-based derivatives. In addition, there was no credit crunch as the growth of credit to the private 
sector remained positive, slowing down gradually to an annual rate of 9 percent at its trough in 
December 2009. 
 
Economic growth decelerated sharply in 2009 but remained positive, as external demand and public 
spending propped up growth. GDP growth stood at 0.9 percent in 2009, down from 9.8 percent in 2008, 
driven largely by a fall in domestic demand prompted by the global economic crisis. Within the 
domestic demand, the drop in private investment was particularly sharp. Thus, private investment went 
from contributing around half of the growth in 2008 to a negative contribution in 2009. In contrast to the 
situation in previous years, the overall contribution to GDP growth of domestic demand was also 
negative in 2009. On the external side, the global crisis led to a decline in exports, which fell by 15 
percent in 2009. However, imports decreased more, by 26 percent, as imports of capital and intermediate 
goods dropped sharply on account of the virtual standstill from private investment. The terms of trade 
recovered in the second half of 2009 and for the year as a whole the terms of trade index were broadly 
unchanged. These factors, together with the decrease in profit remittances (largely by foreign mining 
companies operating in Peru) explain why the current account balance turned from a deficit of 3.3 
percent of GDP in 2008 to a slight surplus of 0.2 percent of GDP in 2009. 
 
The priorities of the GoP’s program for 2008-2011—a solid macroeconomic framework and reforms to 
generate sustainable and equitable growth—remain unchanged since the first loan in this series.  The 
GoP’s program aims to balance both human and economic development, and is divided into three main 
areas of action: accelerating and broadening economic growth; improving social development; and 
modernizing public sector institutions. The GoP has established a set of goals for the end of the 
administration and is monitoring and publicly reporting progress. The progress achieved at mid-term has 
been substantial, with relatively more success on the macroeconomic front. 17. 
The  two  policy  areas 
supported by this proposed loan will assist in sustaining economic growth and spreading its fruits 
throughout Peruvian society.   
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The development objective of the loan is to contribute to growth and poverty alleviation by supporting 
two main policy areas: (i) quality of fiscal management and (ii) competitiveness. Peru entered the global 
crisis in a solid position and has managed its challenges well. Good macroeconomic fundamentals and 
appropriate policy responses to the crisis moderate the negative impact of weaker external demand and 
external shocks. Aware of the downside risks to economic growth as well to poverty and employment, 
the GoP has implemented counter-cyclical policies to mitigate the impact of the crisis. Nonetheless, the 
GoP has not lost sight of the medium-term objectives of its reform agenda, and has continued to make 
progress in improving the effectiveness of fiscal management and supporting the country’s 
competitiveness and integration into the global economy.   
 
Page  3
3. Preliminary description 
 
The proposed operation responds to the GoP’s request for continued Bank support of its broad reform 
agenda and its reaction to the crisis. This operation is the Fourth in a series of four loans each supporting 
implementation progress in a well defined economic program. The two policy areas supported by this 
DPL are: 
 
•
Efficiency and Quality of Fiscal Management 
•
Competitiveness 
 
The programmatic approach taken by this loan series reflects the flexibility requested by the GoP to best 
address evolving challenges. By incorporating flexibility into the FMCDPL series within a defined 
policy framework, the Bank is serving the needs of Peru, a middle-income country with strong macro-
economic fundamentals now facing second and third generation reform challenges. While broad policy 
areas were established from the start of the series, specific policy actions have evolved along with Peru’s 
changing political and economic circumstances. The policy actions supported by this DPL were chosen 
by the GoP as critical to achieve fiscal management and competitiveness outcomes. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
This DPL operation is not likely to have any significant effects on the environment, forests, and other 
natural resources. The reforms supported by the program are related to the adoption of policies and only 
a
few could have a future environmental impact.  In fact some of the proposed policy reforms under the 
proposed DPL are likely to be positive for environmental management, particularly related to improved 
monitoring and evaluation for government expenditure, including environmental expenditure. These 
reforms could contribute in strengthening GoP’s ability to set clear environmental priorities, coordinate 
with environmental authorities on developing indicators to evaluate the impact of spending on achieving 
these priorities, and ensure that all sectors follow legal norms related to the environment. The fiscal 
space created through making the budget and expenditure process more efficient could also serve to 
strengthen under-funded environmental spending. 
 
In the medium and long term, further trade liberalization and economic activity in Peru—by means of 
desirable growth and poverty reduction—would lead to greater infrastructure development. While SNIP 
does evaluate environmental considerations for each infrastructure project approved, this is done in an 
ex-ante manner. The challenge regarding potential environmental impacts is during execution. The 
Bank’s Country Environmental Assessment highlighted shortcomings in Peru’s institutional framework 
for environmental protection and sustainability. It also pointed to the need to continue protection efforts 
in natural areas such as tropical forests while mitigating the serious health impacts and high costs of 
environmental degradation, particularly in terms of air and water contamination. As a result of this study 
and the ensuing dialogue with GoP, the Bank prepared a planned three-phase DPL operation on 
environmental policy, the first phase of which (for US$330 million) was approved by the Board in 
February 2009. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
100 
 Total 
100 
 
Page  4
6. Contact points 
Contact: Paloma Anos Casero 
Title: Sr Country Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-1780 
Email: 
panoscasero@worldbank.org
Contact: Oscar Calvo Gonzalez 
Title: Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-2368 
Email: 
ocalvogonzalez@worldbank.org
