Page  1
1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5874 
Operation Name 
Fourth Programmatic Fiscal Management Development Policy 
Loan 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General public administration sector (50%);Other domestic and 
international trade (50%) 
Project ID 
P116214 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF PERU 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Jr. Junin 319 
Lima 1 
Peru 
Tel: (51-1) 427-7095, 426-9452 
Fax: (51-1) 428-2101, 426-
1823 
aamezaga@mef.gob.pe 
Date PID Prepared 
July 7, 2010 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
June 30, 2010 
Date of Board Approval 
August 24, 2010 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Peru faced the global economic crisis after a period of broad-based rapid economic growth. 
Before the global economic crisis,
 
Peru displayed one of the strongest growth performances in 
the Latin America and the Caribbean region, with growth accelerating from 6.4 percent in 2005 
to 9.8 percent in 2008. Rising commodity prices fueled export growth but the economic 
expansion from 2006 to 2008 was also based on buoyant domestic demand and was led by the 
private sector. Consumption and investment contributed roughly equally to economic growth. 
Private investment rose from 15 percent of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in 2005 to around 22 
percent of GDP in 2008, supported by a positive outlook and sound macroeconomic 
management.
 
Strong capital inflows led to a reserve build up and put appreciation pressure on 
the 
Nuevo Sol
.
FDI inflows surged from US$2.5 billion in 2005, around 3.2 percent of GDP, to 
US$6.5 
billion in 2008, around 5 percent of GDP. Bond spreads declined and in 2008 Peru’s 
sovereign foreign currency rating was upgraded to investment grade first by Fitch and Standard 
and Poor’s in 2008 and then by Moody’s in 2009, reflecting the strong growth performance, 
prudent fiscal and liability management, and the resulting improvement in solvency indicators.
 
Sound macroeconomic management during the boom years created the fiscal space needed 
for countercyclical policies to soften the impact of the global economic crisis. 
The GoP 
maintained a prudent fiscal policy through the commodity boom period, running fiscal surpluses 
in the three years to 2008, with the overall budget surplus peaking at 2 percent of GDP in 2008. 
The authorities saved resources into a fiscal stabilization fund, which saw its balance increase 
from US$314 million in 2005 to US$1.8 billion in 2008 (around 1.4 percent of GDP). The 
Page  2
2
authorities also brought public debt down from 38 percent of GDP in 2005 to 24 percent in 2008. 
Public external debt decreased from 28 percent of GDP in 2005 to 15 percent in 2008. In 
parallel, the Central Bank (BCRP) accumulated net international reserves which increased from 
US$14 billion in 2005 to US$31 billion in 2008
—close to five times the stock of short-term 
external debt and 11 months of imports of goods and services.
 
Despite the magnitude of the challenges generated by the global economic crisis, financial 
and exchange rate stability were preserved. 
In the wake of the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy in 
mid-September 2008 the sharp increase in risk aversion in global financial markets was quickly 
felt in Peru. From mid-September to late October 2008 net international reserves fell by US$3.3 
billion, or close to 10 percent of holdings. However, the central bank avoided sharp fluctuations 
of the exchange rate. The global economic crisis also had a relatively limited impact on the 
Peruvian financial sector, which did not rely heavily on short-term external borrowing or on 
exotic asset-based derivatives. In addition, there was no credit crunch as the growth of credit to 
the private sector remained positive, slowing down gradually to an annual rate of 9 percent at its 
trough in December 2009. 
 
Economic growth decelerated sharply in 2009 but remained positive, as external demand 
and an anti-cyclical public spending program propped up growth.
 GDP growth stood at 0.9 
percent in 2009, down from 9.8 percent in 2008, driven largely by a fall in domestic demand 
prompted by the global economic crisis. Within the domestic demand, the drop in private 
investment was particularly sharp. Thus, private investment went from contributing around half 
of the growth in 2008 to a negative contribution in 2009. In contrast to the situation in previous 
years, the overall contribution to GDP growth of domestic demand was also negative in 2009. 
On the external side, the global crisis led to a decline in exports, which fell by 15 percent in 
2009. However, imports decreased more, by 26 percent, as imports of capital and intermediate 
goods dropped sharply on account of the virtual standstill from private investment. The terms of 
trade recovered in the second half of 2009 and for the year as a whole the terms of trade index 
were broadly unchanged. These factors, together with the decrease in profit remittances (largely 
by foreign mining companies operating in Peru) explain why the current account balance turned 
from a deficit of 3.3 percent of GDP in 2008 to a slight surplus of 0.2 percent of GDP in 2009. 
In response to the economic slowdown the authorities launched in 2009 a two-year 
economic stimulus plan amounting to US$4.8 billion, or about 3.5 percent of GDP.
 The plan 
focused primarily on increased public expenditures and attempts to balance the need for a 
stimulus in the short-term which reflected also medium-term priorities. Infrastructure projects 
accounted for around 51 percent of planned expenditures. In particular, about US$412 million 
were allocated for priority projects and US$567 million have been allocated to projects which 
were already in execution but had undisbursed budget balances in 2008—effectively funding the 
‘carry over’ of those projects into 2009. An additional US$912 million was earmarked to 
infrastructure projects to be chosen and implemented by regional governments. Other large items 
in the economic stimulus plan include US$313 million for a range of social protection policies as 
well as US$386 million to fund the fuel subsidies in place through a Fuel Stabilization Fund. 
Also, the so-called ‘duty drawback’ paid to compensate exporters for the import duties paid on 
inputs was, was temporarily increased. As of end-April 2010 the disbursement ratio of the total 
economic stimulus plan was around 87 percent. 
Page  3
3
The fiscal stimulus plan combined with lower fiscal revenues caused a fiscal deficit of 1.9 
percent of GDP in 2009.
 
Peru’s budget balance turned negative in 2009 due to both lower 
revenues and increased public expenditure associated with the economic stimulus plan. The 
existing Fiscal Responsibility and Transparency Law sets two limits: (i) the fiscal deficit is not to 
exceed 1 percent of GDP, and (ii) the growth of current expenditures of the central government 
is not to exceed 3 percent p.a. in real terms. Article 5 of the Law states, however, that in cases of 
national emergency or international crisis the legislature can, at the request of the executive, 
grant exceptions to the fiscal rules for a period of up to three years. The administration proposed 
legislation—which the Congress approved— to increase the limit on the fiscal deficit to 2 
percent of GDP in both 2009 and 2010. In addition, the limit on the real growth of current 
expenditures by the central government—set at 3 percent by the Fiscal Responsibility and 
Transparency Law—was also temporarily lifted to 10 percent in 2009 and 8 percent in 2010. 
Finally, some fiscal rules for sub-national governments were also modified, the most important 
being that for non-financial expenditures the deficit limit was raised from 3 percent to 4 percent, 
excluding investment. In terms of deficit decomposition, it can be explained by both a 12 percent 
falling in Central Government tax revenue and a strong expansion of non-financial expenditures, 
particularly public investment. 
 
In parallel, the central bank eased monetary policy as inflation decreased and exchange 
rate appreciation pressures resumed.
 The central bank cut its policy rate every month from 
February to August 2009, bringing the rate to 1.25 percent for a cumulative easing since the 
beginning of 2009 of 525 basis points. Such a monetary policy easing took place in a context of 
declining inflation, down to 0.25 as of December 2009 and growth deceleration. In addition, the 
central bank adopted a number of measures aimed at supporting the flow of credit, such as 
reducing reserve requirements, accepting new instruments as collateral for liquidity operations, 
and the extension of the term of liquidity management operations. 
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
This proposed Development Policy Loan for US$100 million is the fourth and last in a 
programmatic series of Fiscal Management and Competitiveness Development Policy 
Loans (FMCDPL)
.
The FMCDPL series, along with parallel Development Policy Loans (DPLs) 
in the areas of social policy and environment, were designed in close partnership with 
Government of Peru (GoP) and in line with its policy program– as outlined in the Country 
Partnership Strategy (CPS). The GoP stated a clear vision for (i) building on recent economic 
successes to achieve higher growth and better social outcomes; (ii) constructing a better social 
contract between the government and citizens based on effective social development; and (iii) 
modernizing state institutions. This FMCDPL programmatic series has been prepared at the 
request of the GoP to support Peru’s reform program. 
 
The development objective of the loan is to contribute to growth and poverty alleviation by 
supporting two main policy areas: (i) efficiency and quality of fiscal management and (ii) 
competitiveness
.
Peru entered the global crisis in a solid position and has managed its 
challenges well. Good macroeconomic fundamentals and appropriate policy responses to the 
crisis moderated the negative impact of weaker external demand and external shocks. Aware of 
the downside risks to economic growth as well to poverty and employment, the GoP 
Page  4
4
implemented counter-cyclical policies to mitigate the impact of the crisis. Nonetheless, the GoP 
has not lost sight of the medium-term objectives of its reform agenda, and has continued to make 
progress in improving the effectiveness of fiscal management and supporting the country’s 
competitiveness and integration into the global economy.   
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The fourth phase of this programmatic DPL series is at the heart of the CPS.
 
The latest 
CPS for Peru was discussed by the Board on December 19, 2006; along with the first DPL in the 
series, for a total amount of US$200 million. The second DPL/DDO of the series amounted to 
US$370 million and was approved in August 2008. It was complemented shortly thereafter with 
additional financing for US$330 million approved in December 2008 to mitigate the impact of a 
deteriorating economic context. The Progress Report for the CPS, presented to the Board in 
February 2009, endorsed the relevance of the reform agenda supported by this programmatic 
series to implement the CPS pillars aimed at maintaining macro stability (pillar I-cluster I), 
accelerating growth and widening the base of growth (pillar I-cluster II), and modernizing 
institutions (pillar III-cluster VI). The third DPL of the series, amounting to US$150 million, was 
approved in November 2009.  The fourth and final DPL of this series, proposed under the current 
CPS, amounts to US$100 million and builds on the reform progress supported by the previous 
operations. 
 
In the context of global uncertainty, the authorities seek Bank funding to buttress market 
confidence.  
The GoP seeks to strike an appropriate balance between protecting the outstanding 
results in debt management and maintaining flexibility to respond to a volatile global 
environment. To date, the GoP has disbursed US$410 million of the US$1.56 billion DPL/DDOs 
approved since August 2008. The Peruvian authorities have informed the Bank that they intend 
to disburse US$200 million by the end of CY2010 and US$560 million during CY2011.
 
This operation is complemented by other series of DPLs suppporting the government’s 
efforts to sustain the economic recovery from the global crisis. 
The authorities have sought 
financing from the World Bank through three complementary series of DPL-DDOs in the fiscal, 
social (REACT) and environmental sectors. Since August 2008, four DPL-DDOs (including the 
supplemental financing for the second Fiscal Management and Competitiveness DPL-DDO) 
have been approved by the Board, totaling US$1.56 billion. At the request of the GoP, the 
approval of this series of loans supported the achievement of fiscal goals set forth by the MEF 
and sectoral reforms implemented by line ministries. 
 
In addition, a number of investment projects, non-lending technical assistance (NLTA), 
and trust funds under implementation are consistent with the reform agenda supported by 
this DPL. 
Specifically, the Institutional Capacity for Decentralization TAL supports 
performance-based budgeting efforts. Bank non-lending technical assistance (NLTA) efforts are 
assisting in strengthening the quality of public expenditure and the capacity of the central and 
sub-national government capacity to execute public expenditures
–
in the context of the stimulus 
package. These NLTA activities include the Programmatic Governance and Governability 
NLTA, the Sub-national Pilots NLTA
,
and several IFC-funded technical assistance efforts to 
improve the capacity of the regional and municipal governments to manage natural resource 
revenues. Two Institutional Development Trust Funds (IDFs) are also contributing to the 
Page  5
5
implementation of the reform program supported by this DPL. The Peru Public Expenditure 
Management IDF is focused on
 
performance budgeting and investment management through the 
Regional and Local Investment Promotion Fund (FONIPREL) and the Strengthening Congress 
Budget Oversight IDF focuses on strengthening the capacity to monitor and evaluate the quality 
of the budget formulation and execution of the Peruvian Congress' Budget Commission. 
 
4. Financing 
 
Source of Finance: IBRD 
Loan Amount: US$100 MILLION 
Number of tranches: Single 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The Bank will monitor actions and review progress of the implementation of the proposed 
operation using different sources including:  
·
Fiscal transparency reports 
–
MEF, 
www.mef.gob.pe
·
Central Bank of Peru, reports and research publications, 
www.bcrp.gob.pe
·
SIAF – MEF,
 www.mef.gob.pe
·
Instituto Nacional de Estadística (INEI), 
www.inei.gob.pe
·
Investment Climate Survey 
·
Credit rating agencies reports – several sources 
·
World Bank Doing Business indicators 
·
World Economic Forum competitiveness indicators 
·
Government Tax Agency SUNAT 
–
www.sunat.gob.pe
·
IMF and IADB reports 
 
The GoP and the Bank have agreed to monitor progress in the DPL program regularly.
 
The Sectoral Loans Coordination Unit (
Unidad de 
Coordinación de Préstamos Sectorales
—
UCPS) in the MEF is the main counterpart agency for the proposed loan, which will be in charge 
of M&E for the loan and for collecting the appropriate data to track indicators.  Other important 
agencies are the central bank, SUNAT, PCM and 
Ministerio de Comercio Exterior y Turismo
 
(MINCETUR). 
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
Benefits  
 
The loan will contribute to growth and poverty alleviation by supporting two main policy areas: 
(i) efficiency and quality of fiscal management and (ii) competitiveness.
 
Page  6
6
Risks  
 
Macroeconomic Risks
 
Peru remains exposed to downside risks stemming from renewed uncertainty in 
international financial markets and doubts about the pace of the global economic recovery
.
Following developments in Europe in May 2010, volatility in global financial markets increased 
to levels last seen in March 2009 while asset markets worldwide posted substantial losses. So far, 
the spread of the sovereign stress in European countries to Peru and other emerging countries has 
been limited, due to stronger economic fundamentals in emerging countries and the EU/IMF 
intervention. However, global growth prospects may be affected by concerns about the recovery 
in Europe and how it may spill over other regions of the world. Stock markets in emerging 
markets, as measured by the MSCI emerging market index, dropped 9 percent in May while the 
price of commodities such as copper decreased by 7 percent.  
 
The exposure to commodities remains high, as demand from fast growing emerging 
economies is shifting the destination of Peruvian exports. 
Traditional exports still account for 
over three-
quarters of Peru’s exports. In fact, the share of traditional exports rose slightly in 2009
 
on account of the increase terms of trade for Peru recorded for 2009 as a whole. The importance 
of emerging markets as a destination for Peruvian exports has grown sharply during the global 
economic crisis. Thus, while Peru’s total exports dropped by 13 percent in 2009, its exports to 
China grew by 14 percent. In 2009 China was the second largest destination of Peruvian exports, 
accounting for 15.3 percent of all exports (up from 11.6 percent in 2008). In contrast the share of 
exports to the US dropped from 19.1 percent in 2008 to 17.0 percent in 2009. Similarly, there 
were large declines in excess of 30 percent in exports to large European trading partners, like 
Spain, Italy, the UK, and the Netherlands. These developments suggest that while exposure to 
weaker EU growth may be more muted than in the past, exposure to commodities may have 
increased. In addition, the fast recovery of economic growth observed in Peru has also 
contributed to making the country a more attractive investment destination, adding to exchange 
rate appreciation pressures from already high portfolio capital inflows and affecting the prospects 
of the non-traditional sector to gain competitiveness and export shares. 
 
Commitment to structural reforms and consensus over the macroeconomic pillars has been 
and remains strong
.
The decision by the authorities to curb the expansionary stance of fiscal 
policy demonstrates their commitment to regain fiscal space and is particularly noteworthy in 
light of the upcoming presidential elections to take place in April 2011. In early June 2010 Fitch 
Ratings confirmed the investment grade rating for Peruvian foreign currency sovereign debt and 
upgraded the outlook from stable to positive on account of the resumption of fast growth in the 
country. The country’s solid fundamentals suggest that, in the absence of unexpected policy 
shifts, it is unlikely that the macroeconomic situation would become incompatible with 
continued budgetary support lending during the course of this proposed operation.  
 
Political and Social Risks
 
The policy reforms supported by this loan enjoy broad support across the main political 
groups and the population at large, however social tension remains a risk.
 Improved fiscal 
Page  7
7
management has the potential to threaten some vested interests, but the consensus on the need to 
improve the efficiency and effectiveness of public spending is strongly supported by the 
President, the Prime Minister, the Finance Minister, and all the main parties in the National 
Congress. Some measures to simplify the tax code by eliminating regional exemptions, 
particularly in the Amazon region, have proved politically difficult, but the administration has 
moved this agenda forward in a consensual way. As well, reforms to ease the ability of 
companies
—especially small and medium companies—to access credit, receive licenses, and 
access export opportunities are widely supported by all relevant stakeholders. Local governments 
that may have resisted simplifying procedures have been brought along with technical assistance 
support to undertake reforms. The free trade agenda is also generally supported by the political 
class and the population at large, but some issues have caused social conflict. In particular, recent 
conflicts in a region of the Amazon basin have centered on amendments to the code governing 
the exploitation of forest resources, which were done to comply with the free trade agreement 
with the U.S. The administration is moving to build a consensus on the issue with the main 
political groups and the human rights ombudsman, and has continued its dialogue with 
representatives of the local population.  
 
The upcoming change in administration in Peru in 2011 could present risks related to the 
sustainability of the policy reforms supported by the operation
.
As with any change in 
administration, the upcoming electoral process and change in administration in Peru implies a 
certain risk about the continuity of policy reforms. Mitigating this risk is the broad political 
consensus for the policy reforms supported by this programmatic series. The drive for many of 
the reforms supported by this programmatic series and the maintenance of a sound 
macroeconomic management framework precede the current administration and are relatively 
well-entrenched. To continue the policy dialogue on these areas of reform, the Bank is preparing 
a
series of Policy Notes that will be presented to the Peruvian authorities in 2011. 
 
While the government has made efforts to set up consultation mechanisms with the society 
at large, the lack of appropriate conflict resolution channels with disaffected social groups 
is still a significant challenge. 
More decisive efforts for conflict resolution would be welcome. 
However continued improvements in social safety nets and other social programs, more 
equitable flow of resources to the country’s regions, and an increase in spending on investments 
as part of the economic stimulus package should ameliorate social and political risks.  
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Poverty and Social Impacts 
The actions supported by this operation are not expected to have significant negative 
poverty and social impact.  
In fact, the poverty and social impacts of the policies supported by 
this loan series have been positive.
 
On the fiscal side, the sound fiscal policy framework 
supported by the FMCDPL series has allowed the GoP to increase its attention to social 
spending, particularly through the 
Juntos
 conditional cash transfer program for the poor, and to 
undertake a sizeable emergency fiscal stimulus program to mitigate the effects of the global 
economic downturn on Peru and sustain the social and economic gains of recent years. Actions 
to improve the performance orientation of budgeting processes began with pilot projects in 
Page  8
8
specific areas related to improving the impact of social spending on the poorest sectors of the 
population. These activities are also receiving intensive support from the parallel REACT DPL 
series working to improve results and accountability in public social programs. Initiatives to 
improve the equity of how fiscal resources are distributed throughout the country, in particular 
through the new FONIPREL investment fund, have also benefited poorer parts of the country. 
The fund accepts project proposals not just on project viability, but also on poverty rates and the 
level of a locality’s resources, thus disproportionately benefiting regions with high poverty levels 
and limited natural resources. More than half of the fund’s investments thus far have been in the 
country’s six poorest regions.  
Competitiveness policies have helped with the impressive economic activity experienced in 
Peru in the past several years, which in turn has boosted employment creation and poverty 
reduction
.
This has been particularly notable in the growth of micro, small and medium 
enterprises and the non-traditional export sector, which contribute more significantly to 
employment creation than the traditional commodity export sectors. The long-term strategy for 
reducing barriers to international trade through reductions in tariffs and export subsidies and 
pursuing free trade agreements with Peru’s major trading partners has unquestionably benefited 
Peru overall, as evidenced by recent high rates of export growth and overall economic activity. 
As well, consumers have benefited with lower prices for many goods.  
To assist the poor and those living in rural areas to take advantage of the opportunities 
from Peru’s greater integration into the world economy, the GoP is combining short-term 
social assistance programs with medium- and longer-term efforts in human capital and 
infrastructure investments
.
While Peru’s greater integration in the world economy will bring 
opportunities for the country as a whole, it must also be acknowledged that not all social groups 
are in the same position to take advantage of these opportunities. One of the flagship programs of 
the administration is 
Sierra Exportadora
,
a
package of measures designed to promote greater 
economic opportunities through trade and market integration to poorer, heavily indigenous 
Andean mountain region. The project is directing significant technical assistance, infrastructure 
investment, and credit to boost export-oriented agriculture, forestry and artisan production based 
on local knowledge and specialties. The Bank’s Sierra Development Project, included in the 
CPS, is supporting aspects of 
Sierra Exportadora
.
In the medium and long term, the GoP is 
undertaking significant efforts to increase logistical links to more remote areas of the country to 
help these poorer areas access broader domestic and international markets. Additionally, the GoP 
is cognizant that human capital deficits are critical in holding back many poorer Peruvians, and 
improving the quality of education is a top administration priority. This is fully supported by the 
Bank, through the RECURSO analytical project on social sector results, the ongoing social 
sector DPL (which has a strong focus on education), and through the results-budgeting 
orientation included in this operation. 
Fast economic growth in recent years has been accompanied by poverty reduction and job 
creation.
 Between 2005 and 2009 poverty fell from 48.7 percent to 34.8 percent, while extreme 
poverty was reduced from 17.4 percent to 11.5 percent (Table 4). The continued reduction in 
poverty is remarkable given that 2008 saw high food price inflation and that economic growth 
slowed down in 2009 as a result of the global economic crisis. The reduction of poverty in 2009 
Page  9
9
was concentrated mainly in urban areas, especially in Lima, and took place at a lower rate than in 
previous years. Poverty incidence remains highly unequal in geographic terms, with some 
regions posting poverty rates above 60 percent. 
While inequality of opportunity remains high, Peru has made substantial progress in 
addressing it.
 The Human Opportunity Index, which measures equality of opportunity in access 
to social services, shows substantial improvement between 1995 and 2006 when compared to 
other countries in the region (Figure 7). Increased public investments in water, sanitation and 
electricity during the last years support a trend of reduction in inequality of opportunity. Despite 
this progress, large opportunity gaps remain a challenge for policy-makers. 
Environment Aspects 
 
This DPL operation is not likely to have any significant effects on the environment, forests, 
and other natural resources.
 The reforms supported by the program are related to the adoption 
of policies and only a few could have a future environmental impact.  In fact some of the 
proposed policy reforms under the proposed DPL are likely to be positive for environmental 
management, particularly related to improved monitoring and evaluation for government 
expenditure, including environmental expenditure. These reforms could contribute in 
strengthening GoP’s ability to set clear environmental priorities, coordinate with environmental 
authorities on developing indicators to evaluate the impact of spending on achieving these 
priorities, and ensure that all sectors follow legal norms related to the environment. The fiscal 
space created through making the budget and expenditure process more efficient could also serve 
to strengthen under-funded environmental spending.  
 
In the medium and long term, further trade liberalization and economic activity in Peru
—
by means of desirable growth and poverty reduction—would lead to greater infrastructure 
development. 
While SNIP does evaluate environmental considerations for each infrastructure 
project approved, this is done in an ex-ante manner. The challenge regarding potential 
environmental impacts is during execution. The Bank’s Country Environmental Assessment 
highlighted shortcomings in Peru’s institutional framework for environmental protection and 
sustainability. It also pointed to the need to continue protection efforts in natural areas such as 
tropical forests while mitigating the serious health impacts and high costs of environmental 
degradation, particularly in terms of air and water contamination. As a result of this study and the 
ensuing dialogue with GoP, the Bank prepared a planned three-phase DPL operation on 
environmental policy, the first phase of which (for US$330 million) was approved by the Board 
in February 2009.  
 
The environmental DPLs supported by the Bank (the third and last in the series is 
currently under preparation) focus on reordering the institutional and legal framework for 
environmental management
.
The creation of an adequate national-level authority to enforce 
environmental issues (Environmental Evaluation and Enforcement Office—OEFA) is a major 
step, given that the system in place is fragmented and adversely affects the country’s ability to 
tackle numerous environmental challenges. An important trigger under the second environmental 
DPL is the approval of the regulation of the Law on the National System of Environmental 
Impact Assessment, which allows the Ministry of the Environment to review environmental 
Page  10
10 
 
impact assessments for large infrastructure/investment projects with potentially significant 
impacts. An IDF grant was awarded to promote capacity building within the key environmental 
authority. The areas covered under the environmental DPL include implementing an updated 
mining environmental legacies (MELs) inventory and a national strategy for remediation of 
priority MELs, reducing air pollution through reduction of sulfur content in diesel to 50 ppm and 
promoting and implementing vehicle conversions to natural gas.  In addition, the Bank has 
recommended that the authorities include environment and resource management in the desk 
evaluation pilots programmed for the next years.  
 
8. Contact point 
Contact:  
 
Paloma Anos Casero 
Title: Sr Country Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-1780 
Email: panoscasero@worldbank.org 
 
Oscar Calvo-Gonzalez 
Title: Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-2368 
Email:ocalvogonzalez@worldbank.org 
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
