                                              CONFORMED COPY


                                            LOAN NUMBER 7954-PE




           Loan Agreement
(Fourth Programmatic Fiscal Management and Competitiveness
                Development Policy Loan)


                         between

                  REPUBLIC OF PERÚ



                           and


   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
              AND DEVELOPMENT




                 Dated September 23, 2010
                                 LOAN AGREEMENT

Agreement dated September 23, 2010, entered into between REPUBLIC OF PERÚ
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic
policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:

              ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
        constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
        the Appendix to this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE II — LOAN

2.01.   The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
        referred to in this Agreement, the amount of $100,000,000 (one hundred million
        Dollars), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
        Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement
        (“Loan”).

2.02.   (a)     The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the
                Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

        (b)     The Borrower’s Director of Public Indebtedness, or any person
                designated in writing, is designated as the representative of the Borrower
                for purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under
                the provisions of Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement and Article II of the
                General Conditions.

2.03.   The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
        percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
        not later than sixty days after the Effective Date.

2.04.   The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
        equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that
        upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the
        interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount
                                           -2-


        shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of
        the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the
        Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment
        continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower
        shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General
        Conditions.

2.05.   The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.

2.06.   The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
        provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.07.   (a)     The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
                of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
                (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
                amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
                Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any
                portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
                from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting
                of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
                principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the
                establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
                Variable Rate.

        (b)     Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
                is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined
                in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
                provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
                Guidelines.

2.08.   Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
        (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section II of the Appendix to this
        Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall
        promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this
        Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.

                            ARTICLE III — PROGRAM

3.01.   The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
        To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:

        (a)     the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of
                either party, exchange views on the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy
                framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
                                          -3-


        (b)     prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
                Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
                carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
                request; and

        (c)     without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
                Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation
                that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the
                Program or any action taken under the Program, including any action
                specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

                     ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

4.01.   The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that
        a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or
        a significant part of it, will be carried out.

               ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01.   The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that
        the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out
        the Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy
        framework.

5.02.   Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
        Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
        case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan
        which expire on February 27, 2012.

               ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01.   Except as provided in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement, the Borrower’s
        representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance, provided that the
        Borrower’s Director of Public Indebtedness may, by him or herself, represent the
        Borrower to sign amendments to this Agreement which are considered of an
        administrative and non-financial nature. The signing by such Director of an
        amendment shall constitute a representation by the Borrower that any such
        amendment is considered to be administrative and non-financial in nature.

6.02.   The Borrower’s Address is:

        Ministry of Economy and Finance
        Jr. Junín 319
        Lima, Perú

        Facsimile:      (511) 626-9921
                                          -4-


6.03.   The Bank’s Address is:

        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
        1818 H Street, N.W.
        Washington, D.C. 20433
        United States of America

        Cable address:           Telex:                 Facsimile:

        INTBAFRAD                248423(MCI) or         1-202-477-6391
        Washington, D.C.          64145(MCI)




AGREED at Lima, Perú, as of the day and year first above written.



                                 REPUBLIC OF PERÚ



                                 By /s/ Ismael Benavides
                                                              Authorized Representative



                                 INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT



                                 By /s/ C. Felipe Jaramillo
                                                              Authorized Representative
                                           -5-


                                     SCHEDULE 1

      Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds; Access to Information

Section I.      Actions Taken under the Program

A.      The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program to promote sound fiscal
        management by, inter alia: (i) increasing the sustainability and transparency of
        fiscal policy; (ii) enhancing the neutrality and stability of the tax system; (iii)
        strengthening budget planning and reporting; (iv) increasing equity in inter-
        governmental transfers; and (v) improving the efficiency and impact of public
        spending, include the following:

        1.      Issuance of various legal instruments pertaining to performance-based
                transfer of resources from the Executive to Municipalities, including,
                inter alia, the following:

                (a)     Decree (Decreto de Urgencia No. 119-2009 Modifican Artículos
                        de las Leyes Nos. 29332 y 29465 y Dictan Medidas
                        Extraordinarias Para el Financiamiento de la Continuidad de
                        las Inversiones durante el Año Fiscal 2010) dated December 23,
                        2009 and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (El
                        Peruano) on December 24, 2009.

                (b)     Decrees No. 002-2010-EF and 003-2010-EF, both dated January
                        11, 2010 and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (El
                        Peruano) on January 12, 2010, establishing the procedures
                        regulating performance measurement criteria and targets and the
                        allocation of resources to Municipalities.

                (c)     Resolution No. 008-2010-EF/76.01 issued by the Directorate of
                        Public Budget on March 30, 2010 and published in the
                        Borrower’s Official Gazette (El Peruano) on April 1, 2010,
                        approving the results of compliance by Municipalities of
                        performance targets as reported by said Municipalities by
                        February 2010.

        2.      Issuance of Resolution No. 036-2010/SUNAT dated January 29, 2010
                and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (El Peruano) on
                January 31, 2010, providing for procedures aimed at improving tax
                compliance, through, inter alia, the establishment of online tax filing
                procedures (Formulario Virtual para la Declaración y Pago de Renta de
                Segunda Categoría) in regard to income taxes (impuesto a la renta).
                                           -6-


        3.      Enactment by the Legislature of the Borrower’s Law No. 29537 dated
                June 7, 2010 and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (El
                Peruano) on June 8, 2010, mandating the timely preparation and
                disclosure of consolidated government financial statements (Cuenta
                General de la República) and audit reports aimed at strengthening further
                the Borrower’s budget reporting capacity.

        4.      Issuance of Supreme Decree No. 060-2010-EF dated February 17, 2010
                and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (El Peruano) on
                February 18, 2010, setting forth a new methodology for the allocation of
                FONCOMUN resources to Municipalities, thereby promoting equity in
                transfers of resources from the Executive to the Municipalities.

B.      The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program to strengthen
        competitiveness by, inter alia: (i) expanding and facilitating international trade;
        and (ii) promoting sustainable financial deepening, include the following:

        1.      (a)     The closure of the negotiation process of a proposed trade
                        agreement between the Borrower and the EU, as evidenced by
                        the signing of the Joint Declaration on May 19, 2010.

                (b)     The issuance of Supreme Decree No. 096-2010-EF dated March
                        26, 2010 and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (El
                        Peruano) on March 27, 2010 establishing October 1, 2010 as the
                        completion date for the progressive implementation of simplified
                        customs procedures.

        2.      The adoption of Resolution CONASEV No. 068-2009/94.01.1 dated
                September 24, 2009 and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (El
                Peruano) on September 29, 2010, aimed at strengthening the Borrower’s
                regulatory framework for asset securitization and therefore promoting the
                development of the Borrower’s capital markets.

Section II.     Availability of Loan Proceeds

A.      General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
        with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
        may specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                      -7-


B.   Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan is allocated in a single tranche, from
     which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation
     of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:

                                                  Amount of the Loan
                                                       Allocated
                 Allocations                     (expressed in Dollars)

      Single Withdrawal Tranche                       100,000,000

      TOTAL AMOUNT                                    100,000,000

C.   Payment of Front-end Fee. No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan
     Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.

D.   Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions

     No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the
     Bank is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower;
     and (b) with the appropriateness of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy
     framework.

E.   Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:

     1.     all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank
            into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank;
            and

     2.     the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the
            Loan into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the
            Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the
            Bank.

F.   Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the
     Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines
     at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an
     Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,
     refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts
     refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.

G.   Closing Date. The Closing Date is December 31, 2011.

H.   Access to Information. The Bank may disclose the Legal Agreements and any
     information related to the Legal Agreements in accordance with its policy on
     access to information, in effect at the time of such disclosure.
                                        -8-


                                  SCHEDULE 2

                             Amortization Schedule

1.   The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
     percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
     Payment Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
     withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
     Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
     determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
     first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
     Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
     amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
     Conversion applies.

                                                       Installment Share
           Principal Payment Date                  (Expressed as a Percentage)
               October 15, 2021                               20 %
                April 15, 2022                                35 %
               October 15, 2022                               15 %
                April 15, 2023                                20 %
               October 15, 2023                               10 %

2.   If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
     Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
     each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

     (a)     To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
             the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
             Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1
             of this Schedule.

     (b)     Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
             repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
             withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
             amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
             the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
             Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”)
             and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
             Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
             date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
             amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
             Conversion applies.
                                      -9-


3.   (a)    Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
            Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
            principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
            withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
            following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
            Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
            Date following the date of withdrawal.

     (b)    Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
            at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
            invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
            provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
            withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.

4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
     Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
     Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
     repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
     Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
     currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
     exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
     payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
     Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
     Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
                                        - 10 -


                                    APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

1.     “CONASEV” means Comisión Nacional Supervisora de Empresas y Valores, the
       Borrower’s commission for the supervision of enterprises and securities
       established and operating within the Ministry of Economy and Finance pursuant
       to the provisions of the Borrower’s Law Decree No. 19648 dated December 5,
       1972 and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (El Peruano) on
       December 7, 1972, as amended to the date of this Agreement.

2.     “Directorate of Public Budget” means Dirección General de Presupuesto
       Público, the Borrower’s budget general directorate within the Ministry of
       Economy and Finance.

3.     “European Union” or “EU” means a political and economic integration
       mechanism promoting cooperation among its states established pursuant to the
       provisions of the Maastricht Treaty, dated July 29, 1992, and published in the
       EU’s Official Journal No. C.191 on July 29, 1992, as amended to the date of this
       Agreement.

4.     “Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure:

       (a)     for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
               international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
               Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
               Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
               or grant;

       (b)     for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
               International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
               by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
               (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
               revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the
               Borrower:

                   Group         Sub-group         Description of Item
                    112                            Alcoholic beverages
                    121                            Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco
                                                   refuse
                     122                           Tobacco, manufactured (whether or
                                                   not containing tobacco substitutes)
                     525                           Radioactive and associated
                                                   materials
                                       - 11 -


                  Group          Sub-group        Description of Item
                   667                            Pearls, precious and semiprecious
                                                  stones, unworked or worked
                   718              718.7         Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof;
                                                  fuel elements (cartridges), non-
                                                  irradiated, for nuclear reactors
                   728             728.43         Tobacco processing machinery
                   897              897.3         Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
                                                  group metals (except watches and
                                                  watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or
                                                  silversmiths’ wares (including set
                                                  gems)
                   971                            Gold, non-monetary (excluding
                                                  gold ores and concentrates)

      (c)     for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
              consumption;

      (d)     for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
              which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
              agreements to which the Borrower is a party;

      (e)     on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
              Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
              United Nations; and

      (f)     with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
              collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
              Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
              (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
              satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.

(c)   “Executive” means the Borrower’s executive branch of government

(d)   “FONCOMUN” means Fondo de Compensación Municipal, the Borrower’s
      municipal compensatory fund established and operating pursuant to the
      provisions of the Borrower’s Legislative Decree No. 776 dated December 30,
      1993 and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (El Peruano) on
      December 31, 1993, as amended to the date of this Agreement.

(e)   “General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
      Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended
      through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this
      Appendix.
                                       - 12 -


(f)   “Joint Declaration” means Declaración de Conclusión de las Negociaciones de
      un Acuerdo Comercial entre la República del Perú, la República de Colombia y
      la Unión Europea, the joint declaration signed between the Borrower
      (represented by its Ministers of External Relations and Foreign Trade and
      Tourism), the Republic of Colombia and the EU (represented by the EU
      Commissioner for Trade) dated May 19, 2010.

(g)   “Law No. 29332” means Ley No. 29332 que Crea el Plan de Incentivos a la
      Mejora de la Gestión Municipal, the Borrower’s Law dated March 20, 2009 and
      published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (El Peruano) on March 21, 2009, as
      amended to the date of this Agreement, establishing the Borrower’s plan of
      financial incentives to improve managerial practice, at the Municipality-level.

(h)   “Law No. 29465” means Ley No. 29465 de Presupuesto del Sector Público para
      el Año Fiscal del 2010, the Borrower’s Law dated December 7, 2009 and
      published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (El Peruano) on December 8, 2009,
      as amended to the date of this Agreement, establishing the Borrower’s Programa
      de Modernización Municipal, a program for the modernization of its
      Municipalities.

(i)   “Legislature” means the Borrower’s legislative branch of government.

(j)   “Ministry of Economy and Finance” means Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas,
      the Borrower’s ministry responsible for economy and finance, and its successor
      or successors thereto.

(k)   “Municipality” means municipalidad, a political subdivision of the Borrower.

(l)   “Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
      promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
      referred to in the letter dated July 7, 2010 from the Borrower to the Bank
      declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and
      requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its
      execution.

(m)   “Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
      category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of
      Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

(n)    “SUNAT” means Superintendencia Nacional de Administración Tributaria, the
      Borrower’s regulatory agency responsible for tax administration established and
      operating pursuant to the provisions of the Borrower’s Law No. 24829 dated
      June 7, 1988 and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (El Peruano) on
      June 8, 1988, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
                                          - 13 -


Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:

1.      The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
        Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

2.      Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
        in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
        accordingly.

3.      Paragraph (a) of Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2
        above) is modified to read as follows:

        “Section 2.05. Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee
        and Interest

                (a)      If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the
        proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the Association
        (“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw
        from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to
        repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of
        such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid
        charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Bank shall pay the amount
        so withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the
        remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.”

4.      Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
        Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
        Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.

5.      Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above
        and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

6.      Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4
        above) is modified to read as follows:

                “Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records

                …       (c)      The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
                invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
                under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower
                shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.”
                                     - 14 -


7.   Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4
     above) is modified to read as follows:

            “Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

            …       (c)     The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
            furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a
            report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
            request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan
            Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal
            Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.”

8.   The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
     deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
     alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
     accordingly:

     (a)    The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as
            follows:

            “‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution
            Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower
            and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect,
            and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.”

     (b)    The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as
            follows:

             “‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in
            support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
            pursuant to the Loan Agreement.”

     (c)    The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their
            entirety.

     (d)    The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is
            modified to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout
            these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):

            “‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in
            support of which the Loan is made.”
                              - 15 -


(e)   The term “Program Preparation Advance” (renamed as such pursuant to
      subparagraph 8 (d) above is modified to read “Preparation Advance” and
      its definition is modified to read as follows:

      “‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Loan
      Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.”
