Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 19939 -BR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$30.3 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE
LOW INCOME SANITATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT - PROSANEAR - TAL
December 9, 1999
Finance, Private Sector, and Infrastructure Sector Unit
Country Management Unit 5
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 1, 1999)
Currency Unit = Real
LC1.74 = US$I
US$0.57 = LC 1
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATi'IONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
CAIXA                 Caixa Economica Federal, Government Housing and Savings Bank
in charge of implemeriting various Govemment investment
programs
EI                    Environmental Impact
FGTS                  Fundo de Garantia do Tempo de Servi o - Employee
Indemnity Fund
PDLI                  Integrated urbar development plan
IBGE                  Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics
MIS                   Management Information System
PASS                  Programa de A4do Social de Saneamento -
Social Action Program for Sanitation
PMSS                 Programa de Modernizaqdo do Setor de Saneamento
Water Sector Modemization I and II
PMU                   Project Management Unit
POM                   Project Operational Manual
PROSANEAR            Programa de Saneamento para Populaq5es em Areas de
Baixa Renda - Water and Sanitation Program for Low Income
Population
PSI                   Integrated water and sanitation project
SEDU/PR               Special Secretariat of Urban Development of the Presidency of the
Republic
SOE                   Statement of Expenses
TAL                   Technical Assistance Loan
Vice President:                     Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager/Director:           Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager/Director:            Danny Leipziger
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Yoko Katakura



Brazil
LOW INCOME SANITATION - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE - PROSANEAR - TAL
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective ................................................................                                                           2
1. Project development objective and key performance Indicators .................................... 2
B. Strategic Context ................................................................                                                                       2
1.  Sector-related CAS  goal supported by the project .................................................... 2
2. Main  sector issues and  Government strategy .................................................................                              2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices.4
C. Project Description Summary ..................................................................6
1. Project components ...............,.. , , , , . .                                                                                 . 6
2. Key policy  and institutional reforms supported  by the project ........................................... 7
3. Benefits and target population .........................................                       .         .         .            .           7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements .........................................8
D. Project Rationale .........................................8
1. Project alternatives considered  and reasons for rejection ......................................................8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ................. 9
3. Lessons learned  and reflected  in proposed project design .................................................. 10
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ..........................................................  10
5.  Value added  of Bank  support in this project ................................................................                              10
E. Summary Project Analyses ................................................................                                                                 10
1. Economic and Financial ................................................................                                                    10
2. Institutional .....................                                                                                                          11
3. Technical .....................                                                                                                              12
4. Social ...........................                                                                                                            12
5. Environmental ...........................                                                                                                    13
6. Resettlement ...........................                                                                                                     13
7. Participatory approach ...........................                                                                                            13
F. Sustainabiity and Risks ............................                                                                                                     14
1. Sustainability ............................                                                                                                  14
2. Critical risks ...........................                                                                                                   14
3. Possible controversial aspects ............................                                                                                  15



G. Main  Loan  Conditions .........................                                                                                                      15
1. Negotiations conditions ..................                                                                                                15
2. Effectiveness conditions ..................                                                                                            15
3. Other ..................                                                                                                               15
H. Readiness for Implementation ........................                                                                                              15
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ........................                                                                                             16
Annexes
Annex  l.                            Project Design  Summary ..................................................                                        17
Attachment                         I Monito ring Indicators ..................................................                                     20
Annex 2.                             Detailed Project Description ..................................................                                  22
Attachment I                       Project Eligibility  Criteria ...................................................                               24
Attachment 2                      Lessons Learned  from  PROSANEAR  I ..................................................     26
Attachment 3                       Summary of PROSANEAR - TAL Guidelines ............................................ 28
Attachment 3a                      PROSANEAR - TAL Resettlement Guidelines ................................... 34
Attachment 4                       Cost Recovery  and  Subsidy Policy ..................................................                            35
Attachment 5                       Institutional Arrangement. &  Operational Process ................................. 41
Attachment Sa                      Institutional Arrangement ..................................................                                     42
Attachment 5b                      Operational Process ...................................................                                          43
Attachment 6                       Detailed Project Implementation Plan for the First Year.44
Annex 3.                             Estimated Project Costs ..................................................                                       45
Annex 4.                             Guidelines for Financial and Economic Evaluation of PROSANEAR
Subprojects ..................................................                                                   46
Attachment 1                       Fiscal Impact of PROSANEAR  - TAL ..................................................                               47
Annex 5.                             Procurement, Disbursement, and Accounting/Auditing Arrangements ........... 50
Table A.                          Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements ................................................ 51
Table Al.                         Consultant Selection Arrangements ..................................................                               51
Table B.                          Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review.52
Table C.                           Allocation of Loan Proceeds ..................................................                                    52
Annex 6.                              Project Processing Budget and Schedule ..................................................                             54
Annex 7.                             Documents in Project File ...................................................                                      55
Annex  8.                             Statement of Loans and Credits ..................................................                                  58
Annex 9.                             Country at a Glance ..................................................                                              60



Brazil
LOW INCOME SANITATION - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE -
PROSANEAR - TAL
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Brazil Country Department
Date: December 9, 1999                                                             []  Draft  [x]  Final
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Yoko Katakura      Country Manager/Director: Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager/Director: Danny Leipziger
Project ID: BRPA 39199    Sector: Water Supply &   Program Objective Category: Poverty Reduction
Sanitation
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan     Program of Targeted Intervention:    [X]  Yes   []  No
Project Financing Data            [X]   Loan       []   Credit      []   Guarantee    [    Other
[Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$30.3 million
Proposed terms:                        [x]    Multicurrency      []     Single currency, specify
Grace period (years):   5        []   Standard Variable    [      Fixed           [x ]   LIBOR-
based
Years to maturity:   15
Commitment fee:   0.75%
Front end fee:   1.0%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                                   Local            Foreign             Total
Federal Government                                        3.0                                  3.0
Local Government and/or Water Utilities                   16.0                                 16.0
IBRD                                                     25.0                5.3              30.3
Total       44.0               5.3               49.3
Borrower: Federative Republic of Brazil
Responsible agency(ies): Secretariat of Urban Development, Ministry of Planning
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):     2000        2001       2002       2003     2004      2005
Annual       2.3        6.0         7.0        8.0      6.0       1.0
Cumulative      2.3         8.3        15.3       23.3     29.3      30.3
Project implementation period: 5 years  Expected effectiveness date: April 1, 2000
Closing date: December 31, 2004



2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1).
To achieve integrated and demand-driven water supply and sanitation (WSS) service delivery to the urban
poor within participating local government agencies, under the framework of the PROSANEAR national low-
income sanitation program.
The key performance indicators (see Annex 1 for specific indicators) of the proposed TAL include:
a) number of participating local government agencies that adopt and implement a participatory approach
to WSS service delivery;
b) number of participating local government agencies which undertake integrated urban planning as part
of WSS service delivery;
c) number of participating local government agencies that implement a clear and transparent cost-
recovery / subsidy policy for WSS service delivery;
d) number of participating local government agencies that establish a multi-disciplinary team to
implement low income sanitation projects;
e) per beneficiary investment costs of less than $100 for water ($70 if only for distribution and storage)
and US$120 for sewerage ($80, if collection only) of TAL-supported investment programs; and
f) level of awareness and satisfaction among municipal officials, community groups, federal and state
officials regarding the PROSANEAR project approach.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS Progress Report: R98-116 (IFC/R98-87)      Date of latest CAS discussion: June 2, 1998
The primary objective of the Department's assistance strategy in the water and sanitation sector in Brazil is to
facilitate and accelerate the sector institutional and regulatory reform, while developing and implementing a
clear strategy to address the issue of the poor and environment. The sector strategy is consistent with the
country's broad economic and social objectives, and the Bank's CAS in the following areas: (i) public sector
reform and private sector participation; (ii) environmental protection; and (iii) expansion of basic services to
the poor.
The proposed TAL will primarily support the third objective of the CAS: to increase the productivity of the
poor through increased availability of basic urban services. Access to safe water and adequate sanitation
reduces infant mortality and water-borne diseases, thereby increasing the productivity of the low income
population. Lack of sanitation is devastating in an urban setting, where the poor live in densely populated
irregular settlements, often on the steep slopes or in the flood plains. The proposed TAL will facilitate and
accelerate the Government's effort to extend water and sanitation services to the urban poor living in such
conditions.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main Sector Issues
The main sector issues identified in the Department's Water and Sanitation Sector Strategy Note (discussed by
the Country Management Tean on January 20, 1998) are threefold: (i) weak institutional and regulatory
framework; (ii) lack of incentives, mechanisms and capacity to service the poor; and (iii) ineffective pollution
control policies. All three issues contribute to the current dismal state of service coverage to the urban poor.
Over 19 million urban poor earning less than three minimum salaries per family per month (about US$330)
live without safe water supply and over 34 million urban poor live without adequate sewage disposal solutions.



3
(i) Weak institutional and regulatory framework. In the absence of competition, regulation, and nurtured by
old labor practices and frequent political intervention, the public water utilities over time became inefficient,
stagnant, with limited financial capacity. Although the 1995 Concession Law initiated the nation-wide efforts
to seek for alternative sector institutional and regulatory models, the sector reform is still at a very early stage.
As the sector reform proceeds slowly, the urban poor continue to be the main victim of the mediocre sector
performance.
(ii) Lack of incentives, mechanisms and sector capacity to service the poor. Extension of services to the poor
is often the last priority for cash-strapped water utilities. Prevailing tariff structure and non-transparent cost
recovery and subsidy policy provide little incentives to investing in the poor neighborhoods. Furthermore,
existing concession contracts contain no incentive mechanisms or clear obligations to extend services to the
poor. The more recent concession contracts with private sector also do not include a clear poverty
policy/strategy, such as explicit service expansion targets in the poor areas or subsidy mechanisms. In addition
to the lack of institutional incentives to serve the poor as described above, there is a lack of mechanism and
capacity to extend services to the poor. Extension of services to the poor urban neighborhood requires a non-
conventional approach, including the use of low cost appropriate technology and active community
participation. This is especially true in Brazil, where a major part of the urban poor live in large-scale urban
and peri-urban irregular settlements -- commonly calledfavelas -- often situated on steep slopes or in flood
plains.
The experience in the past proved that investments in poor neighborhoods carried out in a supply-driven and
paternalistic manner are not sustainable. With no participation in decision making process and little
consideration over cost recovery, communities get little sense of ownership, and the infrastructure quickly
deteriorates. Furthermore, conventional systems with standards set by most developed countries, are often not
suitable in a disorganized, and often difficult to accessfavela situation. Nonetheless, only a limited number of
utilities and government agencies have the capacity and knowledge to prepare and effectively implement water
and sanitation services for the poor.
Municipalities also lack the capacity to plan, finance and coordinate delivery of complementary services that
are critical to sustainability of water and sanitation investment in low income areas. Many are not credit
worthy and are therefore unable to access financing for capital investments. Technical capacity is weak, and
there is no coordinated and sustained effort to provide services to poor areas.
(iii) Ineffective Pollution Control Policies. Practically all major and medium size metropolitan areas in Brazil
face increasing water pollution problems. Pollution is particularly severe in Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo, Porto
Alegre, and most coastal cities, where residential and industrial sewage is dumped into rivers, lakes, and the
ocean, with little control. Again, the urban poor are the main victims. The most vulnerable -- the poor and the
children -- suffers most from bad health and high medical expenses caused by increasing pollution.
The Government Strategy: The Government Strategy in addressing these issues are summarized in the
National Policy for Water and Sanitation issued by the Secretariat of Urban Development at the Ministry of
Planning, dated August 1997 (available in Project Files). The Government's strategy is to address the three
issues in parallel, without undermining the overarching objective of sector reform.
(i) Institutional and Regulatory Reform. The Government's strategy is to promote sector reform by providing
direct technical assistance support to the states and municipalities, while developing a clearer regulatory
framework at the Federal level. The main principles of the Govermnent's strategy are to: (a) promote private
sector participation; (b) establish a sector regulatory framework to enhance efficiency and introduce
competition; and (c) promote wide social participation in the regulation and control of services. The



4
government's flagship program in this area is the Bank financed Water Sector Modernization Project (PMSS) I
and 11.
(ii) Universal Services -- Service extension to the Poor: While striving to improve the overall performance of
the sector through institutional and regulatory reform in the medium-term, the Government has decided to
address the issue of the urban poor without delay. The Governrment's main strategy has been to provide
grants and subsidized financing for sector investments targeted to urban low income areas.
The Government's strategy of extending services to the urban poor is translated into several Federally funded
programs such as: (i) PASS (Program de AIdo Social em Saneamento), a grant financing program funded by
Fede.al Budget and an IDB loan; and (ii) PROSANEAR (Programa de Saneamento para Popula,ces em Areas
de Baixa Renda), a subsidized credit program funded by FGTS (employee indemnity fund); and (iii)
Communidade Solidaria (CS) Small Municipalities program. PASS targets low income population living in
smaller cities (with population of less than 50,000 but larger than 15,000) with limited capacity to finance
investments. The investment funds are given to municipalities and utilities as grants. PROSANEAR, on the
other hand, targets low income population living in low income settlements of larger cities (with population of
more than 50,000). Both programs place priority to municipalities identified by the Communidade Solidaria
(CS), the Government's flagship poverty alleviation program. The "Communidade Solidaria Small
Municipalities program" is a new project, currently under discussion between the Government and the Bank,
and targets smaller municipalities with population of less than 15,000 and identified by CS as poverty pockets.
The main challenge the Government faces now is to develop a comprehensive policy framework to address the
issue of extension of basic water and sanitation services to the poor. The absence of a policy framnework has
hampered the performance of Government funded programs, as described below in more detail.
(iii) Water Quality and Pollution Control: The main strategy of the Government is to establish an efficient
institutional and regulatory framework for water quality and pollution control. The main principles of the
strategy include: (i) development of policies considering the multisectoral and cross-jurisdictional nature of
water resources management; (ii) use of water basins as the basic unit to control water quality and pollution
and for investment planning; (iii) stakeholder participation in strategic decision making; (iv) use of market
forces to allocate water among competing users; and (v) provision of economic incentives to the polluters to
invest in corrective measures.
(iv) Urban Policy and Strategy: With the devolution of authority to municipalities under the 1988
constitution, the role of the states and of the federal government in urban policy and urban development has
been unclear. While states such as Parana, Ceara, and Minas Gerais have articulated urban deve4opment
strategies and developed programs to strengthen municipalities, most states lack similar initiatives. Instead,
state and federal level interventions have often been adhoc, with the federal level primarily providing
financing for capital investment programs through CAIXA and BNDES. States have often intervened directly
in urban areas, through implementation of state managed programs which have limited participation and
ownership of the municipalities, and little coordination with other municipal programs and services. There
has been limited effort to clarify the roles and responsibilities of the state and federal level versus that of the
municipalities and to provide the municipalities with the tools and resources they need for sustainable delivery
of services within their boundaries.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
PROSANEAR L To address the issue of the lack of mechanism to extend water and sanitation services to the
urban poor, the Bank financed a US$ 100 million pilot program called PROSANEAR (Low Income Water and
Sanitation Project) I, between 1990 and 1996. PROSANEAR I developed and tested various approaches for
the provision of water and sanitation services to the urban poor, and benefited more than one million urban
poor living 15 cities across Brazil. The "learning by doing" approach produced numerous innovative



5
technologies, institutional arrangements, and community mobilization techniques. At the same time, many
lessons were learned. In particular, the following elements were found to be critical to the medium- and long-
term sustainability of the projects: (i) clearer rules on cost recovery and subsidy policy; (ii) inclusion of
operation and maintenance arrangements in the project design; (iii) better coordination with local
government's urban development plan; and (iv) more rigorous training and dissemination programs.
PROSANEAR. National Program. In 1995, encouraged by the success of the pilot program PROSANEAR I,
the Brazilian Government transformed "PROSANEAR" into a national program funded fully by the national
employee indemnity fund (FGTS). The performance of the national program, however, has been
disappointing. Of the Federal loan allocation of US$200 million per year, only about 25% of the funds were
utilized during 1995-96 period. The poor performance was attributable to: (i) lack of institutional capacity in
preparing and implementing low income water and sanitation projects; (ii) lack of awareness and knowledge
about the PROSANEAR program; and (iii) unclear incentive mechanisms provided to participating water
companies; and (iv) weak financial and institutional capacity of municipalities in obtaining credits and
undertaking complementary investments such as drainage and solid waste solutions. Furthermore, many of the
lessons learned from PROSANEAR I were not fully incorporated into the national program.
The proposed TAL. Considering the importance of the national PROSANEAR program and other poverty
targeted programs within the Government's poverty strategy, the Government requested the Bank's assistance
in revitalizing the national program through a technical assistance loan. The proposed TAL thus aims to
effectively mobilize the local and other resources, by filling the gaps as identified above. The TAL consists
of: (i) technical assistance to prepare a stock of subprojects to be financed by the PROSANEAR national
program; (ii) training programs to strengthen the capacity of project executing agencies in preparing and
implementing projects; (iii) dissemination programs to raise awareness about PROSANEAR program; (iv) a
pilot municipal TA program to develop action plans to strengthen institutional and financial capacity of the
municipalities which make PROSANEAR program more sustainable; and (v) TA to develop federal level
urban strategies. Lessons from PROSANEAR I experience will be fully incorporated in the design and
implementation of the projects to be prepared under the TAL. Furthermore, the proposed TAL will assist the
Government in developing a comprehensive policy framework for cost recovery and subsidy policy, which
would be incorporated into the design of the PROSANEAR, as well as other Federal Government administered
water and sanitation programs.
Relationship between PROSANEAR - TAL and Other Water and Sanitation Projects The Government's
strategy is to place PROSANEAR - TAL as a demonstration project which targets substandard settlements]
(not onlyfavelas), living in municipalities with population of more than 75,000 located in the metropolitan
regions, as defined by IBGE. By targeting larger municipalities in the metropolitan areas, the TAL will
complement other poverty targeted basic water and sanitation projects, such as PASS and Communidade
Solidaria Programs described in section 2 above. Neither PROSANEAR and PASS will undermine the
Government's reform agenda and reform-oriented programs such as PMSS. These low income water and
sanitation programs will be offered only to the "reforming" Government agencies, which are at least in the
process of developing a sector regulatory framework.
Strategic Choices. The strategic choices we considered were: (i) do nothing, and concentrate on sector reform,
including private sector participation; (ii) an investment project, and (iii) a technical assistance project. We
discarded the "do nothing focus on reform" option. The Government made a decision to address the issue of
the urban poor without delay, by better mobilizing the national resources already allocated for this purpose.
The project team fully supports the Govermment's decision. We also discarded the "investment project" option,
I "Low income settlements" are what IBGE defines as "aglomerado subnormal", and includes favelas and other low
income settlements, characterized by lack of basic infrastructure and, or difficult access.



6
as there are already a large sum of investment funds allocated to the PROSANEAR national program, and the
Government requested a technical assistance loan.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 1)
Component                   Category        Indicative   % of Total   Bank-     % of
Costs               financing    Bank-
(US$M)                (US$M)   financing
1. Project Management, Promotion,   Project Management    6.4         13.1       5.4        84
and Studies
* Project coordination/ administration
* Project supervision and reporting
* Monitoring and Evaluation (Project
MIS)
* Promotion strategy
* Dissemination of best practices
Seminars, workshops
* Studies on social tariff and subsidy
policy, low-cost appropriate
technology, community participation
methods, impact evaluation methods
- Research grants (including Ph.D.
thesis)
2. Pre-investment                Institution Building     36.0        73.5       20.0      55*
- Socio-economic baseline survey
* Low income area development plan
* Engineering design
Community participation plan
i Tariff and subsidy policy study
3. Training                       Institution Building     1.6        3.3        1.6        100
* Training programs for water utilities,
local governments, CAIXA regional
offices, NGOs, consultants, and
constructors.
4. Urban Development Policy       Policy/Institution       5.0        10.2       3.0        60
* Local (municipal) capacity building   Building
* National urban indicator system
Total    49.0         100       30.0      61.2
* Counterpart funding provided in kind (personnel, office equipment, transportation, tax and works related to
the project. Etc.). The Bank will finance 100% of contract costs excluding tax.



7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The proposed TAL seeks to: (i) strengthen the policy formulation, planning and coordination capacity of the
Federal government for targeted poverty intervention in the sector. This includes the formulation of a national
policy framework for cost recovery and subsidy for low income water and sanitation projects; (ii) develop and
implement a clear cost recovery and subsidy policy consistent with the national policy franework at the state
and municipal govemment level; (iii) introduce a better targeting mechanism for subsidized investments, and
gradual elimination of subsidy given to the non-poor; (iv) establish a mechanism to coordinate complementary
urban infrastructure investments and services executed by different local government agencies; (v) establish
full-time multi-disciplinary teams (including community participation specialists) to implement low income
sanitation projects within water agencies; and (vi) increase participation of NGOs and other civil society
institutions in subproject implementation.
3. Benefits and target population:
Institutional development - direct beneficiaries. The proposed TAL will benefit the agencies responsible for
policy formulation, planning, implementing and monitoring the basic water and sanitation projects for the
urban poor. The beneficiary agencies include: (i) the Special Secretariat of Urban Development of the
Borrower's Presidency of the Republic (SEDU/PR) which sets the policy framework for extending urban basic
services to the poor, (ii) Caixa Economica Federal (CAIXA), the financial agency responsible for project
approval and supervision, (iii) local governments and water agencies which are responsible for project
preparation and implementation, and (iv) NGOs, consulting firms, and constructors which implement projects
at the community level.
The TA grant for project preparation ("pre-investment component") will be provided to "reforming" state
water companies or states (which at least are in the process of developing a sector regulatory framework), or to
the municipalities. All grant recipients will sign a "Technical Assistance Agreement (TA agreement)" with
the Federal Government, which spells out the basic principles of the program (the outline of the TA agreement
is presented in Annex 2, Attachment 1). All grant recipients must also be eligible for FGTS loan financing,
according to CAIXA's creditworthiness criteria or must have secured other sources of investment funding, to
ensure that subprojects prepared under the TAL would be implemented without delay.
Extension of basic water and sanitation services - final (indirect) beneficiaries. The proposed TAL will
finance the preparation of low income water and sanitation investment projects totaling about US$300 million
to be financed by the PROSANEAR national program and other financial resources, and benefit up to one
million urban poor. The investment projects prepared under the TAL will be automatically eligible for the
national program financing. The target beneficiaries are the low income population living in densely
populated urban and peri-urban poverty pockets (substandard settlements as identified by IBGE, the Brazilian
Institute of Geography and Statistics) situated in the municipalities with population of more than 15,000 in the
metropolitan areas and on average earning less than three minimum salaries per family per month.
The focus on the metropolitan areas and the 75,000 limit would maximize the development impact of the
PROSANEAR - TAL, in that: (i) many of the poor live in large low income settlements; (ii) the TAL will have
a demonstration effect, which we expect will provide incentives to adjacent smaller municipalities in
undertaking the PROSANEAR national (iii) the TAL will create adequate institutional capacity at the
municipal and state levels for future smaller subprojects; and (iv) smaller municipalities are covered by other
poverty targeted programs such as PASS and the proposed program with Communidade Solidaria.



8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project Management and Implementation: A project management unit (PMU) is established within the Special
Secretariat of Urban Development (SEDU/PR). The PMU will consist of one coordinator, one financial
administrator, one engineer, and one community participation specialist supported by specialized consultants
as needed. PMU will be responsible for overall management (planning, administration, monitoring, and
reporting) of the TAL, as well as implementation of the training, promotion, and studies program. Caixa
Economica Federal (CAIXA), SEDU/PR's financial agency, will be responsible for the management of the
pre-investment component, and follows the criteria and guidelines set by the PMU. Local govemment
agencies or utilities will prepare and implement the subprojects. Local institutions (NGOs, schools, and health
agencies) will be encouraged to participate in the project implementation to enhance the project sustainability.
A more detailed description of the institutional arrangement is presented in Annex 2, Attachment Sa.
Flow of Funds: The Bank loan will be made to the Federal Govemrnment. The funds allocated to the pre-
investment component will be made available through CAIXA, and given as grants by the Federal
Govemment to participating local government agencies (water utilities, municipalities and states). The rest of
the loan will be managed by SEDU/PR, through an administrative agent.
Financial Management, Auditing, and Disbursements: The Project Management Unit would maintain the
account for the project and would be accountable for funds managed by the administrative agent and CAIXA.
These accounts would be maintained in accordance with sound accounting principles, acceptable to the Bank,
and will be organized through an MIS system that can provide ready access to project financial data, including
funds committed and disbursed by project component. The establishment of a project financial management
system is a condition of loan effectiveness.
Accounts, including the Special Account and related financial information (including supporting
documentation for the SOEs), would be audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, in
accordance with Bank auditing guidelines. Certified copies of the audited consolidated project accounts and
audited Special Account (including a separate opinion on the use of SOEs) would be submitted to the Bank not
later than six months after the close of the fiscal year.
Although the borrower will adopt the conventional disbursement procedure initially, with a Special Account of
US$3 million, it will carry out a time-bound action plan which enable them to move to PMR-based
disbursement mechanism (LACI) later. The action plan will be agreed upon before effectiveness of the Loan.
Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation: PMU will send to the Bank twice a year (April 30 and October 31), a
report summarizing the project activities, costs, and monitoring indicators. PMU will establish a monitoring
and evaluation system which consolidates indicators collected by CAIXA's regional offices. Proposed
monitoring and evaluation indicators are presented in Annex 1, Attachment 1.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Project Scope: multi-sector vs. sector-specific. A multi-sector TA, such as a "urban development TA" or a
"favela upgrading TA" would provide technical assistance to prepare projects ranging from housing,
electricity, pavement, etc., to be implemented by various govemment agencies. We rejected this option,
because it would involve multiple govemment agencies and project implementation becomes complex.
Instead, we chose a sector-specific TA, which focuses on preparing water and sanitation projects. In order to
ensure the sustainability of investments, however, the proposed TAL will: (i) target the areas where
communities place highest priority to water and sanitation; and (ii) prepare for the participating local
govemments an integrated urban development plan, which would identify complementary investments and
services necessary in the project area.



9
Project executing agencies: utilities and states, or municipalities. The Bank-financed PROSANEAR I was
executed mainly by utilities. Instead of limiting the executing agencies to utilities, we chose to take a flexible
approach. The beneficiaries of PROSANEAR - TAL would be utilities, states, or municipalities.
Project management: CAIXA only vs. SEDU/PR and CAIXA. PROSANEAR I was managed solely by
CAIXA. We discarded the PROSANEAR I model, because we needed a stronger policy setting function for
the second generation PROSANEAR. For PROSANEAR - TAL, therefore, we chose to separate the project
execution function from policy-making function. SEDU/PR will set the policy, and conduct the overall
coordination of the program at the Federal level, while CAIXA will be responsible for project execution -- pre-
investment component, and subsequent investment project implementation at the regional level.
2. Major related projectsfinanced by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and
planned):
Sector issue                      Project            Latest Supervision (Form
590) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects
only) ___-
Implementation  Develop
Progress (IP)   ment
Objective
(DO)
Bank-financed
Investment, environmental management    Espirito Santo Water and      U             S
and institutional strengthening (ongoing)   Coastal Pollution
Management Project
Investments and institutional strengthening  Water Sector Modernization  S          S
(ongoing)                             Project
Water Sector Modernization    (Not yet
Project II                   effective)
Investment and institutional strengthening  Small localities water and  (Under
saniation program (PASS-    preparation)
CS)
Other development agencies (IDB)s
Investments (in particular water &    Saneamento da bahia de       (ongoing)
sanitation)                          Guanabara no Estado de Rio
de Janeiro
Urban development, including water and    Baixada Viva, Rio de     (ongoing)
sanitation                           Janeiro with the State
Government
Favela upgrading                     Favela Bairro, municipality   (ongoing)
of Rio de Janeiro
HABITAR                              - Brasil National Program     (Not yet
targeting metropolitan areas)  effective)
Extension of water and sanitation services  Programa de Acao Social em  (under
to the urban poor, living in small to  Sanearnento (PASS - BID)   preparation)
medium size cities in the North, Northeast,
and Centerwest with population of
between 15,000 - 50,000.
BRAZIL - MPO/SEDU/PR



10
Sector issue                      Project            Latest Supervision (Form
590) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects
only)
Investments and operational development   PRO-SANEAMENTO            (ongoing)
in water and sanitation sector, financed by
FGTS
Extension of water and sanitation services   PROSANEAR - a part of  ongoing
to the urban poor, living in large cities with PRO-SANEAMENTO
population of more than 50,000, financed
by FGTS
Extension of water and sanitation services   Programa de Acao Social  ongoing
to the urban poor, living in small to  PASS - OGU
medium size cities with population of less
than 50,000, financed with Federal Budget
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design.
Lessons learnedfirom other technical assistance loans: Based on the Bank-wide experience with technical
assistance loans, the following are critical to the success of technical assistance programs: (i) strong
commitment by the Government; (ii) adequate preparation, including preparation of terms of reference and
detailed project implementation plan up-front; and (iii) close supervision during project implementation. To
ensure continued commitment by the Government, the project will provide continuous training to the project
management staff. A detailed project implementation plan with clear responsibilities and cost breakdown,
together with key terms of reference were prepared during project preparation and are available in project files.
Furthermore, close supervision by the Bank staff, especially in the start-up years, is planned.
Lessons learnedfrom PROSANEAR I: Various lessons learned from the pilot program PROSANEAR I were
incorporated in the project design, such as: (i) a stronger central function in management, promotion, and
training; (ii) decentralized subproject execution, fully utilizing CAIXA's regional network; (iii) establishment
of clearer guidelines to prepare, implement, and monitor subprojects; and (iv) higher emphasis on institutional
incentives and sustainability of investments. A more detailed description of the lessons learned from
PROSANEAR I is presented in Annex 2, Attachment 2.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The fact that PROSANEAR was transformed into a national program and that a substantial amount of financial
resources are allocated to PROSANEAR program shows the Government's commitment to the program. The
TAL will simply facilitate the implementation of the national program. Furthermore, active participation of
various project agencies and stakeholders from the project conception stage shows the commitment not only
by the Federal Government but also by other participating agencies, such as CAIXA, utilities, local
Government, NGOs, etc. The logical framework for the proposed project was constructed with participation
of these agencies. The borrower agreed to establish a fully staffed project management unit before
effectiveness.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank will add value to the project by sharing its worldwide experience in the extension of urban services
to the poor, identifying international best practices in cost recovery and subsidy policies, urban development
plans, monitoring and evaluation, and community participation techniques. More important, the Bank's
experience with PROSANEAR I most certainly adds value to the second generation PROSANEAR.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 7)



11
1. Economic and Financial (supported by Annex 2 and Annex 4):
[ ] Cost-Benefit Analysis   [ ]Cost Effectiveness Analysis
[x ] Other
We did not conduct a cost-benefit analysis of the TAL, as the benefits of the TAL are hard to quantify. Instead,
the project analysis focused on the three issues related to the impact of subprojects to be prepared under the
TAL: (i) subproject economic evaluation methods; (ii) cost recovery and subsidy policy guidelines; and (iii)
fiscal impact.
Simplified Subproject Economic Evaluation. To determine the economic viability of the subprojects to be
prepared under the TAL, a spreadsheet model has been developed to: (i) systematically provide the required
information to be collected during the pre-investment study (i.e., socio-economic survey, feasibility study for
water and sanitation and essential complementary works, and the proposal for social work and hygiene and
environmental education), and (ii) and help CAIXA in processing the subprojects more rapidly. This
spreadsheet model will form a part of the Project Operational Manual.
Subsidy and Cost Recovery Guidelines. The proposed TAL seeks to develop and implement a clear cost
recovery and subsidy policy at the state and municipal government level. An assessment of the existing cost
recovery and subsidy structure for PROSANEAR projects adopted by a sample of utilities confirmed that the
current subsidy policy lacks transparency, is inefficient, and poorly targeted, as presented in Annex 2,
Attachment 4. Subsidies are currently provided through the tariff structure (cross-subsidies) and through direct
government transfers that finance capital investments. The existing cross-subsidies produce perverse
incentives as non-residential consumers are paying rates that significantly exceed the cost of service resulting
in a declining non-residential customer base. As most of the residential customers receive subsidies, there is
little incentive to rationalize water use.
Based on the assessment, a set of policy guidelines for cost recovery and subsidy was developed. The
guidelines were presented by SEDU/PR as the "national policy guidelines", which will be applied to all water
and sanitation programs managed by the Federal Government, including PROSANEAR. Since Brazil is a
large country with diverse local socio-economic conditions, the national guidelines/policy is sufficiently
flexible, while ensuring a minimum level of transparency and sustainability. TA agreements to be signed by
the Federal Government, municipalities, and water agencies will secure local governments' commitment to
apply the policy guidelines. The basic guidelines, which will be applied to all low-income sanitation projects
managed by the Federal Government, can be summarized as follows:
*   subsidies and cost recovery policy should be made explicit;
*   customers should pay at least the operation and maintenance costs of service and a part of the
investment costs wherever possible to ensure the sustainability of the services;
*   tariffs charged to low-income customers should take into account the willingness to pay for
services so as to ensure the acceptability of the tariffs;
*   where possible, cross-subsidies between systems should be eliminated, and/or intermediate
measures which minimize the use of cross-subsidy and enhances transparency should be used;
*   if necessary, social tariff structures should be adjusted. PROSANEAR - TAL will finance the
studies needed to do so.
A summary of the National Guidelines is presented in Annex 2, Attachment 4. The full text of the Guidelines
is available in Project Files.
Fiscal Impact. Adoption of the proposed cost recovery and subsidy policy and the use of low cost technology
will result in a positive fiscal impact, or fiscal savings, as compared with the conventional way of extending
water and sanitation services to the poor. To determine the fiscal impact of the proposed policy changes, we
used a "standard" project (based on the PROSANEAR I experience) that include the use of low-cost



12
technologies. The cost of a "standard" project served as a yardstick to determine the levels of cost recovery
and subsidies per family needed to provide services to the poor under different tariff scenarios. Assuming that
(i) between 630,000 to 1 million people will benefit from the TAL, and (ii) customers pay the tariff equal to
their willingness to pay and agreed to the use of lower cost appropriate technology, the maximum the
government can save is about R$141 million to R$ 222 million in subsidies through the life of investments, as
compared with situation where customers pay the existing "social tariff' and use a conventional technology.
2. Institutional Assessment.
Executing agencies: Secretariat of Urban Development (SEDU/PR) of the Presidency, is the executing agency
of the project management, promotion, training, studies, and urban policy development components.
SEDU/PR, though newly established to replace the Secretariat of Urban Policy (SEPURB), has experienced
staff it inherited from SEPURB. They have an ample experience with managing water and sanitation projects
with the World Bank and IDB and is fully capable of executing an additional TAL. SEDU/PR plans to sign a
contract with an administrative agent to expedite procurement, financial management, and disbursement
aspects of these components.
The executing agencies of the preinvestment component are local government agencies including
municipalities, states, and water companies that receive PROSANEAR - TAL grant financing from the Federal
Government to prepare subprojects. The executing capacity of these local government agencies varies. Those
with prior experience with the Bank financed PROSANEAR I tend to have more capacity than those without
the experience. To facilitate the implementation of the TAL, rigorous training programs for the TAL
recipients will be organized, especially in the start-up years. In addition, standard terms of reference for
project preparation and detailed guidelines will be provided by the project to further facilitate project
execution. The multi-disciplinary teams of CAIXA's regional offices will provide assistance to these
executing agencies. Regional staff of CAIXA will be trained as trainers to further facilitate the PROSANEAR
- TAL and PROSANEAR national program implementation.
Project management: The Project Management Unit (PMU) will be established under SEDU/PR. In order to
ensure the continuity of PMU staff, the PMU will be staffed with SEDU/PR staff complemented by long-termn
consultants with adequate experience with PROSANEAR and/or other low- income water and sanitation
projects. To ensure smooth project start-up, the appointment of the general would be a condition for Loan
Effectiveness.
3. Technical Assessment (Supported by Annex 2)
The technical assessment of this project was based on a review of the proposed terms of reference (ToR) for
the preparation of the pre-feasibility studies (projeto basico). The ToR reflects the experience gathered in the
previous Bank-financed PROSANEAR I project and includes the following aspects: a) the integration of the
social work with engineering aspects; b) the integral design of water and sanitation components with drainage
and solid waste through an urban development plan; c) the identification of the operation and maintenance
requirements relevant to the technological option adopted and their discussion with the community during
design. The ToR also define per capita ceilings for water and sanitation at levels consistent with the experience
of the previous PROSANEAR project while introducing differentiating ceilings for different levels of works.
Based on the review of the information presented, the following ceilings will be adopted for the project: $100
for water ($70 if only for distribution and storage), and $120 for wastewater ($80, if collection only).
Moreover, the allowance for any necessary complementary works (microdrainage and solid waste) will be set
at up to 30% of the water and sanitation component.



13
4. Social Assessment:
The project will emphasize the role of the beneficiary community in the various phases of implementation.
Building on the lessons learned in previous projects, the proposed ToR for social work and health education
give special emphasis to community structure and organizations, priorities perceived by the beneficiaries and
cultural realities. From this understanding of the local situation, the project will develop a promotion strategy
to involve the potential beneficiaries in the appropriate technology selection and the implications in terms of
cost recovery and operation and maintenance requirements. During the subproject preparation phase to be
financed through the proposed TAL, the consultant will carry out a quick social assessment through a socio-
economic survey of the community and will develop a complete cadastre of the population of the area to
benefit from the proposed investment. As a result of this initial work, the consultant will also develop a
proposal for the social work and health education to be carried out during the construction period and an
additional period following completion of works. The ToR for the social work also include the requirement to
involve the local NGOs in the development of the social participation of the communities and the various
health and environmental education activities. This collaboration will be extended to the construction period to
ensure the maximum benefit from the knowledge of these organizations in community development and at the
same time contribute to the further strengthening of these NGOs.
As a part of project preparation, the Government conducted a thorough review of the social aspects of the
PROSANEAR I experience. The study was carried out by IBAM, the Brazilian Institute of Municipal
Administration, and consisted of a detailed field survey of 1200 residents living in 13 communities that
benefited from PROSANEAR 1. The study reviewed in detail, the effectiveness of consultation and
participation process, socio-cultural characteristics of each community, changes in community organization
brought about by the project, community priorities before and after the project, and women's participation in
decision making process. The ToR and guidelines described above fully incorporate the study's
recommendations. The full text of the guidelines as well as PROSANEAR I study, including the results of the
field surveys, are available in project files.
S. Environmental assessment:   Environmental Category [ I A   [xJ B   [i C
The preparation of the design of each subproject will necessarily include the analysis of the potential
environmental impact (El) of the proposed works. During appraisal, the terms of reference and the procedures
for the analysis of El were reviewed and found to be adequate as they are entirely based on Bank guidelines
and directives. It is expected that, at the signing of the Technical Assistance Agreement between the Borrower
and the executing agency for the preparation of the design of the subproject, a classification (Type A, B, or C)
of the potential environmental impact would be made, according to a flowchart (see annex 2). A subproject
type A, a classification that implies serious environmental impacts, will require a complete El assessment, and
the approval of the state environmental agency. For subprojects classified B (moderate environmental impacts)
the executing agency will be required to provide limited specific analysis of the potential impacts. In the case
of subprojects classified C, the obligation of the executing agency will be limited to the preparation of a basic
environmental data sheet. Based on the experience of the subprojects in PROSANEAR 1, the majority of the
projects are expected to be in categories B and C. All subprojects will include the costs of the mitigating
actions that may be required.
6. Resettlement
Resettlement required as a result of the project intervention will be minimal. The PROSANEAR I experience
proved that appropriate (and often lower cost) technical alternatives for water and sanitation investments can
reduce the need for resettlement. In addition, PROSANEAR - TAL will not approve of projects with large
scale resettlement needs, if not preceded by complete institutional and financial solutions. Nonetheless,
considering that PROSANEAR - TAL will target densely populated, larger low income settlements, a limited
degree of resettlement may be necessary. To address such cases, the project preparation unit developed a set
of guidelines to prepare a resettlement plan, based O.D. 4.30 of the Bank's operational manual. A summary of
the guidelines is presented in Annex 2, Attachment 3a. Details of the guidelines and procedures for



14
resettlement of families are found in the project operational manual (POM) of the project, and will be followed
by the consultants who will prepare PROSANEAR subprojects under the proposed TAL.
7. Participatory approach [key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced; ifparticipatory
approach not used, describe why not applicable]:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Identification/   Implementation  Operation
Preparation
Federal Govemment Agencies - SEDU/PR/CAIXA     CON/COL          CON/COL         CON/COL
(main agencies administering the proposed TAL
and subsequent investment component)
State and municipal governments                COL/CON/IS     COL/CON/IS         CON/IS
State and municipal water agencies            COL/CON/IS      COL/CON/IS          COL
Low income communities (field survey during       CON             COL             COL
project preparation, community participation during
investment project preparation, implementation and
operation and maintenance)
b. Other key stakeholders:
Identification/   Implementation  Operation
Preparation
NGOs and other civil society organizations       CON/IS          COLAS           COLAS
(informal meetings to discuss revised
PROSANEAR guidelines, undertaking of
community participation and hygiene education,
e tc .)                                      __________________   __________________   __________________
Other international and local development finance  IS              IS               IS
agencies (coordination of sector lending policy).           I
Is: Information Sharing     Con: Consultation           Col: Collaboration
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of project benefits will be achieved through: (i) Government's continued commitment to
extend basic water and sanitation services to the poor; (ii) continued availability of investment funds available
for PROSANEAR subprojects; (iii) establishment of a clear cost recovery and subsidy policy; (iv) preparation
of integrated urban (low income area) development plans for the project area, and local governments'
commitment to implement them; (v) inclusion of operation and maintenance arrangements in the subproject
design, including continued hygiene education after system completion; and (vi) development of local capacity
to prepare and implement projects targeted for the urban poor.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):



15
Risk                    Risk Rating    Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
*  PMU and local government units are       M         Establishment of an independent and
not able to retain key trained personnel;         technical project management units
*  Investment subprojects prepared                    No subproject preparation will be
through the TAL are subsequently not               initiated unless financial sources for
financed by FGTS funds or other                    investment are identified.
sources of funds and not implemented
by local government units;
Annex 1, cell "from Components to
Outputs"
*  Lack of timely provision of local         L        Local counterpart funds will be mostly
counterpart funds and personnel;                   provided in kind (personnel, equipments,
and related investments, etc.). The
establishment of a multi-disciplinary
subproject coordination unit is a
condition for Grant allocation.
*  Lack of government support for           M         The current administration is committed
PROSANEAR concept;                                to the concept. The Bank project team
will explain the project concept and
strategy to the next administration to
secure continued support.
*  Inadequate demand from local             M         Dissemination of the program to generate
government units for PROSANEAR                     demand through the TAL.
sub-projects;
Overall Risk Rating     M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
* Introduction of transparent social tariff and subsidy policy.
* Promotion of an integrated urban (low-income area) development approach. Placement of the water and
sanitation projects as facilitator of an integrated urban development plan.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1.    Effectiveness Conditions
*  Effectiveness of SEDU/PR - CAIXA arrangement
*  Establishment of the Project Management Unit (General Coordinator appointed).
*  Establishment of a project financial management system acceptable to the Bank.
2.     Other Conditions:
*  Formal project review after one year of project implementation.
*  Mid-term review in mid 2001.
*  Bank approval for major changes in Project Operational Manual.
*  Monitoring of project performance indicators as agreed at Negotiations.



16
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [x] Not applicable.
[x ] The terms of reference for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
[x] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
[ ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[1 ] The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval:
[ ]   The project complies with all other applicable Bank policies.
[signature]
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Yoko Katakura
[signature]
Sector Manager/Director: Danny Leipziger
[signature]
Country Manager/Acting Director:  Suman



17
Annex 1
LOW INCOME SANITATION - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE - PROSANEAR - TAL
Project Design Summary
(Timebound targets are presented in Annex 1- Attachment 1)
Narrative Summary      Key Performance Indicators    Monitoring and Evaluation  Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                      (Goal to Bank Mission)
Improve quality of life of    * Increased water and  * IBGE census            * Macro economic
the urban poor through    sanitation service coverage   * ESW reports (periodic)  conditions remain
extension of water and     of the urban population                              stable.
sanitation services in a  earning < 3 minimum salary
sustainable manner,       (MS) per family per month,                          * Government's
whereby increasing         living in substandard                                commitment to
productivity of the poor.  settlements with more than                           alleviation of poverty
300 houses, and located in                           continues.
municipalities with more
than 75,000 residents,
situated in the metropolitan
areas
Project Development                                                           (Development Objectives
Objective:                                                                    to CAS Objective)
To achieve integrated and    1. High number of       * PMU's biannual project   * Local governments
demand-driven water      participating local          progress report;          execute complementary
supply and sanitation    government agencies that    * supervision mission     investments necessary
(WSS) service delivery   adopt and implement a        reports;                  for the sustainability of
within participating local    participatory approach to  * evaluation mission reports   water and sanitation
government agencies under  WSS service delivery versus    (mid-term & final);  infrastructure (e.g.
the framework of the     those that do not.          * Client survey reports    drainage, pavement,
PROSANEAR national                                                             solid waste removal).
low-income sanitation    2. High number of                                    * Other factors do not
program.                 participating local                                    eradicate benefits from
government agencies which                             improved water and
undertake integrated urban                            sanitation (e.g.
planning (versus those that do                        proliferation of Dengue,
not) as part of WSS service                           floods, other natural
delivery                                              disasters).
Continuation of
3. High number of                                     PROSANEAR type of
participating local                                   program even after the
government agencies that                              Bank supported TAL.
implement a clear and
transparent cost-recovery I
subsidy policy (versus those
that do not) for WSS service
delivery.
4. High number of
participating local
government agencies that
establish a multi-disciplinary
team to implement low



18
Narrative Summary      Key Performance Indicators    Monitoring and Evaluation  Critical Assumptions
income sanitation projects.
5. Per beneficiary investment
costs of less than $100 for
water ($70 if only for
distribution and storage) and
US$120 for sewerage ($80, if
collection only) of TAL-
supported PROSANEAR
investment program.
6. High level of awareness
and satisfaction among
municipal officials,
community groups, federal
and state officials regarding
the PROSANEAR project
approach.
Outputs:                                                                       (Outputs to Objective)
1. Project effectively   1. Number of grant          1. PMU's biannual project  * PMU and local
marketed to potential    agreements signed with local  progress report; supervision    government units are
participating entities; grant  government; best practices  mission reports; evaluation    able to retain key
recipients identified; grants  and lessons learned   mission reports (mid-term  trained personnel;
made and efficiently     incorporated widely in sub-    & final);              * Investment subprojects
supervised; project      projects.                                               prepared through the
experience well                                                                  TAL are subsequently
documented and                                                                   financed by FGTS
disseminated.                                                                    funds or other sources,
and implemented by
2. Sub-projects prepared by  2. Number of sub-projects    2. PMU's biannual project   local government units;
local government units and   certified by CAIXA out of the  progress report; supervision
judged ready for         total; number of loan       mission reports; evaluation
implementation by CAIXA.  agreements signed by local    mission reports (mid-term
government units with      & final);
CAIXA; amount of FGTS and
other resources mobilized for
PROSANEAR.
3. Relevant local                                    3. PMU's biannual project
government staff trained to  3. Number of relevant   progress report; supervision
identify, prepare and    persons trained in each     mission reports; evaluation
supervise low-income water necessary category; evidence   mission reports (mid-term
and sanitation sub-projects.  of satisfactory incorporation    & final);
of the training concepts in
sub-projects carried out by the
trained staff;
4. Capacity building action                          4. PMU's biannual project
plan developed and       4.1 Number of action plans    progress report; supervision
implemented in pilot     prepared.                   mission reports; evaluation
municipalities in a      4.2 Number of action plan   mission reports (mid-term
participatory manner; urban  implemented in selected  & final);
strategy at the federal (and   municipalities
state) level developed.  4.3 Federal (and state) urban



19
Narrative Summary     Key Performance Indicators    Monitoring and Evaluation  Critical Assumptions
policy developed.
Project Components / Sub-   Inputs: (budget for each                         (Components to Outputs)
components:              component)
1. Project Management    1. US$6.4 million          * Borrower's quarterly   * Timely provision of
* Program Promotion, best                            project progress report.  local counterpart funds
practices workshops, etc.                                                    and personnel;
* Studies;                                          * Bank disbursement data.   * Continued government
* Grant administration;                                                       support for
* Project MIS.                                                                 PROSANEAR concept;
* Adequate demand from
2. Pre-investment fund   2. US$36.0 million                                    local government units
* Socio-economic survey                                                        for PROSANEAR sup-
* Integrated urban                                                             projects;
development plan;                                                           * Substantial number of
* Engineering project and                                                     local government units
community participation                                                      qualify for grants.
plan.
3. Sub-project Training  3. US$1.6 million
* Training program
development and delivery
for participating local
government staff.
4. Urban Development
Planning & Policy Support:  4. US$5.0 million
* TA to municipalities;
* Studies & workshops;
* Urban MIS.



20
Annex 1 - Attachment 1
LOW INCOME SANITATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Monitoring Indicators
I___               _  _  I              _ _    _  _                         L            I          TARGET
COMPONENTS              SUB-COMPONENTS                           INDICATORS                     SOURCE   ly    3- '56
Year
1. Pre - Investment   1. Local Integrated development   *   # of PDLI elaborated / # of selected areas   pME1   5/5      19/19    30/30
Plan - PDLI                     *   # of basic projects elaborated / # of
selected areas
2. Projects ofIntegrated                                                                    S5/      19119    30/30
Sanitation - PSI
2. Studies                                          *   # of studies realized / # of studies     PME             2/2      3/3      5/5
programmed
3. Training                                         *   # of courses' realized / # of courses    PME            14/14    46/46    64/64
planned
4. Promotion                                        *   # of workshops planned / # of workshops   PME            1/1      3/3      5/5
realized
5. Urban            1. Support to the Urban         *   # of municipalities surveyed for SNIU3/ #   PME         10/10    40/40    80/80
Development         Development Politics                 of planned
*   # of PRODIN4 realized / target
2. PRODIN                               .                                                   2/2       5/5      8/8
Project Effectiveness Indicators
TARGET
COMPONENTS              SUB COMPONENTS                           INDICATORS                     SOURCE       11 Year    4h        6,h
Year    Year
6. PDLI                                             *   # of actions implemented in the             PME         N/A       N/A      N/A
intervention area/PDLI actions planned
# of PDLI implemented / 4 of PDLI
elaborated                                             5/5      19/19    30/30
7. PSI                                              *   # of basic projects executed/ # of basic    PME          5/5     19/19    30/30
projects elaborated
8. Social Works                                     *   4 Community Participation Plan              PME          5/5     19/19    30/30
Implemented (CPP) elaborated
*   # of beneficiary agreement obtained/ # of              100%      100%    100%
families in the area
9. Investment Cost                                  *   Cost per capita foreseen in preliminary per  PME         <1        <1       <1
capita investment ceiling
*   Water distribution
*   Water distribution and storage
*   Sewage collection
*   Sewage collection and treatment
10. Mobilization of                                 *   Amount of financial resources contracted    PME         N/A       N/A      N/A
Resources                                                for subprojects prepared5
I1. Cost recovery                                   v   # of service providers that have adopted    PME          5/5     19/19    30/30
the cost recovery and subsidies/ # of TAL6
beneficiaries
12. Local Project's                                 *   # of beneficiaries that have created a local  PME        5/5     19/19    30/30
Management Unit                                          multi-disciplinary UGP
PME - Project Monitoring and evaluation system
2 average of 30 students per course
SNIU- National System of Urban Indicators
PRODIN - Project of Institutional Development of Municipalities
average cost for project execution X # of projects (not available)
6 the # of beneficiary of TAL will be equal to the # of projects.



21
Impact Indicators
MEASURED          ITEMS TO BE MONITORED                 INDICATORS                                    SOURCE                       UNITS
VARIABLE
13. Change in    *   Property and land valorization     *   Real estate valorization (RS/m2)          .   Real estate registry,    R$/m2
the standard of                                                                                           field survey
living of the     *   Occupational Density              a   Constructed area/Project area             .   PMU                      M2/m2
Population
*   Population Density                .   # of inhabitants/Project area             *   IBGE                     M2/m2
*   Employment generation             a   Persons with jobs/ persons hired by                                    M2/m2
*   Jobs/creation related to the TAL       activities related to the project        .   PME and IBGE
*   Growth of income                                                                                             R$
&   Per capita income
*   Density of Community facilities   *   Area of community facilities/population of   *   PMU and other         M2/inhab
the area                                     programs
*   Density of parks, play grounds, etc,                                            *   PMU                      M2/inhab
sanitary installations           *   # of sanitary installations/# of houses
14. Extension of  *   Water service coverage            *   Population with water supply/total        .   PME and Service          M2/inhab
sewerage                                                     population of the area                        providers
coverage          .   Sewerage Coverage                 .   Population with sewerage service/total    *   PME and Service          M2/inhab
population of the area                        providers
*   Trash collection coverage         *   Population with trash collection! total   *   PME and Service          M2/inhab
population of the area                        providers
.   Drainage coverage                 *   area covered with drainage system/total #  *   PME and Service         M2
of area                                      providers                M2
15. Environment           .                                  Health problems related to incidence of  .   PME and municipality    # of
and Sanitary                                                 water bome diseases                                                   notificatio
conditions                                                                                                                         s
16. Community    *   Entities/Community organizations   *   # of associations/ # of area residents    .   PME                      # reporte
Organization                                            *   # of dweller members of organizations/# of
dwellers of the area
17. Integration    .   Land regularization/ land titling  *   # of property titles/ # properties in the area   *   Municipality    # reported
area of
intervention into
urban system
18. Beneficiary .     Qualitative survey (sampling)     *   Analysis of the degree of understanding   *   Survey                   N/A
understanding of
PROSANEAR's
approach
19. Sustainability   *   Tariff collection rates        .   Water and sewerage tariff collected/ Water   *   Ex-post survey        %
of Systems                                                   and sewerage tariff billed in the area of
intervention.
*   Houses with in-house water        *   # of houses connected to the public                                    %
connections (# connected to the       network! # of house connections
public network)                       constructed by subproject.                                            #/week
*   Systems in function (water and    *   # of sewerage clogging/week                                            #/day
sewerage)                        *   hours of water service/day                                             N/A
.   Operation and maintenance         .   role of the community, water agencies in
arrangements                          maintaining infrastructure (qualitative)                              #/month
.   Frequency of operation and maintenance.



22
Annex 2
LOW INCOME SANITATION - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE - PROSANEAR - TAL
Project Description
PROSANEAR - TAL was developed in a fully participatory manner. Two workshops were held to discuss the lessons learned
from PROSANEAR I and identify specific solutions to the difficulties faced by project participants of both PROSANEAR I
and the PROSANEAR national program. The logical Framework was developed during the second workshop to define the
project objectives, components, impact, and risks. The workshop participants included representatives from Secretariat of
Urban Development, CAIXA, state water companies, municipalities, and consultants. We also presented the basic design of
PROSANEAR - TAL at a meeting organized by NGOs and other civil society organizations, which in general, were receptive
to the concept. The project components, as described below, reflect the results of these workshops.
Although PROSANEAR - TAL will prepare only about US$300 million worth of investment projects, which will benefit
about 600,000-1 million urban poor (depending on the scope of investments), we expect that the final impact of the TAL will
be much larger. PROSANEAR - TAL will increase institutional capacity of the implementing agencies, set a comprehensive
policy framework which provides institutional incentives, the impact of which will help mobilize the PROSANEAR national
program more effectively beyond PROSANEAR - TAL implementation period.
Project Management, Promotion, and Studies Component - US$6.0 million (total cost of component)
*  Project Management: This component will finance the activities related to project management activities at the federal and
regional levels. Specific activities and expenditures to be financed for project management include: (i) project
management (full- and part-time consultants, monitoring and evaluation system); (ii) expert support/ knowledge
management (mainly part-time consultants); and (iii) administrative and logistics support.
*  Project Promotion: Activities to be financed include: (i) development and implementation of the promotion strategy; (ii)
dissemination of best practices - creation of a network - newsletter, Web site; (iii) seminars, workshops to promote
participation of NGOs, consultants, construction companies, private sector; and (iv) establishment of a Center for Urban
Low Income Water and Sanitation in collaboration with a university or a NGO.
* Studies: The studies to be financed by this component include: (i) further development of policy frameworks for
extension of basic water and sanitation services to the poor and their re-assessment, as necessary; (ii) background studies
which contribute to the framework, on cost recovery and subsidy policy, integrated intervention with other municipal
services, etc.; (iii) a strategy note to address the issue of extension of services to the poor under private operation; (iv)
other complementary issues such as land titling and legalization of land, microfinancing, which must be addressed in the
medium term; (v) comparative study on different community participation methods; (vi) comparative study on low cost
appropriate technology - standards, materials, engineering designs, construction practices, service standards,
decentralized sewerage treatment and disposal; (vii) impact evaluation methods of basic sanitation projects to the urban
poor (including contingency valuation, property value, health impact, etc.); (viii) development of a database regarding
income level and water and sewerage service coverage; and (ix) research grants (including Ph.D. thesis) on topics related
to low income sanitation.
Pre-investment Component - US$38.0 million (total cost of component)
The main objective of this component is to develop the institutional capacity of the local government agencies in identifying
and preparing sustainable subprojects to extend services to the urban poor. This component will finance the preparation phas
of investment projects to be financed by the PROSANEAR national program. The water and sanitation projects prepared
under this component will be automatically eligible for PROSANEAR national program funding. Specific activities to be
financed through this component includes: (i) socio-economic baseline survey; (ii) elaboration of integrated urban (low
income area) development plans to facilitate PROSANEAR's coordination with other urban services; (iii) preliminary and
final engineering design of water and sanitation systems, which would be developed with communities' participation; (iv)



23
community participation plan to be implemented before, during and after investment project execution; and (v) social tariff
and subsidy policy review study (upon request by executing agencies).
Training Component - US$1.6 million (total cost of component)
The training sub-component includes training programs for: (i) water utilities and other executing agencies on preparation and
implementation of projects; (ii) Instancias Colegiadas (state level committee which selects PROSANEAR projects based on
guidelines set by SEDU/PR) on selection of projects; (iii) local governments on designing a cost recovery policy (subsidy and
social tariff policy), elaboration of a integrated low income settlement development plan, and identification and selection of
project areas; (iv) CAIXA's regional offices on evaluation of all project documents to be submitted by the project executing
agencies; and (v) NGOs, consultants, constructors on preparing and implementing PROSANEAR projects.
Urban Development Policy Component - US$4.4 million (total cost of component)
This component will finance technical assistance to strengthen the policy formulation capacity at the Federal and local
government levels, which will include issues related to, but not limited to PROSANEAR. This component comprises two
subcomponents: (i) local (municipal) capacity building; and (ii) urban development policy.
*  The local (municipal) capacity building TA subcomponent targets a subset of medium size municipalities participating in
(or potential participants of) PROSANEAR. Specific items to be financed include consultant inputs to help pilot
municipalities in: (i) conducting a diagnosis of financial, technical, institutional capacity and infrastructure deficiencies;
(ii) preparing an action plan that responds to the issues identified in the diagnostic phase; (iii) implementing the action
plan for selected pilot municipalities; and (iv) training local governments to manage local shared services. The action
plan would include mechanisms to increase municipal revenues (thereby making the municipalities eligible for
PROSANEAR financing), improve urban planning, land use management, and delivery of services to the urban poor.
*  National urban indicator system subcomponent aims to develop a tool for developing a national urban development policy
which would be applied consistently across different urban sub-sectors (including water and of sanitation). The TAL will
support the initial effort to develop such policy through: development of a national urban indicators system.



24
Annex 2 - Attachment 1
LOW INCOME SANITATION - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE - PROSANEAR - TAL
Eligibility Criteria for the Pre-Investnent Component
The TAL is provided to water utilities, municipal and state governments willing to implement low income water
and sanitation project under the basic rules governed by the PROSANEAR national program. Eligibility criteria for
the TAL would be consistent with the eligibility criteria for the downstream investment program to be financed by
FGTS or other programs such as Habitar-Brasil. Within the universe of potential beneficiaries eligible for the
PROSANEAR national program, PROSANEAR - TAL will target larger municipalities and larger low-income
settlements to maximize the demonstration effect. Project eligibility criteria and conditions as well as operational
manuals will be reviewed annually to incorporate new lessons and best practices, as well as to reflect policy
frameworks as they are developed further. Considering the demonstration nature of the TAL, the TA grant would
be limited to one per municipality.
Eligibility Criteria
Final Beneficiaries
*  Location of houses: Densely populated urban substandard settlements inside or periphery of municipalities
with population of more than 75,000, situated in metropolitan regions, as defined by IBGE. "Urban
substandard settlements2", includes favelas and other low income settlements as defined by Brazilian Institute
of Statistics (IBGE).
*  Average monthly family income: Average family income of less than 3 minimum salaries (currently about
US$330). More than 60% of beneficiary families eam less than 3 minimum salaries/per month.
Subprojects
*  Estimated per capita investment cost of less than US$100 for water (US$70 if only for distribution and storage),
and US$120 for sewerage (US$80, if without treatment), and US$22 for community participation.
*  Minimum size: to maximize the impact of intervention, PROSANEAR - TAL will target those subprojects (or a
group of subprojects managed by one executing agencies) with more than 300 houses (about 1500 people).
*  Utilization of low-cost appropriate technology which reflects communities' demand.
*  Include operation and maintenance arrangements.
*  Sources of funds to finance the investment subprojects to be prepared under PROSANEAR-TAL is identified.
Executing Agencies
*  Eligible for FGTS loans (pass CAIXA's credit worthiness criteria) or have identified other sources of funds
(public or private) to finance subprojects to be prepared by PROSANEAR - TAL
*  Sign a "Technical Assistance Agreement" with the Government. Proposed content of the "TA Agreement" is
presented in Box I below.
*  The TA Agreement would be a tripartite agreement and would be signed by the Federal Government, municipal
governments, and water agencies (as appropriate).
2 "Aglomerados subnormais" defined by IBGE. Favelas and other irregular settlements.



25
Box 1: Proposed Content of TA Grant Agreement
O   Agree to set up a multi-disciplinary team for project implementation
O   Agree to develop a transparent cost recovery and tariff policy
0   Agree to develop an integrated "favela development plan" through pre-investment stage, and make
sure that minimum complementary investments and services (which would ensure the sustainability of
water and sanitation investment, such as drainage system, pavements, and solid waste removal) are
executed. In the case where the "executing agency" is not responsible for these investments and
services, sign an agreement with corresponding municipalities or states responsible for these
investments and services to implement these services.   SEDU/PR/CAIXA  will assist the
municipalities and states in identifying and obtaining financing for these investments (FGTS program
and other Federal Government administered programs finance most of the complementary
investments, such as drainage, solid waste solutions, etc).
0   Agree to adopt other guidelines specified in the operational manual
Priority Criteria
Within the criteria as described above, the following communities and subprojects would be given priority at the selection
stage. These criteria are already in use by Instancias Colegiadas, the state level selection committees:
At the community level -- Priority given to communities (final beneficiaries) with:
*  Higher than national average level of infant mortality or high incidence of water borne diseases.
*   higher than national average percentage of irregular settlements ("aglomerados subnormais urbanos").
*  water and sewerage service coverage below national average.
*  located in municipalities identified by Communidade Solidaria as "poverty pockets".
At the subproject level -- Priority given to subprojects which:
*   are larger in size, therefore higher impact
*   are already partly under execution, but without financing.
*  complement other urban basic infrastructure projects already under execution.
*  present low estimated per capita costs.
*  present immediate impact to the living conditions.



26
Annex 2 - Attachment 2
LOW INCOME SANITATION - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE - PROSANEAR - TAL
Lessons Leamed from PROSANEAR I
PROSANEAR I
PROSANEAR I was a pilot program the World Bank financed from 1990 to 1996, to develop and test new models to extend
basic water and sanitation projects to the urban poor. The main principles of the program were the use of low cost appropriate
technology and active community participation in the implementation process. It adopted a pragmatic, "learning by doing"
approach, and had a minimum amount of guidelines and rules to maximize the potential for innovation and learning. As a
pilot, PROSANEAR I achieved its objective. With an investment of US$ 100 million, it extended water and sanitation services
to more than one million urban poor. A wealth of innovation and best practices was obtained. At the same time, many
valuable lessons were learned.
Lessons Learned
1. Sustainability
In terms of sustainability, PROSANEAR I fell short of its potential. Three areas were identified as the most critical for
PROSANEAR's sustainability: (i) transparent cost recovery and subsidy policy; (ii) integration with local government's urban
development plan; and (iii) operation and maintenance arrangement after systems are implemented.
The underlining assumption of PROSANEAR I was that: (i) cost recovery would be achieved through utilities' cross-subsidy
system and beneficiaries' payments of monthly tariff; (ii) once organized, communities will seek for other urban services,
without any formal arrangements; and (iii) water utilities will automatically provide operation and maintenance services, as
they are collecting tariff. These assumptions proved not to be always true.
C Cost Recovery and Subsidy Policy: In the absence of a transparent cost recovery and subsidy policy, as well as project cos
(capital and recurrent costs) management, utilities often considered that PROSANEAR was a money losing proposition.
A rough assessment of the level of cost recovery achieved by PROSANEAR I subprojects determined that the level of
cost recovery (capital and operational maintenance) varied from one sub-project to the other. Some fully recovered
operating and maintenance costs as well as some percentage of capital costs from the final beneficiaries through monthly
tariff. Some did not even recover 0 & M costs through monthly tariff. The absence of a simple framework for cost
recovery and subsidy rules affected the utilities' incentive to participate in PROSANEAR I.
*  Integration with local Government's Urban Development Plan: Despite the availability of resources to finance drainage
and solid waste disposal (drainage and solid waste solutions were eligible for PROSANEAR I financing), these
complementary investments rarely happened. Since the main executing agencies (and borrowers) were the water utilities,
they focused on water and sanitation investments, and left the drainage and solid waste disposal outside of the project
scope. In the absence of local governments' participation in the planning and contracting process, these complementary
investments were often not implemented, leading in some cases to the deterioration of the newly implemented sewerage
systems.
* Operation and Maintenance Arrangements: Operation and maintenance of the systems were not consistently performed
by the water utilities, reflecting difficult access to these communities as well as inadequate institutional arrangements by
the utilities. Without adequate 0 & M, systems quickly deteriorated.
2. Project Design and Implementation
* Utilities have limited experience and assign low priority to water and sanitation in poor areas. Most utilities have little
experience with projects aimed at extending services to the poor, and often are reluctant to adopt low-cost technologies,
and work with community organizations.



27
*  Physical works frequently took priority over community mobilization activities. "Community participation" was
understood differently from one subproject to the other, and its effectiveness varied from one subproject to the other.
* A long delay occurred between project appraisal and execution. Utilities as well as local governments have limited
capacity in identifying and preparing subprojects targeted towards the poor.
* The project could have benefited from a stronger central function in policy setting, management, promotion, and training,
including exchange of experiences and lessons learned among subprojects.
* The project could have utilized CAIXA's regional network better in project supervision.
3. Other Policy Lessons
* Metering individual connections, when feasible, or clusters of connections should be incorporated into the design of future
PROSANEAR projects in Brazil.
*  Setting investment ceilings ($100 for water and $140 for sewerage) by beneficiary is an effective way of encouraging the
development of low-cost projects. The per capita ceilings, however, will be better defined in PROSANEAR - TAL (i.e.,
better definition of "water" and "sewerage" investments, what they include).
* Social tariffs for water and sanitation services in Brazil are poorly defined they were not studied in detail during project
implementation.



28
Annex 2 - Attachment 3
LOW INCOME SANITATION - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE - PROSANEAR - TAL
Outline/summary of PROSANEAR - TAL Guidelines
(A complete set of guidelines is available in Project Operational Manual in the Project Files)
Part I. Guidelines for Project Preparation Phase
1.    Introduction
During project preparation, the Borrower prepared terms of reference for consulting services that will be contracted
out by the executing agencies for the preparation of engineering designs and community participation activities.
Building on the experience from the previous PROSANEAR subprojects, these terms of reference reflect the
following lessons: a) the need to integrate both engineering designs with social work, b) the participation of the
beneficiaries in the various phases of project implementation c) the need to prepare the water and sanitation
subproject within the context of a overall plan to upgrade the area of intervention, d) the need to implement the
water and sanitation works in parallel to other essential complementary works such as microdrainage and solid
waste collection.
2.     Objective
Prepare an integrated feasibility study of the priority works within a subproject area (including community
participation, consultation, and approval) and define the level and requirement for community participation and
health and environmental education during construction.
3.     Outline Terms of reference
a.     Community involvement, data collection and diagnosis
i) Meetings with community leaders and representative community groups to inform them of the start of
PROSANEAR activities, clarify the project objectives and ensure the community collaboration and
involvement.
ii) Existing physical information: cartography, photogrametry, geology, rainfall, runoff, etc.
iii) Existing infrastructure and community services: water, sewerage, drainage, solid waste, power, transport,
health centers, schools, churches, community centers and organizations, sport associations, etc.
iv) A socio-economic survey (based on a representative sample to reflect the social characteristics of the area
under consideration - See Box I for suggested content of a socio-economic survey)
Box 1: Suggested Content of a Socio-Economic Survey
*  description of population (number of family members, origin, family income, employment status, time in
location, role of women, hygiene habits, relationship between communities and government agencies)
*  description of the area (population density, availability of common facilities, sanitary installations, property
values, land titling, community organizations)
*  availability and use of basic services (water, wastewater disposal, solid waste, drainage) and level of
payment for such services.
* priorities including those of basic infrastructure improvement
* health problems related with sanitary conditions (incidence of water borne diseases), infant mortality
* preparation of population registry (cadastre); the purpose of this activity is to identify all residents of the area
and will include the house location, name of dweller and number of family members.
* topographic survey of the area
* preparation of base maps using Geographic Information Systems (GIS);maps to include occupation of space
and basic services.
Many of the data/infonnation collected will be also used for ex-post impact evaluation.



29
b.     Preparation of an integrated urban development plan in the subproject area
This part will be implemented mainly by the participating municipalities. Each of the participating municipalities
will create a multi-sector committee, which will facilitate the implementation of the plan.
i) conduct diagnosis of the subproject area, including legality of land, urban and environmental regulations.
Identify existing urban development plans and projects in the area.
ii) prepare a broad urban plan that will include: street upgrading, access ways and alley network, connection
to city street system, spatial location of necessary basic community infrastructure and services (water,
sewerage, drainage, solid waste, schools, churches, health posts, community associations, recreation areas,
etc.).
iii) prioritize these interventions. Identify those that are essential to make PROSANEAR projects sustainable.
iv) develop an urban development plan based on priorities, with cost estimates, institutional responsibilities,
and timing of implementation. Identify possible sources of financing.
v) present and discuss with community and responsible agencies above plan and proposals. Specific topics
will include: tariff implications, operation and maintenance requirements and responsibilities, house
connections to systems, resettlement requirements.
vi) finalize an integrated conceptual proposal for basic urban development and agree with community on
topics listed in item (iii) above.
C.     Feasibility study for water and sanitation and essential complementary works
One of the lessons learned in the implementation of the PROSANEAR I project was the fact that detailed designs of
subprojects were often found to be unnecessary due to the dynamic nature of the areas under study. It is however
essential that procurement of works are done based on well prepared feasibility studies (projeto basico) that will
permit the efficient contracting of the works. Another lesson learned is that the procurement based on projetos
hasicos must also include community participation work in order to ensure the integration of all aspects of the
project. To this end, the consultant will:
i)  for water and sanitation
a) carry out the required geotechnical tests
b) carry out collection of hydrological data (for water projects)
c) carry out study of the absorptive capacity of the receiving water body for final sewage disposal
d) description and justification of the proposed works
e) hydraulic dimensioning of the basic infrastructure (size, diameters, materials, lengths)
f)  present basic designs of the various project components (plan, profiles, sections)
g) present calculation data and bills of quantities
h) ToR of the projeto executivo (to be preferably contracted as part of the works contract)
i)  proposal for the implementation schedule
j)  consult with the community as needed
ii) for community participation
a) carry out social activities to ensure community participation, discussion and approval (by the
community) of the engineering design and responsibility of communities (tariff payments, operation
and maintenance, in-house connections, resettlement within the project area, if applicable,
compensation for any property adjustments/losses due to works).
b) carry out a population registry (to identify all residents of the area, including location of the house,
names of the residents, and number of persons per family)
c) carry out consultations with existing public agencies and non-governmental organizations on actions to
be undertaken to complement and support the optimum use of the proposed investment



30
d) propose activities to strengthen the role of the existing organizations
e) prepare a hygiene and environmental education plan to be implemented during civil works
construction; the plan may include aspects related to solid waste, health, infectious diseases, correct
use of the in-house water and sanitation installations, correct use of rain water drainage vs. sewerage
network, operation and maintenance of sewerage network, visit to public installations (e.g. treatment
plants)
f)  prepare terms of reference and budget for the community participation work required during the
construction period
g) prepare, if necessary, a resettlement plan within project area and including a compensation plan for
property loss/damage.
iii) Complementary works: microdrainage
a) diagnostic of the drainage problem of the subproject area
b) topographic mapping of the area within the overall drainage basin
c) design of the minimum required network to complement the sewerage works
d) specifications for materials and works
e) plans for the proposed network and its relation with the overall system
f)  calculation sheets and bills of quantities
iv) Complementary works: solid waste
a) evaluation of the conditions of solid waste collection in the subproject area and its impact on the future
operation of the proposed works
b) evaluation of the impact of the lack of collection on public health
c) prepare a description of the proposed solution which will have to be approved by the municipal
authorities
d) a plan showing the points of collection of the wastes
e) bills of quantities and a budget
f)  ensuring that any solution that is proposed will include the beneficiaries and NGO in its design and
implementation
d.     Environmental Assessment
Based on the classification of the subproject given at.the signing of the TA Agreement, the consultant will carry
out the appropriate level of analysis. In the case of subprojects type C where the impact is estimated to be
negligible, the consultant will prepare a basic environmental data sheet; for project type B, where the impact is
moderate, the consultant will prepare limited specific analysis of the impacts; while for subprojects type A, a full
environmental analysis is required. Specifically, the environmental impact analysis of the subprojects should
include:
i)  for water projects:
a)  interference with other uses of water
b)  effects on the hydrology of the water source
c)  impacts of the siting of the proposed works
d)  mitigation of the impacts identified and costs
e)  monitoring plan, if necessary
ii)  for wastewater projects:
a)  impact on the receiving water bodies
b)  impact on other uses of the receiving water bodies
c)  impacts on environmentally sensitive and protected areas
d)  impacts related to the execution of the civil works
e)  mitigation of the impacts and estimation of the costs
f)  monitoring plan, if necessary



31
Environmental Assessment Process Flow Chart
Tasks                                    Agencies
1. Review of pre-feasibility study and proposed      PROSANEAR PMU
environmental category *.
2. For subprojects type A:                            PROSANEAR PMU
*  Field visits, and reach an agreement with state or
federal environmental agencies on the extent of
RIMA (Environmental Impact Report).
*  Review of RIMA and assessment reports       State or federal enviromnental
prepared by consultants.                   agencies, PMU, and Bank
3. For subprojects type B and C
*  Review of environmental data sheet prepared by  PMU and Bank.
consultants.
4. Monitoring of implementation of mitigation measures  CAIXA regional offices and
during construction.                              PMU.
* Category assignment is based on the guidelines in the Project Operational Manual.
e.     Resettlement Plan
The use of appropriate (often low cost) technology minimizes the need for resettlement. Nonetheless, as result of
the proposed development plan of the area under study, some families may need to be relocated; this relocation
should be done to the extent possible within the project area; only in exceptional cases resettlement to outside of the
sub-project area would be accepted.
In preparing subprojects, the consultants should follow the guidelines on resettlement included in the project
operational manual (a summary is presented in Annex 2, Attachment 3a), and must carry out the following
activities:
i) inform the community about the resettlement guidelines and procedures
ii) identify the number of families to be affected
iii) identify the number and location of houses to be affected by partial demolition
iv) consult with the community organizations and affected parties on possible areas, housing solutions and
operational implications, involving the executing agency in all activities
v) estimate the cost of resettlement within the area
vi) submit to CAIXA approval the plan of resettlement that includes monitoring and evaluation plan
f.     Monitoring Plan
The monitoring plan, which will be developed with participation of the community, is an important tool for
evaluation and feedback purposes. It is expected that data will be collected during and after construction by the
same consultant preparing the pre-investment studies. The indicators and their measurement are presented in
Attachment 1 of Annex 1. During the project design phase the consultant will develop the monitoring and
evaluation plan, and collect baseline data.
Part II. Guidelines for Project Implementation (Construction) Phase
Even though the Bank-assisted PROSANEAR - TAL will not finance any of the works, a number of guidelines are
suggested for the implementation phase, incorporating various lessons leamed from PROSANEAR I experience.
The following are the summary of the guidelines. More detailed guidelines are presented in the Project Operational
Manual which is included in the project files.



32
1.  Contracting Arrangements or the Project Execution (Construction) Phase
Three options were considered for the contracting arrangements:
a.  One contract for works and social work (including health education); another contract for detailed design
and supervision
b.  One contract for works and detailed design; another contract for supervision and social work (with health
education)
c.  One contract for works with detailed designs and social work; another contract for supervision by a
consultant or an executing agency
From the experience of PROSANEAR I, option c above presents major benefits in terms of having one contractor
taking responsibility for the various activities; for this, two procurement models have been discussed: i) unit costs
contract based on the bills of quantities produced from the feasibility studies (projeto basico) or ii) global cost
which would be contracted based on the number of connections.
2.  General Guidelines for the Construction Phase
a.  the construction schedule should be synchronized with the schedule of the social work; the social work
teams should be well informed of the progress of the work so that they can keep the beneficiaries up-to-
date on work development; to carry out this coordination, it would be necessary to contract out both
activities to one firm.
b.  the contracting of smaller and medium size local firms that will contract essentially local workforce
would lead to a better relationship with the beneficiaries.
c.  the presence of representatives of the executing agency is essential during all phases of implementation to
resolve conflicts, respond to the questions of the public and essentially be seen as the main agency
responsible for the works.
d.  to ensure an efficient supervision of the works, the community should be given incentives to participate
in the day to day control of quality; this can be promoted by following-up on complaints made by the
beneficiaries.
Part III. Guidelines for Post-Construction Phase
The proper set-up for the operation and maintenance of the new systems is an important pre-requisite for their
sustainability, especially in the case of appropriate technologies. In the case of condominial networks, for example,
the responsibility of maintaining the system is often shared between the public agency and the beneficiaries. In
these situations, it is essential that the proper orientation is given to the beneficiaries as to their role and the required
training. On the other hand, the public agency should maintain its credibility vis-a-vis the beneficiaries in
performing adequately and timely its part of the maintenance. The failure of the public agency to provide the
needed input in O&M could easily lead to the loss of confidence by the beneficiaries in the agency and
consequently erosion in the beneficiaries input. From the experience of the PROSANEAR I, the following
guidelines should be adopted in this phase:
a.  the executing agent should continue the work of beneficiary training and education in the use and
operation of the network; in parallel, the work of health education should be ideally continued for a
certain time after the completion of the works
b.  training of the community associations in conflict resolution
c.  if the beneficiaries are unwilling to take responsibility of maintaining the system, other solutions can be
adopted. The solutions may include hiring a local resident to conduct the day-to-day maintenance, or
hiring a private local firm to operate and maintain the system.



33
Annex 2 - Attachment 3a
LOW INCOME SANITATION PROJECT - PROSANEAR - TAL -
Summary of Resettlement Guidelines and Procedures
This Annex presents the main aspects of the Resettlement Guidelines and Procedures to be adopted by
PROSANEAR - TAL. The complete text is included in the PROSANEAR - TAL - Operational Manual.
1.     The objective of the Resettlement Guidelines is to present the institutional arrangements and technical
procedures for the preparation of a Resettlement Action Plan3 which will assist the population affected by
resettlement as a result of the execution of subprojects prepared under the PROSANEAR - TAL.
2.     PROSANEAR projects (the Bank financed PROSANEAR I and the national program) in the past have
caused few cases of population resettlement. However, since PROSANEAR - TAL will prepare subprojects mainly
in areas of high population density, a limited number of families may need to be relocated. The relocation should
be done to the extent possible within the project area. Resettlement to outside of the sub-project area would be
acceptable only in exceptional cases as described in paragraph 4 below.
3.     The Resettlement Action Plan will be prepared as part of the subproject preparation work financed by the
Pre-Investment Component of the PROSANEAR - TAL, if deemed necessary. The Resettlement Action Plan will
be implemented during the investment phase to be financed by CAIXA. CAIXA will not approve the financing of
civil works without an acceptable Resettlement Action Plan, when resettlement is needed, and will follow-up on the
implementation of the plan through its supervision efforts. Executing agencies are responsible for implementing the
Resettlement Action Plan.
4.     Resettlement to outside of subproject area would be acceptable only when: a) relocation within the project
area is technically infeasible; b) the population in question is occupying high risk areas (such as flood plains or
steep slopes); c) the population in question is occupying areas designated for environmental protection; and d) the
population in question is occupying areas where new public infrastructure must be built.
5.     The Resettlement Action Plan should be elaborated based on the following principles: a) avoid resettlement
to the extent possible; b) ensure that the resettlement will provide better living conditions and income levels, or at
least, maintain the levels prior to resettlement; c) adopt a strategy to ensure the participation of the population to
avoid involuntary resettlement through arrangements such as exchange of houses among neighbors4; d) ensure that
the affected population will participate in all the steps of the resettlement process; e) apply resettlement guidelines
independent of legality of land and houses that the population occupies.
6.     The population to be resettled involuntarily will be assisted during the first semester after the resettlement,
as part of a monitoring and evaluation system of the PROSANEAR - TAL.
3As required by the World Bank's OD 4.30 when only a few individuals (up to about 200) are to be displaced.
4The owner of a house that is not affected by resettlement but wants to leave the project area goes to the resettlement
house outside the project area, and the owner of a house affected by resettlement but does not want to leave the project
area goes to the house of the former.



34
Annex 2 - Attachment 4
LOW INCOME SANITATION - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE - PROSANEAR - TAL
Cost Recovery and Subsidy Policy
1. Analysis of the Existing Subsidy Policy
Brazil's water and sanitation sector has provided subsidies to the poor in a combination of cross-subsidies and direct
government transfers. In general, the current subsidy policy is non-transparent, inefficient, and poorly targeted.
Subsidies through the tariff system
Law 6528 of May 1978 provides water companies with the rationale for the introduction of cross-subsidies.
According to this law, tariffs should take into account the willingness or ability to pay for social services. As a
result, water companies have designed tariff structures with elaborate cross-subsidy mechanisms, based either on
differences in the characteristics of the type of connection (e.g., the size of the dwelling, the number of water points
per connection, etc.), or consumption levels.
Studies show that targeting of subsidies based on consumption levels has been rather poor, because of the weak
relationship between water consumption and household income, as is shown in Table 1.
Table 1:      Relationship between low consumption levels and poverty
Water              State           % population    % population using    % population
Company                           using less than      less than      classified as poor
lOm3fmonth        15m3/month
SANESUL      Mato Grosso do Sul       50%                70%               26%
CAESB        Federal District          17%               33%               22%
Brasilia
The classification of certain customers in a social tariff group based on types of connection also faces targeting
problems as can be seen in Table 2.
Table 2:      Relationship between classification in social tariff and poverty
Water        State                 % population      % population      % population
Company                          classified in social  classified as poor  without water
tariff                            services
EMBASA       Bahia                      1%               40%                3%
CESAN        Espirito Santo            14%               23%                2%
CASAN        Santa Catarina             2%               14%               12%
As a result of poor targeting, cross-subsidies more often benefit the richer consumers than the poorer ones.
Moreover, the current tariff structure produces perverse incentives. Because a large part of the social and
residential connections are subsidized, non-residential consumers pay tariffs that significantly exceed the cost of
service. With ever increasing tariffs, the non-residential customer base declines continuously, resulting in higher
non-residential tariffs, and leaving the utility in a vicious circle where each tariff increase results in an erosion of the
non-residential customer base, that will require further tariff increases.
Subsidies through direct government transfers
Subsidies through direct transfers through the federal, state or municipal governments can take the form of (i) grants
(so called "recursos afondo perdido "), (ii) loans that are usually provided with interest rates below market rate,
and (iii) equity participations. The size of these transfers is considerable. For instance, the five water companies



35
participating in PMSS 11 received state government transfers of R$159 million in 1996, while they had an annual
turnover of R$550 million.
2. Analysis of a Cost Recovery and Subsidy Policy for PROSANEAR
One of the objectives of the TAL is to define a transparent cost recovery and subsidy policy that will result in more
efficiency and better targeting. Such a policy will help to implement low-income urban water and sanitation
projects in a more sustainable manner.
The demand-driven nature of the PROSANEAR subprojects will result in a large variety of subprojects with
different cost structures and makes the standardization of cost recovery policy difficult. Yet, as a first step to define
a cost recovery and subsidy policy, a "standard" subproject was defined based on the PROSANEAR I experience.
The "standard" subproject is a conservative estimate as it assumes that investment cost will be equal to the per
capita investment ceilings that are set under the technical guidelines of the TAL. In reality, the use of low-cost
technologies can result in a substantial decrease of average investment costs as compared with the investment
ceilings. Based on the investment, operation and maintenance costs of a "standard" subproject, we then calculated
the long-run average incremental cost which we used as a yardstick to deterrnine the levels of cost recovery and
subsidies required to provide services to each low income household under different tariff scenarios.
Tables 3-5 present different levels of subsidies required by the water company of Brasilia5 under different tariff
scenarios: (i) whether or not the water company will meter new PROSANEAR customers, (ii) whether or not it will
charge new PROSANEAR customers the social or residential tariff, and (iii) whether or not new customers will be
charged according to their willingness to pay.
Table 3:       Subsidies Required (in R$) - new customers will be charged minimum
consumption level (of 10m3 per month)
Sewerage                  8.46          2.17 ------75.43-               4.32         49.63
Total                    1.             4.34         159.92 _8.64                    108.32
[4fllnhO                  i_                                             X
Investment                              0%                              32%
Table 3 shows that if the new customers are charged according to the minimum consumption level of 10 m3 per
month, the subsidy required is considerable: R$160 per household per year. The current minimum social tariff is
not even sufficient to cover operation and maintenance costs.
Table 4:       Subsidies Required (in R$) - new customers will be charged according
to actual consumption (at about 15 m3 per month)
5 Although there are differences between the tariff structures and levels of the different water utilities, the tariff policy of the
water utility of the Federal District of Brasilia is rather representative for tariff policies used in other utlities.



36
Sewerage         |       8.46|         4A45         48.071             .2          11.2l|
Total            |      17.67|         8.90Y       105.20|            15.04|       31.47|
U&M              1        s1l011lEo  
llnvestment      l                     34%/o             1            80%1. I
When customers are charged according to their consumption which is estimated at 1 5m3 per month, the level of
subsidies required can substantially decrease as can be seen in Table 4. Under this scenario, even when charged the
social tariff, customers will be able to finance 1 00% operation and maintenance costs, and contribute 34 percent to
investment costs. When the residential tariff is charged, customers will be able to finance all operation and
maintenance costs, and will be able to contribute 80 percent to investment costs.
Table 5:      Subsidies Required (in RS) - new customers will be charged according to their willingness to
pay for water and sewerage services
Water 1=9Z174t2.i
|Sewerage                  8.46|         4.941         42.19|
TIotal                     76           12.35'         63.80|
Investment                               60%
The levels of willingness to pay are conservatively estimated at 5 percent of household income6. These estimates
show that the current social tariffs bear little relationship to the actual willingness to pay of consumers. A tariff
based on a willingness to pay estimated at 5 percent of monthly household income would cover 100% of all
operation and maintenance costs and 60 percent of investment costs. A tariff based on the results of the willingness
to pay estimated by a study conducted under PMSS II, which predicted higher willingness to pay values, can cover
1 00 percent of operation and maintenance costs and 100 percent of investment costs.
These estimates, however, are based on an average income distribution roughly equal to about 2 monthly minimum
salaries (based on the PROSANEAR I experience). If the population in the subproject service area is much poorer,
the possibilities to recover a large part of the investment costs will be substantially reduced. The use of low-cost
technologies, and alternative management arrangements of water and sanitation systems in low-income
neighborhoods (e.g. through contracting out operation and maintenance services) could reduce the cost of service
significantly, and hence reduce the need for large subsidy transfers to the very poor.
3.     Policy Implications and Proposed Cost Recovery and Subsidy Guidelines
Based on the analysis summarized above a set of guidelines for cost recovery and subsidy policy to be applied for
PROSANEAR subprojects was developed. The full analysis and results are available in project files. The basic
premises for the guidelines are threefold:
6 The willingness to pay studies in Espirito Santo and those undertaken under the PMSSII project showed higher levels of
willingness to pay. WTP for water varied substantially, while the WTP for sewage collection and treatment showed more
consistency.



37
1. In general, the willingness to pay for water and sanitation services of low income customers of PROSANEAR
falls short of the full cost of service, hence some levels of subsidies are necessary to provide these services to
the poor.
2. Subsidies in PROSANEAR financed water and sewerage projects should be made explicit by implementing a
transparent, flexible and better-targeted subsidy mechanism.
3. A thorough review and restructuring of tariff policy practiced in Brazil is necessary (not just the social tariff).
PROSANEAR - TAL will not solve the entire problem of tariff structures in Brazil, but will initiate the effort to
introduce a rational social tariff and subsidy policy for low-income water and sanitation services.
4. National Guidelines on Cost Recovery and Subsidy Policy
Using these basic premises, the Borrower presented to us the following guidelines to be adopted for all water and
sanitation projects administered (financed or guaranteed) by the Federal Government. The guidelines consist of two
parts: (i) general guidelines for all water and sanitation projects administered by the Federal Government; and (ii)
guidelines specific to low-income water and sanitation projects administered by the Federal Government. These
guidelines are included as a part of the project operational manual, and will be adopted by all PROSANEAR - TAL
beneficiaries. The full text of the National Guidelines is available in Project Files.
General Guidelines for Water and Sanitation Projects Administered by Federal Governnent
Participants of water and sanitation programs administered by the Federal Government must review their tariff
structure, based on the guidelines as described below.
Cost Recovery and Revenue Adequacy Guidelines
1. In principle, water and sanitation utilities must try to recover costs of services (capital and O&M costs) through
"Efficient Tariff' (tarifa eficiente). If necessary, however, subsidy can be provided directly by the
Government's fiscal resources. These subsidies should be utilized only for investments targeted to low-income
population.
2. To maximize revenue and to make viable a certain level of subsidy among customer groups, tariff structure
should consider price elasticity in setting tariff levels for different types of customers.
Guidelines.for Efficient Tariff Design
3. "Efficient Tariff' means tariffthat: (i) is based on long run incremental costs; (ii) covers investments based on
minimum economic cost; and (iii) reflects costs of each system.
4. Tariff structure should reflect consumption patterns in each region.
5. Tariff should be charged based on actual consumption through metering.
6. Water and sewerage tariffs, in principle, must be set independently reflecting respective costs of service.
7. Tariffs should consist of two parts: (i) variable charge, reflecting the amount of water consumed and sewage
disposed; and (ii) fixed charge, reflecting fixed costs of service.
Guidelines for Social Tariff
8. Residential tariff category can include a "social tariff" category for low-income population, which reflects
income level and payment capacity of population. Social tariff should be applied only to "essential (life-line)"
consumption level, which should be determined by conceding authorities (in most cases municipalities).



38
9. Where possible, the cost of social tariff (subsidy) should be covered through tariff structure, minimizing the use
of fiscal resources (direct subsidy).
Guidelines for Subsidies
10. Subsidy system must be transparent, quantifyring the amount subsidized through tariff structure or by fiscal
transfer.
11. Direct subsidy (by fiscal transfer), in principle, must be provided through the level of government that
authorizes concession.
Control of Costs and Revenue
12. Water and sanitation utilities must keep independent account of costs and revenues by system.
13. Water and sewerage bills should specify fixed charges, variable charges, and subsidies (both direct and cross
subsidies).
14. Utilities must develop and maintain a management information system to plan, implement, supervise and
monitor investment projects.
Guidelines for Low-Income Water and Sanitation Projects Administered by the Federal Government
1. Participants of Federal Government assisted low-income sanitation programs (including PROSANEAR - TAL)
should review their tariff structure based on the guidelines as presented below.
2. PROSANEAR - TAL will finance through the pre-investment component, studies to review and redesign social
tariff structure and subsidy policy upon request. These studies and resulting adjustments to social tariff
structure must be concluded during the project implementation phase, so that the new tariff structure would be
in effect when systems are in operation.
3. Tariffs charged to low-income customers should at least cover operation and maintenance costs of water and
sewerage services.
4. Direct subsidies (subsidies with fiscal resources) should be limited to investments targeted for low-income
population.
5. Tariff should be discussed with customers (communities) to reflect their willingness to pay, and to ensure
sustainability of services.
6. Costs of connections and other in-house installations (bathrooms, connections from the entrance to inside the
house, etc.) must be paid in full by beneficiaries. The cost of these investments should be repaid through
monthly bills. The costs can be financed by the utilities at the same terms and conditions of the underlying
investment loan.
7. Water and sanitation utilities should create a management unit for low-income sanitation programs, which
supervises the implementation of subprojects and maintain accounting of revenue and costs of these
subprojects.
Operationalization of Policy Guidelines
1. PROSANEAR - TAL would operationalize the cost recovery and subsidy policy through:



39
a) TA agreements to be signed by the Federal Government, municipalities, and water agencies, which will
secure local governments' commitment to apply the policy guideline; and
b) A simple spreadsheet model which makes an implicit subsidy policy explicit. By inputting a limited
number of data in the model, the local government officials or service providers can estimate how much
subsidy would be needed, if any, for the project and develop a policy including the following. A sample
output of the model is presented below.
Input Data                                    Policy
*  Cost of investment and service             *  Who receives subsidy
*  Estimated willingness to pay of the        *  How to identify beneficiaries (recipient)
users                                      *  What part of service to subsidize
*  Tariffs and other charges to be paid by    *  How much to subsidize
the users                                  *  Who finances subsidy
*  How long should subsidy be given
*  How to give subsidy
PROSANEAR Cost Recovery and Subsidy
Sample Summary Policy Sheet
1. Tariff Policy - Tariff Charged to PROSANEAR Customers
% of Cost
Tariffper    O&M    Total Cost % of Willingness to
month                 (LRAIC)*     Pay (WTP)
Per family  Per Family
Water            R$/mon     6.6       100%        55%          94%
Sewerage         R$/mon      4.6      100%        43%           99%
total           R$/mon    11.2       100%        49%          96%
* LARIC does not include in-house investments.
2. Additional Costs to the users - Charged to PROSANEAR Customers
(in house-costs)
Additional   % cost (in-    Payment
costs per   house invest)   period
month per                 (years)
family
Water         R$/mon        4.6         100%          5
Sewerage      R$/Imon       13.9        100%           5
total        R$/mon        18.5        100%
3. Total Costs to the Users
Tariffper  Additional  Total  % of Willingness  % of
month     Costs per  Costs to to Pay (WTP)    Willingness to
month  the users                 Pay (WTP)
Per family  Per Family           excluding    including
additional costs  additional
I   costs
Water         R$/mon        6.6        4.6       11.2       94%           160%
Sewerage      R$/mon        4.6        13.9      18.5       99%           395%
total        R$/mon        11.2       18.5      29.7       96%           254%



40
4. Subsidy Policy
Level of Cost Recovery (Does not include in-house investment costs)
Water      %      Sewerage       %
LRAIC                    R$/year        42,967     100%      37,901     100%
Cost Recoveryfrom        R$/year        23,492      55%      16,429      43%
Customers
Total subsidy required   R$/year        19,475     45%       21,472      57%
Source of Subsidyfor Water & Sewerage services
Cross subsidy        R$/year        30,947          76%
Direct subsidy (fiscal  R$/year        10,000          24%
transfer)
Total subsidy        R$/year       40,947          100%



41
Annex 2 - Attachment 5
LOW INCOME SANITATION - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE - PROSANEAR - TAL
Institutional Arrangement and Operational Process
Project Management and Implementation: A project management unit (PMU) will be established within the
Secretariat of Urban Development (SEDU/PR). The PMU will consist of one coordinator, one financial
administrator, one engineer, one community participation specialist, and one urban development specialist, and
supported by consultants as necessary. PMU will be responsible for overall management (planning, administration,
monitoring, and reporting) of the TAL, as well as implementation of the training, promotion, and studies program.
CAIXA, the financial agency of SEDU/PR, will be responsible for managing and supervising the pre-investment
component. Participating local government agencies (municipalities, states, and/or utilities) will implement the pre-
investment component - preparation of low-income water and sanitation subprojects and integrated urban
development plans -- following the criteria and guidelines set by the PMU.
The water and sanitation subprojects prepared under the TAL will be financed by the PROSANEAR National Low-
income Sanitation Program, Habitar-Brasil urban upgrading, or other programs which is also administered by
SEDU/PR (policy setting) and CAIXA (implementation). Local government agencies or utilities are responsible
for implementing these subprojects, while other local institutions (NGOs, schools, health agencies) are encouraged
to participate in the project preparation and implementation to enhance the project sustainability.
The specific responsibilities of PMU, CAIXA (headquarters and regional offices), and local government executing
agencies are summarized in the chart presented in Attachment 5a.
Operational Process: Operational process of PROSANEAR - TAL is closely tied to the operational process of the
PROSANEAR national program. The chart presented in Attachment Sb summarizes how PROSANEAR - TAL ties
into the PROSANEAR national program.



42
Annex 2 -Attachment 5a
LOW INCOME SANITATION - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE - PROSANEAR - TAL
Institutional Arrangement
Presidency
SEI)U/PR
> Coordinates the PMU
>   Coordinates urban, administrative/financial and
technical management of PMU
>   Does PMU's global planning activities,
defining strategies to levels of execution,
supervision and coordination, involving
compatibility of plans, programs and sectorial
and global activities, in order to achieve the
World Bank                                                                          project's objectives.
l -wo         t     l                                                              >   Helps the Planning Ministry in the selection of
beneficiaries and other relevant subjects related
>   Approves TOR,                                                                    to the project
>   Prepares with the CAIXA, the Technical
LOI, evaluation                                                                  Cooperation Agreement
report, contracts                                                           >   Creates and implement a monitoring and
evaluation system for the project and its
>   Disburses loan                                                                   components, and produces management reports
proceeds                                                                    >   Follows with CAIXA the execution of the pre-
investment component, such as (i) environment
and socio-economic viability study; (ii)
community caracterization and areas of
intervention; (iii) elaboration of integrated
Project Management Unit                                       development plan; (iv) elaboration of plans and
PMrU -                                            social projects; (v) elaboration of integrated
sanitation projects; (vi) other activities
General Coordinator                                       necessary for the implementation and
effectiveness of the projects
>   Implements the promotion and training of the
project
TI                                    ICAIXA Regional
Urban Policy                 Administrative/Financial                      Technical                            offices
>   Assist the Planning Ministry to   >   Organizes training and
>   Prepares TOR,                 >   Contracts consultants and              Identify priority beneficiaries        promotion programs with
LOI for Urban                     auditors                          >   Plans and implements training          PMU
Policy Component             >   Manages resources                       and promotion programs            >   Sends TOR, LOI, evaluation
'  Analyzes and                        allocated to the TAL              >   Identifies priority studies;           reports for the pre-investment
provides suppot  Maintalos fiancial controlprepare TORs                                      component to the Bank for
provides suppoan                  Maintains financial control       >   Identifies and makes contact            approval, and inform PMU
to municipal and                  of disbursement                        with potential PROSANEAR          >   Monitors and provides
state institutional          >   Processes withdrawal                    participants                          technical support to pre-
strengthening                     application                       >   Analyzes "Cartas Consultas"            investment and investment
subprojects                                                              earmarked for PROSANEAR -             activities
TAL - approved by the            >   Prepares periodical report on
Instancias Colegiadas                 monitoring indicators
Executing Agencies                                          >   Formalizes technical assistance   >   Sends withdrawal applications
agreements with executing             to the Bank.
agencies for the TAL             >   Analyze preliminary projects
>   Manage resources for                                 >   Monitors and provides technical         for PROSANEAR-FGTS
PROSANEAR-TAL                                             support to pre-investment             loans
I>   Maintain control of                                      component and analyzes                  oans
disbursements                                             subprojects elaborated through    >    Analyze TOrp, LOi, and
>   Prepare withdrawal                                        the TAL                                 evlto  reoXA
application and send it                              >   Supervises with CAIXA; pre-            them to CAIXA
to CAIXAs Regional                                        investment and investment             PROSANEAR - TAL
Offices                                                   activities of PROSANEAR -             coordination unit
TAL and monitors indicators      >    Send withdrawal applications
___________________________________________________________          >   Develops and maintain                   for the TAL
SEDU/PR - Secretariat of Urban Development;                             information system                >    Collect data for monitoring
CAIXA/GEPOE - Caixa Economica Federa, Special Operations           Periodically reviews criteria and           indicators and send them to
division                                                           guidelines for PROSANEAR - TAL              CAIXA PROSANEAR - TAL



43
Annex 2 -Attachment 5b
LOW INCOME SANITATION - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE - PROSANEAR - TAL
Operational Process
SEDU/PR identifies priority
beneficiaries for the TAL                     This is applicable in case a
subproject to be prepared under the
TAL will be financed by FGTS. If
it will be financed by other public
SEDU/PR pre-negotiates the TAL with                or prvate sources, then it will be
potential executing agencies                   directly negotiated with beneficiary
service providers
Executing agencies prepare Cartas
Consultas (CCs)l/    a  1/ subproject proposal for PROSANEAR national program
Instancias Colegiadas2l analyze the
CCs                2/ state level committee represented by state, municipalities, state water
companies, and NGOs, which selects subprojects to be financed
PROSANEAR national program and other programs funded by FGTS.
CC. S: etd?                No  X0 D   o  ariiaei
| PROSANEAR         l
't es                      Normal process for PROSANEAR-
Project Pre negotiated with PROSANEAR   No        FGTS national program
TAL?
Yes
PMIJ analyses CC approved and
checks eligibility for the TAL
1
Executing agencies prepare           CAIXA analyses the pre-feasibility
simplified pre-feasibility studies                 studies
CAIXA approves pre-  No    Executing agencies
Borrower (through CAIXA) signs               feasibility studies   -*    re-do the projects
TA Grant Agreement with executing
agencies
Loan signing with
CAIXA
; Yes
Pre-investment activities                 CAIXA approves projects
>  Feasibility study                            elaborated
>  Community participation plan
>  Integrated urban (low-income area)
development plan                      Procurement of investment
>  Monitoring and evaluation plan                component



44
Annex 2 - Attachment 6
LOW INCOME SANITATION - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE - PROSANEAR - TAL
Detailed Project Implementation Plan for the First Year
The more detailed plan is presented in Project Operational Manual (POM) in the Project Files.
Activities                            Cost (US$)      Timing               Benchmarks
Project Management
1) Hiring Project Management Unit      334,000   April 2000       PMU fully staffed.
(PMU) staff
2) Supervision trips for promotion,     97,000    May 2000        100 trips in total among several
training, preinvestment, and urban             October 2000    consultants.
development components
3) Construction of project management  200,000    Apr/Jun 2000    Information system and databank
information system and databank   ____
4) Evaluation of monitoring indicators  100,000   Jan.-Sept. 2000   Indicators validated
Promotion
1) Elaboration of Promotion Strategy and  70,000    Apr/Jul. 2000    Promotion strategy elaborated with
Materials                                                      basic promotion materials.
2) Execution of Promotion Strategy     200,000    May/Sept 2000   Promotion strategy for the first
year implemented.
Training
1) Elaboration of training program      35,000    Aug./Sept. 1999  Training program elaborated.
2) Execution of the training program   285,000   Oct. 2000        4 courses with about 650
*  PROSANEAR operation                                            participants, 33 sessions, 948
*  Community participation              54,000    Oct. 2001       hours.
*  Cost recovery policy and financial   96,000
analysis                            76,500
.  Project evaluation                   58,500
Studies
1) Comparative study on low cost       200,000    May/Oct. 2000   Study completed.
appropriate technology - standards,
materials, engineering designs
2) Review of the application of cost    130,000   Jun/Dec. 2000    Study completed.
recovery and subsidy policy
Pre-investment
1) Project preparation                 1,800,000   Apr 2000/Mar    At least 3 subprojects prepared.
2001
Urban Development
1) Municipal TA                        655,000   Apr 2000/Mar    Diagnosis carried out for 6
2001            municipalities.
2) National Urban Strategy             620,000    Apr 2000/Mar    5 workshops
2001
Total                                  4,726,000  1



45
Annex 3
LOW INCOME SANITATION - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE - PROSANEAR - TAL
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                          Local           Foreign       Total
-------------------US $ million--------------------
Project Management, promotion, and studies                     5.1             0.9           6.0
Pre-investment                                                33.0             3.0          38.0
Training                                                       1.3             0.8           1.6
Urban Development Policy                                       3.6             1.0           4.4
Front end fee                                                                  0.3           0.3
Total Project Cost                                            43.0             6.0          49.0
Detailed Cost Breakdown
units unit cost Months       Cost      Subtotal Subtotal
(US$000               (US$ooo)    (Bank  (Counter
finance)  -part)
L Management, Promotion, and Studies                                    6000       5400       600
A. PMU                                                                              2100
Coordinator                               1      7.7     60   mo       460
Managers                                  4      5.0     60   mo    1200
Monitoring and Evaluation System                                      440
B. Expert Support                                                                   960
Experts (full time equivalent)            2     10.0     60   mo       960
C. Logistics/Administrative Support                                                 890
Administrative agent fee                    3%of 10 million           300
Personnel (incl. Secretaries, etc.)       1     0.9           mo       90
Supplies                                                              200
Travel expenses                           5      1            mo      300
D. Promotion                                                                        850
Development of a dissemination strategy                                50
Implementation of the strategy                  100      4    yr      400
Dissemination - newsletter, Web, etc            50       4    yr      200
Seminars, workshops, etc.                       50       4    yr      200
E. Studies                                        120       5    yr.    600         600
IL Pre-investment _'_                                                   36000      20000    16000
A. Socio economic study
B. Favela development plan                                                         20000
C. Engineering plan and social action plan
D. Government input through provision of staff                                               16000
time, physical installation, equipment)                                      __
IIl. Training                                     320       5    yr    1600         1600       0
IV. Urban Developmaent TA                                               5400       3000      2000
A. Municipal Development Pilot                    1000                              1000      600
B. National Urban Policy Formulation              2000               _ __          2000      1400
Total         =__           =_                30000    19000



46
Annex 4
LOW INCOME SANITATION - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE - PROSANEAR - TAL
Guidelines for Financial and Economic Evaluation of PROSANEAR Subprojects
The main objective of the financial and economic evaluation is to determine if the subprojects to be financed with
PROSANEAR funds are worthwhile to be undertaken. PROSANEAR - TAL will prepare subprojects that are
viable according to the criteria described below.
1.    The subprojects to be financed with PROSANEAR funds should be economically viable. To determine the
economic viability of these subprojects, a simple spreadsheet model has been developed that will: (i) systematically
provide the required information that will be collected during the pre-investment study (i.e., socio-economic survey,
feasibility study for water and sanitation and essential complementary works, and the proposal for social work and
hygiene and environmental education), and (ii) and help CAIXA in processing the subprojects more rapidly. This
spreadsheet model, including a detailed description of its use, will form part of the Operational Manual.
2.    Investment, operation and maintenance costs will be estimated based on:
*   basic project costs, including complementary investments7 (including the provision of drainage and solid
waste services, but also including internal connections, and so on); and
-   additional data - especially regarding the operation and maintenance (O&M) costs - to be provided by the
water utilities. The O&M cost should correspond to the costs related to the subproject under analysis, not
the average O&M costs the water utility, as such costs often reflect the utility's inefficiency. Alternative
operation and maintenance arrangements to reduce costs are encouraged under PROSANEAR.
Both investment and O&M costs should be adjusted for the impact of taxes and subsidies for the
economic evaluation of subprojects,
3.     The benefits of the subprojects will be based on the willingness to pay for the provision of these services.
When no willingness to pay studies are available, affordability of services will be used as a criterion. The socio-
economic survey that will be carried out during the pre-investment phase will collect data on family income, and the
availability, use and level of payment for basic services (water, wastewater disposal, and solid waste).
4.     A subproject will be considered economically feasible when the Net Present Value (NPV) exceeds zero, or
the Intemal Rate of Return will be higher than 12 percent.
5.    In case a subproject has an intemal rate of return lower than 12 percent, especially when willingness to pay
is much lower than cost, local government agencies must present a clear justification based on health and other
benefits, or try to reduce the investment and/or operation and maintenance costs. Subprojects below 12% return
should be limited to 10-12% of total subprojects. The minimum acceptable rate of return is 8%.
7 This element has not yet been included in the model (as of April 22, 1998), but will be included in the final model to be
presented.



47
Annex 4 - Attachment 1
LOW INCOME SANITATION - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE - PROSANEAR - TAL
Fiscal Impact
Adoption of the proposed cost recovery and subsidy policy and the use of low cost technology will result in a
positive fiscal impact, or fiscal savings, as compared with the conventional way of extending water and sanitation
services to the poor. As presented in Annex 2 - Attachment 4, many of the utilities today charge their low income
customers tariffs that are much lower than estimated operation and maintenance (O&M) costs, long-run average
incremental costs (LRAIC), or customers' willingness to pay. Utilities today compensate for the losses incurred due
to such pricing practices through cross-subsidies and/or direct budget transfers from the government. Resulting
fiscal transfers are considerable.
Once the proposed policy is adopted, these utilities would charge tariffs that fully cover the cost of O&M, at least
cover a part of cost of capital investments, and are closer to customers' willingness to pay. The adoption of such
policy will result in reduction of operational and capital subsidies required, whereby reducing the amount of fiscal
transfers necessary for these kinds of projects.
The Calculation of Fiscal Impact - Methodology
To determine the fiscal impact (fiscal savings) to be attained through the PROSANEAR - TAL we adopted the
following methodology:
1) Determine a "standard" subproject cost structure8. A standard project consist of investment costs of US$80 per
capita for water, US$120 per capita for sewerage, and operation and maintenance costs of about US$50 per
year per household.
2) Estimate the level of subsidies required under "without project" situation. Without the TAL, we assume that
utilities will continue to undercharge their low-income customers - a flat social tariff charge of about US$4.3
per month per family, assuming 10m3 consumption per family per month9. The level of subsidies required is
defined as the difference between the long-run average incremental cost of the water and sewerage services and
the tariffs being charged to poor residential customers.
3) Estimate the levels of subsidies required under "with project" situation. With the TAL, we assume that utilities
will adopt one of the following tariff policies for low-income customers: (a) social tariff based on actual
consumption of about 1 5m3; (b) residential tariff based on actual consumption of about 15 m3; (c) 100% of
operation and maintenance costs and 30% of capital cost; and (d) willingness to pay of the customers.
4) Calculate the levels of savings in subsidy requirements per capita by subtracting the results of (3) from the
results of (2).
5) Calculate NPV of total fiscal savings to be achieved through the TAL by multiplying the results of (4) by
estimated number of final beneficiaries of the TAL (630,000 to one million).
The Results
Under "without project" scenario, where the TAL will not be executed and hence the government will not define a
more transparent cost recovery and subsidy policy, most poor customers will remain unmetered, and hence be
charged the minimum consumption level of 10 m3 per month. In the "with project" scenario, it is assumed that a
8 In reality, because of the demand driven nature of PROSANEAR subprojects, cost structures of subprojects will vary from
one subproject to the other.
9 We used the tariff structure of CAESB, the water company of Brasilia, as a representative sample.



48
cost recovery and subsidy policy will be implemented, which will result in higher water and sewerage rates. Table
I presents the subsidies required under different tariff scenarios over the time horizon of the project (estimated at 30
years).
Table 1: Subsidies Required Under Different Tariff and Cost Recovery Scenarios
Unmetered consumption
(household charged 10 m3 per month):
- social tariff (withoutproject scenario)            160         144-227          0           0
- residential tariff                                 108         101-160         52         43-67
Metered consumption
(household charged 15 m3 per month)*:
- social tariff (with project scenario "a")          105         98-155          52         45-72
- residential tariff (with project scenario "b")     31           36-57         129        108-170
100% of O&M cost and 30% of capital cost
(with project scenario "c")                          111         104-164        49          40-63
Willingness to Pay (with project scenario "d") **    64           41-65         96         103-162
Notes:
*      this consumption level is based on a designed average consumption level of 100 lcd
**     willingness to pay is estimated at 5 percent of household income
***    lower and higher range assumes the number of final beneficiaries of 630,000 and one million, respectively.
as compared with "without project scenario"
As subsidies are provided through utilities' tariff structure (cross-subsidy) or government transfers, or the
combination of both, we can only estimate a range of fiscal impact (fiscal savings). If subsidies are provided
entirely through the cross-subsidy system, then direct fiscal impact of the TAL is minimal. If, on the other hand,
subsidies are provided entirely through direct government transfers, fiscal impact of the TAL can reach US$172
million, provided that utilities charge a level of tariff equal to customers' willingness to pay.
(a)     Required Subsidy and the Use of Low Cost Technology
The proposed TAL not only introduces a transparent cost recovery and subsidy policy, but also encourages the use
of lower cost appropriate technology (e.g. use of a condominal sewer system instead of a conventional system). If
we assume that "without project scenario" uses conventional and often high cost technology and expensive O&M
arrangements, whereas "with project scenario" uses low cost appropriate technology and alternative operation and
maintenance arrangements, then savings in subsidies will be even larger. The results of the analysis under such
assumptions are presented in Table 2.



49
Table 2: Subsidies Required Under Different Tariff Policies Using Low-Cost Technologies and Alternative
Operation and Maintenance Arrangements
Tariff Po.licy                                                    I Re *ed   .             g in s,idy
.,P  iPer   PVj,$
.  . E   capita    - mlion)    ICapita  million)
.:.nual;                 Annxa _l       -
Unmetered consumption
(household charged 10 m3 per month):
- social tariff (without project scenario, use of conventional
technology)                                                 160         144-227        0           0
- social tariff (without project scenario, use of low cost
technology)                                                 112        102-161         48        42-66
- residential tariff                                           60         58-92        100        86-135
Metered consumption
(household charged 15 m3 per month)*:
- social tariff (with project scenario "a")                   57          55-87        103        89-140
- residential tariff * * *                                     0            0           160         0
100% of O&M cost and 30% of capital cost
(with project scenario "b '9                                  63          61-96         97        83-131
Willingness to Pay (with project scenario "c") **             16           3-5         144       141-222
Note:
*      this consumption level is based on a designed average consumption level of 100 lcd
***    willingness to pay is estimated at 5 percent of household income
* * *    no subsidies are required, the proposed tariff surpasses the long-run average incremental cost of supplying the services
to the poor



50
Annex 5
LOW INCOME SANITATION - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE - PROSANEAR - TAL
Procurement, Disbursement, and Accounting/Auditing Arrangements
Procurement
1.    Consultant's services would be procured according to the provisions of the Bank's "Guidelines: Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (January 1997, revised September 1997) and of goods
according to the provisions of the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans"(January 1995, revised
January and August 1996, and September 1997). Table A presents the project costs by procurement methods and
Table B provides the thresholds for procurement methods and prior review, both which are discussed below in
detail. The project operational manual identifies key procurement actions in the first year of the project. Semi-
annual operating plans would indicate key procurement actions to be taken in the year described.
2.    Procurement of Goods: ICB procedures for the procurement of goods for contracts over US$350,000 are
not expected to be applicable in this project, since "goods", primarily computer hardware and software and other
miscellaneous valued at less than US$100,000 per order, would be purchased on the basis of national/international
shopping. Goods purchased through shopping should not exceed an aggregate amount of US$500,000. The rest of
the goods must be purchased through national competitive bidding using bidding documents agreed with the Bank.
3.    Selection of Consultant Services: As presented in Table B, selection process will vary depending upon
each component and type of contracts. For the pre-investment component, contracts for consulting firms will be
selected based on least cost, considering the standard, noncomplex nature of consulting assignments (standard
terms of reference and guidelines with clear product output). For all other components, consulting firms will be
selected based on quality and cost, and individual consultants will be selected based on consultants' qualifications
on the basis of comparison of curricula of three candidates. Single source selection of consulting firms and
individual consultants are subject to the Bank's approval on case-by-case basis.
4.    Prior Review: Since no ICB procedures for Goods are envisaged in this project, the Bank would only prior
review full documentation of: (i) the first two contracts to be awarded under shopping procedures for goods; (ii) all
contracts to be awarded under NCB procedures for goods; (iii) all contracts for consulting firms greater than
US$200,000; (iv) the first two contracts for consulting firms valued between US$100,000 and US$200,000; and (v)
individual consultant contracts greater than US$50,000. Full documentation for consulting services include request
for proposals, letters of invitation, short-lists, selection procedures, terms of reference, contract forms and the
technical evaluation. The Bank will review and approve all terms of reference regardless of contract value.
5.    Post Review: All procurement documentation, including that related to contracts not subject to prior
review would be kept by the borrower for ex-post review by the bank according to Bank Guidelines.



51
TABLE A
Project Cost Procurement Arrangements (US/Millions)
Category               ICB         NCB          Others           N.B.F/2          Total/3
1)  Goods                                                    0.8                               0.8
(0.8)                             (0.8)
2) Technical Assistance:
Consultants                                            26.9/4                             44.9
(26.9)           18.0            (26.9)
Training                                                1.5                               1.5
(1.5)                            (1.5)
3)  Administration                                           0.8              1.0              1.8
(0.8)                             (0.8)
4)  Front-end Fee                                            0.3                               0.3
Total:                                                      30.3              19.0            49.3
(30.3)                           (30.3)
1/ National/International Shopping.
2/Not Bank financed.
3/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan. Total cost includes contingencies.
4/ Consultant services to be selected according to the Bank's Guidelines "Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers".
TABLE Al
Consultant Selection Arrangements (US/Millions)
Category                                        Selection Methods
QCBS  QBS /3  SFB    LCS /5C                        SS    TOTAL COST /1
/2
FIRMS                       3.5                            20.0                               23.5
INDIVIDUALS /7                                                        5.7                      5.7
TOTAL               3.5                            20.0       5.7                     29.2
1/ Total cost includes contingencies
2/ Quality and cost-based selection
3/ Quality-based selection
4/ Fixed budged selection
5/ Least-cost selection
6/ Selection based on consultant's qualifications
7/ Single Source (case by case upon approval by the Bank)
8/ Individuals (selected on the basis of qualifications of consultants)



52
TABLE B
Procurement Methods and Prior Review
CATEGORY                    TYPE OF                    PRIOR REVIEW
PROCUREMENT
Goods                             Shopping           Selected documents/ t for the first two
contracts
NCB                            All
Consultant Services         Consultants Guidelines'n
Firms:
Pre-investment Component          Least Cost            All /3 for contracts above US$
Other Components                   QCBS                          200,000;
All for the first two contracts for
contracts US$100,000-US$200,000;
Rest TOR
Individuals:
All components             Consultant Qualifications   All for contracts above US$50,000
TOR for the rest
I/ A report on evaluation of quotations, technical specifications, and a draft contract.
2/ As per Section V of the Consultants guidelines.
3/ All: Terms of reference, shortlist, evaluation report, contract.
TABLE C
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Category         Amount of the     % of Expenditures to be financed
Loan
Allocated
(US$ million)
1) Goods                       0.8       100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory-cost); and
85% of local expenditures for other
items procured locally.
2) Technical Assistance:
Consultants                   26.9                      100%
Training                       1.5                      100%
3) Administration              0.8                      100%
4) Front end fee               0.3                      100%
Total                         30.3
Disbursement
6. Allocations of Loan Proceeds: The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of five years. The
project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004 and the closing date is December 31, 2004. The allocation of
loan proceeds by project component is shown in Table C.



53
7. Use of Statement of Expenditures: Disbursements would be based on Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) for:
(a) all goods contract valued below US$350,000; and (b) consultant services valued below US$200,000 for firms
and US$50,000 for individuals; and (c) training expenditures. Documentation supporting SOEs would be retained
by the PMU and made available for examination by Bank staff as requested. All other disbursement requests would
be accompanied by full documentation. As described below in paragraph 11, the Borrower may switch to Project
Management Report (PMR) based disbursement after one year.
8. ProcurementAgent: The Borrower is planning to contract a procurement agent for procurement of goods and
services contracts to be made under the project management, promotion, training, studies, and urban development
components (all components except for pre-investment component). The estimated value of goods and services to
be procured through the procurement agent is US$10 million, or approximately one-thirds of the total loan
proceeds. The agent would make payments directly to consultants and suppliers. Detailed supporting
documentation for expenditures will be kept by the agent, and will be submitted to the Bank through the Borrower.
Full documentation for all contracts requiring Bank's prior review will be submitted to the Bank as well.
9. Special Account: A Special Account will be established to cover expenditures paid directly by the Borrower,
with an authorized allocation of US$2.0 million. The authorized allocation would be sufficient for approximately
four months of eligible expenditures. The Special Account would be managed by the PMU which would be
responsible for preparing disbursement requests. These requests would be submitted monthly or when Special
Account has been drawn down by a third of the initial deposit, whichever occurs first.
10. Retroactive Financing: At negotiations, the need for retroactive financing of up to US$ 1.5 million (5% of the
Loan amount) was reviewed and agreed for eligible expenditures incurred since January 1, 1999 (but not earlier
than 12 months before loan signing). Retroactive financing is recommended to allow for Bank financing of a part of
the project preparation expenditures which has been incurred since the Project was identified.
Financial Management and Auditing Arrangements
11. Financial Management: The Project Management Unit would maintain the account for the project and would
be accountable for funds managed by the procurement agent as well as CAIXA. These accounts would be
maintained in accordance with sound accounting principles, acceptable to the Bank, and should be organized
through and MIS system able to provide ready access to project financial data, including funds committed and
disbursed by project component. The establishment of the Project Financial Management System is a condition
for effectiveness. The disbursement will be initially based on SOEs for the first year. One year after the
Effectiveness date, the Borrower may choose to switch to the Project Management Report (PMR) based
disbursements, provided that it will implement an action plan acceptable to the Bank.
12. Auditing: Accounts, including the Special Account and related financial information (including supporting
documentation for the SOEs), would be audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, in
accordance with Bank auditing guidelines. Certified copies of the audited consolidated project accounts and
audited Special Account (including a separate opinion on the use of SOEs) would be submitted to the Bank not later
than six months after the close of the fiscal year.



54
Annex 6
LOW INCOME SANITATION - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE - PROSANEAR - TAL
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                          Planned                Actual
(At final PCD stage)
171
B. Project Schedule                                 Planned                Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)         20 months            12 months after
project was
reformulated (from
investment project to
TAL)
First Bank mission (identification)                8/21/1996              8/21/1996
Appraisal mission departure                        4/15/1998              5/19/1998
Negotiations                                       7/13/1998              2/08/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                      3/30/1999              4/01/2000
Prepared by: Secretariat of Urban Policy, Ministry of Planning/ State Secretariat of Urban
Development, Presidency
Preparation assistance: PHRD Japanese Grant (US$600,000)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                        Specialty
Yoko Katakura                                Task Team Leader, Financial Analyst
Abel Mejia                                   Sector Manager
Alexander Bakalian                           Engineer
Caroline van den Berg                        Economist
Paula Pini                                   Community Participation/Resettlement Specialist
Braz Menezes                                 Urban Development Specialist
Cecile Ramsay                                Urban Development Coordinator for Brazil
Jose Baigorria                               Senior Procurement Specialist
Geise Santos                                 Team Assistant



55
Annex 7
LOW INCOME SANITATION - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE - PROSANEAR - TAL
Documents in the Project File*
a. Project Implementation Plan
* Ministerio de Planejamento e Or,amento, Secretaria de Politica Urbana (1998). "Diretrizes Gerais para Uma
Politica Reestrutura,do Tarifaria em Projetos de Saneamento" (National Guidelines for Tariff Restructuring
for Water and Sanitation Projects)
*  Ministerio de Planejamento e Or,amento, Secretaria de Politica Urbana (1998). "Diretrizespara o
financiamento de Projetos destinados a Popula9do de Baixa Renda " (National Guidelines for Cost Recovery
and Subsidy Policy for Low-Income Sanitation Projects)
* PROSANEAR - TAL (1998). "Manual de Opera,ao PAT- PROSANEAR" (Project Operational Manual).
* PROSANEAR - TAL (1998). "Plano de Implementa,do do Projecto do Assistencia Tecnica ao PROSANEAR
- Ano 1". (Detailed Project Implementation Plan for the first year).
*  Ministerio de Planejamento e Or,amento, Secretaria de Politica Urbana (1998). Acordo de Cooperacao
MPO/CAIXA (PROSANEAR - TAL implementation agreement between Ministry of Planning and Caixa
Economica Federal).
*  Ministerio de Planejamento e Or,amento, Secretaria de Politica Urbana (1998). Acordo de Coopera9ao
Tecnica a ser firmado com os Agentes Beneficiarios (Standard TA agreement with the executing agencies)
  Ministerio de Planejamento e Or,amento, Secretaria de Politica Urbana (1998). Minutas de Contratos (Grant
financing contract between CAIXA and executing agencies).
b. Bank Staff Assessments
-   Subproject Economic Evaluation Model (Electronic Files)
*   Cost Recovery and Subsidy Policy Assessment.
-   Guidelines for Community Participation (also in Project Operational Manual)
*   Guidelines for Project Preparation.
c. Project Preparation
L Luz Maria Gonzalez, et.al. (1998). Cost Recovery and Subsidy Policy Study.
*   COBRAPE/CDM (1998). PROSANEAR I low cost appropriate technology review study
IBAM (Brazilian Institute for Municipal Administration - 1997). "Pesquisa de Avalia,do do Programa
de Saneamento para Popula,ces de Baixa Renda (PROSANEAR) - Analise Comparativa dos
Subprojetos; Diretrizes - PROSANEAR - TAL" (PROSANEAR I Review Study and Guidelines for
PROSANEAR - TAL).
Cowater International (1998). "Comentarios Sinopticos com respeito aos Relat6rios: "Anailise
Comparativa dos Subprojetos " e "Diretrizes - PROSANEAR - TAL"
* PROSANEAR - TAL (1998). Demand Assessment Study.
Caixa Economic Federal (1997). Manual de Opera,co (Operational Manual for PROSANEAR National
Program)
*   PROSANEAR - TAL (1997). "Workshop de Planejamento - Document,do e Relat6rio de Encontro
PROSANEAR - TAL - Serv,os sustentaveis de saneamento integrado implantados com participacao
comunitaria em dreas urbanas densamente ocupadas por popula,ces de baixa renda". (Proceedings of
PROSANEAR - TAL preparation workshop, including logical framework, lessons learned from
PROSANEAR I).
d. Other



56
*   Ministerio de Planejamento e Or,amento, Secretaria de Politica Urbana (1997). Politica Nacional de
Sanemento (National Policy for Water and Sanitation Sector).
*   The World Bank (1998). Brazil: Water and Sanitation Sector Strategy Note.
*   Ministerio de Planejamento e Orqamento, Secretaria de Politica Urbana (1997). Carta Consulta -
Projeto de Assistencia Tecnica ao Programa de Saneamento para Populacoes em Areas de Baixa Renda
- PROSANEAR
*Including electronic file



57
Annex 8
Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in Brazil
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions               and actual               Last ARPP
Fiscal                                .                                                                           disbursements a/    Supervision Rating b/
Pro ject 1D            Year             Borrower                    Purpose
IBRD       IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig    Frm Rev'd   Dev Obj         Imp Prog
ber of Closed Projects: 187
ive Pro jects
1989   FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR      NE IRRI JAIBA              71.00       0.00            0.00         3.63     3.64        0.00      HS            S
PE-6473                      1990   STATE OF SANTA CATARINA         LND MGMT II-S.            33.00        0.00           0.00          2.76     2.80      -1.16       S            S
CATAM
PE-6453                      1990   FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR       NE IRRIG I               210.00        0.00          69.00         20.80    89.81      20.81       S            S
PE-6492                      1991   PETROBRAS            BRAZI      HYDROCARBN               260.00        0.00           0.00          2.24     2.24       0.00       S            S
TRNS P/PRO
PE-6364                      1991   STATE OF SAO PAULO              INNOV BASIC ED           245.00        0.00           0.00         10.05    10.06       0.00       S            S
PE-6505                      1992   GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL            MATO GROSSO NAT RES      205.00        0.00           0.00         72.98    72.98       0.00       S            S
PE-6368                      1992   GOVERNMENT                      WATER SECTOR             250.00        0.00           0.00         24.04    24.04       0.00       S            S
MODERNI
PE-6547                      1993   FED.REP.OF BRAZIL               METRO TRANSP. RIO         128.50       0.00           0.00         12.33    12.34       0.00       S            S
PE-6541                      1993   S.PAULO/PARANA STS.             WTR                      245.00        0.00            9.30        55.48    64.76       16.77      S            U
Q/PLN (SP/PARANA)
PE-6427                      1993   MIN. OF EDUCATION   N           NE BASIC EDUC II         2 2.00        0.00            0.00        37.85    31.44       0.00       S            S
PE-6378                      1993   STATE GOVERNMENTS               STATE HWY MGMT       ~     8.00        0.00           18.00         4.52    22.51      -2.85       S            S
PE-6540                      1993   MINAS GERAIS ST.                WTR Q/PLN(MINAS           145.00       0.00            5.00        11.56    16.55       -3.32      S            S
GERA
PE-6558                      1994   REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL              PARANA BASIC EDUC          96.00       0.00            0.00        24.72     4.21        0.00      S            S
PE-6543                      1994   GOVERNMENT                      N. GERAIS BASIC           150.00       0.00            0.00        34.87    14.20        0.00       S           S
EDUC
PE-6522                      1994   ST.OF ESPIRITO SANTO            ESP.SANTO WATER          154.00        0.00            4.00        78.26    66.79        0.00      U            U
PE-6524                      1994   ST.OF MINAS GERAIS              MINAS HNC.DEVELOPMT      1o0.00        0.00            5.00        33.66    36.63        6.04      S            S
PE-6555                      1994   STATE GOVTS                     STE HWY MGT II           220.00        0.00          36.00         16.46    19.79         .90      S            S
PE-6452                      1994   MINISTRY OF EDUCATION           NE BASIC EDUC III        206.60        0.00           0.00         45.01    33.23       0.00       S            S
PE-36885                     1995   GOVT OF BRAZIL                  RURAL POV.-SERGIPE         36.00       0.00            0.00        17.76     2.03        0.00      S            S
PE-38882                     1995   FED REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL          RECIFE M.TSP             102.00        0.00           0.00         89.68    48.34        0.00      S            S
PE-6564                      1995   FED REPUBLIC/BRAZIL             BELO H M.TSP               99.00       0.00           0.00         61.89    35.57       0.00       S            S
PE-6436                      1995   STATE OF CEARA       ZIL        CEARA UR.DV/WATER        140.00        0.00            0.00        90.62    67.28       -9.72       S           S
CO
PE-35717                     1995   GOVT OF BRAZIL                  RURAL POV. (BAHIA)        105.00       0.00            0.00        53.67    10.36        0.00       S           S
PE-38884                     1995   GOVT OF BRAZIL                  RURAL POV.- CEARA          70.00       0.00            0.00        40.16     7.82        0.00       S           S
PE-40028                     1996   FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR       RAILWAYS                 350.00        0.00            0.00       116.01    29.35        0.00       S           S
RESTRUCTURG
PE-6554                      1996   FED. REP. OF BRAZIL             HLTH SCTR REFORM          300.00       0.00            0.00       255.72   113.21        0.00       S            S
PE-6512                      1996   CVRD                            ENV/CONS(CVRD)             50.00       0.00            0.00        29.03    11.22        0.00      U            U
PE-37828                     1996   STATE OF PARANA                 (PR)R.POVERTY             175.00       0.00           0.00        153.11    77.21        0.00       S           S
PE-48870                     1997   THE STATE OF MATO GROSSO        MT STATE PRIV.             45.00       0.00            0.00        45.00    25.00        0.00       S           S
PE-43873                     1997   FED.REP.OF BRAZIL               AG TECH DEV.               60.00       0.00            0.00        54.70    12.00        0.00       S           S



58
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                 and actual               Last ARPP
Fiscal                                                                                                                disbursements a/    Supervision Ratirig b/
Project 1D             Year               Borrower                     Purpose
ber PofrCloject Projects:  Year           BorIBRD                                                     IDA     Cancellations  Undisborsed  orig    Frm Rev'd    Dev Obj           Imp Prog
ber of Closed Projects; 187
PE-43868                      1997   STATE OF RGS                     RGS LAND                   100.00        0.00            0.00         92.70    12.26        0.00       S             S
MGT/POVERTY                I
PE-39196                      1997   STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SU        RGS ST.REFORM              125.00        0.00            0.00         50.02    36.70        0,00       S             S
PE-34578                      1997   RIO GRANDE DO SUL                RGS HWY MGT                 7F0.00       0.00            0.00         10.00    13.34        0.00       S             S
PE-6532                       1997   FEDERAL GOVERNMENT               FED HWY DECENTR            300.00        0.00            0.00        2B1.25    37.92        0,00       S             S
PE-43871                      1997   STATE OF PIAUI                    (PIAUI)R.POVERTY           30.00        0.00            0.00         17.05    -1.18        0.00       S             S
PE-46052                      1997                                    CEARA WTR PILOT              9.60        0.00            0.00          8.52     8.52        0.00       S             S
PE-6475                       1997   FED. REP. OF BRAZIL              LAND RFM PILOT              90.00        0.00            0.00         75.05     9.31        0.00       S             S
PE-6562                       1997   STATE OF BAHIA                   BAHIA MUN.DV               100.00        0.00            0.00         98.72    16.39        0.00       S             S
PE-38896                      1997   STATE OF RGN                     R.POVERTY(RGN)              24.00        0.00            0.00         19.72     4.62        0.00       S             S
PE-42566                      1997   STATE OF PERNAMBUCO              R.POVERTY(PE)               39.00        0.00            0.00         25.21     3.06        0,00       S             S
PE-57910                      1998   GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL             PENSION REFORM LIL           5.00        0.00            0.D0          5.00     0.00        0.00
PE-50762                      1998   GOV. OF BRAZII,                  FUNDESCOLAI                 62.50        0.00            0.00         62.50     2.50        0.00       S             S
PE-43421                      1998   STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO          RJ M.TRANSIT PRJ.          186.00        0.00            0.00        186.00    28.34        0.00       S             S
PE-42565                      1998   STATE OF PARAIBA                 PARAIBA R.POVERTY           60.00        0.00            0.00         58.01     5.11        0.00       S             S
PE-39197                      1998   STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO          RJ ST.PRIV.                250.00        0.00            0.00        125.00    91.68        0.00       S             S
PE-38895                      1998   GOVERNMEN'T OP BRAZIL            FED.WTR MGT                l9B.00        0.00            0.00        187.98     9.98        0.00       S             S
PE-6559                       1998   THE STATE OF SAO PAULO            (BF-R)SP.TSP               45.00        0.00            0.00         45.00    10.84        0.00       S             S
PE-6474                       1998   STATE OF SAO PAULO               LAND MGT 3(SP)              55.00        0.00            0.00         55.00     2.80        0.00       8             S
PE-40033                      1998   THE STATE OF MINAS GERAIS        MG STATE PRIV.             170.00        0.00            0.00        170.00    26.68        0,00       S             S
PE-43420                      1998   FED. REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL          WATER S.MOD.2              150.00        0.00            0.00        150.00     4.83        0.00       S             S
PE-48357                      1998   REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL               CEN.BANK TAL                20.00        0.00            0.00         19.80     2.30        0.00       S             S
PE-51701                      1998   STATE OF MARANHAO                MARANHAO R.POVERTY          80.00        0.00            0.00         77.50     6.97        0,00       S             S
PE-6549                       1998   TBG                              GAS SCTR DEV               130.00        0.00            0.00        130.00     0.00        0.00
PROJECT
PE-35728                      1998   STATE OF BAHIA                   BAHIA WTR RESOURCES         51.00        0.00            0.00         46.52    11.71        0.00       S             S
PE-38947                      1998   GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL             SC. & TECH 3               155.00        0.00            0.00        144.99     9.99        0.00       S             S
PE-58129                      1999   FEDERAL GOVERNMENT               EMER. FIRE                  15.00        0.00            0.00         15.00     0.00        0.00
PREVENTIO
al                                                                                             7,121.20        0.00          146.30      3,715.11  1,322.        27.47
08
Active Projects      Closed ProIects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):              3,259.78           15,957.41           19,217.19
of which has been repaid:                250.49          12,790.20           13,040.69
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:              6,724.39            3,216.69            9,941.08
Amount sold                                       0.00              45.83               45.83
Of which repaid                               0.00               45.83               45.83
Total Undisbursed               :            3,715.11               49.45            3,764.56
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursesents to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance JARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS - highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U -
unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23,
1994.
Note: Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



59
Annex 9
Brazil at a glance                                                            9/16/98
Latin   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         America   middle- _ _
Brazil  & Carib.  Income      Development diamond'
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                    163.5       494       571                Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                 4,720     3,880     4,520
GNP (AIfasmethod, US$ billions)                    771,9     1.917     2,584
Average annual growth, 1991-S7
Population (%)                                       1.4       1.7       I'S     GNP                             Gross
Laborforce(6)                                        1.7       2.3       1.9      er                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                            capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of populaton below national poverty line) V  17
Urban population (%5 of total population)             80        74        73
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      67        70        70
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              34        32        30
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             7         ,.       ,,               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of popufation)                72        73        79
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                  17        13        15
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-agepopulalion)  112      t11        107          -razil
Male                                                ..        ..        ,.              Upper-middie-income group
Female                                              .._.._..
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986       1998     1997
Economic ratiose
GDP (US$ billions)                        152.7   268.1      774.9    820.3
Gross domestic investmentlGDP              23.1     19.1      20.7      22.8                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP           7.0      8.8       7.1       6.2
Gross domestic sawngs/GDP                  20.7    21.6        15.6     20.6
Gross national sawingslGDP                 19,2    17.1       17.3      18.6
Current account balance/GDP                 -4.3    -1.9       -3,1     -4.1     Domestic       /-e                 n
Interest payments/GDP                       1.1      2.4       1.1       1.1 'I                             Investment
Total debtGDP                              21.8    40.7       23.1      23.6     Saving
Total debt service/exports                 379      46.8      41.7      45.2
Present value of debt/GDP                              ..     21.8
Present value of debt/exports                ..       ..    280.8         ,.
Indebtedness
1976^86  1967-97    1998      1997   199802
(average annual growth)
GDP                                2.9       1.9     2.8       3.2       3.5           -Brazil
GNP per capita                     0.2      0.0      1.8        1.9      2.0              Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and sernces       10.3     5.4      6.1        1.8      5.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(516 of GDP)                               1976    1986       1996      1997     Growth rates at outputand investment 1%)
Agriculture                                 13.0    11.2       14.4     12.7     1 5
Industry                                   39.7    45.2       36.4      37.8    '5 J
Manufacturing                             30.4    33.0       22.9      23.4     s.-
Services                                   47.3    43.7       49.2      49.5                        ,
Private consumption                        68.8    67.8       62.2      61.9    _5           93   94   95   96   97
General govemment consumption              10.5    10.7        19.2     17.5    i               GD1    -. GDP
Imports of goods and services               9.4      6.4       9.2       8.5                1-
1976-86  1987-97     1996      1997     Growth rates of exports and imports I%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                 3.7      2.5       2.2       2.4    40
Industry                                    2.7      0.1       3.0       3.8
Manufacturing                              2.3    -0.2        2.9       3.8    20
Services                                    2.9      3.1       3.1       3.5
Private consumption                         2.5      3.4       4.6       4.5      o                u    95   96   97
General govemment consumption               2.1    -1.6        9.8       8.0                 9
Gross domestic investment                  -2.1      1.2      -0.2       6.2   -20
Imports of goods and services               -3.3    12.1       5.9      13.9            _Es,ports   --5.Imports
Gross national product                      2.4      1.5       3.2       3.3
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates. 1/ Poverty estimate is from 1990.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
s-  vr l,,,*  M- .. -  >@SXn_.,         *,-     +   .-.g;.fA;; 4, .           7  ^  



60
Brazil
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    1986      1996      1997      I      _ %)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                       2,500
Consumer prices                               ..   147.1       15.8      6.9   j2,00
Implicit GDP deflator                       47.6   145.3       17.2      7.8    1,5 001      
1,000
Government finance                                                                500
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                 0
Current revenue                                .    22.3       31.3     32.1              92   93   94   95   96   97
Current budget balance                        .,    -5.0       -1.2     -1.6               -GDP deflator  _         CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..   -13.3       -5.9     -6.1
TRADE
(US$ mil lions)                            1976    1986       1996     1997      Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                           ..  22,394    47,747   52,986    75,000
Coffee                                       ..   2,360     2,095    3,094
Other food                                  ..   1,562      4,458    5,729
Manufactures                                 ..  11,839    29,676   32,732     50                                  soV
Total imports (cio                            ..  14,044    53,301    61,358
Food                                        ..       ..    3,279    3,290    2500
Fuel and energy                             .. 3,541  3,459  3,220                  l1 1 ilIii
Capital goods                                ..   3,464    20,188   26,232 o
91 9 53  54  55  96  97
Export price index (1995=100)                 ..      68       100        96
Import price index(1995=100)                  ..      85       103        95               UE,ports     mimports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     ..      80        97       101
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976    1986      1996      1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
(US$ millions)I
Exports of goods and services             10,848   23,870    51,853   56,827     2 T
Imports of goods and services             14,687   16,576    64,958   74,158
Resource balance                          -3,839    7,294   -13,105  -17,331  l         ,
Net income                                -2,719  -12,259   -14,141   -18,329        91  92   93
Net current transfers                        -3      -26      2,899    2,220    -2                      I    ,
Current account balance                   -6,581   -4,991   -24,347  -33,439    -4i
Financing items (net)                      9,233    -319    33,364   25,629
Changes in net reserves                   -2,672    5,310    -9,017    7,810     4
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)     6,542    5,907    60,089   51,729
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)        3.88E-1 2  4.97E-9      1.0      1.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1986      1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                   Composition of total debt, 1996 (USS millions
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      33,340  109,026   179,047  193,598
IBRD                                     1,172    7,546     5,876    5,743                     A: 5,875 C: 6
IDA                                         0        0         0         0          G: 35,439            D: 3,550
Total debt service                         4,278   11,616    25,091    30,000                                 E 16,803
IBRD                                      130    1,164      1,638    1,428               *_
IDA                                         0        0         0         0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             6       30        80        ..                                   I
Official creditors                        384    1,152       -514   -1,786
Private creditors                        5,215    -444    14,514   17,238                                  /
Foreign direct investment                1,555     320      9,889
Portfolio equity                            0        0      3,981                                   F: 117,311
World Bank program
Commitments                               486    1,620       858     1,104     A - IBRD                     E- silateral
Disbursements                             173    1,619      1,500    1,416     S- IDA    D-Othermulbilateral   F- Private
Principal repayments                       45      608      1,222    1,049     C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Netflows                                  128    1,011       278       388
Interest payments                          85      558       416       380
Net transfers                              43      455       -138      -12



MAP SECTION






IBRD 30197
FAVELA      FAVELA,
BRAZIL                                               ISA                             P    LA    POPULATION  POPULATION
CITY                     STATE  POPULATION  WIO WATER WIO SEWAGE
LOW  INCOME SANITATION                                                       RIODEJANEIRO               RJ  740412  65723   341995
TErH>I^AL ACCICTA sIrc                               ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~SAO PAULO      SP  345692  34A417   2637A6
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                      BELEM                      PA  243195  88445   240783
FORTALEZA                  CE     235382      78852         218776
PrOx     JECT I                                        BELO HORIZONTE             MG      199439      16746         85801
MANAUS                     AM     185170       74465        184335
FAVELA' POPULATION:                                     RECIFE                      PE      86978       17532        83903
@>    >200,000                                                PORTO ALEGRE                RS      76034       5193         72786
SAO BERNADO DO CAMPO    SP         58559        9951         45416
@     50,000 - 200,000                                        SALVADOR                   BA       57912      24764         57799
a     <50,000                                                 CURITIBA                   PR       50186       3039         40603
RIVERS                                   ~~~~~~~~~DUQUE DE CAXIAS    Ri       44246       5486         26347
RIVERS                                                  GUARUJA                     SP      43818       6427         23971
3   STATE CAPITALS                                           CONTAGEM                    MG      41434       2506         32508
v    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                         SANTO ANDRE                SP      38562        2969         30928
SANTOS                     SP      37581        1482         25994
STATE BOUNDARIES                                               SAO VICENTE                 SP      27688         696         27221
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                DIADEMA                     SP      27351       2505         23988
GUARULHOS                  SP      27144        5615         26330
'Incuden Favelas and other rubnormal low-income settlements
k-                                         k.                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~400
70     !  v E N E VENEZUELA                           *   R                                    This map woe prodrced by the Map Oesign Unit.
\   D-   .- ^2-  (   C NAME                                       of The WorldBank. The boundarjcais,-amjde
COLOMBIA ~~~~~~~~~'           B           Z~~~             '(FR)                                        A       ~        F      j
C OL OM B IA                                            7                                                       th    FR  tdis map do not impr, o the prt oitf rhoW4*aS
'_,  Vista! \ > \ ,_* s ,~~~ { 5 JBankGroupoany judgment on ihr lagalshwmdus
'    ROR2"MA  '                  -  , AMAPA                               any Iorynrendraenentorocceptace
-               ,-o<    \          \                       A M,-                              of such boundariesr
IV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eb
> X r > \ ( , ,, \ Macapasg
\ tl < > J IL<                                                                                           >,,f,, A T L A Nf T  l C  O  C Er A N  , 
X  /  f  d  W W i<V US @ @ / DASee;v4^4~~/                                       SgLnns
-   A M A Z O N                A                       R   A /                          6 '    \          l    ' 
I   MARANHAO   Jjeresi\a
CEARA      %FD
)  A:2H                                                        __yt    h                                  .                )ooNRrEX
I ,0O                                                                 ( /    f2   !   )    TO CA  TIN  - .>i _fdRN A   ;0,.lS       -
10'  P  E  R A CR Ert                                                                           DoNorte                               '
RONDONIA    -(                                                                 Reservoir    f,?s;.Tt
MATO                                       B ,  A Fl I A
 Contogem                     j     ,---                  Sdvador
<      (\>           \          i._  C4b6W                 / . s~~~~~~~~~~RASiLIA    r,        -         (
"I                                                      - t)   (   Goiniona  g   Mi I N A S a  G
BOLIVIA                                     -                  /        E R A iS
MATO GROSSO       -/                         Belo                ATLANTIC'
\0 ^t   ~   J~  +g    DO SUL         ,,/t-<5X:ries     /     Horizonte )ESPiji
lCampo                                       : 
2r0                                                )                         Grancde,<P"                                              -OCAN'-
76..    SAO PAULO            -'RIo8AER
PARAG  AY                          a *                   uqCli
CHILE                                            -                 'Sao
PARANA   _,            Pnt        .daulow ()                  r
PACIFIC                                                                                          -Di-d                                    Sort. Andre
OC EA N                          |                                           STACATARINA
.    arn6polis                       SeVet~ 
<   2       s4biw           '~~~~~~~\ t1rH                                  SE5. Vicen@    '.
/      ARGEN  INA                                                                                              -
|  '}  }  RIO GRANDE          -.
4le              DO SUL*.P    Aegre.
I    '                                 0      250    500       7p0    1900 40A*vvi$,
a,O                     0\, (                             T       ;           >     g                        G        20<)                 a    R0      2
t 80'                    0  \70 '                              r URUGUAY   I           500           .a 4foDECEMBER 1999



