Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4532-BR
Loan Agreement
(Low-Income Sanitation Technical Assistance Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 19, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 4532-BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 19, 2000, between the FEDERATIVE 
REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility 
and priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
(the Project), has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the 
Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend to the Borrower the loan provided for in Article II 
of this Agreement (the Loan) upon the terms and conditions set forth in 
this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Page  2
Guarantee Agreements for Currency Pool Loans” of the Bank, dated January 
1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) 
“Beneficiary” means any of the states (or municipalities 
therein) or the federal district of the Borrower or any sanitation 
company owned by any such state, municipality or federal district, which 
is eligible to enter into a Subproject Preparation Grant Agreement 
pursuant to the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual;
(b) 
“CAIXA” means Caixa Econômica Federal, the Borrower’s agency 
for the financing and supervision of water and sanitation projects;
(c) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(d) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(e) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual, issued by SEDU/PR on 
July 1, 2000, which establishes, inter alia, the procedures to be 
followed by SEDU/PR, CAIXA and Beneficiaries in the carrying out of the 
Project, the criteria for eligibility of Beneficiaries to receive 
transfers of funds under Subproject Preparation Grant Agreements, a model 
form for such Grant Agreements, and the requirements for Subproject 
preparation, implementation and operation (including, inter alia, 
guidelines for resettlement of population affected by Subprojects, and 
requirements for analysis of the potential environmental impact of 
Subprojects);
(f) 
“PMU” means the unit referred to in Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement;
(g) 
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(h) 
"PROSANEAMENTO/PROSANEAR" means the Borrower’s water and 
sanitation program for low-income population;
(i) 
“SEDU/PR” means Secretaria Especial de Desenvolvimento 
Urbano da Presidência da República, the Special Secretariat of Urban 
Development of the Borrower’s Presidency of the Republic;
(j) 
“SEDU/PR-CAIXA Arrangements” means the arrangements referred 
to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(k) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(l) 
“Subproject” means any low-income urban population water and 
sanitation project which is eligible to be prepared under Part B of the 
Project pursuant to the provisions of the Operational Manual; and
(m) 
“Subproject Preparation Grant Agreement” means any of the 
Page  3
agreements referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, various 
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of 
thirty million three hundred thousand  Dollars ($30,300,000), being the 
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal 
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect 
of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such 
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify 
the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount 
equivalent to three hundred thousand Dollars ($300,000). On or promptly 
after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate 
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings 
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus three-fourths of 
one percent (3/4 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.07 
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, 
calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the 
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings 
determined in respect of such Semester.  
(c) 
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means a six-month period ending on 
the date immediately 
preceding each date 
specified in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this Agreement is 
signed.
(ii)
“Cost of Qualified Borrowings” means the cost, as 
reasonably determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such 
borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) 
loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
Page  4
determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph 
(a) of this Section.
(iii)
“Semester” means the first six months or the second 
six months of a calendar 
year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six 
months’ notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this 
Section shall be amended to read as follows:
“(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to 
time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of 
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Quarter, plus 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 
1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 
2.07 of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal 
amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, calculated at the rates 
applicable during such 
Interest Period.”
“(b) 
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, 
the Bank shall notify 
the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Quarter.” 
“(c)
(iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing 
on January 1, April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year.”
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable 
semiannually in arrears on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 
to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. Secretary of SEDU/PR, and any other person or persons 
he or she may designate in writing, are designated as representatives of 
the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted 
to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and 
Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, through SEDU/PR (with the 
assistance of CAIXA in respect of Part B of the Project, as set forth in 
the SEDU/PR-CAIXA Arrangements) with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate technical, administrative, financial and 
environmental practices, and the provisions of the Operational Manual, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the Project.
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause SEDU/PR and CAIXA to enter into 
arrangements (the SEDU/PR-CAIXA Arrangements), satisfactory to the Bank, 
to govern the participation of CAIXA, as SEDU/PR’s agent, in the carrying 
out of Part B of the Project.
Page  5
(c) 
The Borrower, through CAIXA, shall enter into an agreement, 
satisfactory to the Bank (the Subproject Preparation Grant Agreement) 
with each Beneficiary, providing for: (i) the transfer by the Borrower to 
such Beneficiary, on a grant basis, of the proceeds of the Loan required 
by such Beneficiary to prepare a Subproject; and (ii) the obligation of 
the Beneficiary to comply with: (A) all the provisions regarding 
preparation, implementation and operation of Subprojects, set forth or 
referred to in this Loan Agreement (including those of the Operational 
Manual); and (B) the guidelines, outlined by the Borrower in the letter 
sent to the Bank on December 15, 1998, for cost recovery and subsidies 
applicable to the operation of Subprojects, as such guidelines may be 
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.
(d) 
The Borrower, through CAIXA, shall comply with its 
obligations and exercise its rights under the Subproject Preparation 
Grant Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, 
amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the Subproject Preparation 
Grant Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall establish and maintain in SEDU/PR 
a unit responsible for Project coordination and management (the PMU), 
such unit to have a structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank, and 
to have staff with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the 
Bank.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.07 
(a) (iii) of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank, not later than April 30 and October 31 of each year during Project 
implementation, a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
may request, on the progress of the Project and on the achievement of its 
objectives (measured against the applicable performance indicators set 
forth in the letter sent by the Borrower to the Bank on February 9, 1999, 
as such indicators may be modified from time to time with the agreement 
of the Bank) during the calendar semester preceding the date of such 
report.
Section 3.05. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 
of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall: (a) in the month of May of 
each year during Project execution, hold reviews of the progress of the 
Project with the Bank, based on the corresponding reports referred to in 
Section 3.04 of this Agreement; and (b) in the month of May of 2001, hold 
with the Bank an in-depth review of the progress in the carrying out of 
the Project and in the achievement of its objectives, and thereafter take 
all such action which shall have been agreed upon by the Borrower and the 
Bank during such review as necessary for the efficient execution of the 
Project or the achievement of its objectives, such action to be taken in 
the manner and within the timetable agreed upon during such review.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall not initiate the preparation of 
any Subproject unless the corresponding Beneficiary, on or before the 
date of such initiation, shall have identified the sources of the funds 
that will be required to finance the execution of such Subproject.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, 
Page  6
and furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date 
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower 
and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the 
objectives of the Project; and
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain in SEDU/PR a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements 
referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the 
records and accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to 
the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six 
months after the end of each such 
year: (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as 
so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements, 
records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
such records and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may 
from 
time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or 
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has 
received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the 
last withdrawal from the Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
Page  7
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project 
Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action 
plan acceptable to the Bank for the strengthening of the financial 
management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in 
order to enable the Borrower, not later than one year after the Effective 
Date, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly 
Project management reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period 
following 
the period covered by said report; and (B) 
shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the 
Loan during the six-month 
period following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period 
covered by said report; and (B) explains variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; 
and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance 
with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later 
than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management 
Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement, within the meaning 
of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the SEDU/PR-CAIXA Arrangements have become effective;
(b) 
the PMU has been established and at least its coordinator 
has been appointed; and
(c) 
the financial management system referred to in Section 4.01 
(a) of this Agreement has been established.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, 
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be 
Page  8
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, 
that this Agreement has been validly registered with the Central Bank of 
Brazil.
Section 5.03. The date December 19, 2000 is hereby specified for 
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministério da Fazenda
Procuradoria Geral da Fazenda Nacional
Esplanada dos Ministérios - Bloco “P” - 8° andar
70048-900, Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
With copies to:
Ministério do Orçamento e Gestão
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “K” - 5º andar
70040-906, Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Secretaria Especial de Desenvolvimento Urbano 
Presidência da República
Palácio do Planalto, Anexo 1 - térreo
70040-906 Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the city of Brasília, Brazil, as of the day and 
year first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
Page  9
By /s/ Sônia de Almendra Freitas Portella Nunes
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gobind T. Nankani
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
Witnessed By /s/ Ovídio Antônio de Angelis
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to 
be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
   800,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost) 
and 85% of local 
expenditures for
other items 
procured locally
(2)
Consultants' services
28,400,000
100%
and training
(3)
Administrative costs
   800,000
100%
(4)
Fee
   300,000
Amount due under 
Section
2.04 of this 
Agreement
TOTAL
30,300,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term:
(a) 
“foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services 
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the 
Page  10
Borrower;
(b) 
“local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the 
Borrower; and
(c) 
“administrative costs” means administrative costs incurred 
in the daily implementation of the Project, such as cost of office 
supplies, fuel, and communications.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to 
the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate 
amount not exceeding the equivalent of $1,500,000, may be made on account 
of payments made for expenditures before that date but after a date 
twelve months prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) expenditures 
for consultants’ services or training under Part B of the Project, unless 
the relevant Subproject Preparation Grant Agreement has been entered into 
by the respective parties thereto. 
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods 
under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each, except those 
under the first two contracts to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of 
Part B of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (b) consulting 
firms’ services under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent 
each, except those under the first two contracts costing $100,000 
equivalent or more each; (c) individual consultants’ services under 
contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; and (d) training, 
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit 
account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of 
amounts to be deposited into the Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement; and 
(ii) a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project 
Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report 
pursuant to Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request 
from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management 
Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the 
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
Page  11
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the 
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project 
Management Report does not adequately provide the information required 
pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan 
Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (A) the records and 
accounts for the Special Account, or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this 
Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in 
its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible 
Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into the Special 
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be 
made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit 
or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover payments 
for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following such 
determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the 
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) 
or (c) of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” 
Page  12
means the amount of $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and 
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; 
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $1,000,000 until 
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed 
the equivalent of $8,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals 
to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not 
exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Bank shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each 
such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment 
is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have 
been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, 
withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and 
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the 
Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit 
into the Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management 
Page  13
Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the 
lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank 
has determined, based on the Project Management Report accompanying said 
application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such 
report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in 
the Special Account, shall not exceed the amount of $3,500,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to achieve integrated and 
demand-driven water supply and sanitation service delivery to the urban 
poor living in the areas to benefit from Subprojects, under the framework 
of PROSANEAMENTO/PROSANEAR or other similar programs.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Project Management, Promotion and Studies
1.
Strengthening of the capacity of the PMU to coordinate and manage 
the Project.
2.
Carrying out of Project promotion activities, consisting of 
development of a promotion strategy, dissemination of best practices for 
low-income urban population water and sanitation projects, and seminars 
and workshops to promote Project participation of public and private 
sector organizations.
3.
Carrying out of studies related to low-income urban population 
water and sanitation issues, such as development of policy frameworks for 
extension of basic water and sanitation services to the poor, cost 
recovery and subsidy policy, extension of services to the poor by private 
sector providers, land titling and legalization, microfinancing, 
community participating methods, low-cost appropriate technology for 
low-income urban population water and sanitation projects, and impact 
evaluation methods of such projects.
Part B:
Subproject Preparation
Preparation of Subprojects, through provision of technical 
assistance to the Beneficiaries.
Part C:
Training
Carrying out of a training program on selection, preparation and 
implementation of Subprojects, and on cost recovery policy for 
Subprojects.
Part D:
Urban Development Policy 
Page  14
Provision of technical assistance for: 
(a) 
institutional and financial capacity building of 
municipalities to enable them to participate in PROSANEAMENTO/PROSANEAR 
and other similar programs, and to carry out activities complementary to 
the projects financed under PROSANEAMENTO/PROSANEAR and other similar 
programs; and 
(b) 
development by SEDU/PR of a national strategy for urban 
development, including development of a national urban indicator 
information system.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)** 
On each May 15 and November 15
beginning May 15, 2005
through November 15, 2014
          1,515,000
____________________________
**
The figures in this column represent Dollar equivalents determined 
as of the respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General 
Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium 
Page  15
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid 
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment 
below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
The interest rate 
(expressed
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan
on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.20
before maturity
More than three years but
0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.73
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not
0.87
more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than thirteen years
1.00
before maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  In the 
procurement of goods under this Part B.1, bidding documents in a 
standardized form for the Project shall be used.
Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement 
of goods under this Part B.1:
(a) 
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been 
determined to be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on 
price and, whenever appropriate, to also take into account factors 
Page  16
similar to those referred to in paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, 
provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall always be based on 
factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for such 
quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid;
(b) 
whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall 
be advertised for at least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide 
circulation in Brazil;
(c) 
the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for 
joint-ventures (
consórcios) of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be 
approved in advance by the Bank in each case;
(d) 
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of 
acceptance of bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; 
and
(e) 
the purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, 
issue any change order under a contract which would increase or decrease 
by more than 15% the quantity of goods (and related services) without any 
change in the unit prices or other terms and conditions of sale.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount of $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international or national shopping 
procedures, at the option of the Borrower, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitation to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods 
shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall 
have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 
1.
2.
Prior Review
(a) 
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines shall apply to each contract to be awarded in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in Part B.1 above.
(b) 
With respect to the first two contracts to be awarded in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in Part B.2 above, the 
following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of the supplier, the Borrower 
shall provide to the Bank 
a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of quotations received;
(ii) 
prior to the signing of the contract, the Borrower 
shall provide to the Bank a 
copy of the specifications 
and the draft contract; and
Page  17
(iii)  the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 
3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
The procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of 
this Part.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The short-list of consultants for services to be procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in paragraph 1 above, 
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Consulting firms’ services under Part B of the Project may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken 
Page  18
in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, 
and the first two contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the 
equivalent of $200,000 each, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 
(other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the 
said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply, provided, however, that the terms of 
reference for the respective assignments shall be subject to the Bank’s 
prior review and approval.
