                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR0000719

           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                  (IBRD-45320)




                                      ON A

                                      LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 30.3 MILLION

                                     TO THE

                      FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL

                                    FOR THE

       LOW INCOME SANITATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
                                PROSANEAR-TAL




                                   June 9, 2008




Sustainable Development Department
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region




                                      i

                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                (Exchange Rate Effective 05/15/2008)

                 Currency Unit = Brazilian Real (R$)
                         BR$ 1.00 = US$ 0.60
                        US$ 1.00 = BR$1.6663

                            FISCAL YEAR
                       January 1 - December 31

               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CCT           Conditional Cash Transfer
CEF           Caixa Econômica Federal (federal investment and development
              bank)
CPS           Country Partnership Strategy
EIA           Environmental Impact Assessment
FGTS          Fundo de Garantia de Tempo de Serviço (federal employee
              indemnity fund)
FM            Financial management
GoB           Government of Brazil
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
MDGs          Millennium Development Goals
MoC           Ministry of Cities (Ministério das Cidades)
MTR           Mid Term Review
NGO           Non-governmental Organization
O&M           Operation and Maintenance
PAC           Programa para Aceleração do Crescimento (Program for the
              Acceleration of Economic Growth)
PAD           Project Appraisal Document
PDLI          Plano de Desenvolvimento Local Integrado (integrated local
              development plan)
PDO           Project Development Objective
PMF           Project Management Firm
PMU           Project Management Unit
PRODIN        Projetos de Desenvolvimento Institucional Municipal (municipal
              institutional development projects)
PROSANEAR     Programa de Saneamento para Populações em Áreas de Baixa
              Renda (WSS Program for Low Income Areas)
PROSANEAR-TAL Low income sanitation technical assistance project
PSI           Projeto de Saneamento Integrado (integrated water supply and
              sanitation engineering design)
RAP           Resettlement Action Plan



                                 ii

SEDU/PR    Secretaria Especial de Desenvolvimento Urbano da Presidência
           da República (Special Secretariat for Urban Development of the
           President's Office)
SIL        Sector Investment Loan
SNIS       Sistema Nacional de Indicadores de Saneamento (National
           System for Water Supply and Sanitation Indicators)
SNIU       Sistema Nacional de Indicadores Urbanos (National System of
           Urban Indicators)
SNPU       Secretaria Nacional de Programas Urbanas (National Secretariat
           for Urban Programs)
SNSA       Secretaria Nacional de Saneamento Ambiental (National
           Secretariat for Water Supply and Sanitation)
TA         Technical Assistance
TAL        Technical Assistance Loan
TOR        Terms of Reference
WSS        Water Supply and Sanitation




                Vice President:    Pamela Cox
             Country Director:     John Briscoe
               Sector Manager:     Guang Zhe Chen
           Project Team Leader     Martin Gambrill
            ICR Team Leader:       Caroline van den Berg




                              iii

                                                      CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                  Page

A. Basic Information............................................................................................................ i

B. Key Dates........................................................................................................................ i

C. Ratings Summary............................................................................................................ i

D. Sector and Theme Codes................................................................................................ii

E. Bank Staff.......................................................................................................................ii

F. Results Framework Analysis..........................................................................................ii

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ....................................................................... vi

H. Restructuring (if any).................................................................................................... vi

I. Disbursement Profile.....................................................................................................vii

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design................................................... 1

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 6

3. Assessment of Outcomes.............................................................................................. 11

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome............................................................. 22

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 23

6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 26

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 30

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.............................................................................. 39

Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 40

Annex 3. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 45

Annex 4. Beneficiary Survey Results............................................................................... 47

Annex 5. Institutional or Stakeholder Survey Results...................................................... 57

Annex 6. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders........................... 60

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 61

MAP.................................................................................................................................. 62




                                                             iv

A. Basic Information
                                                                      Low Income Sanitation
                                                                      Technical Assistance
Country:                Brazil                 Project Name:
                                                                      Project -
                                                                      PROSANEAR-TAL
Project ID:             P039199                L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-45320
ICR Date:               06/08/2008             ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     TAL                    Borrower:              GOVT OF BRAZIL
Original Total
                        USD 30.3M              Disbursed Amount:      USD 16.7M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Cities
Beneficiary municipalities
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: none


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date              Process        Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        03/05/1998     Effectiveness:       12/19/2000          12/19/2000
Appraisal:             05/19/1998     Restructuring(s):
Approval:              01/06/2000     Mid-term Review:     05/07/2001          06/01/2004
                                      Closing:             12/31/2004          12/15/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Moderate
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower                Ratings

Quality at Entry:       Moderately                                    Moderately
                        Unsatisfactory         Government:            Unsatisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately SatisfactoryImplementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Moderately SatisfactoryPerformance:           Moderately Satisfactory




                                             i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators            (if any)               Rating

Potential Problem Project No                    Quality at Entry
                                                                     None
at any time (Yes/No):                           (QEA):
Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                          Yes                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                  Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                 5               19
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector           18                16
Other social services                                             3
Sub-national government administration                          74                65


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Access to urban services and housing                           Primary          Primary
Municipal governance and institution building                  Primary          Primary
Participation and civic engagement                            Secondary        Secondary
Pollution management and environmental health                  Primary         Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           Pamela Cox                         Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:         John Briscoe                       Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager:           Guang Zhe Chen                     Abel Mejia
Project Team Leader:      Martin Gambrill                    Yoko Katakura
ICR Team Leader:          Caroline van den Berg
ICR Primary Author:       Caroline van den Berg

F. Results Framework Analysis
Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To achieve integrated and demand-driven water supply and sanitation (WSS) service
delivery within participating local government agencies under the framework of the
PROSANEAR national low-income sanitation program.




                                             ii

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                             Original Target        Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from          Revised        Achieved at
                                                approval             Target       Completion or
                                               documents)            Values       Target Years

Indicator 1:    Number of participating local government agencies that adopt and implement a
                participatory approach to WSS service delivery
Value                                            No target
(quantitative or             0                established in                            30
qualitative)                                       PAD
Date achieved           12/09/1999             12/09/1999                          04/15/2008
Comments        April 15, 2008, was the last day on which disbursements could be made under
(incl. %        the project and is the date used for all of the 'Actual Value Achieved at
achievement)    Completion' measurements

Indicator 2:    Number of participating local government agencies which undertake integrated
                urban planning as part of WSS service delivery
Value                                            No target
(quantitative or             0                established in                            30
qualitative)                                       PAD
Date achieved           12/09/1999             12/09/1999                          04/15/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 3:    Number of participating local government agencies that implement a clear and
                transparent cost recovery / subsidy policy for WSS service delivery
Value                                            No target
(quantitative or             0                established in                       Not achieved
qualitative)                                       PAD
Date achieved           12/09/1999             12/09/1999                          04/15/2008

Comments        In two state water companies ­ those in Bahia and Pernambuco where numerous

(incl. %        subproject activities were undertaken ­ clear and transparent cost recovery /

achievement)    subsidy policies were adopted during the project implementation phase. It is not
                possible, however, to attribute these changes to the PROSANEAR-TAL

Indicator 4:    Number of participating local government agencies that establish a multi-
                disciplinary team to implement low income WSS projects
Value                                            No target
(quantitative or             0                established in                            30
qualitative)                                       PAD
Date achieved           12/09/1999             12/09/1999                          04/15/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                              iii

Indicator 5:    Per beneficiary investment costs of less that US$100 for water (US$70 if only
                distribution and storage) and US$120 for sewerage (US$80 for collection only)
                of TAL-supported investment programs
Value
(quantitative or             0                See per capita                        Substantially

qualitative)                                    costs above                           achieved

Date achieved           12/09/1999              12/09/1999                           04/15/2008
Comments        The target per capita costs of a large sample of subprojects were achieved for
(incl. %        water supply and for wastewater treatment; the per capita target costs were not
achievement)    achieved, however, in the case of wastewater collection

Indicator 6:    Level of awareness and satisfaction among municipal officials, community
                groups, federal and state officials regarding the PROSANEAR approach
Value                                            No target
(quantitative or             0                 established in                           95%
qualitative)                                        PAD
Date achieved           12/09/1999              12/09/1999                           04/15/2008
                A stakeholder satisfaction survey showed 95 percent of participating

Comments        municipalities interested in taking part in the preparation of participatory,

(incl. %        integrated WSS/urban upgrading projects with federal TA support similar to that

achievement)    provided under the PROSANEAR-TAL. The survey also registered a satisfaction
                rate of over 50 percent for all of the main actors involved in the project's
                implementation.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                                             Original Target       Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value          Values (from                          Achieved at
                                                 approval           Revised       Completion or
                                                documents)      Target Values      Target Years
Indicator 1:    Number of grant agreements signed with local governments
Value
(quantitative or             0                       30                                  33
qualitative)
Date achieved           12/09/1999              12/09/1999                           04/15/2008
Comments
(incl. %        The Municipality of São Paulo/SP signed 5 grant agreements; the Municipality

achievement)    of Olinda/PE signed two grant agreements

Indicator 2:    Number of key national studies undertaken
Value
(quantitative or             0                       4                                    5
qualitative)
Date achieved           12/09/1999              12/09/1999                           04/15/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                               iv

Indicator 3:    Number of national/international seminars undertaken
Value
(quantitative or            0                       5                                  5
qualitative)
Date achieved          12/09/1999              12/09/1999                        04/15/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4:    Number of PDLIs (participatory, integrated WSS plans) completed
Value
(quantitative or            0                       30                                34
qualitative)
Date achieved          12/09/1999              12/09/1999                        04/15/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5:    Number of PSIs (participatory, integrated WSS engineering designs) completed
Value
(quantitative or            0                       30                                33
qualitative)
Date achieved          12/09/1999              12/09/1999                        04/15/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6:    Training courses undertaken for local (municipal) PMUs and CEF offices
Value
(quantitative or            0                       64               120             109
qualitative)
Date achieved          12/09/1999              12/09/1999        06/01/2004      04/15/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 7:    Demonstration civil works interventions concluded
Value
(quantitative or            0                       0                 2                1
qualitative)
Date achieved          12/09/1999              12/09/1999        06/01/2004      04/15/2008

Comments        By project close, the civil works intervention in São José dos Campos was

(incl. %        concluded; the CW intervention in Guarulhos was substantially advanced but,

achievement)    given its complexity and size, required additional time to be complete ­ for
                which PAC funds was used




                                              v

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
                                                                       Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived           DO                    IP                 Disbursements
                                                                   (USD millions)
1     04/13/2000      Satisfactory          Satisfactory                      0.00
2     06/29/2000      Satisfactory          Satisfactory                      0.00
3     12/19/2000      Satisfactory          Satisfactory                      0.00
4     06/28/2001      Satisfactory          Satisfactory                      0.30
5     11/24/2001      Satisfactory          Satisfactory                      0.70
6     05/30/2002      Satisfactory          Satisfactory                      0.70
7     08/21/2002      Satisfactory          Satisfactory                      0.70
8     09/05/2002      Satisfactory          Satisfactory                      0.70
9     03/13/2003      Satisfactory          Satisfactory                      0.70
10    11/10/2003     Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory                     1.09
11    06/04/2004     Unsatisfactory         Satisfactory                      1.61
12    06/16/2004     Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory                     1.61
13    09/24/2004      Satisfactory          Satisfactory                      1.61
14    05/09/2005      Satisfactory          Satisfactory                      1.61

15    06/27/2005      Moderately            Moderately
                     Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory                     1.61

16    11/18/2005      Satisfactory          Satisfactory                      5.62
17    06/05/2006      Satisfactory          Satisfactory                      7.25
18    12/22/2006      Satisfactory          Satisfactory                     10.28

19    06/25/2007      Satisfactory          Moderately
                                           Unsatisfactory                    11.40

20    12/06/2007      Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory               13.15

H. Restructuring (if any)
                         ISR Ratings at  Amount

Restructuring   Board    Restructuring Disbursed at   Reason for Restructuring &
   Date(s)     Approved                Restructuring
              PDO Change                                   Key Changes Made
                           DO      IP    in USD
                                         millions
                                                     The project was not formally
                                                     restructured. A demonstration

 10/26/2004       N         S      S         1.61    civil works component was
                                                     introduced at the Mid Term
                                                     Review, but the PDO was not
                                                     changed




                                    vi

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vii

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

At the time of appraisal, the main issues facing the water supply and sanitation (WSS)
sector in Brazil were grouped into three main challenges: (i) a weak institutional and
regulatory framework; (ii) a lack of incentives, mechanisms and capacity to serve the
poor; and (iii) ineffective water pollution control policies. All three were seen as
contributing to the dismal state of service coverage to the urban poor at that time. At
appraisal, over 19 million urban poor earning less than three minimum salaries per family
per month (then equivalent to about US$330) lived without safe water supply and over 34
million urban poor without adequate sanitation. More specific sector concerns within
these three areas were as described below:

Weak institutional and regulatory framework. In the absence of competition and
regulation, and nurtured by old labor practices and frequent political intervention,
Brazilian public water utilities had, at the time of appraisal, generally become inefficient,
stagnant and possessed limited financial capacity. Although the 1995 Concession Law
had initiated country-wide efforts to seek alternative sector institutional and regulatory
models, sector reform was still at a very early stage, with the urban poor then being
among the main victims of the mediocre sector performance.

Lack of incentives, mechanisms and sector capacity to serve the poor. Extension of
services to the poor was often the last priority of cash-strapped water utilities. Prevailing
tariff structures and non-transparent cost recovery and subsidy policies provided little
incentives to investing in poor neighborhoods. Furthermore, the existing concession
contracts contained no incentive mechanism or clear obligations to extend services to the
poor. In addition to the lack of institutional incentives to serve the poor, there was also a
lack of mechanisms and capacity to extend such services. The PAD recognized that the
extension of services to poor urban neighborhoods required non-conventional approaches,
including the use of low-cost appropriate technology and active community participation.
Experience showed that investments in poor neighborhoods carried out in a supply-driven
manner were not sustainable. With no participation in the decision-making process and
little consideration on cost recovery, communities got little sense of ownership, and the
WSS infrastructure would quickly deteriorate. Conventional WSS systems were seen as
often not being suitable in disorganized and often difficult to access favela situations.
Nonetheless, only a limited number of utilities and government agencies were seen as
having the capacity and knowledge to prepare and effectively implement WSS services
for the urban poor. Municipal governments were also seen as lacking the capacity to plan,
finance and coordinate the delivery of complementary services that are critical to the
sustainability of WSS services in low income areas.

Ineffective pollution control policies. Practically all major and medium sized
metropolitan areas in Brazil were facing increasing water pollution problems, with
domestic and industrial wastewater being dumped into rivers, lakes and the sea with little
control. The urban poor were seen as being among the main victims of this practice,
suffering the most from poor health and related high costs associated with increasing
water pollution.


                                             1

The strategy of the Government of Brazil (GoB) to address these issues was
summarized at the time of appraisal in the National Water and Sanitation Policy
developed by the Ministry of Planning's Secretariat of Urban Development. The strategy
was designed to address the three issues in parallel, without undermining the overarching
objective of sector reform. While striving to improve the overall performance of the
sector through institutional and regulatory reform in the medium-term, GoB decided to
simultaneously address the issue of WSS services for the urban poor. The federally
funded PROSANEAR program (Programa de Saneamento para Populações em Áreas de
Baixa Renda) was created in 1995 and used subsidized credit from the federal employee
indemnity fund (FGTS) to invest in WSS services in peri-urban areas. The performance
of the program at the time of appraisal had been disappointing, due to: (i) a lack of
institutional capacity in preparing and implementing low-income WSS projects; (ii) a
lack of awareness and knowledge about GoB's PROSANEAR program; (iii) unclear
incentive mechanisms provided to participating water companies; (iv) weak financial and
institutional capacity of municipalities in obtaining credits and undertaking
complementary investments such as drainage and solid waste management; and (v) the
lessons from the Bank-financed PROSANEAR-I had not been fully incorporated into the
national investment program.

In addition, with the devolution of authority to municipalities under the 1988 Constitution,
the respective roles of municipalities, states and of the federal government in urban
policy and urban development became unclear. State and federal urban interventions
were seen as ad hoc in nature, often with limited participation and ownership by the
municipalities and with little coordination with other municipal programs and services.

GoB requested the Bank's assistance to revitalize the national program through the
PROSANEAR-TAL, which was thus conceived to: (i) provide technical assistance (TA)
to prepare a stock of subprojects to be financed by the PROSANEAR national program;
(ii) undertake training programs to strengthen the capacity of project executing agencies
in preparing and implementing such subprojects; (iii) disseminate initiatives to raise
awareness of PROSANEAR; (iv) develop action plans to strengthen institutional and
financial capacity of municipalities to make PROSANEAR more sustainable; and (v)
provide TA to develop federal level urban strategies.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

The project aimed to achieve integrated and demand-driven water supply and sanitation
service delivery within participating local government agencies under the framework of
the PROSANEAR national low-income sanitation program. The key performance
indicators presented in the PAD were the following:

·     Number of participating local government agencies that adopt and implement a
      participatory approach to WSS service delivery;

·     Number of participating local government agencies which undertake integrated
      urban planning as part of WSS service delivery;

·     Number of participating local government agencies that implement a clear and
      transparent cost-recovery/subsidy policy for WSS service delivery;



                                            2

·       Number of participating local government agencies that establish a multi-
        disciplinary team to implement low income sanitation projects;
·       Per beneficiary investment costs of less than US$100 for water (US$70 if only for
        distribution and storage) and US$120 for sewerage (US$80 if for collection only) of
        TAL-supported investment programs; and

·       Level of awareness and satisfaction among municipal officials, community groups,
        federal and state officials regarding the PROSANEAR project approach.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification.

Neither the PDO nor its key indicators were revised during project implementation.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The project was expected to benefit two key target groups: the first group directly
through the TAL with institutional development, and the second group indirectly
resulting from the TAL through the extension of basic services.

Institutional development. The TAL was designed to benefit the agencies responsible
for policy formulation, planning, implementing and monitoring WSS projects for the
urban poor, including: (i) the Special Secretariat of Urban Development of GoB's
Presidency of the Republic (SEDU/PR) which set the policy framework for extending
basic urban services to the poor and was the overall coordinator and interlocutor with the
Bank regarding the PROSANEAR-TAL1; (ii) Caixa Econômica Federal (CEF), the
federal investment and development bank, which acted as the financial and technical
agency responsible for subproject approval and supervision and for the making of
payments under PROSANEAR-TAL; (iii) local governments and water agencies
responsible for subproject preparation and implementation; and (iv) non-governmental
organizations (NGOs), consulting firms and constructors which implement subprojects at
the community level.

Extension of WSS services. The target beneficiaries for the subprojects that were funded
under the TAL were the low income populations which lived in densely populated urban
and peri-urban poverty pockets situated in municipalities with populations of more than
75,000 in metropolitan areas, and which earned on average less than three minimum
salaries per family per month. The focus on metropolitan areas and the population size
limit was intended to maximize the development impact of PROSANEAR-TAL since: (i)
many of the poor lived in large low-income settlements; (ii) the TAL was intended to
have a demonstration impact, aimed at creating a `ripple effect' in neighboring
municipalities; (iii) the TAL would create institutional capacity to allow the subsequent
undertaking of other subprojects; and (iv) small municipalities were then covered by
other federal, poverty-targeted programs.



1Following the election of Luiz Inácio Lula de Silva as President of the Republic in November 2002, and his taking
office in January 2003, his administration dissolved SEDU/PR and replaced it with a new ministry, the Ministry of
Cities, which includes, amongst others, a Secretariat for Water Supply and Sanitation and a Secretariat for Urban
Programs.




                                                      3

The two main groups described above were successfully targeted by the project's
interventions. The project's impact on these two target groups was analyzed using (i)
stakeholder surveys with a sample of the municipal governments directly involved in the
PROSANEAR-TAL implementation and (ii) beneficiary assessments in two of the
communities which benefited from the demonstration works interventions ­ see Annex 4
and 5 for more details on these assessments.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project originally consisted of four components:

Component 1 ­ Project Management, Promotion and Studies. The TA provided under
this component was designed to include: (i) consultants and monitoring and evaluation
system for project management, knowledge management and administrative/logistics
support; (ii) promotion and dissemination of best-practice approaches to providing
sustainable WSS services to the peri-urban poor, including seminars and workshops to
promote broad participation of stakeholders; and (iii) studies on key issues related to the
challenges of providing sustainable WSS services to the peri-urban poor.

Component 2 ­ Pre-Investment. The main objective of this component was to develop
the institutional capacity of the local government agencies in identifying and preparing
subprojects to extend services to the urban poor, by supporting the preparation phase of
investment subprojects to be financed under the PROSANEAR national program.
Specific activities intended to be financed under this component included: (i) socio-
economic baseline surveys of beneficiary communities; (ii) elaboration of integrated
urban local development plans (PDLIs) to facilitate PROSANEAR's coordination with
other urban services; (iii) preliminary/final engineering designs of integrated WSS
systems (PSIs), to be developed with community participation; (iv) community
participation plans (PTSs) to be implemented before, during and after investment
subproject execution; and (v) social tariff and subsidy policy review study (upon request
by the executing agencies).

Component 3 ­ Training. This component was designed to include training activities
for: (i) water utilities and other executing agencies on the preparation and implementation
of subprojects; (ii) Instâncias Colegiadas (state level committees which were originally
used to select PROSANEAR subprojects based on guidelines set by SEDU/PR) on the
selection of subprojects; (iii) local governments on the design of cost recovery policies
(subsidy and social tariff policies), elaboration of PDLIs , and identification and selection
of subproject areas; (iv) CEF's regional offices on the evaluation of all subproject
documents submitted by the executing agencies; and (v) NGOs, consultants and
constructors on the preparation and implementation of PROSANEAR subprojects.

Component 4 ­ Urban Development Policy. The TA under this component was
designed to strengthen the policy formulation capacity at the federal and local
government levels, including issues related to ­ but not limited to ­ PROSANEAR,
through: (i) local (municipal) capacity building activities; and (ii) the development of a
national urban indicator system and development policy.




                                             4

1.6 Revised Components

Following the mid term review (MTR), and at the request of the Borrower, the project
was reformulated in October 2004. The reformulation included: (i) the cancellation of
US$6.4 million (effective January 2004, and requested by GoB given the valuation of the
dollar and the protracted disbursement delays that the project had demonstrated to that
point); (ii) an extension to the closing date (one year initially and a second year
contingent on the attainment of physical and financial targets established during the
MTR); and (iii) the inclusion of a pilot investment civil works component to allow the
execution of demonstrative integrated WSS/urban upgrading improvements in a small,
selected number of strategic, poor, slum areas.

While the project did not originally include civil works, the pilot works component was
designed to allow the project to finalize the pre-investment subproject cycle in up to four
beneficiary municipalities, and thus permit the project to fully accompany ­ and provide
TA to ­ these municipalities throughout the integrated and participatory approach to both
planning and executing the resultant works. The new component was thus intended to
permit the project to provide these municipalities with additional TA support during the
works interventions, and afterwards when measuring the subproject's post-works impact
and outcome indicators. President Lula's newly created Ministry of Cities (MoC), on
initiating its mandate in January 2003, was adamant on the inclusion of the demonstration
works component ­ both to be able to demonstrate more directly the PROSANEAR-TAL
approach (at a time when federal funding for such investments was scarce), and to offset
the increased value of the dollar against the local currency at that time (fewer dollars
were needed to undertake the pre-investment TA and so there was an excess of loan
proceeds).

Following the creation of MoC and the establishment of its National Secretariat for
Urban Programs (SNPU), the activities foreseen under Component 4 were removed from
the project scope given that the same activities were priorities of the new secretariat,
which subsequently undertook them with MoC resources. At the request of MoC, a small
amount of resources was left under this component following the MTR to allow for the
undertaking of possible activities related to urban development policy should these have
subsequently arisen.

1.7 Other significant changes

The PROSANEAR national low-income sanitation program, which was explicitly
referred to in the project's PDO, was conceived to provide subsidized financing in water
supply, wastewater, solid waste and drainage interventions in informal settlements
through CEF/FGTS subsidized loans. PROSANEAR/FGTS was, however, replaced in
2003 by the national `Saneamento Integrado' program which had similar rules but a
broader scope of eligible expenditures (including resettlement costs, for example).
Saneamento Integrado itself became one of the modalities of the Lula administration's
Program for the Acceleration of Economic Growth (PAC) ­ providing funding for
integrated WSS/urban upgrading interventions through either FGTS loans or federal
budget grant allocations. Consequently, PROSANEAR-TAL's subproject designs
migrated over time from their original intention of leveraging PROSANEAR/FGTS




                                           5

financing, to their current role of leveraging millions of dollars of investments under the
PAC's Saneamento Integrado subsidized lending and grant program.

The project's federal counterparts in the entity responsible for WSS ­ formerly SEDU/PR
and now the National Secretariat of Environmental Water Supply and Sanitation (SNSA)
of MoC ­ changed four times over the implementation period. Each change in
counterparts bringing challenges to the level of prioritization and the rhythm of
implementation

Another important change to the project occurred in the final months of 2006 when MoC
decided to demobilize the project management firm (PMF) which, up to that date and
since 2002, had been provided technical support to MoC's project management unit
(PMU). The PMF had been contracted in 2002 following Bank procurement guidelines,
including the establishment of a short-list with international representation given the
estimated size of the contract. The contract was subsequently extended in 2004, but with
no change to the original value of the contract. However, when the next time-extension of
the contract was requested in July 2006, MoC's recently appointed legal advisers within
the Minister's office decided that the PMF's contract and modus operandi, and the
underlying contract between MoC and CEF (through which the PMF had been
contracted), were not acceptable. Considerable effort was subsequently made by SNSA
and the Bank to reverse this decision, but to no avail.

The sudden removal of the PMF, and of the TA functions that it had previously been
providing, caused considerable disruption to the project's implementation progress during
the all-important final year of implementation ­ especially given how well project
execution had been proceeding since the MTR. The beneficiary municipalities suffered
most from this change and lamented the departure of the PMF as it withdrew a solid base
of technical and procedural support that MoC was unprepared to provide once the firm
departed. Given that MoC was newly-created and that competent in-house staff was
scarce, and given that GoB's newly-announced PAC was simultaneously demanding
considerable attention from SNSA, MoC was unable to maintain the physical or financial
implementation rhythm, nor to deliver on all of the planned PROSANEAR products,
during the last year of implementation.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Lessons learned. A thorough evaluation of the first Bank-financed PROSANEAR
investment operation was undertaken as part of the preparation of the PROSANEAR-
TAL follow-up project. A number of the lessons learned from the first PROSANEAR
were incorporated in the project design, including: (i) a stronger federal government
function in management, promotion and training; (ii) decentralized subproject execution,
fully utilizing CEF's regional network; (iii) establishment of clearer guidelines to prepare,
implement and monitor subprojects; and (iv) greater emphasis on institutional incentives
and sustainability of investments. Other lessons referred to in the PAD included the
importance of: (i) having transparent cost recovery and subsidy policies for WSS services
in peri-urban, informal areas; (ii) integrating WSS service provision with local




                                            6

governments' urban development plans; and (iii) having clear operation and maintenance
(O&M) arrangements after systems are implemented.

Risks and mitigations. The risks presented in the PAD and their corresponding
mitigation measures were reasonably well identified and proved to be relevant. In
addition to those identified, the consideration of the following risks could have further
improved project design: (i) the weakness of CEF's capacity to undertake Bank
procurement and to provide technical support and a review function of subproject
products at a number of its decentralized offices; (ii) the implications of the complicated,
cumbersome implementation arrangements and their impact on implementation and
disbursement schedules; (iii) the great variability of the skill profiles of consulting firms
around the country to effectively bring together the technical and social aspects of such
participatory, integrated engineering designs; (iv) the stop/start nature of federal budget
allocations (with regular freezing of budget payments by MoC) on the pace of
implementation, especially as it negatively impacts the ability of consulting firms to stay
mobilized for weeks or months on end without receiving payment; and (v) the ability of
the project to influence social tariffs/subsidy policies of the WSS service providers.

Participation process. Civil society/community participation processes were built in as a
central element of the participatory approach to the pre-investment designs ­ in the PAD,
in the Operational Manual and in the standard terms of reference (TOR) for the
participatory preparation of the integrated WSS/urban upgrading subprojects.

2.2 Implementation

Project implementation followed a bumpy course. GoB brought about delays in declaring
the project's effectiveness, MoC in mobilizing the PMF to support the PMU, and even in
undertaking the MTR (which, at GoB's request, was carried out during three separate
missions staggered over a number of months). As mentioned above, implementation
effectiveness was also directly affected by the numerous political and administrative
changes in the federal counterpart entity and in the municipal executing agencies over the
project life.

The embracing of the project by the Lula administration, the mobilization of the PMF,
and the ensuing MTR, came together to represent a watershed in the project's
implementation. As a result of the MTR, the project was reformulated, including a partial
cancellation, the establishment of an action plan with physical and financial targets to be
used to make decisions on closing date extensions; and the reconfiguration of the project
components, including reallocation of funds amongst them and the inclusion of a pilot
civil works investment component. The impacts of this turnaround can be seen in the
resulting sharp increase in the disbursement profile during the second half of project
implementation.

Much time was lost during implementation by having the beneficiary municipal
governments undertake the pre-investment procurement, in a decentralized fashion, as
recommended by one of the PROSANEAR I lessons learned: the municipalities'
inexperience with Bank procurement guidelines required much hand-holding by MoC's
PMU. Considerable implementation momentum was also lost due to the perennial
freezing (`contingenciamento') of the MoC budget, thereby impeding payments to be
made by MoC, via CEF, to consulting firms, and by the fact that municipalities were


                                             7

often ineligible to receive federal transfers (including PROSANEAR-TAL payments)
whenever they were in breach of any single element of the extensive requirements of the
Fiscal Responsibility Law ­ no matter how small or unrelated the issue might be. These
factors contributed to a stop/start rhythm of implementation which, on average, drew out
to a considerable degree the overall execution period of the respective pre-investment
consultancy assignments.

Once the project had finally achieved an important implementation momentum, political
changes within MoC resulted in the demobilization of the PMF with over a year of
execution still remaining. This had a significant negative impact on implementation
progress in the crucial final months before project closing, as well as on the ability of
MoC, with limited in-house resources, to finalize in a timely fashion a number of the
project's key products, to prepare properly for the final evaluation report, and to
successfully disburse from the project account for all of the activities executed before the
closing date.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E Design. The project's monitoring and evaluation (M&E) design was undertaken
before the Bank initiated a more robust approach to results monitoring. For this reason,
applying current standards for M&E to the project ex-post is likely to expose a large
number of inadequacies in the project's original M&E design, including the following:

     o The PDO was poorly defined and the overall intention of the project seems to be
         beyond the scope of what a TA operation can realistically deliver on.

     o The outcomes of the project could only be inferred from the key performance
         indicators which measure changes in: (i) several types of behaviors by local
         governments; (ii) a reduction of per capita WSS investment costs and improved
         tariff and subsidy policies of service providers; and (iii) a change in awareness
         and satisfaction from various sector stakeholders.

     o The actual outcome indicators could only be measured at the end of the project
         as they require perception surveys and detailed assessments of the costs of the
         pre-investments. Given the difficulties in implementation, with the PMF
         demobilized one year before project closing, these surveys and detailed
         assessments were prepared with great difficulty, finally being delivered only in
         April 2008.

     o The design also included a set of indicators to measure the impact of the works
         to be undertaken as a result of the project's TA ­ the PAD does not, however,
         describe how, when or by whom these impact indicators would be measured,
         given that the investment works themselves were not originally intended to be
         funded under the project.

     o The PAD's result framework did not include target values for the outcome
         indicators.

     o The results framework did not specify any M&E arrangements ­ neither at the
         project level (not detailing, for example, the roles and responsibilities in M&E,
         nor the basic reporting mechanisms), nor at the national level (how this


                                            8

         information would be used in broader national contexts and how it could support
         a federal urban monitoring information system).

The project was reconfigured at the MTR to better fit within the shifting political currents
that emerged after President Lula took office. The reconfiguration impacted the project
components, as demonstration civil works interventions were included at GOB's request.
MoC and Bank teams included additional monitoring indicators (demonstration civil
works concluded) and physical and financial targets to allow closer tracking of project
progress over time. The reformulation was not used, however, as an opportunity to revise
the results framework more comprehensively in order to address its deficiencies. For
example, some indicators related to activities that were no longer included in the
reconfigured project design (such as the number of municipalities surveyed for the
National Urban Indicators Information System (SNIU), or the number of Municipal
Institutional Development Projects (PRODINs) undertaken) were not eliminated from the
M&E system during the reformulation.

M&E Implementation. Data was collected during project implementation on a regular
basis using appropriate methods. As tends to be the approach with projects more widely,
more emphasis was given under PROSANEAR-TAL to monitoring and less to evaluation.
There are many reasons for this lack of evaluation, but it was not due to a lack of data:
baseline surveys were a standard component of the PDLIs, the PSIs and the social
participation plans (PTSs) pre-investment methodology undertaken in the municipalities
under the project. Such basic data and information were collected using detailed
questionnaires that generated many data observations. Due to the project's complex
implementation arrangements and the absence of a basic information system accessible to
all stakeholders, much of the baseline information, however, remained scattered among
the many different stakeholders, buried in reports, and hence not easy to access and
analyze. As discussed later, integrated WSS/urban upgrading projects have many
intended and unintended outcomes and impacts. Building better information systems that
can store the information that is collected to ensure more in-depth analyses of the data is
a lesson to be taken from this project. Such information systems would have to be
developed up-front to ensure that M&E arrangements are set up in a timely manner, and
responsibilities for M&E are clearly defined.

M&E Utilization. As a consequence, although detailed data were collected they were not
necessarily systematically evaluated. The fact that the PMF was demobilized a year in
advance of project closing further complicated MoC's ability to undertake any serious
M&E of project indicators towards the end of the implementation period.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The project received a Category B safeguards classification, presumably because it was a
TAL. Nevertheless, significant potential environmental impacts and resettlement issues
arose from the subproject designs prepared under the TAL. Once the demonstration civil
works interventions were included in the project scope, the Bank supervision team looked
very carefully at the issue of safeguard compliance for those cases where the project
would fund the corresponding works. The ensuing intensive interaction with the federal
and municipal counterparts was extremely useful to identify weaknesses in the standard
PROSANER-TAL TOR and the nature of the environmental assessment and resettlement


                                           9

plan products that were being generated. The municipal government of Guarulhos
reported that, although intensive and time consuming, it found this process so helpful that
they intend to adopt the Bank's resettlement approach for all municipal urban upgrading
interventions. The revised standard PROSANEAR-TAL TOR and manual will take full
account of the lessons learned with regard to the adequacy of the safeguard procedures
being followed and products being generated.

MoC's ability to guide the executing municipalities in undertaking Bank procurement
processes improved considerably as project implementation progressed. The PMF was
extremely important in improving the quality and consistency with which the
municipalities followed the Bank procurement guidelines. The efficiency with which the
beneficiary municipalities undertook the procurement of the pre-investment consultancy
assignments was greatly helped by: (i) the preparation by the MoC PMU of a standard
request for proposal and TOR package; and (ii) the role of the PMF in providing TA to
the municipalities on the Bank procurement cycle and in acting as an intermediary
between the municipalities and the Bank. In addition, the high level of prior review of
these consultancies carried out by the Bank (close to 100 percent), was also an important
factor in guaranteeing compliance with the Bank procurement procedures.

Initial difficulties with the project's financial management (FM) procedures and systems
were corrected with intensive supervision from a Brasília-based Bank FM specialist.
When the PMF was demobilized, however, the FM controls deteriorated somewhat since
MoC's in-house staff were unprepared to take over this role adequately. Nevertheless,
since the project FM system was embedded in GoB's budget system and software,
although FM faltered in the wake of the removal of the PMF, the project's FM controls
were generally deemed satisfactory. Nevertheless, due to administrative errors by the
MoC staff during the last year of implementation, in the absence of PFM support, some
US$2.7 million of eligible payments were erroneously not disbursed from the project
account ­ had these disbursements (representing over 11 percent of the reformulated loan
amount) been made during the last months of implementation/grace period, then the final
disbursement figure would have been over 80 percent of the final loan amount.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The PROSANEAR-TAL project had an important impact on GoB's PAC program ­
providing guaranteed investments for the PAC's first generation of interventions and,
through PROSANEAR-TAL's standard pre-investment TOR and manual, forming the
model on which was based the PAC's own TOR and manual for the preparation of
subsequent generations of integrated WSS/urban upgrading subprojects. This leverage
and mainstreaming of the project's major products/contributions at the federal level bode
well for its legacy. Similarly, the municipal beneficiary governments overwhelming
endorsed the PROSANEAR-TAL approach and, in the majority of cases, ascertained that
they would mainstream its methodologies within the municipal government for
subsequent projects of a similar nature.




                                            10

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Following its approval, the project remained consistent with Bank priorities through
subsequent country assistance strategies (CASs). The last CAS, covering 2004-2007 and
the final implementation years of the project, focused on supporting long-term actions
that would promote poverty reduction and sustainable growth, through activities designed
to invest in people (health, education and improved public services and transfers), build
social inclusion (empowering people and improving targeting mechanisms), manage
natural resources, improve productivity, and stabilize the economy. Improving living
conditions ­ especially for the poor ­ and managing urban environmental degradation are
key pillars of the PROSANEAR-TAL. The follow-up Country Partnership Strategy
(CPS) for 2008-2011 presents several pillars to accelerate economic growth by tackling
one of the major causes of slow growth, namely the low quality and quantity of
infrastructure. According to the CPS, the Bank's program will continue its support for
programmatic and `holistic' urban development programs, while focusing on cities that
are central to broader economic growth. The PROSANEAR-TAL project design
demonstrates that, despite the delays resulting from the major political and administrative
changes that occurred during project implementation, the development goals it prioritized
have remained highly relevant.

Although the project was prepared in advance of the declaration of the Millennium
Development Goals (MDGs), the project is extremely well aligned with global priorities
and targets set forth in the MDGs, most notably the targets with regard to improving the
access to safe WSS services and to reducing the number of slum dwellers.

In 2007, there were still an estimated 18.5 million families living in substandard housing
in informal settlements in Brazil. The fight against poverty and inequality, and the
inclusion of the socially excluded, through economic development and basic services
provision, remain fundamental elements of the key policies of the Lula administration. To
this end, GoB has initiated and/or improved in recent years a large number of initiatives,
such as the Bolsa Família conditional cash transfer (CCT) program and the PAC, aimed
at improving the living conditions of the poor. The PAC is a four-year government
investment program designed to stimulate economic growth mainly through an injection
of GoB spending in infrastructure projects throughout the country. Two key areas of PAC
investment, administered by MoC, are programs for integrated WSS service provision for
peri-urban populations and urban/slum upgrading interventions. MoC consequently used
the 33 participatory integrated subproject designs undertaken by the PROSANEAR-TAL
to leverage some R$ 1 billion of PAC and related funding for investments in integrated
WSS and urban upgrading interventions in slum areas throughout the country.




                                          11

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

ICR Rating: Overall achievement of Project Development Objectives is Moderately
Satisfactory

The Project Development Objective is to achieve integrated and demand-driven water
supply and sanitation service delivery to the urban poor within participating local
government agencies under the framework of the PROSANEAR national low-income
sanitation program.

The PDO of the project was poorly framed as it suggested that the project would deliver
integrated and demand driven WSS to the urban poor. It is, however, not possible to
attribute outcomes such as the use of safe, sustainable water supply or sanitation services,
nor physical outputs such as access to water supply or sanitation services, to a TAL
intervention. Reconstructing the PDO from the complementary information provided in
the PAD suggests that the project in fact aimed to:

    · Revitalize the national PROSANEAR civil works investment program by
        addressing the major gaps that existed in the program. To that end, the operation
        aimed to: (i) provide TA for the preparation o a stock of subprojects, with the
        corresponding works to be funded through the national program; (ii) undertake
        training programs to strengthen the capacity of project executing agencies in
        preparing and implementing such subprojects; and (iii) undertake dissemination
        activities to raise awareness about the PROSANEAR investment program.

    · Strengthen the policy formulation, planning and coordination capacity of GoB
        including: (i) formulation of a national framework for WSS cost recovery and
        subsidy policies in low-income areas; (ii) introduction of better targeting
        mechanisms for subsidized investments; (iii) establishment of mechanisms to
        coordinate complimentary urban infrastructure investments; (iv) establishment of
        multi-disciplinary teams to implement low-income WSS projects; and (v) increase
        in community participation.

With this reconstructed description of what the project intended to achieve, the PAD's
key performance indicators provide a reasonable set of outcome indicators that focus on
strengthening municipal capacity to undertake integrated WSS projects and strengthening
related policy formulation. With the establishment of this framework, it is possible to
infer the outcomes of the project from the PAD's key performance indicators:

1.      Number of participating local government agencies that adopt and
        implement a participatory approach to WSS service delivery
In the stakeholder satisfaction survey2 ­ carried out at the end of project implementation
with a response rate of 16 municipal government stakeholders of the total of 30
municipalities that participated in PROSANEAR-TAL ­ 95 percent of the respondents
stated that they had already adopted, or were planning to adopt, the participatory methods
of PROSANEAR-TAL in the preparation of other integrated WSS/urban upgrading
projects in poor urban areas. Furthermore, 91 percent of the municipalities surveyed



2See Annex 5 for more details on the stakeholder satisfaction survey.


                                                12

stated that they had already incorporated the methodologies and experiences of
PROSANEAR-TAL in the preparation of new integrated WSS/urban upgrading projects
in their municipalities.

2.       Number of participating local government agencies which undertake
         integrated urban planning as part of WSS service delivery

The stakeholder satisfaction survey found that all the municipalities surveyed had
adopted, or intended to adopt, the participatory, integrated WSS and urban planning
methodology in the preparation of integrated WSS/urban upgrading projects in low-
income urban areas. Follow-up questions in the survey showed that 81 percent of the
municipalities were already preparing additional integrated WSS/urban upgrading
projects to be funded under the government's new PAC program.

3.       Number of participating local government agencies that implement a clear
         and transparent cost recovery and subsidy policy for WSS service delivery

During project implementation it became evident that setting up clear and transparent
cost recovery and subsidy policies for WSS service delivery is, in the majority of cases,
an issue far beyond the remit of the municipal governments who were the beneficiaries
and main interlocutors under the project. Bringing about changes to WSS tariff and
subsidy structures in Brazil is a complicated issue, which requires far more political
leverage than a single TA subproject can provide by intervening in a small area of a
municipality. In most of the informal areas where subprojects were prepared, state water
companies or, on occasion, municipal utilities directly managed the WSS services ­ in
both cases, the utilities already had existing tariff structures, subsidy policies, and
commercial, operational and customer outreach policies. The WSS services provided to
the low-income areas targeted under the TAL are not separately built systems but
extensions to existing systems. As such, it was not viable to develop separate tariff and
subsidy structures for such small, discrete areas of a city since changing a state or
municipal utility's tariff or subsidy structure has implications for the whole service area
of the utility. The assumption that a small TAL would have sufficient leverage to
influence such a politically-sensitive issue as the tariff and subsidy policy of the service
provider turned out to be far too optimistic.

The sector has, nevertheless, made progress on cost recovery and subsidy policies during
the project implementation period. Many utilities have been focusing during the past
decade on gaining financial sustainability as demonstrated by the following examples3.

o Tariff levels have been increasing rapidly in Brazil in the past decade; the average
    revenue per cubic meter of water supplied and wastewater collected was US$0.82 in
    2000 compared to US$1.17 in 2006.

o Operating cost coverage ratios (measuring to what degree revenues cover the O&M
    costs) increased from 0.99 in 2000 to 1.43 in 2006 ­ representing an average
    improvement throughout the country of almost 45 percent. For the state water
    companies (which were the service providers for the majority of the TAL subprojects)



3Based on data from the National WSS Information System (SNIS) compiled each year by MoC; the latest
year for which SNIS data is available is 2006.


                                               13

    the increase was more pronounced (53 percent), demonstrating that utilities have
    generally improved their financial sustainability.

o Water and sewerage bills in Brazil are generally calculated based on actual
    consumption; the level of metering increased, albeit slowly, from 87 percent to 89
    percent between 2000 and 2006.

o All state water companies currently have some sort of social tariff, as do most
    municipal utilities, though the efficiency of the targeting of these programs varies
    widely. A number of utilities are already adopting innovative approaches to providing
    subsidies to their poorest customers: the state water companies of Paraná
    (SANEPAR), Pernambuco (COMPESA) and Bahia (EMBASA)4 each practice a
    structured cross-subsidy arrangement between their richer and poorer customers.
    These utilities use the existing Bolsa Família cadastres in the state to identify which
    families are eligible for the subsidized social tariff, thus reaching an estimated 10
    percent of the companies' respective customers in this way.

4.      Number of participating local government agencies that establish a multi-
        disciplinary team to implement low-income sanitation projects

The satisfaction survey showed that 86 percent of the municipalities intended to adopt, or
had already adopted and institutionalized, multi-disciplinary teams for the
implementation of integrated WSS/ urban upgrading projects in low-income areas. In
addition, 76 percent of the municipal technical teams which were responsible for
supervising the preparation of PROSANEAR-TAL integrated WSS/urban upgrading
subprojects have been, or shall be, maintained for their subsequent implementation and
post-implementation phases.

5.      Per beneficiary investment costs of less than US$100 for water (US$70 if only
        for distribution and storage) and US$120 for sewerage (US$80 if collection
        only) of TAL-supported investment programs

The investment ceilings were devised during project preparation as a way of encouraging
the development of low-cost subprojects. The per capita ceilings should, however, be re-
evaluated for different `typologies' of interventions based on the actual costs gathered
from the PROSANEAR-TAL subproject designs. In a detailed cost analysis that covered
24 of the 33 PDLIs and PSIs prepared under PROSANEAR-TAL (see following table),
the average per beneficiary cost for different scenarios of water supply and wastewater
were calculated and adjusted for the impact of inflation, in order to compare them with
the threshold values presented in the 1999 PAD.




4Both the state water companies of Pernambuco and Bahia were represented in the PROSANEAR-TAL
project with a number of subproject pre-investment interventions within their area of service.




                                                14

                   Table 1: Investment per capita thresholds set out in the PAD

                                    1999 value            1999 threshold             2007 value threshold
 Service provision                   threshold         adjusted for inflation         based on PDLI/PSI
                                       (US$)               to 2007 levels5                    designs
                                                               (US$)                          (US$)
 Water supply (distribution and          70                      115                            104
 storage only)
 Water supply (intake,                  100                      165                            104
 treatment, storage and
 distribution)
 Wastewater collection                   80                      132                            242
 (condominium system)
 Wastewater collection                 120-150                198-247                           242
 (conventional system)*
 Wastewater transfer and                 40                       65                             41
 treatment
 Community participation                 22                       36                             30
Source: Detailed analysis of 24 PDLIs and PSIs
*Data not given in PAD

For the water supply, wastewater treatment and community participation costs of the
subprojects, PROSANEAR-TAL stayed within the thresholds identified in the PAD6. For
wastewater collection, however, the average costs of the investments surpassed the
threshold by a wide margin. This may be largely explained by the assumption in the PAD
that a simplified `condominial' approach to wastewater collection would be used,
whereas a number of the interventions adopted `conventional' sewerage in difficult,
densely-occupied peri-urban settings. When the costs of conventional wastewater
collection technologies are considered (included in the above table but not originally
identified in the PAD), the difference between the costs actually incurred and the PAD
thresholds      is    more    consistent.     Furthermore,        investment       cost      estimates     for
new/rehabilitated/expanded water supply systems (intake, treatment, storage, distribution)
and wastewater systems (collection, transfer, treatment, disposal), undertaken using the
average cost and expansion data from GoB's SNIS annual series between 2001 and 2006,
provide the following per capita costs: R$428 for water (US$214) and R$797 for
wastewater (US$398) ­ all in prices adjusted to 2006 ­ which imply that the
PROSANEAR-TAL per capita WSS costs are, in fact, reasonable.

6.       Level of awareness and satisfaction among municipal officials, community
         groups, federal and state officials regarding the PROSANEAR project
         approach

It is clear from both the beneficiary surveys (in two of the 30 municipalities ­ see Annex
4) and the satisfaction survey (in 16 of the 30 municipalities ­ see Annex 5) that
awareness and satisfaction levels with the PROSANEAR-TAL project approach were



5The per capita thresholds are calculated in Brazilian Reais (R$), adjusted for local inflation and then re-
calculated back to US Dollars.
6Although this was achieved on average for the group of subprojects taken together, there were large
variations in the costs between subprojects.


                                                   15

very high. Over 95 percent of the municipalities surveyed were interested in participating
in the preparation of integrated WSS/urban upgrading projects with TA similar to that
provided by PROSANEAR-TAL. Most participants (81 percent) thought the roles and
responsibilities of the different participating organizations in PROSANEAR-TAL (MoC,
CEF, municipalities, states and the Bank) were clear. The respondents generally thought
that the anticipated average preparation time of 10 months for undertaking the
participatory integrated WSS/urban upgrading designs was insufficient, mostly due to
procurement, contracting and payment issues.7

The beneficiary surveys in Guarulhos and São José dos Campos municipalities found that
73 percent of the households surveyed were satisfied with the demonstration works
funded under PROSANEAR-TAL. There were, however, large differences in levels of
satisfaction between respondents in Guarulhos and Sao José dos Campos ­ with
respondents in the former municipality showing a satisfaction rate of 92 percent
compared to 54 percent in the latter. The reasons for this difference is believed to be,
inter alia, the result of the different baseline conditions in the two project areas resulting
in a different assessment of the project benefits (for more details see Annex 4).

Summary

In summary, the evidence supports the assertion that four of the key performance
indicators were fully met, and the PDO indicator on unit investment costs was
substantially accomplished. The indicator regarding cost recovery and subsidy policies
was, however, deemed to have not been met, given that ­ as discussed above ­ leverage
of the TAL to initiate such changes turned out to be too small. Even though two of state
water utilities involved in the TAL (EMBASA and COMPESA, covering 9 of the 34
subprojects prepared under the project ­ or over one quarter) implemented clear cost
recovery and subsidy policies for their poor customers, it is not possible to attribute this
outcome to the PROSANEAR-TAL project.

3.3 Efficiency

Efficiency. An ex-ante cost-benefit analysis was not undertaken during preparation given
that it was a TA project and many of its benefits were judged intangibles that were
intended to be measured in terms of levels of awareness and the adoption of new
methodologies for the preparation of integrated WSS/urban upgrading subprojects ­ all
aimed at indirectly improving WSS and related services for the urban poor. Nevertheless,
the efficiency of the TAL can be measured in terms of how it performed with regard to (i)



7Although the project anticipated a 10 month period for the preparation of the pre-investment subproject
designs, not a single municipality was able to complete the consultancies in that timeframe. In some cases,
the subproject design preparation lasted several years for a multitude of reasons including, but not limited
to: political and administrative changes at the municipal and federal levels; staff turnover in the
municipalities; long and cumbersome procurement and disbursement processes inherent in the project
design; municipalities having to follow Bank procurement procedures for the first time in most cases;
demobilization of the PMF in MoC; the erratic stop-start cycle of federal payments due to perennial budget
freezing and the consequent demobilization and remobilization of the consulting firms; delays in technical
and financial approval of products by CEF and MoC; etc).




                                                  16

its actual unit costs, (ii) compliance with its eligibility criteria, and (iii) its poverty
targeting.

Unit cost efficiency. The unit costs of preparing the pre-investment subprojects were
much lower than expected. In the PAD, it was assumed that the pre-investment cost
would make up 12 percent of total investment costs, whereas benchmark values in 2008
for WSS projects vary from 1.5 to 3 percent (MoC figures for water supply, wastewater
or drainage subprojects) to over 5 percent (consulting industry parameter for integrated
WSS/urban upgrading subprojects). As the actual pre-investment costs added up to about
2 percent of the total investment generated by the pre-investment designs, this shows that
project resources were used efficiently. The project also generated 33 PSI subproject
engineering designs (10 percent more than was originally targeted in the PAD). As a
result, the actual cost of pre-investment per PSI prepared was only 30 percent of the
original cost estimated in the PAD. It should be noted, however, that part of these savings
is related to exchange rate fluctuations ­ as the Brazilian Real lost on average 40 percent
between project appraisal and project closing, and that the low percentages may also be
due to a higher level of cost of the corresponding works than was foreseen at appraisal.

                                    Table 2: Unit Cost Efficiency

   Indicator                               Estimated Value at      Actual value at End of
                                                Appraisal                 Project
   Total project cost for pre-investment        36 million               11.43 million
   (US$)
   Total investment generated by pre-           300 million              600 million
   investment component (US$)
   Total WSS investment generated by            300 million               93 million
   pre-investment component (US$)
   Pre-investment cost as percentage of             12                       1.9
   total investment (%)
   Pre-investment cost as percentage of             12                       12.2
   total WSS investment (%)
   Number of integrated WSS                         30                       33
   engineering designs prepared (PSIs)
   Cost per integrated WSS pre-                  1,200,000                 346,363
   investment engineering designs
   (US$)
Source: PAD and Project monitoring data

Compliance with project eligibility criteria. PROSANEAR-TAL defined a large number
of eligibility criteria for final beneficiaries, for subprojects and for executing agencies, as
well as a set of prioritization criteria. In general, compliance with project eligibility
criteria was high. The exception to the rule was the requirement of beneficiary
municipalities to identify the sources of funds to be used to finance the investments
resulting from the PROSANEAR-TAL subproject designs. In the stakeholder survey it
was found that 10 percent of the municipalities were able to use their own resources to
fund the corresponding investments. Another 45 percent of the municipalities said they
were able to access other WSS/urban upgrading programs to fund the investments; an
additional 10 percent claimed that they would have been able to have used a combination
of own resources and funding through other programs. However, 35 percent of
municipalities stated that they would have had no known sources of funding available to



                                              17

implement the corresponding works if GoB's PAC program had not been initiated. In
other words, the eligibility criterion related to having proven funds for undertaking the
corresponding investments was enforced much more leniently by MoC (and/or
interpreted more leniently by the municipalities) than were the other criteria. With the
arrival of the PAC, however, the investment works for 24 of the 33 subprojects generated
by PROSANEAR-TAL were guaranteed PAC funding.

Poverty Targeting. The project was efficient in targeting its interventions to low-income
areas and their residents. In the subset of 24 subprojects that were available for evaluation
at project close, the average monthly income of the targeted households was less than 3
minimum salaries ­ the poverty threshold used in the PAD. In the more detailed analysis
of the two demonstration works interventions (see Annex 4), more than 95 percent were
classified as poor, of which 46 percent were earning less than one minimum salary per
month. It is therefore concluded that the project's poverty targeting eligibility criteria
were properly chosen and applied.

Efficacy. The project's efficacy was measured by determining its leverage. The project
leveraged more funds than originally estimated during preparation. At appraisal, it was
assumed that the pre-investment subprojects would generate US$300 million of
investments. However, the PROSANEAR-TAL subprojects actually generated an
estimated US$600 million of investments; of which about US$100 million is in water
supply and sanitation, and another US$80 million is in drainage and solid waste. This
higher leverage is partly because more pre-investment subprojects were prepared (i.e., 33
instead of the 30 envisaged at appraisal). In addition, the average investment subproject
was also significantly larger in value than expected ­ with a wider range of urban
services being included in the interventions (including significant resettlement solutions
in many cases) in addition to the WSS investments. Depending on the municipality and
the specifics of the subproject, these investments included, amongst others, housing,
access ways, recreational facilities and public spaces, schools, day-care and other social
outreach facilities8. This enlarged scope and number of specific investments included in
the pre-investment subprojects raises the issue concerning the extent to which each
additional service provided additional benefits to the integrated WSS/urban upgrading
subprojects.

GoB's PAC program will fund the majority of the investments generated by the
PROSANEAR-TAL subprojects, since there is a very good fit between the PAC's
`Saneamento Integrado' program and the nature of the investments prepared under the
TAL's subproject designs. In fact, the TAL's subprojects represent the major part of the
PAC's Saneamento Integrado investments for the first two years of PAC implementation
­ because the same issue that hampered implementation of the original PROSANEAR
national program was also an issue for the PAC, namely there were very few well-
prepared integrated WSS/urban upgrading engineering designs ready to leverage PAC
investment at the time of the program's launch.


8Based on a subset of the 33 PSIs prepared under the project, representing about 75 percent of all of the
subprojects, 16 percent of the total investments generated was assigned to WSS interventions, 12 percent to
solid waste and drainage, 45 percent to housing, and the remaining 27 percent to other urban infrastructure.




                                                   18

The leverage of PROSANEAR-TAL was not limited to the funding of integrated
WSS/urban upgrading subprojects, but also included the leveraging of an approach to
preparing participatory, integrated WSS/urban upgrading projects. The PROSANEAR-
TAL methodology, as captured in the extensive standard TOR for the preparation of the
PDLIs, PSIs and social participation plans (PTSs, have also been used as a basis for
elaborating the TOR and the manual for the preparation of a second and third generation
of PAC interventions in integrated WSS/urban upgrading, and have been used as the
basis for other similar projects/programs around the country.

Relevance. Following its approval, the project remained consistent with Bank priorities
through subsequent country assistance strategies (CASs) as described in section 3.1. The
project is also well aligned with global priorities and targets set for the MDGs, most
notably the targets with regard to improving the access to safe WSS services and to
reducing the number of slum dwellers. The fight against poverty and inequality, and the
inclusion of the socially excluded, through economic development and basic services
provision, remained fundamental elements of the key policies of the GoB despite the
many political and administrative transitions that occurred during the project
implementation period. To this end, GoB has initiated in recent years a large number of
initiatives, such as the Bolsa Família CCT program and the PAC, aimed at improving the
living conditions of the poor and, specifically, the very poor. Integrated WSS service
provision for peri-urban populations and urban/slum upgrading interventions remains
high on the agenda, and a focus on integrated WSS service provision (namely the
inclusion of drainage and solid waste management) has been explicitly incorporated in
the new federal WSS Law that was approved in early 2007.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The project was highly consistent with the previous two CASs and remains relevant in
the context of the new CPS, each of which emphasize support for infrastructure for
development and poverty reduction. It fits extremely well with GoB's priorities ­
especially given the advent of the PAC ­ while it also fits and foreshadowed global
priorities for WSS and slum upgrading as represented by the MDGs. As such, the project
has remained highly relevant given that municipalities, state governments and the federal
government are interested in continuing to implement and prioritize the types of
intervention championed by PROSANEAR-TAL. The project was able to accomplish its
project outcome as measured by the attainment of its key performance indicators, and it
did so in such a way that was effective in targeting its interventions to predominantly
poor areas, while being cost-effective and leveraging substantially more investment funds
than originally intended. Nevertheless, in view of the poorly framed PDO (that presents
an outcome that would be unlikely to be met by a TAL), of the missed opportunity to
redefine the results framework during the reformulation of the project at the MTR, of the
implementation delays, and of the under spending of funds, the overall achievement of
the PDO is rated as `moderately satisfactory'.




                                          19

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project was reformulated following the MTR to include, at the explicit request of the
new Lula administration, a civil works demonstration component to allow the project to
follow through in a select number of cases on the implementation of the integrated
WSS/urban upgrading subprojects throughout the investment cycle. Although no formal
impact evaluation was undertaken, the beneficiary surveys of the two municipalities
(Guarulhos e São José dos Campos) for which pilot/demonstration works were (partially,
in the former case, and wholly, in the latter case) completed under the project, presented
an interesting assessment of subproject impacts. In the two municipalities, there were
effects on access to water supply and sanitation service delivery, but also effects on
income levels and on income distribution in the informal areas that benefited from the
integrated WSS/urban upgrading interventions. As shown in Figure 1, the income
distribution changed significantly before and after the subproject works were
implemented in the two municipalities. The figures show that the percentage of
households without any income reduced significantly, while more households obtained
access to higher incomes. As no rigorous impact evaluation has been conducted, it is not
possible to attribute all of these income impacts directly to the PROSANEAR-TAL
project, especially since GoB introduced and/or improved other poverty-focused
initiatives during the project implementation period, such as the Bolsa Família CCT
program. However, given the following survey results, it is possible that some of these
income effects were indeed due to the subproject interventions:

o There was a marked improvement in public security: 47 percent of the respondents
    mentioned a clear improvement (a finding that municipal representatives during the
    ICR beneficiary roundtable confirmed). The improvements in public/common land-
    use, public lighting, public access ways and better recreational facilities as part of the
    urban upgrading interventions may all have helped improve public security. The
    impact differed between the two areas, however, with improvements in public
    security proving to be much less pronounced in São José dos Campos where, inter
    alia, a local drugs gang continued to be active.

o The improvements in public security may have had a positive impact on income
    growth, while the significant improvements in access to schools (49 percent) child
    care centers (44 percent), health posts (11 percent ­ but almost three times higher for
    those that are considered extremely poor), transport (55 percent) and shops (59
    percent) may have helped residents to provide themselves with more time and
    opportunities to get access to work and hence improve their income.

o For about 69 percent of the surveyed households, titling of land and property had
    positive impacts ­ since prior negative discrimination associated with having an
    address in a `slum' abated, which may explain the changes in income, work
    opportunities and possible higher real estate values.




                                          20

  Figure 1: Impact on income distribution before and after PROSANEAR-TAL project in
                                                two pilot areas

          Income distribution in São José dos Campos             Income distribution in Garulhos


      50%

      40%                                                   50%

                                                            40%
      30%
                                                            30%
      20%
                                                            20%
      10%                                                   10%
       0%                                                    0%
          Without Up to 1 MS1-2 MS 2-3 MS > 3 MS               Without Up to 1  1-2 SM  2-3 SM > 3 SM
          income                                               income   SM


                          2004     2008                                      2004   2008

Source: Beneficiary surveys

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The project provided, with a relatively small amount of resources, many training
opportunities for the numerous stakeholders working in the sector. During
implementation, the project conducted 109 training events, and 5 workshops. It provided
this support to 29 municipal governments, to one state government, to 15 CEF teams
operating in 12 states, to 20 consulting companies, and to federal government staff in
MoC and in CEF. Although more than 90 percent of the respondents of the stakeholder
survey were satisfied with the quality of the professionals (both public and private sector)
involved in subproject preparation, only 60 percent of respondents felt that the number of
professionals available in the country for implementing the subprojects was sufficient.
The latter fact implies that there is an unmet demand for qualified sector staff to
undertake integrated WSS/urban upgrading projects in Brazil at all levels (in federal,
state and municipal governments, in consulting firms and NGOs ­ and for both the
technical and the social aspects of the work).

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

An intangible effect of PROSANEAR-TAL was its role as a forum for promoting and
discussing an integrated approach to WSS, urban services and urban upgrading in poor
areas that contributed to a number of results: (i) inclusion of the concept of `integrated
WSS services' (namely water supply, sanitation, drainage and solid waste) in the 2007
Federal WSS Law; (ii) inclusion of a credit line and an approach for integrated WSS
('saneamento integrado') in the PAC program; and (iii) discussion on the design and
implementation of WSS tariffs and subsidies to the poor. The project's role in functioning
as a forum for such issues has fostered discussion and debate that served as an input to a
larger process in reforming the sector.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

While this is a core ICR it was deemed important to provide more details and lessons
learned from the valuable and varied experiences of the PROSANEAR-TAL project. The
municipal stakeholder surveys and the beneficiary survey results are presented in Annex
4 and Annex 5, respectively. In addition, a day-long stakeholder roundtable meeting was
held on April 4, 2008, with over 40 representatives of municipal beneficiaries, MoC, and



                                                    21

regional and federal CEF offices, with the objective of fully discussing and analyzing the
positive and negative aspects of the implementation of PROSANEAR-TAL ­ the results
of which are presented in a report in Project files and which contributed to the elaboration
of the Borrower's final report and to this ICR.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

As is clearly ascertained from the stakeholder surveys (Annex 5), the risks are small that
the local governments will not maintain the knowledge and capacity provided by
PROSANEAR-TAL to supervise the design and implementation of investment
subprojects in low-income neighborhoods. The stakeholder surveys show that 95 percent
of municipal governments had adopted, or planned to adopt (depending on the status of
the pre-investment projects), the participatory, integrated approach of PROSANEAR-
TAL in the preparation of other such projects in poor urban areas. The survey also
showed that 81 percent of the municipalities were already preparing additional new
integrated WSS/urban upgrading projects to be funded under GoB's PAC program, while
another 91 percent of the municipalities surveyed were already incorporating the
methodologies and experiences of PROSANEAR-TAL in the preparation of new
integrated WSS/urban upgrading projects in their municipalities. Moreover, the large
majority of municipalities (86 percent) also intended to adopt, or have already adopted
and institutionalized, the multi-disciplinary teams for the implementation of such projects
in poor urban areas.

In addition, the current GoB PAC program has taken up PROSANEAR-TAL's
methodology for the participatory, integrated preparation of subprojects. Even though
political and administrative changes can shift priorities, the overall relevance of
integrated WSS/urban upgrading for the urban poor throughout the country makes it
unlikely that this capacity will not be sustained in the medium-to-long-term. This is
especially so since the concept of `integrated WSS/urban services' is explicitly described
and promoted in the new federal WSS law. There nevertheless appears to be an unmet
demand to provide more training and professional development opportunities in order to
supplement the cadre of professionals that are capable of preparing, implementing and
supervising the highly complex participatory, integrated WSS/urban upgrading
subprojects in low-income neighborhoods in Brazil.

Even though it is highly likely that the project benefits will be retained in the
participating municipalities, the universe of low-income neighborhoods in the country
extends far beyond those that participated in PROSANEAR-TAL. Adequate short- and
medium-term transition arrangements for the project have been made: GoB's PAC
program will fund the majority of the investments generated by the PROSANEAR-TAL
subprojects, while the PROSANEAR-TAL methodology and TOR have been used as the
basis for preparing the PAC Saneamento Integrado's own manual and TOR which, in
turn, will be employed to prepare a second and third generation of PAC subprojects.
Nevertheless, in view of the political and administrative changes that are likely to
continue to occur in the medium- to long-term in Brazil, the overall risk to the
development outcome is rated `moderate'.



                                           22

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Overall, the project is judged to have been of sufficient strategic relevance but the quality
at entry of the project design as less satisfactory. The project nevertheless remained
highly relevant its implementation. It generated a number of tools for looking at WSS in
slum areas in a much more holistic manner ­ stressing the interface of WSS services with
other urban services, although not always fully understanding the (economic, financial
and related) consequences of this interface (mainly due to a lack of timely information
about the important aspects of this interface)9. The project also provided other tools, such
as the standardized TOR for the participatory preparation of integrated pre-investment
subprojects, which brought a consistent framework to the preparation of such subprojects
in vastly differing situations. In addition, the project design provided a large degree of
flexibility that ensured that it could cope with the many different changes that took place
during implementation in the institutional context in which it was set. Nevertheless, the
project preparation team made some overly optimistic assumptions at appraisal, and
neglected certain issues, including:

    (i)      The use of `condominial' or low-cost technologies in small, discrete project
             areas located in municipalities that are already served by water supply and
             sewerage companies which may have limited interest in using different
             technologies within their existing networks ­ although condominial sewers are
             not necessarily the optimal choice in all settings (depending on demographic,
             social, density of occupation, service provider and other parameters),
             changing the mindsets of engineers and other decision-makers in those
             situations were condominial or other lower-cost approaches are appropriate is
             not always easy;

    (ii)     The degree of influence that a relatively small TA project has in changing
             tariff and subsidy policies in state and municipal water utilities;

    (iii)    The use of CEF's regional network for decentralized project supervision,
             despite the limited capacity of many of these CEF offices to analyze technical
             products and to assist with procurement, disbursement, contract management,
             etc;

    (iv)     The capacity of municipal governments to undertake Bank procurement was
             limited and the carrying out of this procurement by the municipalities of
             limited, or negative, value-added;




9The PAD's proposed approach to the economic analysis of subprojects was, for instance, based on a
stand-alone assessment of WSS interventions that did not take into account the interface with other urban
services.




                                                23

    (v)     The guidance provided in the PAD, the Operational Manual and the standard
            pre-investment TOR was very weak with regard to how to produce
            environmental impact assessments (EIAs) and resettlement action plans
            (RAPs) to satisfy Bank or other stakeholder requirements, and thus needed to
            be reviewed and developed during implementation;

    (vi)    The results framework and M&E arrangements were of limited quality;

    (vii)   The lessons learned of the previous PROSANEAR investment loan were
            transferred to the TAL without due regard for how the change in lending
            instrument would affect leverage and implementation arrangements.

Given the above design flaws, the Bank performance at quality at entry is rated
`moderately unsatisfactory'.

(b) Quality of Supervision (including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Supervision missions were consistently carried out at least twice a year, and in four out of
the eight years of implementation three supervision missions were undertaken annually.
Supervision missions were generally well-staffed and managed to maintain an important
degree of continuity during the lifetime of the project. This was important as the project
had three task team leaders during its implementation, which is a likely cause of
disruption each time such a change is made. The expertise of the team members was high
and the teams averaged several members per mission including a balance of international
and national expertise. From FY2005 to the close of the project, the task team leader was
based in Brasília which helped maintain a much closer level of supervision. Even though
it was not captured in the official number of supervision missions, informal supervision
was taking place on a much more regular basis.

The team retained a steady focus on the implementation progress and the development
impact of the project, despite the interferences caused by the numerous political and
administrative changes that affected the project over its lifetime. The fiduciary aspects of
the project were duly supervised on a regular basis, also with Bank staff from the Brasília
office, and addressed as necessary. Good working relationships were generally formed
between MoC's implementation team and the Bank supervision team. The demonstration
works interventions showed that the standard PROSANEAR-TAL TOR did not include
for the generation of reports containing information on the resettlement and
environmental aspects in a format which facilitated review by, and interaction with, the
Bank team on these issues. This led to intensive work by the Bank's safeguards staff and
consultants to ensure compliance with Bank safeguard policy. Similarly, alternative
approaches to the economic and financial analyses of the demonstration works were
adopted, which differed from the approach presented in the TOR and the PAD. These
experiences during the intensive supervision of those of the pre-investment subprojects
that were related to the demonstration works provided valuable guidance as to how the
standard TOR, and the accompanying guidance manual, should be adapted to improve
their effectiveness in these respects The Bank team also showed sufficient candor in its
supervision reporting: the project was downgraded on a number of occasions, at times




                                          24

when implementation was considered critically at risk of not being able to achieve its
objectives.

The MTR was undertaken over a series of missions, and resulted in the reformulation of
the project, included a partial cancellation and reconfiguration of the components, as well
as the establishment of physical and financial targets which were effectively used to
make decisions on subsequent project extensions. The MTR did not, however, use the
opportunity to adjust and improve the results framework on which the project was based,
nor to improve the M&E arrangements more broadly.

Adequate transition arrangements for the project have been made. GoB's PAC program
will fund the majority of the investments generated by the PROSANEAR-TAL
subprojects, since there is a seamless fit between the PAC's `Saneamento Integrado'
program and the nature of the investments prepared under the TAL's subproject designs.
In fact, the TAL subprojects represent the major part of the PAC's Saneamento Integrado
investments for the first two years of PAC implementation ­ there were very few well-
prepared integrated WSS/urban upgrading engineering designs ready to leverage PAC
investment at the time of the program's launch. Also the PROSANEAR-TAL
methodology and TOR have been used as the basis for preparing the PAC Saneamento
Integrado's own manual and TOR which, in turn, will be employed to prepare the second
and third generation of PAC subprojects.

Given the overall acceptable performance of the Bank during implementation, some
failings notwithstanding, the Bank's quality of supervision is rated `moderately
satisfactory'.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The overall Bank performance rating is considered `moderately satisfactory' as, despite
some serious design and implementation limitations, the key performance indicators ­
which were taken as proxies for the project's outcomes ­ were mostly achieved.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The federal government generally, and the Ministry of Cities in particular, fell short on a
number of the criteria used to judge satisfactory project implementation: (i) its ownership
and commitment to achieving the development objectives wavered considerably
throughout project implementation, being affected significantly by the changes in the
project's political and administrative counterparts in the federal government and the
degree of priority that they accorded to the project; (ii) the readiness for implementation,
the implementation arrangements and capacity, and related issues, proved inadequate for
rapid and efficient project implementation; (iii) implementation issues were not resolved
in a timely fashion ­ this was true at project initiation, when the mobilizing of the project
management firm took over two years, as it was towards project closing when the same
firm was suddenly removed and no adequate alternative arrangements were found by
MoC to ensure the project's continued smooth implementation and proper closure;



                                           25

(iv) fiduciary issues, budget provision on a timely basis, and the compliance with the loan
covenant concerning the adequate staffing of the PMU all proved problematic at times
during implementation; (v) the project's M&E system was generally inadequate to allow
the following of implementation in an agile manner; and (vi) some US$ 2.7 million of
eligible payments were not presented to the Bank during the last year of implementation
and/or the grace period due to administrative errors/misunderstandings in MoC. On the
positive side, beneficiary and stakeholder consultation and involvement in the project was
a central part of the subproject cycle and thus of the project's approach and philosophy;
MoC's relationships with CEF and the beneficiary municipalities and other stakeholders
was generally good; and the adequacy of the transition arrangements, as discussed above,
are very promising.

Given the above shortfalls in a number of the key criteria for judging adequate
implementation,      the    Government's    overall   performance     is  rated  `moderately
unsatisfactory'.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The beneficiary municipal governments were the main implementing agencies under the
project and, given its decentralized nature, they made satisfactory efforts to implement
the subprojects in an efficient manner ­ although the degree of efficiency varied from
case to case. Given that, despite the numerous challenges posed during project
implementation, the municipalities were able to conclude the pre-investment participatory,
integrated engineering designs, albeit with considerable delays in most cases, then the
performance of the implementing agencies is considered `moderately satisfactory'.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Given the variability encountered on the Borrower's performance throughout the
implementation period, and between the different stakeholders involved in project
execution, and given that ­ despite the numerous challenges ­ the Borrower managed to
conclude the project in a satisfactory manner, the Borrower's overall performance is rated
as `moderately satisfactory'.

6. Lessons Learned
The complexity of decentralization has a major effect on the successful design and
implementation of a project. Although the Bank is often confronted with significant
shifts in political realities on the ground, this experience is not usually very well captured
in project design and implementation. The PROSANEAR-TAL project was approved at
the end of 2000, but went through a large number of political and administrative changes
at the federal, state and municipal levels that affected both project design and
implementation. Each change in counterparts at different levels of government brought
challenges to the level of prioritization and the rhythm of implementation. In such
circumstances of shifting political priorities, the task team has the option of either being
client responsive and adjusting the project accordingly, or cancelling the project. Both
approaches have numerous repercussions, to which scant attention is often given.


                                             26

Continuing implementation while simultaneously redesigning a project can have
significant impacts on the cost of supervision, can delay implementation, and can impact
the attainment and measurability of project results during implementation. A lesson
learned of this project is that doing business in increasingly decentralized and politically
complex environments will require flexibility and adaptability if Bank projects are to
remain relevant to the borrower and implementers, but such flexibility will also result in
additional time and resource costs to the Bank.

The role of the Bank in countries with access to their own investment funds. In such
countries, the Bank's comparative advantage is not in providing investment funds but in
delivering knowledge that can significantly leverage the effectiveness of these funds.
Project preparation teams must bear in mind that different operational tools have greatly
differing potential to affect reform ­ TALs, for example, lack the financial leverage
implicit in a sector investment loan (SIL). When embarking on the preparation of TAL
projects it is important to understand whether the incentives they provide are sufficient to
ensure that the anticipated leverage can take place. When designing a TAL project
preparation teams should specifically consider: (i) whether lessons learned from related
SILs can be directly transferred to TALs; (ii) the results frameworks (including a set of
appropriate outcome and output indicators) of such operations should be adjusted to the
limitations of what a TAL can actually achieve; (iii) carefully crafting implementation
arrangements to ensure sufficient incentives are inbuilt to encourage the required
performance, given that a TAL does not automatically have the ability to leverage a large
investment budget.

Trade-offs between complexity and inclusiveness: reducing the transaction cost of
doing business. A centrally coordinated and controlled project, which is implemented at
a decentralized level, as was the case of PROSANEAR-TAL, necessarily involves a large
number of actors and tradeoffs with regard to the agility of implementation. To be
inclusive in such cases means adding to complexity by involving more stakeholders in
project implementation. This has resulted in complex institutional arrangements in this
project. The Ministry of Cities and its PMU, CEF (both at the federal and municipal/state
level), municipal governments and their PMUs, community organizations, service
providers of the different public services, the consulting engineering firms and social
outreach specialists, and the Bank all participated in and contributed to the project's
implementation. Furthermore, the degree of community participation throughout the
subproject design and implementation cycles needs careful analysis to identify the
optimal level of such participation in order to maximize ownership but not unduly affect
the time or cost of the subproject cycle. The many different relationships, which often
come with their own ways of doing business, may result in misunderstandings, variations
in implementation modalities, and a need for extensive learning processes (for instance if
local government are required to learn Bank procurement processes) which, in turn, may
result in high transaction costs and result in implementation delays. For complex projects
of a similar nature, the Bank should determine upfront what the possible implications of
these transaction processes are regarding time, cost and real risk, in order to ensure that
sufficient consideration is given to them in terms of the impacts on a project's
implementation schedule, disbursement profiles, training and other TA needs to
stakeholders, and supervision costs. A related specific project lesson is that, to maximize
ownership, capacity building and continuity, the municipality PMUs should be formally


                                           27

created with the municipal government and should consist of municipal staff in the key
engineering, urban and social areas.

Lack of capacity to undertake participatory, integrated WSS/urban upgrading
subprojects. Despite Brazil's relatively long and broad experience in undertaking such
subprojects, there is nevertheless still a surprising lack of capacity among the various
stakeholders involved in the preparation and implementation of these subprojects. Given
the country's size and regional disparities, this capacity varies considerably, with some
municipalities and local CEF offices demonstrating ample ability to efficiently implement
such subprojects. Many municipal governments and local CEF offices, however, revealed
significant weaknesses in being able to procure and execute the subprojects, and both
required much assistance throughout the `subproject cycle' in order to bring the activities
to closure. Furthermore, it was also revealing to see the discrepancy in the ability of the
national consulting engineering industry to undertake subproject designs which marry the
technical and the social ­ even though Brazil has pioneered such approaches in WSS and
urban upgrading over recent years. The project was able to identify these weaknesses in
the different groups of stakeholders, and provided training events and TA visits through
MoC's PMU in order to correct implementation issues as necessary. For such centrally
coordinated projects executed at a decentralized level, ample TA and training should be
provided on an as-needed basis to the different stakeholders.

Having the municipalities undertake Bank procurement should be questioned as it differs
from national procurement procedures, creates considerable confusion, and is often the
only time a municipal government will ever need to use IBRD procurement guidelines.
Although such an approach helped build ownership at the local level, it also created much
frustration and delay ­ procurement could be undertaken centrally to bring efficiencies to
the process, with the municipal governments and CEF local offices invited to participate
in the process in order to understand it and to build ownership.

Ceilings for investment for different typologies of urban upgrading The PAD
provided per capita investment ceilings for water supply and for sanitation interventions,
but not for the complementary infrastructure (access ways, drainage, solid waste
management, housing improvements, resettlement, public spaces, community facilities,
etc), that are an integral part of a broader urban upgrading intervention. In order to
counter `designing up' to a high level of intervention, investment ceilings should be
developed for the different typologies of urban upgrading intervention. These ceilings
should be based on `typologies' of intervention which identify the minimal level of
intervention needed in different demographic and/or regional settings. The central project
management unit and/or the standard TOR/manual should guide municipalities in
identifying the low-income areas to be prioritized for intervention, with a view to
maximizing the number or families to be benefited at the lowest possible cost ­ this
function under PROSANEAR-TAL was left to the municipalities and did not always
result in the most cost efficient interventions. Also, because of a lack of understanding of
the multiple effects of integrated WSS/urban upgrading projects, the question arises as to
what combination of interventions has the most positive cost/benefit impact in urban
upgrading ­ a definitive answer to this issue is unlikely to be easily identified and will
require more, and thorough, evaluations of such projects. Another lesson is the need to
build better M&E information systems that can effectively store and organize the



                                            28

collected data from subprojects and allow for their in-depth analysis. Such systems
should be developed up-front so that M&E arrangements are set up in a timely manner,
and responsibilities for M&E are clearly defined.

Complex terms of reference The TOR used to undertake participatory, integrated
WSS/urban upgrading subprojects were complex in nature and involved the production of
seven reports over the estimated ten-month execution period. Much was learned from the
utilization of the TOR in municipalities of differing capacity throughout the country and,
based on this experience, revised, simplified TOR are being produced by MoC. One
recommendation is that the products that the TOR generates be more closely linked to
outputs that the beneficiary municipality needs to produce for other reasons, such as the
EIA and the RAP. Specific elements of the TOR that were identified for revision
included (i) the comprehensiveness and the quality of the EIA and RAP products being
produced; (ii) the economic and financial analyses need to be suitable for complex,
integrated urban services and urban upgrading projects rather than only for stand-alone
WSS interventions, and (iii) clearer guidance needs to be provided as to the scope and
modality of social participation during subproject preparation. The Borrower has
presented a number of specific recommendations for improving the standard TOR, as
summarized in its comments in Section 7 below. The Borrower also strongly
recommended that the Bank consider the inclusion of budget ceilings in the request for
proposal package, instead of the staff-hour ceilings normally provided, in order to
encourage bidders to be as close as possible to the market reference costs.

Role of the project management firm. The technical assistance provided to the PMU
through the project management firm was crucial for the efficiency of project
implementation. Even for a central ministry in a middle-income country such as Brazil,
the incentive framework to implement a Bank project is not always conducive to
effective and efficient execution. Even when Bank financing is designed to support a
slice of the government's overall budget funding, its implementation is often still
considered a parallel activity within the ministry given that sufficient staff are often not
available to implement such projects with their different/additional requirements. This
was amply demonstrated in the case of PROSANEAR-TAL where project
implementation, and subsequent disbursements, improved considerably once a project
management firm was mobilized to support the PMU, and the opposite was true during
the last 18 months of implementation once the firm had been summarily demobilized by
MoC. Analyses should be undertaken, on a case-by-case basis, of the advantages and
disadvantages of including such management firms and/or specialized individual
consultants in the implementation arrangements of complex projects, especially where
the executing agencies' bureaucratic processes are cumbersome.




                                          29

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing
Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies (the following text is a direct, unofficial
translation of the comments received in Portuguese from the Ministry of Cities)

It is normal practice for the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(IBRD) to produce an Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) on
completion of projects financed with World Bank funds. The purpose of the IBRD Report
is to assess the results of a project and to draw attention to factors that determine whether
a given project has been effective or not, as well as to evaluate the performance of all the
players involved in its implementation from the planning stage through to final execution.

PROSANEAR-TAL, completed on 15/12/2007, was the subject of an ICR which
provided an overall appraisal of the results achieved by the project. The ICR report drew
attention in a precise, objective and impartial manner to all the different aspects
associated with the effectiveness of the project as well as to the lessons learned as a result
of its execution.

Although the ICR awarded only a "moderately satisfactory" rating to the project,
PROSANEAR-TAL nevertheless achieved its main goals, which were designed to
provide direct benefits to two main groups: (i) the institutions that participated in
executing the project benefited from institutional development and training; and (ii) the
populations which will derive benefit from the expanded availability of essential services,
thereby contributing to improved quality of life.

PROSANEAR-TAL involved the provision of institutional training for 30 municipal
governments in three key areas: improved integrated urban planning of cities, the proper
preparation of integrated WSS/urban upgrading engineering designs, and the adoption of
a participatory methodology for poor urban areas. This difficult-to-measure capacity
building is capable of generating widespread benefits by providing opportunities for the
expertise acquired by the target beneficiaries to be replicated in a broad range of other
areas of a given municipality.

Consulting firms, despite having been contracted on the basis of their professed
experience, also benefited from exposure to subprojects involving high levels of social
participation, focused on integrated solutions. Furthermore, 15 teams from CEF, the
agency responsible for the operational and financial aspects of the project in 12 states,
also benefited from training.

PROSANEAR-TAL also had a major impact on the PAC by ensuring that the works to
be undertaken during the first year under the PAC's Integrated Sanitation program were
in fact contracted. This will result in an investment of around one billion Reais in civil
works arising from the 30 projects prepared by PROSANEAR-TAL. These PAC
investments will lead to better living conditions for over 45,000 families living in socially
and environmentally vulnerable areas.




                                             30

It is worth drawing attention to the complementarity and synergy between the two
government actions. By incorporating the portfolio of PROSANEAR-TAL subprojects as
an investment priority for the PAC, GoB will henceforth be in a position to guarantee that
the PAC works will be executed on the basis of well-prepared subprojects which have
benefited from continuous follow-up by GoB's own agents responsible for project
implementation, especially the CEF teams. Moreover this approach will ensure that the
projects prepared by PROSANEAR-TAL will be of direct benefit to the population
located in the intervention areas.

With regard to the appraisal of the various players involved (Federal Government, Bank,
the municipalities and CEF) in the conception, design and implementation of the
PROSANEAR-TAL, the ICR assessed their performance generally as "moderately
satisfactory". At the same time the ICR considered that the performance of the Federal
Government and the Bank with regard to project conception was generally "moderately
unsatisfactory".

The poor performance of the Federal Government, especially that of the Ministry of the
Cities, was justified mainly by the absence of a permanent management team during the
entire period of project implementation, as well as by the lack of continuity in Federal
budget allocations, evidenced by the successive cutbacks to the project's annual budget.

The rating awarded to the Bank (moderately unsatisfactory) with regard to project
conception can be attributed mainly to the fact that the expected results of the project
were overestimated. This is apparent from the indicators designed to gauge the
effectiveness of the project (more concerned with measuring the effects of completed
works than those of a Technical Assistance Project) and from the fact that unachievable
objectives were established in the first place, such as the need for beneficiaries to adopt
clear tariff and subsidy policies for WSS services. This approach failed to take into
account the inherent characteristics of WSS service providers in Brazil.

It should nevertheless be emphasized that the performance of the Bank team was
extremely positive during project implementation. The team responded flexibly and
proactively to all the requests and requirements for PROSANEAR-TAL restructuring
which were judged necessary in order to bring the project into line with the various
economic changes and shifting priorities that occurred during project execution.

The following outline description of PROSANEAR-TAL project emphasizes the key
aspects of its performance.

PROSANEAR-TAL was the outcome of a partnership framework agreement between the
Brazilian Government and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(IBRD) in accordance with Loan Agreement 4532-BR, signed on 19/09/2000 and
concluded on 15/12/2007.

The initial project implementation timescale was four years, with conclusion planned for
15/12/2004. The PROSANEAR-TAL cost was initially estimated at US$ 49.3 million,



                                          31

with US$ 30.3 million to be provided by the IBRD and US$ 19 million consisting of non-
financial counterpart contributions by Brazil's Federal Government, States and
Municipalities.

The PROSANEAR-TAL project was conceived with the basic goal of resolving in a
sustainable manner the problems of environmental WSS in densely populated urban areas
occupied by low-income families lacking social infrastructure in cities of over 75.000
inhabitants. Three main activities were targeted: the development of integrated WSS
engineering designs for poor urban areas; the preparation and consolidation of standard
approaches to integrated WSS and urban upgrading in precarious areas; and the
institutional development of the actors involved in execution of the project.

The project was initially structured on the basis of four components: management,
promotion and studies; pre-investment; training; and urban development. The project was
later reformulated to incorporate an `investment' component.

At the planning stage of the project, the goal of PROSANEAR-TAL was to increase the
stock of integrated WSS engineering designs/subprojects for low-income population
groups. The associated civil works were to be financed by GoB's PROSANEAR program,
with funding through FGTS loans. However, the three years following signature of the
loan were affected negatively by the total restriction on credit for investment in WSS on
account of the fiscal adjustment imposed by GoB aimed at reducing public debt.

The project commenced activities under the Presidency of the Republic's Special
Secretariat for Urban Development (SEDU). Subsequently, with the change in
government in 2003 PROSANEAR-TAL was incorporated into the newly-created
Ministry of the Cities, specifically its National Secretariat for Environmental Water
Supply and Sanitation (SNSA).

In view of the new government structure and the low performance of the project, the
SNSA directors decided to reformulate PROSANEAR-TAL. A new structure for the
project was tabled during the Mid-Term Review in the second half of 2003, which took
effect in 2004.

The reformulated structure involved (i) cancellation of US$ 6.4 million; (ii) an extension
of the project by two years, subject to performance; and (iii) the inclusion of an
investment component for the execution of demonstrative works.

The purpose of the cancellation of US$ 6.4 million was to compensate for increases in the
value of the US dollar, which meant that more local currency (reais) was available for the
project. In the circumstances it was judged that given the progress and future
disbursement profile of the project not all the available resources would be used ­ hence
the cancelation of part of the funds.

The idea of extending the project deadline was to enable the newly-agreed targets to be
met in full and for the civil works under the investment component to proceed.



                                           32

The reason for including the investment component, in addition to testing the
methodology for developing the PROSANEAR-TAL subprojects and for enabling
demonstrative works to go ahead with integral follow-up of the project-work cycle, was
basically to meet SNSA´s requirement that the subprojects prepared by PROSANEAR-
TAL should be effectively executed and be of real benefit for the target population.

With the restructuring, PROSANEAR-TAL received a new boost, which generated a
strong increase in disbursement in 2005, but which subsequently lost momentum,
principally with the demobilization of the project management firm. Consequently, only
US$16.7 million of the reprogrammed US$ 23.0 million were disbursed, even though the
implementation period was extended from four to seven years.

Nevertheless, it is important to highlight that, although the Loan Agreement was signed
to be executed in four years, the goals presented in the Project Appraisal Document
(PAD) that synthesize the major aspects of the project, initially foresaw the execution of
PROSANEAR-TAL in five years.

With regard to the extensions to the deadline, PROSANEAR-TAL was strongly
influenced during its implementation by a number of diametrically opposed economic
issues that had been present from project conception onwards, such as the restrictions
imposed on investment credit and a trend towards privatization of the WSS sector.

Credit restrictions and the low indebtedness capacity of the municipalities during the first
years of the PROSANEAR-TAL, together with the contractual obligation established
under the pre-investment component that the works should be executed by the
beneficiaries themselves, resulted in few municipalities showing interest in participating
in the project.

Up to 2003, PROSANEAR-TAL had only the State Government of Pernambuco as a
beneficiary, since it had already secured an IBRD loan for the execution of the works
under the auspices of the PRÓ-METROPOLE project. In 2004, with the efforts of the
project management firm PROSANEAR-TAL significantly increased its number of
beneficiary entities.

A number of other factors also contributed to delays in project implementation, such as
the requirement of the consultancies to be contracted according to IBRD procurement
rules and the failure of the Ministry of the Cities to release funds on a regular basis.

While the IBRD procurement processes are more straightforward, time-saving and less
susceptible to the drawbacks occasioned by Brazil's public administration and justice
systems, the local municipal governments ­ principally the smaller ones which had never
previously participated in international financing arrangements ­ experienced major
difficulties in organizing the Bank procurement procedures as there was resistance from
the municipal attorneys and because of the institutional difficulty of undertaking
procurement process that varied from those they were used to, even with the support
provided by the federal PMU.



                                           33

The need for example to publish announcements in the Development Business (DB)
database targeting the international and local markets, as well as the requirement to
comply with the minimum, though generous, deadlines vital for proceeding with the
subsequent stages of the selection processes, meant that the selection procedures were
generally lengthy, time-consuming exercises.

It is also worth mentioning that the publication of the Request for Expression of Interest
in the DB, in addition to delaying the selection processes, also proved to be ineffective
given the type of subprojects to be contracted. The fact is that these subprojects require
knowledge of the local context, given the existence of specific social circumstances,
particularly the high levels of crime encountered in the majority of the areas targeted by
the subprojects.

Virtually all the foreign consulting firms that showed interest lacked the three essential
qualifications required for participation in the PROSANEAR-TAL (urban planning in
precarious settlements, integrated WSS engineering designs, and community
participation). As a result, few foreign firms reached the shortlist and not one of them
was subsequently selected for an assignment.

Regarding the disbursement profile, the project failed to achieve the initially forecast
targets. According to the ICR, even excluding the cancellation of US$ 6.4 million in 2004,
US$ 7.2 million of the loan funds were still unspent by 15/04/2008.

A considerable part of the unspent resources (around US$ 6 million) had been earmarked
for executing civil works under the investment component. Initially five works were
planned to be financed by the PROSANEAR-TAL. However, of these only three received
funding from the project: the municipalities of São José dos Campos and Guarulhos in
the state of São Paulo and the city of Natal in the state of Rio Grande do Norte. Of these
three, only the works in São José dos Campos were fully completed during the execution
phase of PROSANEAR-TAL.

Given that the public works in Guarulhos were extremely complex, an implementation
period of 36 months was set, which effectively exceeded the PROSANEAR-TAL
deadline. In December 2007 the work in Guarulhos was nevertheless at an advanced
stage and on schedule. The intervention in Natal encountered a series of delays in the
procurement processes and did not commence until the beginning of 2007. These two
interventions will receive complementary resources from the PAC.

In the other two works that were initially planned for the municipalities of Caxias
(Maranhão) and Nova Iguaçu (Rio de Janeiro) the Bank procurement processes were in
the event cancelled since these two areas were awarded PAC funds.

Other factors also restricted the disbursement levels. A series of errors were identified in
the processing of some of the disbursement applications, for example the non-
presentation of official invoices for the payment of certain eligible activities which
should have been reimbursed from the loan account to the tune of R$ 2.6 million.



                                          34

Moreover, a failure by the PMU ­ as a the result of a misunderstanding ­ to comply with
the final deadline for the payment of invoices within the grace period for disbursement
applications, meant that around R$1 million, paid by GoB by 15/04/08, were not
withdrawn from the loan account. In addition, a number of payments billed after
15/12/2007 were not accounted for and will be paid from PAC resources. If all of the
above factors had been properly presented and accounted for at the correct time, an
additional amount of around US$ 2.7 million would have been withdrawn from the loan
account.

A further factor which undermined both the project execution period and the
disbursement levels was the absence of a stable, permanent management firm with
sufficient technical and operational capacity to meet the demands of the project
throughout its duration. This problem was particularly serious at two points during the
execution of PROSANEAR-TAL: in the early years of project implementation and
towards the end, when the management firm supporting the national PMU was
demobilized only one year before the project was due to close.

Before August 2000 the UGP had no management firm and project performance suffered
as a result: the project had only two pre-investment contracts signed and only 0.2% of the
total loan had been disbursed.

Once the management firm was contracted the information required for preparing
contracts with the beneficiaries and for drafting the Terms of Reference for contracting
the subproject designs began to be systematized. The new management firm's activities
aimed to provide the PMU with the necessary information and tools for disseminating the
project, as well as for attracting new players interested in participating in it. This
development gave fresh impetus to PROSANEAR-TAL and, by 2004, a total of 25
municipalities had formally become participants. The effect on disbursements was
apparent a year later when the subprojects began to be contracted. As a result
disbursements increased threefold in one year ­ from US$ 1.5 million in 2004 to US $4.5
million by the end of 2005.

The disbandment of the management firm in October 2006 caused a significant impact on
the performance of the project at a crucial time, particularly with regard to subproject
activity follow-up, levels of disbursement, and the preparation of strategic documents.

The PMU and the Bank teams made strenuous efforts to retain the incumbent project
management firm but the Ministry stuck by its decision to disband it, accepting the view
of its legal advisers that since the activities undertaken by the firm were the responsibility
of the Ministry of the Cities they should be undertaken only by staff in the direct employ
of the Ministry. In the event the latter was unable to substitute the technical staff of the
management firm with professionals from its own staff and the PMU remained seriously
understaffed; in addition, in 2007, SNSA directed its attention to the formulation and
execution of the PAC.




                                             35

Despite the setbacks and delays during the implementation of the project, the planned
project objectives can be considered to have been fulfilled: 33 integrated WSS projects
and 34 local development plans were concluded from a total of 35 contracted; the civil
work in São José dos Campos were finished and the works in Guarulhos are at an
advanced stage. The works currently underway in Natal will be concluded with PAC
resources.

The following are a number of suggestions arising from the implementation of this
project:

   · The selection process for consulting firms could have been undertaken in a
       centralized manner. It is not an objective of the project to build capacity in the
       municipal governments in IBRD procurement process, principally those that don't
       foresee entering into a future direct loan agreement with the IBRD. The
       municipalities could, instead, participate in the analysis of the technical proposals
       and in the accompaniment of the elaboration of the products, where capacity
       building of the municipal teams would be undertaken.

   · Selection of the intervention areas should be done directly by the national PMU
       and, wherever possible, by the Bank, in order to ensure that priority is given to
       areas of key social interest or areas likely to have a powerful impact on other
       sectors for which the municipal authorities are responsible (e.g. public security,
       transport and drainage);

   · The Local PMUs should possess an institutional framework consisting ideally of
       technical personnel (engineering, urbanism and social work) recruited from the
       own staff of the beneficiary entities (state governments, the federal district or
       municipal governments);

   · It was observed that the Local PMUs working in a designated secretariat of the
       beneficiary entities (e.g. Housing) were in a position to pursue their activities in a
       more coordinated manner, as well as possessing greater authority to respond to
       the demands of the subproject;

   · It is essential that a single database designed to act as a central point for project
       impact evaluation be utilized;

   · The need exists to establish a financial ceiling for subproject contracts, given that
       the IBRD procurement process does not establish a maximum amount to be paid
       by the government, only indicating the number of hours needed for subproject
       execution;

   · The need also exists to define average parameters for the preparation of
       subproject budgets. These should take into account regional costs differences and
       the specific characteristics of each area, which need to be addressed on a case by
       case basis;


                                          36

   · The economic-financial assessment required by the PROSANEAR-TAL was
      confined to water and sewerage services and failed to address all the factors
      related to an integrated urban intervention project;

   · For this type of intervention it makes no sense to carry out an economic-financial
      evaluation, given the fact that the analysis will not be taken into account in terms
      of restricting or prioritizing works in the selected areas;

   · Instead of preparing a cost-benefit analysis (which proved to be wasteful and
      unable of producing effective results), it would be more useful to ensure that the
      proposed solutions are cost-effective and genuinely able to achieve the proposed
      objectives at lowest cost;

   · The assessments relating to the cost recovery/subsidies policies of the WSS
      service providers planned under the PAD produced no practical results given the
      ways in which WSS services are delivered in Brazil ­ where service providers,
      mainly the state water companies, possess no clear policies regarding cost
      recovery and subsidies.

With regard to the project's standard terms of reference for integrated WSS/urban
upgrading of low-income areas, we have the following comments:

   · The TOR should define cost parameters for the planned works, indicating actual
      amounts or reference tables (e.g. CEF's National Research System for Costs and
      Indices for Civil Construction, SINAPE);

   · The TOR should clearly establish which normative regimes are to be followed
      (e.g. IBRD safeguards and/or Brazilian legislation), depending on the funding
      sources for the works, in particular regarding the resettlement and environmental
      aspects of the subprojects;

   · The TOR should clearly define the `area of influence' of the intervention (PDLI)
      and the actual `area of intervention' (PSI) in order to justify the level of influence
      applying to the respective areas. For example, the PDLI area should be restricted
      to the area of influence of the corresponding macro-infrastructure (macro-
      drainage, street /road access system, etc);

   · The TOR should make a distinction between the level of community mobilization
      to be undertaken in the PSI and the PDLI areas of influence, in order to avoid
      creating expectations in areas that are unlikely to be directly benefited by works,
      especially in peri-urban areas of cities;

   · The social/community mobilization work should be confined to social that
      necessary for preparing the subproject and for identifying basic social needs
      (which should be brought to the attention of the public authorities responsible for
      meeting such needs);


                                          37

    · The social development item (community capacity building and income
       generation) should not form part of the TOR for execution by a private
       consultancy firm since the social inclusion process should be coordinated and
       executed by the public authorities themselves. Consultancy firms should be
       restricted to identifying the scope, and demand, for capacity building/training;

    · The products of the TOR should not be analyzed by different bodies. In the event
       of this not being possible an effort should be made to analyze the TOR products
       jointly or, at least, in a standardized way.

    · It proved necessary to reduce the number of products given the amount of
       administrative work needed for the approval and payment of the same;

    · The products should not be partly or wholly repeated in subsequent products
       required under the TOR, thus reducing an excess of subdivisions which makes the
       approval of intermediate products difficult.

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                            38

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                     Appraisal Estimate       Actual/Latest
Components                                                                         Percentage of
                                        (USD millions)        Estimate (USD
                                                                 millions)           Appraisal

Project management, promotion,
and studies                                     5.40                  3.00      -44.44%

Pre-investment                                 20.00                  9.30      -53.50%
Training                                        1.60                  0.50      -68.75%
Urban development policy                        3.00                  0.10      -96.67%
Demonstration works                             0.00                 10.70


Total Baseline Cost                             0.00                 23.60      -21.33%

Physical Contingencies                          0.00                  0.00      no change

Price Contingencies                             0.00                  0.00      no change
Total Project Costs                            30.00                 23.60
Front-end fee PPF                               0.00                  0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                              0.30                  0.30      no change
Total Financing Required                       30.30                 23.90      -21.12%



(b) Financing
                                                           Appraisal Actual/Latest

Source of Funds                             Type of        Estimate       Estimate     Percentage of
                                          Cofinancing        (USD           (USD         Appraisal
                                                            millions)     millions)
Borrower                                                 19.00          5.00           -68%
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development                                          30.30          23.90          -21.12%

Total Project Costs                                      49.30          28.90          -41.38%

It should be noted, that the project was essentially much less expensive than originally estimated at
appraisal. Several factors contributed to the much lower than anticipated appraisal project estimates:
(i) efficiency savings as several appraisal cost estimates turned out too high; and (ii) exchange rate
fluctuations.




                                                39

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Project Management, Promotion and Studies. The project management component
supported the project management unit, the contracting of the project management firm,
and a set of promotion activities and studies. The number of studies undertaken fell one
short of appraisal estimates (four studies were realized instead of the estimated five at
project appraisal ­ although the target was revised to four at the mid-term review),
whereas the number of workshops undertaken was five in line with appraisal estimates.
Three major studies were undertaken by the PMF under the auspices of this component:
(i) a comparative analysis of best-practice approaches in Brazil to integrated WSS/urban
upgrading subprojects for low-income areas; (ii) a review of the indicators and the
impacts of integrated WSS/urban upgrading subprojects for low-income areas in Brazil;
and (iii) policies and strategies in Brazil for providing WSS services to low-income areas.
Although it completed the first two studies, the demobilization of the PMF during the last
year of project implementation negatively impacted its ability to complete the last of the
three studies by project close.

Pre-Investment. The targets for this component were the preparation of the integrated
local development plans (PDLIs) and the integrated WSS engineering designs (PSIs).
During project appraisal, it was estimated that 30 such plans would be prepared. Despite
the implementation delays, by April 2008 the project was able to prepare 34 PDLIs and
33 PSIs.10

The project complied with the PAD investment thresholds for water supply and
wastewater treatment, but not for wastewater collection. This may be largely explained
by the assumption in the PAD that a simplified `condominial' approach to wastewater
collection would be used, whereas a number of the interventions adopted `conventional'
sewerage in difficult, densely-occupied peri-urban settings. When the costs of
conventional wastewater collection technologies are considered (included in the table but
not originally identified in the PAD), the difference between the costs actually incurred
and the PAD thresholds is more consistent. Furthermore, investment cost estimates for
new/rehabilitated/expanded water supply systems (intake, treatment, storage, distribution)
and wastewater systems (collection, transfer, treatment, disposal), undertaken using the
average cost and expansion data from GoB's SNIS annual series between 2001 and 2006,
provide the following per capita costs: R$428 for water (US$214) and R$797 for
wastewater (US$398) ­ all in prices adjusted to 2006 ­ which imply that the
PROSANEAR-TAL per capita WSS costs are, in fact, reasonable.




10On December 2007, at the official closing date of the project, the actual numbers were slightly lower at 33
PDLIs and 27 PSIs.




                                                 40

     Table A2.1: Investment per capita thresholds set out in Project Appraisal Document

 Threshold                         1999 value          1999 threshold          2007 value threshold
                                    threshold       adjusted for inflation     based on PSI designs
                                      (US$)            to 2007 levels11                  (US$)
                                                            (US$)
 Water supply (storage and               70                   115                         104
 distribution only)
 Water supply (intake,                  100                   165                         104
 treatment, storage and
 distribution)
 Sewage collection                       80                   132                         242
 (condominial system)
 Sewage collection                   120-150               198-247                        242
 (conventional system)*
 Sewage treatment                        40                   65                           41
 Community participation                 22                   36                           30
Source: Detailed analysis of a sample of 24 PDLIs and PSIs
*Data not given in PAD

The amount of financial resources leveraged for contracting the civil works interventions
designed under the subprojects prepared by PROSANEAR-TAL was just over RS$ 1
billion (or some US$ 600 million equivalent). Most of these financial resources, namely
R$ 802 million, will be funded through the PAC, whereas the remainder will be funded
through other federal and state government grant/credit programs such as
PROMETROPOLE, FNHIS, and BNDES. The increase in leveraged funding above the
levels estimated in the PAD is deemed to be due to the complex nature of the
interventions identified in the pre-investment designs ­ that are integrated in nature and
include numerous urban services and related interventions to complement the WSS
services. In addition, the number of participating municipalities that conducted PDLIs
and PSIs increased from an estimated 30 during appraisal to 33 and 34, respectively by
project close. The leveraging of funds was not, however, included in the PAD's project
effectiveness our outcome indicators.

Training. The number of capacity building/training courses and TA events realized was
significantly higher than that planned during appraisal. At the end of the project, 109
training events had been undertaken compared to the 64 envisaged in the PAD ­
demonstrating strong demand from the various stakeholders in receiving capacity
building/training activities in the undertaking of integrated WSS/urban upgrading
subprojects. This demand was confirmed by the respondents to the stakeholder survey
(see Annex 4 for more details). The project provided training to 29 municipal
governments and one state government, to 15 CAIXA teams in 12 states, and also to
consultant firms when it became clear that the undertaking of PDLIs and PSIs was
something that many consultant firms were not well prepared for. The training courses
and TA focused on improving the capacity of municipalities and consultants to undertake


11The per capita thresholds are calculated in Brazilian Reais, adjusted for local inflation and then re-
calculated back to US dollars.




                                                41

urban planning, on reviewing the environmental impacts and resettlement implications of
the interventions, and on the integration of community development and infrastructure
interventions to improve overall sustainability.

Urban Development Policy and Planning Support. This component foresaw the
inclusion of TA to municipalities, and studies, including the development of an urban
development policy. Although specific TA and training events were provided to the
municipalities, as described above, the specific studies outlined in the outputs for this
component were not undertaken. The taking office of a new administration, and the
subsequent replacement of the Special Secretariat for Urban Development by the
Ministry of Cities, resulted in a number of changes in government priorities. The
elaboration of a national urban development policy and of a national system of urban
indicators was deemed of high priority by MoC and was carried out by the Special
Secretariat for Urban Programs using MoC's own budget.




                                         42

                                                   Monitoring Indicators

                                                                                     Targets
Components       Sub-Components              Indicators
                                                                  At appraisal At reformulation  At project end
                                                                                                 (April 2008)

Pre-investment Integrated local      # of PDLIs elaborated /          30/30          30/30           34/30
               development plans     # of selected areas
               (PDLIs)

               Integrated WSS        # of engineering designs         30/30          30/30           33/30
               engineering designs   prepared /
               (PSIs)                # of selected areas

Investment                           # of civil works completed         0             2                1

Studies                              # of studies realized /           5/5            4/4             4/4
                                     # of studies programmed

Training                             # of courses realized /          64/64        120/120          109/120
                                     # of courses programmed

Promotion                            # of workshops realized /         5/5            5/5             5/5
                                     # of workshops
                                     programmed

Urban          Support to Urban      # of municipalities surveyed     80/80      Not included     Not included
Development    Development Politics  for SNIU / # of planned

               Support to PRODIN     # of PRODIN realized /            8/8
                                     target




                                                            43

                                                 Project Effectiveness Indicators

Components                 Indicators                                                          Targets
                                                                       At appraisal     At reformulation    At project end
                                                                                                             (April 2008)
PDLIs                      # of actions implemented in the                   NA                NA                 NA
                           intervention area / # of PDLI actions
                           implemented
                           # of PDLI implemented / # of PDLI
                           elaborated                                       30/30          Not included          33/34
PSIs                       # of PSI implemented / # of PSI                  30/30          Not included   2/33 (demonstration
                           elaborated                                                                           projects)
Social Works               # of community participation plans               30/30          Not included           33
                           elaborated
                           # of beneficiary agreements obtained / #         100%
                           of families in area
Investment costs           Cost per capita foreseen in preliminary         <100%           Not included
                           per capita investment ceiling
                           Water distribution                                                                   < 100%
                           Water distribution and storage                                                       < 100%
                           Wastewater collection                                                                 >100%
                           W/water collection and treatment                                                      >100%
Mobilization of resources  Amount of financial resources contracted          NA            Not included     US$600 million
                           for subprojects prepared                     (in PAD text:
                                                                        US$300 million)
Cost recovery              # of service providers that have adopted         30/30          Not included          None
                           cost recovery and subsidies / # of TAL
                           beneficiaries

Local Project Management   # of beneficiaries that have created a local     30/30             30/30       100% (preliminary
Units                      multi-disciplinary PMU                                                         data from municipal
                                                                                                          stakeholders survey;
                                                                                                            16 respondents)




                                                                44

Annex 3. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision
Processes

(a) Task Team members


Names                     Title                             Unit  Responsibility/
                                                                  Specialty
Lending
Yoko Katakura             Financial Analyst / TTL           LCSFW
Abel Mejia                Sector Manager                    LCSFW
Alexander Bakalian        Engineer                          LCSFW
Caroline van den Berg     Economist                         LCSFW

Paula Pini                Community Participation /
                          Resettlement Specialist
Braz Menezes              Urban Development Specialist

Cecile Ramsay             Urban Development Coordinator for
                          Brazil
Jose Baigorria            Senior Procurement Specialist
Geise Santos              Team Assistant

Supervision/ICR
Martin Gambrill           Senior Water Engineer, TTL       LCSUW
Juliana Garrido           Operations Analyst               LCSUW

Jose Janeiro              Senior Finance Officer           LOAFC
Karina de Souza Marcelino Team Assistant                    LCC5C
Alexandre Fortes          Consultant - safeguards          LCSUW
Paula Pini                Senior Social Development Spec   LCSUW
Adriana Weisman           Operations Officer               OPCCE
Luciano Wuerzius          Procurement Specialist            LCSPT
João Vicente              Consultant ­ financial management LCSFM
Rosa Bellido              Language Program Assistant       LCSUW




                                         45

(b) Staff Time and Cost

                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                           No. of staff weeks        USD Thousands (including
                                                     travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY95                                                           13.50
  FY96                                                           24.62
  FY97                                                           53.62
  FY98                                                          126.45
  FY99                                                           46.43
  FY00                                    6                      17.06
  FY01                                                            0.05
  FY02                                                            0.00
  FY03                                                            0.00
  FY04                                                            0.00
  FY05                                                            0.00
  FY06                                                            0.00
  FY07                                                            0.00
  FY08                                                            0.00
Total:                                    6                     281.73




Supervision/ICR
  FY95                                                            0.00
  FY96                                                            0.00
  FY97                                                            0.00
  FY98                                                            0.00
  FY99                                                            0.00
  FY00                                    3                      10.37
  FY01                                   14                      59.15
  FY02                                   17                      73.07
  FY03                                   17                      80.79
  FY04                                   28                      95.47
  FY05                                   20                      86.34
  FY06                                   15                      84.28
  FY07                                   15                      82.12
  FY08                                    6                      25.05
Total:                                  135                     596.64




                                   46

Annex 4. Beneficiary Survey Results
Introduction Surveys of the direct beneficiaries were conducted in two of the
municipalities where the corresponding civil works resulting from the pre-investment
subprojects were implemented. The major objective of these beneficiary surveys was to
understand to what degree the project's underlying assumptions proved to be valid, and
what the impact of the subprojects has been to inform the different stakeholders as to how
much the subprojects are able to generate economic growth and reduce poverty. The
results of these surveys give a first impression as to on what the two demonstration civil
works interventions achieved.

Survey set-up The surveys were conducted in the municipalities of Guarulhos and São
José dos Campos, both located in the state of São Paulo. The reason for selecting these
two interventions was that they represented the only two municipalities where civil works
were initiated and (in the case of São José dos Campos, wholly, and, in the case of
Guarulhos, partially) completed with PROSANEAR-TAL support. As such, they were
the only two interventions where `before' and `after' analyses could actually be carried
out.
                      Table A4.1 Basic characteristics of the two municipalities
Characteristics                                           Guarulhos              São José dos Campos
Population of municipality                                  1,200,000                     600,000
Name of area of intervention                         Vila Nova Cumbica                  Santa Cruz
Area of PSI intervention (m2)                                78,580                       19,867
Population density in PSI area (m2/person)                    14.6                         53.6
Actual duration (months)                                       18                           16
Cost of pre-investment (R$)                                  588,001                      427,196
Actual investment cost generated (R$)                     24.0 million                  2.7 million
Population in area of intervention                            5,368                        370*
Average household size (people per household)                  3.3                          4.0
Estimated cost of investment per capita (R$)                  4,479                        7,429
Note: the small beneficiary population size of the area of intervention in São José dos Campos is explained
by the fact that the city has already upgraded most of its slum areas, and only two small poverty pockets
remain (of which Santa Cruz is one).

In each pilot area of intervention a statistically significant number of households were
randomly surveyed on issues related to: (i) their experience and impressions concerning
the PROSANEAR-TAL project; (ii) access to public services after the pilot subproject
interventions; (iii) their assessment of the impacts of the subproject interventions; and
(iv) their overall satisfaction with the subproject interventions. The surveys took place in
March 2008 and, to the extent possible, was compared to the baseline survey data
collected in 2004 as part of the pre-investment process.

Key findings

Community Participation Community participation was an important feature of the
PROSANEAR-TAL methodology and is fully integrated into the subproject preparation
process from its inception. Name recognition of the PROSANEAR-TAL project was
high: more than 80 percent of the households in both localities were aware of its
existence. The respondents stated that the most effective form of communication between
project actors and the community was through the periodic community meetings carried
out during subproject preparation and civil works implementation.


                                                   47

In Guarulhos, 89 percent of the households participated in project preparation, of which
more than 80 percent of respondents stated that they effectively participated, and the
remainder did so more sporadically. Interest in the actual implementation of the civil
works garnered a similar interest, with 88 percent of the households participating in this
subsequent phase of subproject implementation, with almost two thirds of the households
participating on a regular basis.

In São José dos Campos community participation rates were lower ­ both in actual
participation rates and in the intensity of the participation. In the project area, 74 percent
of the households participated in the subproject pre-investment preparation, of which
about 55 percent did so effectively and 45 percent more sporadically. The
implementation of the works garnered more interest, with 80 percent of the households
participating in this phase of the process, with almost two-thirds of the households
participating on a regular basis.

WSS Services As can be seen from figures A4.1 and A4.2, the `before project' conditions
with regard to WSS services differed markedly in the two pilot areas. In Guarulhos, only
29 percent of the households had access to the formal water supply network in 2004,
while 54 percent had such access in São José dos Campos. Similar trends were detected
for wastewater collection, where only four percent of the households in Guarulhos had
access to the utility's network compared to 46 percent in São José dos Campos. When
those households with illegal connections are included as being part of the utility's
network, however, the access rates in 2004 were 33 percent in Guarulhos and 89 percent
in São José dos Campos. As can be seen in Figure A4.1 and A4.2, access became
universal once the pilot subprojects were implemented.

Not only did access improve, so did the quality and/or convenience of this access. In
2004, two percent of the households in Guarulhos did not have access to a sanitation
facility, while 14 percent had a sanitation facility but outside of the house. In São José
dos Campos, eight percent of the households had no access to a sanitation facility in their
house; by 2008, all households surveyed had a sanitation facility in their home.

With the improvements in access, households also had to start paying for these and other
services. In 2004 only eight percent of the households in Guarulhos and 54 percent in São
José dos Campos paid for their water and sewerage services; with universal access to the
utility's water and sewer network, more than 98 percent of households are now paying
for these services.

Access to other services The pilot subprojects also provided other urban services as part
of the integrated urban infrastructure upgrading package. These services included
housing, solid waste collection, drainage (only in Guarulhos), as well as housing/land
title regularization.

Drainage In 2004, 45 percent of the households in Guarulhos mentioned they had
experienced flood problems; in 2008, only four percent of households mentioned their
experiences with difficulties related to flooding.

Solid waste collection In 2004, all households in São José dos Campos used informal
collective solid waste collection arrangements. In Guarulhos, a small number of
households (16 percent) had access to formal solid waste collection systems, and the



                                            48

majority of the households depended (83 percent) depended on informal arrangements.
By 2008, formal systems of solid waste collection were close to universal in both
localities.

    Figure A4.1 Before and After Access to Water Supply in Guarulhos and São José dos
                                                 Campos

                                   Access to Water Supply in Guarulhos


                100%


                80%


                60%


                40%


                20%


                 0%
                      Utility Netw ork     Neighbors       Well     Illegal connections


                                                 2004 2008




                                       Access to Water Supply
                                       in São José dos Campos


                   100%

                    80%

                    60%

                    40%

                    20%

                     0%
                                Utility    Neighbors       Well         Illegal
                              Network                               connections


                                                2004  2008



Housing Housing was one of the most important interventions in the pilot areas (and also
tends to be the most costly intervention). The housing improvements were measured in
terms of space (number of rooms) and quality of construction (building materials). In
Guarulhos, the proportion of households that had access to four rooms or more in their
home increased from 12 percent in 2004 to 100 percent in 2008. In São José dos Campos,
it increased from 36 percent in 2004 to 87 percent in 2008. The quality of housing also
improved as almost all houses surveyed in the two localities now mention that their
houses are made from bricks.




                                                  49

 Figure A4.2 Before and After Access to Wastewater Collection in Guarulhos and São José
                                             dos Campos

                          Access to Wastewater Collection in Guarulhos



               100%


                80%


                60%


                40%


                20%


                 0%
                        Utility Netw ork    Netw ork by community      No collection


                                                2004    2008




                                Access to Wastewater Collection
                                      in São José dos Campos


                 100%

                  80%

                  60%

                  40%

                  20%

                   0%
                              Utility     Network by       Pit latrine  No collection
                          Network         community


                                               2004      2008



Impacts of PROSANEAR-TAL pilots The households in the two pilot areas were also
asked as to how they perceived the quality of their access to public services. As shown in
Figure A4.3, the surveyed households perceived their access to public services (ranging
from water supply, sanitation, drainage and solid waste collection to postal services,
public telephones and street lighting) had undergone an overall improvement. The
improvements were most significant for those services that the PROSANEAR-TAL
project set out to address, namely water supply, sewerage, solid waste collection and
drainage.

An interesting development is that households also perceived improvements in public
security: 47 percent of the respondents mentioned a clear improvement (which municipal
representatives during the ICR beneficiary roundtable confirmed). The improvements
were larger in Guarulhos, where 57 percent of the households mentioned a (significant)
improvement compared to only 30 percent in São José dos Campos. Not only were there
more households in Guarulhos who experienced an improvement, the level of this
improvement was also higher as one third of those that mentioned an improvement


                                                  50

thought the improvement to be significant, compared to only one in nine in São José dos
Campos. The lower levels of improvements in public security in São José dos Campos
may be due, inter alia, to the fact that a drugs gang had been active in the area prior to the
intervention and continued to be afterwards. The improvements in public/common land-
use, public lighting, public access ways (a major point of contention in São José dos
Campos with the drugs gang) and better recreational facilities most probably all helped to
improve public security.

 Table A4.2 Perception concerning improvements in the living environment in Guarulhos
                                          and São José dos Campos

     Variable                                                        Guarulhos         São José dos Campos
     Percentage of households that perceived a                             57                   30
     (significant) improvement in public security
     Percentage of households that perceived a                             94                   28
     (significant) improvement in public illumination
     Percentage of households that perceived a                             91                   42
     (significant) improvement in recreational facilities
     Percentage of households that perceived a                             89                   79
     (significant) improvement in "estética da área"
     Percentage of households that perceived a                             92                   34
     (significant) improvement in available space at
     home

Apart from the changes in access to public services, there have also been major changes
in access to other services not directly related to water supply and sanitation. As can be
seen in Figures A4.3 and A4.4, households also perceived (significant) improvements in
access to shops, schools and day care facilities, health posts and transport. The changes in
access were especially notable in Guarulhos.

  Figure A4.3 Access to public services not directly related to WSS services in Guarulhos


                                      Perception on Service Levels in Guarulhos




                    Public security

                     Street lighting

                     Public phones

                     Mail services

                    Energy Supply

                     Flood control

                       Solid w aste

              Wastew ater collection

                     Water Supply

                                   0% 10%     20%   30%     40%   50%  60%     70%  80% 90% 100%




                                       Deteriorated Constant Improved Much Improved




                                                        51

 Figure A4.4 Access to public services not directly related to WSS services in São José dos
                                                 Campos



                    Perception on Service Levels in São José dos Campos




                  Public security

                   Street lighting

                  Public phones

                   Mail services

                  Energy Supply

                   Flood control

                     Solid waste

             Wastewater collection

                   Water Supply

                                 0%         20%      40%       60%        80%  100%



                                Deteriorated Constant Improved Much Improved



The households surveyed perceived that the pilot interventions also had a series of
positive economic and social impacts. The level of community organization and
interpersonal relationships with neighbors showed positive improvements ­the
interactions thus having possibly built social capital in these neighborhoods. This, in turn,
may have had a positive impact on public security perceptions. These effects were
stronger in Guarulhos than in São José dos Campos.

As for economic effects, households were also asked how they perceived improvements
in their economic prospects during subproject implementation. Households in São José
dos Campos stated that overall their economic prospects had improved, however
households in Guarulhos mentioned their prospects had deteriorated. In Guarulhos,
households perceived an overall decline in work and income opportunities (as defined by
the difference between the percentage of household that experienced an improvement in
either income or job opportunities and those that experienced deterioration). The
perceptions in Guarulhos may have been associated with the fact that the households ­
because of space constraints ­ had to be relocated a significant distance to another area to
ensure that sufficient space in the original area could be created for the provision of new
housing and services for the remaining population. For those that had to relocate, income
and job opportunities may have been affected as some of those surveyed could have felt
that they were starting a new life in a different place, some eight kilometers from the
where they used to live.




                                                  52

  Figure A4.5 Socio-economic impacts before and after subproject implementation in
                                              Guarulhos


                              Perception on Socio-Economic Impacts

                                             in Guarulhos



       Neighborhod relations


     Community organization

                Recreation


               Employment


                    Income


                 Education

                           0%  10%     20%   30%    40%    50%  60%    70%  80% 90% 100%



                               Deteriorated Constant Improved Much Improved




Figure A4.6 Socio-economic impacts before and after subproject implementation in São
                                           José dos Campos



                            Perception on Socio-Economic Impacts
                                     in São José dos Campos



     Neighborhood relations

    Community organization


                Recreation

               Employment


                    Income


                 Education

                            0%           20%         40%         60%         80%    100%




                            Deteriorated   Constant  Improved  Much Improved




                                                 53

  Figure A4.7 Impact on income distribution before and after PROSANEAR-TAL project

           Income distribution in São José dos Campos            Income distribution in Garulhos



       50%
                                                           50%
       40%
                                                           40%
       30%
                                                           30%
       20%                                                 20%
       10%                                                 10%

        0%                                                  0%
           Without Up to 1 MS1-2 MS 2-3 MS > 3 MS              Without Up to 1  1-2 SM  2-3 SM > 3 SM
           income                                              income   SM


                           2004   2008                                       2004   2008

Source: Beneficiary surveys ­ the monthly minimum salary was R$380 at the time of the survey in 2008,
and R$260 in 2004 (period April 1, 2004 to March 31, 2005).

Interestingly, the perception of survey respondents of their employment and income
opportunities remaining constant or deteriorating (as was also registered in São José dos
Campos) is not necessarily consistent with income trends in the two localities between
2004 and 2008, as is shown in Figure A4.7. As can be seen, the income distribution
changed significantly before and after the subproject works were implemented in
Guarulhos and in São José dos Campos. The figures show that the percentage of
households without any income reduced significantly, while more households obtained
access to higher incomes. At the same time, the value of a minimum salary increased
above the rate of inflation ­ resulting in real income increases. As no rigorous impact
evaluation has been conducted, it is not possible to attribute these income impacts
directly to the PROSANEAR-TAL project interventions, especially since GoB introduced
and/or improved other poverty-focused initiatives during the project implementation
period such as the Bolsa Família CCT. However, the CCT program was implemented in
2003 and may have at least partially been absorbed in the 2004 income survey results.
Unfortunately, the survey could not detect the effect of Bolsa Família because no
detailed income questions were included in the survey.

Table A4.3 Percentage of households that perceive overall improvements (deterioration) in
                                          income and job opportunities

 Variable                                                   Guarulhos               São José dos Campos
 Perceptions regarding overall improvement (decline)             -13                             12
 in income (%)
 Perceptions regarding overall improvement (decline)             -25                              5
 in job opportunities (%)
 Perceptions regarding percentage of households who               88                             73
 perceive improvement in real estate values in area of
 interventions (%)

It is nevertheless possible that at least some of these income effects were due to the pilot
subproject interventions, given the following specific results of the surveys:

o There was a marked improvement in public security: 47 percent of the respondents
    mentioned a (significant) improvement (which municipal representatives during the
    ICR beneficiary roundtable confirmed);



                                                     54

o The improvements in public security may have had a positive impact on income
    growth, while the significant improvements in access to schools (49 percent) child
    care centers (44 percent), health posts (11 percent ­ but almost three times higher for
    the extremely poor), transport (55 percent) and shops (59 percent) may have provided
    residents with more time and opportunities to obtain access to work and hence to
    income (household perceptions in São José dos Campos suggest such a hypothesis to
    hold, although the data from Guarulhos does not ­ possibly because of the
    aforementioned relocation effect);

o For about 69 percent of the surveyed households, titling of land and property, or at
    least the formal provision of an address, had positive impacts ­ since prior negative
    discrimination associated with having an address in a `slum' abated, which may
    explain the changes in income, work opportunities and perceived higher real estate
    values.

Overall satisfaction In Guarulhos, 92 percent of the households in the areas of project
intervention were satisfied. In São José dos Campos the percentage of households was
much lower ­ with only 54 percent of the households being satisfied with the results of
the interventions. There may be many different reasons for this particular result, but the
different conditions at the start of the respective subproject interventions may have
played a significant role in explaining this variance. In São José dos Campos, access to
water, sewerage and solid waste services was significantly higher when the intervention
took place. As a result, the benefits in terms of improved access may have been
considered less, while many more households started to pay for services that they did not
necessarily used to pay for in 2004 (due to the high number of illegal connections or to
the use of neighbors' services). In addition, the level of community participation in
subproject preparation and subsequent works implementation in São José dos Campos
was lower than in Guarulhos.

Conclusions Survey respondents mentioned many positive changes once the civil works
interventions corresponding to the subprojects were implemented, ranging from better
access to different types of public services, improvements in public security, reduced
discrimination because of legalization of the neighborhood, resulting in better work
opportunities and consequently increases in income (although the data are not very
consistent possibly because of the effect of relocation in the Guarulhos case). These
outcomes and impacts are not necessarily linear in nature but can be seen as forming a
cascade of positive loops which are difficult to disentangle (since improvements in public
security, for example, may result in increased incomes, which in turn may reinforce
improvements in public security). The above analysis cannot disentangle these real
impacts as it only measures conditions 'before' and `after' the respective subproject
intervention not `with' and `without' the subproject interventions. As GoB has embarked
on a number of initiatives in recent years which may positively impact socio-economic
indicators, it is hard to determine to what extent the changes that have been observed are
the result of PROSANEAR-TAL and what is caused by other factors. The results suggest
that more in-depth analyses of the effects and impacts of integrated WSS/urban
upgrading programs would be useful to further improve policy and/or program design
and implementation, especially as the evaluation team had little time to comprehensively


                                           55

analyze the survey data at project close given the demobilization of the project
management firm by the Ministry of Cities.




                                       56

Annex 5. Institutional or Stakeholder Survey Results

Introduction The institutional or stakeholder survey that was undertaken in March 2008,
was essentially a perception survey to better understand the levels of awareness and
satisfaction with the PROSANEAR-TAL project. It was also carried out in order to
provide a platform of discussion for the beneficiary stakeholder workshop that was held
in April 2008 to further review the project's impacts and strengths and weaknesses. The
survey was sent to the 30 municipalities that participated in the PROSANEAR-TAL
project of which 16 completed the questionnaire , representing a response rate of over 50
percent.

Results of the Stakeholder Survey The survey revealed that most municipalities had
been working prior to the PROSANEAR-TAL project with urban projects that employed
community participation approaches. Most municipalities (94 percent) stated that they
were planning to adopt, or had already adopted, integrated WSS/urban upgrading
approaches to planning service delivery in low-income neighborhoods. A similar
proportion of municipalities stated that they were planning to adopt, or had already
adopted, participatory methodologies for the preparation of future WSS projects in poor
urban neighborhoods. More than 80 percent of the municipalities that responded to the
questionnaire are planning to institutionalize the multi-disciplinary teams for the
implementation of the works that resulted from the PROSANEAR-TAL subprojects.
Overall, satisfaction with the municipal teams that supervised the preparation of the pre-
investment subprojects was high and the municipalities were either maintaining their
teams, or were planning to maintain them, for the implementation and post-
implementation phases of the subprojects.

The questionnaires revealed that the municipalities thought that the most important
reasons behind delays in the implementation of the subproject were the delays in
disbursement by MoC, and a lack of preparation/skills of the consultant firms that
undertook the participatory, integrated WSS/urban upgrading subproject engineering
designs. The latter fact resulted in an adjustment of MoC's training program under the
project to include specific training and TA for the consulting firms to improve their
capacity to prepare the subprojects in a timely manner.

Legalization of land tenure was seen by the municipalities as on of the major challenges
to be addressed during subproject preparation. Close behind this issue was the challenge
of resettlement identified in the subproject designs. A sub-sample of subproject designs
provided very detailed data on the engineering designs and showed that ­ given the very
high population densities in many of the subproject intervention areas ­ resettlement
(within the intervention area) and relocation (outside the intervention area) often had
significant impacts on the complexity and the cost estimates of the subproject
interventions. The sub-sample of designs revealed plans to resettle 6,368 households and
to relocate another 3,341 under the corresponding interventions. These numbers translate
into more than 6 percent of the households within the areas of subproject interventions
were identified for resettlement or reallocation. The economic-financial evaluation of the
subprojects also posed difficulties as the integrated character of many of the interventions
made it impossible to apply the standard WSS analysis provided in the PAD/standard


                                            57

TOR, and made it difficult to disentangle the different benefits and to understand the
precise benefits of such integrated approaches.

                         Figure A5.1 Factors that contributed to project delays


                  Factors which contributed to delays in subproject preinvestment 
                                                   preparation (05)


             1. Lack of commitment from the consulting firm                             4.18


        2. Requirement to undertake procurement following                 2.21
                             Bank guidelines


                    3. Lack of clarity in the terms of reference           2.33


          4. Lack of preparedness/capacity on the part of the        1.43
                             municipal team

               5. Inability of municipality to receive payment         1.85
                transfers given its periodic fiscal ineligibility

                       6. Delays in payment transfers by MoC                        3.67


               7. Inadequate capacity of the consulting firm's               2.57
                                technical team


Note: rating from 0 to 5 with 0 the least important and 5 the most important contributors to delays

                       Figure A5.2: Key technical issues in project preparation


                Issues that presented most difficulty during the preparation of 
                                                  subprojects (05)

                                                                                      2.73
                                  1. Monitoring indicators


                                                                                  2.38
                            2. Economicfinancial analysis


                                                                                        2.95
                                           3. Resettlement


                                                                                          3.14
                                             4. Land tenure


                                                                                      2.76
                                 5. Environmental aspects


         6. Lack of clarity regarding the definition of the           1.43
        physical and technical scope of the PDLI and PSI


Note: rating from 0 to 5 with 0 the least important and 5 the most important issues.



                                                          58

          Figure A5.3: Evaluation on Performance of different Stakeholders


           Evaluation of the project actors during preparation of subproject


                 Ministry of Cities


                     World Bank


         Caixa Econômica Federal


         Project management firm


            Municipal government


                Water companies

                                 0.0% 10.0% 20.0% 30.0% 40.0% 50.0% 60.0% 70.0% 80.0%

                                                Project    Caixa 
                        Water       Municipal                                 Ministry of 
                                              managemen Econômica  World Bank
                     companies government                                        Cities
                                                t firm    Federal

      Satisfactory      47.6%        71.4%      75.0%      52.4%      57.1%      52.4%

      Average           47.6%        28.6%      5.0%       42.9%      28.6%      42.9%

      Unsatisfactory     4.8%        0.0%       20.0%       4.8%      14.3%      4.8%



Overall, the municipalities were quite satisfied with the performance of the different
stakeholders. The PROSANEAR-TAL project management firm was awarded the highest
satisfaction ratings; the lowest satisfaction ratings were given to the WSS service
providers, CEF and MoC. All those municipalities that responded stated that their
municipal administrations have incorporated the methodologies and experiences of the
PROSANEAR-TAL project in the preparation of new projects of a similar nature.
Whereas a similarly high number of municipalities were interested in receiving technical
assistance to prepare subprojects similar to those of PROSANEAR-TAL.




                                              59

Annex 6. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                              60

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

The following documents, which were used for the preparation of this ICR, can be found
on file:

Project Documents:
· Project Appraisal Report;
· Legal Agreements;
· Project Progress Reports;
· Auditing Reports;
· PSRs and ISRs;
· Aide- Memoires.

Other Background Information:
· Report on Inputs for the Elaboration of the Implementation Completion Report of
   PROSANEAR-TAL (Relatório: Subsídios para Elaboração do Relatório de
   Conclusão de Implementação do PROSANEAR-TAL) including: (i) the Beneficiary
   Assessment applied in the São José dos Campos and Guarulhos areas of intervention;
   (ii) the results of the municipal questionnaires applied to all project beneficiary
   municipalities; (iii) a summary of the beneficiary roundtable carried out with
   participation of the main federal and municipal stakeholders and beneficiaries held in
   April, 2008; and (iv) presentations prepared by the Borrower and presented during the
   beneficiary roundtable.
· Federal Government's Program for Acceleration of Economic Growth -
   http://www.brasil.gov.br/pac/
· Study on the Comparative Analysis of Sub-Project Designs for Integrated
   Environmental Sanitation and Urban Upgrading Interventions in Poor Areas (Análise
   Comparativa de Projetos de Saneamento Ambiental Integrados e Urbanização de
   Áreas Precárias);
· Study on Impacts of Implementation of Integrated Environmental Sanitation and
   Urban Upgrading Interventions in Poor Areas (Impactos da Implantação dos Projetos
   de Saneamento Ambiental e Urbanização de Assentamentos Subnormais)
· Draft of the Study on Policies for Serving Low-Income Population with Water Supply
   and Sanitation Systems (Políticas de Atendimento à População de Baixa Renda com
   Sistemas de Água e Esgoto)
· Report on the National Seminar - PROSANEAR-TAL ­ "Best practices in Integrated
   Environmental Sanitation Projects" held in 2006 (Seminário Nacional PROSANEAR-
   TAL 2006 ­ Melhores Práticas de Projetos Integrados em Saneamento Ambiental).




                                           61

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD 36210

                   70°W                 R.B. DE            60°W                                                         50°W                                                                                 40°W                                                                 30°W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BRAZIL
                                     VENEZUELA            GUYANA
                                                                                                       French                                                                                                                                                                                LOW INCOME SANITATION
                                                                                                       Guiana
                                 Orinoco                                   SURINAME                    (Fr.)                                                                                            AT L A N T I C                                                                     TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
    C O L O M B I A                                   Boa
                                                     Vista                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (PROSANEAR)
                                                    RORAIMA                                                AMAPÁ                                                                                              O C E A N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PROJECT MUNICIPALITIES:

0°                                                                                                                   Macapá                                                                                                                                                                                PRE-INVESTMENT CARRIED OUT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0°
                                                Negro                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        UNDER THE PROJECT
                                                          NORTH                           Amazon                                               Belém                                                                                                                                                       PRE-INVESTMENT AND SUBSEQUENT CIVIL WORKS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CARRIED OUT UNDER THE PROJECT
                                                            Manaus                                                                                                             São Luís           Parnaíba
                                           Amazon                                                                                                                                                                               Fortaleza

                                     A M A Z O N A S           Madeira                                                                                                        Caxias
                                                                           Tapajós                                                                                                                                                          RIO GRANDE
                                                                                                     PA R Á                                                                                                 CEARÁ
                                                                                                                                                   MARANHÃO                                  Teresina                                       DO NORTE                                                       STATE CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Natal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                 Purus                                                                     Xingu                                                                                                                                   PARAÍBA
                                                                                                                            arA
                                                                                                                            guaia                                                PIAUI                                                                                                                     STATE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 João Pessoa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PERNAMBUCOJaboatão       JaboatJaboatão dos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ão dos   Paulista
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Paulista                                REGION BOUNDARIES
                                               Porto
   P E R U    ACRE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RecifeRecife                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                               Velho
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Maceió
                     Rio Branco                                                                                                       Tocantins                                                                                                 Guarapes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Guarapes            Olinda




                                                                                                                                              Palma                NORTHEAST
 10°S                                    RONDÔNIA                                                                                                                                                                                             ALAGOAS
                                                                                                                        TOCANTINS                                                                                                          Aracaju                                   10°S
                                                                                              leT                                                                                                                                   SERGIPE
                                                                 Juruena                  Pseires                                                                                    B A H I A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Feira de Santana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Lauro de Freitas
                                                                        MATO GROSSO                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0          200         400          600 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Salvador
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Salvador
                                                                        CENTER-WEST                                                                                                                                        Valença

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0                  200                400 Miles
                                                                                                                                             F.D.                                                                        Ilhéus
                                                                                 Cuiabá                                BRASÍLIA
                                                                                                                  Goiânia
                                      B O L I V I A                                                                G O I A S                       M I NoA S G E R A I S                                                                                                                       This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                  MATO GROSSO                                                               arFncisc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                         Belo                       ESPÍRITO                                                                                   endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                         DO SUL                       Grande                              São           Horizonte      Ipatinga     SANTO
                                                                                       Campo
 20°S                                                                      Paragu                                                                                   Betim

                                                                                       Grande                          SOUTHEAST                                                                       VitóriaVitória
                                                                               ya                                                                    São José            Juiz de Fora                                                                                                 20°S


                                                                                                     Paraná        SÃO PAULO                        dos Campos
                                                                                                                                                                                  RIO DE JANEIRO

                         CHILE                              PARAGUAY                                                                      Guarulhos                            Nova Iguaçu
                                                                                                                                  São Paulo
                                                                                                                                  São Paulo                                   Rio de
                                                                                                                               Taboão da Serra
                                                                                                                               aboão da Serra
                                                                                                                               aboão                    Mogi das Cruzes
                                                                                                                                                      Mauá See inset          Janeiro
                                                                                                           PARANÁ                                                                                                                                  AT L A N T I C
                                                                                                                                   São Bernardo
     PACIFIC                                                                                                                        do Campo          Santo André

                                                                                                                 Curitaba
                                                                                                                                                                                               São José dos Campos                                                                                                                BRAZIL
                                                                                                                   STA. CATARINA                                                      Guarulhos
     OCEAN                                                                                                       Florianópolis                                              São Paulo                                                                         O C E A N
                                                                                                                                                                              Taboão                       Mogi das
                                                                                                    SOUTH                        Palhoça                                     da Serra             Mauá      Cruzes
                                                                                                                                                                                São Bernado    Santo Andre
                                                                                                                                                                                  do Campo
                                                                                                 RIO GRANDE                                                                           São Vicente    Santos
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Guaruja
                                                                                                   DO SUL          Porto Alegre                                                                     0                 50 km.


 30°S                                   ARGENTINA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      30°S

                                                                               URUGUAY

80°W                         70°W                             60°W                                                  50°W                                                                  40°W                                                                          30°W

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  JUNE 2008

