Document of                             X        'flV
The World Bank                    FiLE iur
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3264-HA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
FOR A
THIRD POWER PROJECT
June 14, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performnnce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1        =  t (Gourde) 5.00
¢ 1.0       =  US$0.20
¢ 1 million = US$200,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                      British/US Equivalents
I meter (m)                   =  3.281 feet (ft)
1 cubic meter (m3)            =  35.32 cubic feet (ft3)
=  264.2 gallon (gal)
=  6.290 barrels (bbl)
1 kg                          =  2.206 pounds (lb)
1 ton (t; metric; 1,000 kg)  =  1.100 short tons (sh. ton)
1 kilowatt (kW)               =  1.000 watts (103 W)
1 megawatt (MW)               =  1.000 kW (10j  W)
1 kilowatt-hour (kWh)         =  1.000 watt-hours (103 Wh)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CIDA  =  Canadian International Development Agency
EdH   =  Electricite d'Haiti
EEC   -  European Economic Community
HQI   =  Hydro Quebec International
(General Consultants to EdH)
IDB   =  Inter-American Development Bank
IMF   -  International Monetary Fund
KfW   =  Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
(Federal Republic of Germany)
UNCDF =  United Nations Capital Development Fund
UNDP  =  United Nations Development Programme
USAID =  United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HAITI
THIRD POWER PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            Republic of Haiti
Beneficiary:         Electricite d' Haiti (EdH)
Amount:              SDR 23.1 million (US$26 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard
Onlending Terms:    The proceeds of the credit would be onlent by the
Government to EdH for a period of 20 years, including
4 years of grace, at an interest rate of 11.6% per annum.
Project
Description:         The project would help to further develop the energy
sector of Haiti through: (i) the construction of a
diesel power station at Port-au-Prince with two diesel-
electric units (2x7 MW); (ii) rehabilitation of about 10
km2 of the distribution network of Port-au-Prince;
(iii) construction of a head office for EdH; (iv) repair
of hydro-mechanical and civil works at the Peligre
hydro-power station; (v) surveys, feasibility study and
preparation of bid documents for the Guayamouc I hydro-
power project; (vi) staff training; (vii) consulting
services for management and operation of EdH, as well as
for project implementation and supervision.
Risks:               No major risks are expected to be associated with the
project. Limited technical and management capability of
EdH (to be improved under the project) require the
continued involvement of expatriate consultants to super-
vise contract execution and to give management support.
Thisdocumenthas arestricteddistributionand may be usedbyrecipientsonlyinthe performanceof
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost: *                                    Local    Foreign        Total
------ US$ 000        …
Carrefour diesel plant         2,477    12,093       14,570
Distribution networks            700      2,800       3,500
Head office building           1,000        800       1,800
Peligre repairs                  300      1,500       1,800
Consultants                      730      4,337       5,067
Training                          32        200         232
Subtotal base cost          5,239    21,730        26,969
Physical contingency           378      1,439       1,817
Price contingency            1,333      3,831       5,164
Total project cost        6,950    27,000        33,950
Financing Plan:                                       Local   Foreign    Total
…----…US$ million-------
IDA credit                        -        26.0       26.0
Government                        -         1.0        1.0
EdH                              7.0         -         7.0
7.0       27.0       34.0
Estimated
Disbursements:        IDA FY                       1983      1984      1985    1986
---------- US$ million-----
Annual                       6.9      11.0       6.2       1.9
Cumulative                   6.9      17.9     24.1      26.0
Rate of Return:       13.0 percent
Staff Appraisal
Report:               Report No. 3592b-HA dated June 14, 1982.
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Map:                  No. IBRD 13808R1, attached in Annex.
*    Cost estimates exclude taxes and duties, from which the project is
exempt.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HAITI FOR A THIRD POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of SDR 23.1 million (US$26.0 million equivalent), on
standard IDA terms, to the Republic of Haiti, to help finance a third power
project. The Government would onlend the proceeds of the credit to
Electricite d'Haiti (EdH) at an annual interest rate of 11.6 percent for a
period of 20 years, including four years of grace.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The last economic report on Haiti, distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 25, 1982, was Report No. 3931-HA entitled "Economic
Memorandum on Haiti". Its main findings are summarized below. Relevant
social and economic data are presented in Annex I.
3.        Haiti's GNP per capita stood at US$270 in 1980, the lowest level in
the Western Hemisphere. The dire poverty of this country is reflected in
data collected in 1976 that showed that almost 75 percent of the population
lived under conditions of absolute poverty; the rate of infant mortality was
about 150 per thousand live births; average life expectancy was 51 years;
there were low nutrition and sanitation standards (malnutrition and gastro-
enteric diseases account for over half of the deaths in the country) and the
adult illiteracy rate was about 80 percent. Open unemployment is about
16 percent and underemployment might have reached 60 percent of the labor
force in 1979. Income is distributed unequally: in 1976, the top 0.4
percent of the population absorbed 43.7 percent of national income, while
more than 80 percent of the people had an average per capita income of less
than US$100 per year. Extreme rural poverty and high pressure on
agricultural land (350 inhabitants per sq km) and the lack of development of
other sectors, in recent years, resulted in an acceleration of migration
within and out of the country.
4.        High mortality and migration have so far slowed population growth
(1.8 percent per annum during the 1975-80 period), but the natural desire on
the part of the Government is to improve health conditions. Thus, health
improvements and growing difficulties imposed on emigration to neighboring
countries will aggravate the already unfavorable relation of resources to
population and Haiti will increasingly suffer from pressure of a steadily
growing population. The Government is aware of this painful situation and is
willing to initiate a constructive dialogue with the Association and other
bi- and multilateral agencies on the subject. We intend to review population
problems with Government during July 1982.
1/     Reprinted substantially from PR. No. P-3252-HA of May 12, 1982 for a
Forestry Project in Haiti. All figures refer to the Haitian fiscal year ending
Septeimber 30.



- 2 -
5.        Haiti's GDE' expanded at an average annual rate of 4.4 percent or
2.7 percent per capita during the 1970-80 period. The pattern of growth,
however, was subject to cyclical fluctuations ranging from 5.4 percent in
1980 to minus 2.1 percent in 1981. These fluctuations were influenced by the
performance and weight of agriculture, subject to the vagaries of weather and
external markets. Manufacturing and construction have shown a more even
performance.
6.        Between 1970 and 1980, agriculture provided employment for about
63 percent of the labor force, contributed on average 38 percent to GDP, and
grew at an average annual rate of 1.7 percent. The sector--which provides
most of Haiti's exports--is characterized by extremely low productivity. Its
weak performance is reflected in declining agricultural exports, which
decreased by 1.3 percent annually (in real terms) between 1970 and 1980.
Furthermore, the rapid disappearance of Haiti's forests and the resulting
soil erosion are reducing the availability of wood, the country's prime
source of energy, and leading to a shrinkage of the area of productive land.
In an effort to halt these trends, the Government has recently revived
erosion control and forestry programs. It also has initiated programs to
introduce improved grain varieties, rehabilitate coffee plantations, restore
the major irrigated systems and develop agro-industries.
7.        Since 1970, manufacturing industries, construction and public util-
ities have emerged as the most consistently dynamic activities with average
annual growth rates of 6.8 percent, 14.1 percent and 9 percent respectively.
Their combined share in GDP represented 22 percent (in 1981) and their con-
tribution to GDP growth during the eleven year period was of the order of
42 percent of the GDP increment. The manufacturing sector owes much of its
expansionary drive to the export processing industries--which have a strong
potential for further development-- and to a rapid increase in output of con-
struction materials. Growth of locally manufactured products, other than
construction materials, for the domestic market was necessarily limited by
the thinness of this market, a reflection, in turn of the low income levels
of most of the population. Construction, on the other hand, was fueled by
public investment in infrastructure.
8.        Gross investment reached 13 percent of GDP in 1981, compared to
10 percent in 1970. This progress was entirely attributable to the public
sector, whose share of total investment has increased from one-fifth in 1970
to over 50 percent in 1981, as a result of an average expansion rate of
10 percent per year in real terms. The Government's investment strategy, as
stated in its two Five-Year Development Plans (1972-76 and 1977-81), was
geared to the decentralization of economic activity in favor of rural areas
and provincial towns. However the Government's decision in 1980 to carry out
three major investment projects not included in the Five-Year Plan, has
displaced or delayed planned investments and has distorted priorities
somewhat.
9.        The Haitian Government has prepared an inventory of public sector
development projects for the 1982-86 period as part of a new Five-Year
Development Plan which is being evaluated by the Bank. Agriculture, trans-
port, and energy rank high both in the number of projects and in the resour-
ces allocated to them, as was the case in the previous five-year period.



-3 -
These priorities are in line with the country's most urgent needs for expan-
sion of the productive sectors and development of basic infrastructure to
support them; however, planned investments in soil conservation and refores-
tation may still be on the low side.
10.       The mobilization of domestic resources for investment is hampered
by a low average income level and institutional weaknesses in the capital
market and in public finance. During the 1979-81 period, gross national
savings (GNS) amounted to only 2.6 percent of GDP in spite of a more flexible
interest rate policy starting 1980. Foreign assistance, therefore, plays a
major role in supplementing domestic savings and in increasing the Govern-
ment's expenditure capabilities, as some two-thirds of public investment are
financed by foreign lending and aid.
11.       As regards public sector savings, the Government of Haiti has
undertaken during the period 1979-81 a major reorganization of fiscal manage-
ment: most public revenues have been integrated into the Government's
budget; the Treasury now centralizes all current expenditures and a signifi-
cant share of capital expenditures; tax collection is being consolidated and
parafiscal functions have been removed from the Regie du Tabac (State Trading
Monopoly); sound accounting procedures are being established in all public
institutions; customs duties have been consolidated and rates on luxury goods
have been raised; new taxes have been imposed on the lottery and on interna-
tional communications and the income tax law was amended to improve equity
and elasticity of income taxation.
12.       While there have been significant gains towards achieving the goals
of the fiscal reform, recent information suggests that resistance to these
measures remains: this is especially true of the business community's react-
ion to customs tariff increases. In addition, large extra-budgetary expendi-
ture authorizations in 1980 and 1981 have made expectations of a return to
fiscal equilibrium uncertain and the use of resources for efficient purposes,
unclear. The public sector deficit increased from 7.9 percent of GDP in 1979
to around 8.9 percent in 1981 and increasing recourse was made to central
bank financing.
13.       Haiti's coffee crop in 1981 was particularly poor.  This, coupled
with a drop in its world price and a decline in bauxite export revenues,
resulted in an overall decline of Haiti's merchandise exports of 28 percent
as compared with the level achieved in 1980. These low export revenues and
the demand pressures generated by the fiscal deficit produced a balance of
payments crisis and reduced Haiti's net international reserves to zero.
Furthermore, Haiti's drawing rights under an Extended Fund Facility (EFF)
with the International Monetary Fund (IMF), now expired, were interrupted as
ceilings on net domestic bank credit to the public sector and on net domestic
assets of the monetary authorities were exceeded.
14.       The continuing high proportion of grants and concessionary loans
extended to Haiti has helped the country maintain its debt-service ratio at
an estimated 8 percent for 1981. The rising level of private foreign
investment and of supplier's credits, however, will bring with it larger
factor payments in the form of dividend repatriation and interest payments.



- 4 -
15.       The ability of Haiti to maintain an acceptable growth rate in the
future will depend on successful efforts to improve substantially the
productivity of the agricultural sector and to continue diversifying the
economic structure, especially into export-oriented industry. Because of the
limited capacity to generate adequate levels of savings, Haiti will have to
continue relying heavily on foreign savings to finance a high proportion of
the costs of carefully selected development and institution building
projects. Moreover, such external assistance should continue being extended
on very concessionary terms in view of Haiti's low income level, modest
prospects for export growth and increasing dependence on imported energy.
But the terms, size and timing of the external assistance will depend very
much on Haiti's own efforts in exercising fiscal and monetary prudence, in
mobilizing domestic resources and putting them to good use.
16.       Recent changes in the composition of the cabinet have brought forth
a new capable economic team which is rethinking the organization of economic
decision making and is beginning to implement a very austere budget.
17.       The Association and the IMF are closely involved in Haiti's effort
to improve fiscal performance and economic management in general. The IMF
has helped design and is closely monitoring the authorities' short-term
program. The Association has been requested by Haiti to establish a sub-
group within the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development.
IDA is extending assistance to the authorities in the preparation of longer
term plans to mobilize the country's scarce resources for economic develop-
ment, including the priorities of public investments, identification of
bottlenecks in project execution and, more generally, institution building
efforts. The staff of the IMF will be closely monitoring Haiti's performance
in the months to come, and if the progress made in recent months is sus-
tained, the IMF would be in a position to give additional financial assis-
tance to Haiti.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HAITI
18.       The first Bank loan and IDA credit, in 1956 and 1962, respectively,
were for the highways sector. Since 1974, IDA has financed 14 projects in
Haiti. Two credits for highway projects were made in 1974 and 1975. In
1976, a credit was made for an education project, and, in 1977, credits were
approved for power and rural development projects. In 1978, credits were
made for a transportation project (roads and a pilot coastal shipping port
component); for a second education project and for a water supply project in
provincial towns. A credit for a second power project was approved in 1979.
In 1981, credits were made for a post-hurricane agricultural rehabilitation
project in the Southern Peninsula, for a port development project and for an
industrial credit project and in 1982, a highway and a forestry project were
approved. The total of credits outstanding is US$131.2 million of which
US$43.2 million were undisbursed as of March 31, 1982. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank Group operations in Haiti and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects as of March 31, 1982. An IFC loan (US$3
million) has been approved for an integrated poultry project. The loan has,
however, not yet been signed. IFC is investigating possibilities of
investment in economically viable projects, including projects in
agroindustry and the construction industry.



- 5 -
19.       Various multilateral and bilateral agencies are active in Haiti.
The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) has made loans for rural develop-
ment, transportation, power project studies, industrial credit, rural
education, water supply, development of the Port-au-Prince harbor, and urban
drainage in Port-au-Prince. The U.S. Agency for International Development
(USAID) is providing assistance for integrated rural development projects,
community development, malaria eradication, maternal/child health and family
planning, construction of feeder roads, highway maintenance, and coffee
rehabilitation following the hurricane of August 1980. In addition, USAID is
considering a program of assistance under Title III (grant food aid) of PL
480 to help strengthen the quality of local staff and to improve the
efficiency of key ministries. The Canadian International Development Agency
(CIDA) has been supporting a rural development project in the Southern
Peninsula and is participating in a power project in Port-au-Prince in
connection with the Second Power Project assisted by IDA, and is helping
agricultural and technical education and the construction of school
facilities. CIDA has also completed a study of Haiti's water resource
potential for both irrigation and for power generation. France has financed
road construction and is financing seed production, educational planning and
research, and equipment for provincial airports. The Federal Republic of
Germany is providing technical and financial assistance for a regional
development project in the Gonaives Plain, power facilities for Cap Haitien
and the Drouet - Saint Marc areas, and, together with France, is providing
technical assistance for the execution of the IDA-assisted rural development
project in the Northern Plain. The Federal Republic of Germany is also
financing construction of water systems in two provincial towns and
participates in the IDA-assisted port development project.
20.       Recent and prospective IDA operations in Haiti take into account
the ongoing and planned roles of other official lending agencies. In line
with the Government's Five-Year Economic and Social Development Plan
(1977-81) and with Haiti's development priorities (as expressed in the new
Development Plan 1982-86), current and planned IDA operations are meant to
support the improvement and expansion of basic infrastructure in transporta-
tion, power, sites and services and marketing of product; to expand educa-
tional opportunities and upgrade educational skills, to promote development
both in rural areas and provincial towns, and to create new employment oppor-
tunities in the directly productive sectors. As with ongoing projects, all
proposed operations would always include substantial institution building
components.
21.       A third education project, being appraised, would continue support
for basic education, including curriculum reform. The ongoing Rural
Development Project provides for the preparation of a second project which
would extend the scope of the Regional Development Agency's programs to
additional areas of the Northern Department. An urban project, being
prepared with assistance from the Project Preparation Facility, is expected
to help the poorer segment of the population through upgrading of a produce
market in Port-au-Prince and sites and services assistance in Port-au-Prince
and two provincial towns. Sector reviews are being undertaken in the
petroleum and hard minerals sectors and may lead to the identification of
projects in these fields.



- 6 -
22.       Disbursement performance is considered satisfactory.  Initial
disbursements normally take off slowly, but accelerate once projects have
become institutionalized. On several occasions, the lack of counterpart
funds has delayed disbursements. However, the establishment of working funds
in recent projects has brought improvement in this respect.
23.       The Bank Group's share in Haiti's external debt disbursed and out-
standing came to 25.6 percent as of October 1, 1981. The Bank Group's share
of external public debt service was about 2.8 percent and will decrease
during the coming years.
PART III - THE SECTOR
24.       Haiti's indigenous energy resources are limited.  A CIDA-financed
assessment of the hydro potential mentions only four suitable sites for
larger hydro developments. Together with several sites for small
hydroplants, the total undeveloped hydropotential is about 100 MW. Small,
unconnected lignite deposits have been prospected in the center and
south-west of the country, however, further exploration work will be required
to determine their economic importance, and particularly, whether they might
be suitable for power generation.   Petroleum exploration has been going on
for several years, without meaningful results so far.
25.       Imported refined petroleum products are the main source of
commercial energy. Charcoal is extensively used for domestic and small
industrial purposes. For 1979, a Bank energy mission estimated that of
Haiti's gross energy use, wood accounts for 72 percent, bagasse for 8
percent, petroleum for 17 percent and hydro power for 3 percent. Due to the
high use of wood, much of the country has been denuded of trees; erosion is
progressing rapidly and considerable areas of once fertile land have been
stripped of soil. Moreover, because of erosion-induced siltation, the useful
volume of the reservoir of the Peligre hydropower scheme, the largest in the
country, has declined from initially 470 million cubic meters to 375 million
cubic meters.
26.       Various public institutions in Haiti are at present engaged in
evaluating solar energy technologies, windpower and ethanol production from
sweet sorghum. Although some of these technologies have been economically
proven in specific instances, they are unlikely to have a substantial impact
on the country's energy supply situation.
Sector Organization and Regulation
27.       EdH, an autonomous Government agency, is the sole entity
responsible for power supply in Haiti. It was established in 1971 to take
over the Government-owned Peligre hydro plant and the privately owned
Compagnie d'Eclairage Electrique of Port-au-Prince and Cap Haitien. In 1974,
it was also entrusted with the operation of various Government-owned isolated
power facilities in the provinces. EdH's installed hydropower capacity is
50.2 MW and thermal capacity amounts to 65.5 MW. Captive thermal plants,
with an estimated capacity of 25 MW, bring Haiti's total installed generation
capacity to 140.7 MW.



- 7 -
28.        Electrification is not yet widespread in Haiti reflecting the
limited economic substance and poverty level of the country. By the end of
1980, only seven percent of Haiti's population, mainly in the capital and
other major cities, had access to electricity.  Power generation is highest
in Port-au-Prince with about 330 kwh per capita and year, while for the whole
population it is only about 19 kwh. Since 1972, electricity consumption in
Port-au-Prince, due to increased industrial and domestic demand, grew at an
average annual rate of 16.4 percent and is projected to grow 13.8 percent
annually through 1986. In 1980, there were a total of 69,000 connections
installed in the country, of which 15,000 (18 percent, consuming nine percent
of total sales) in areas outside of Port-au-Prince. Industry consumes about
50 percent of sales, commerce 6 percent, public lighting 3 percent, other
various categories 6 percent and residential consumption is about 35 percent.
29.        Power sector development in Haiti and the sector expansion program
of which the proposed project is part, are based on an elaborate UNDP-
financed "Long-term Pre-investment Study of the Power Sector", executed by
the French consulting firms SOFREMINES and SOFRELEC during 1976-78, and
supervised by IDA. This study has been updated and complemented under the
second IDA power project by a Canadian consortium of consultants led by
Hydro-Quebec International (HQI), who since 1980 have been retained as
general consultants to the Haitian national power company. The conclusion of
both studies is that the economic and social situation of Haiti make it
necessary to develop immediately an expansion program and to invest in the
power sector without delay, in order to supply the main urban centers with
electricity. In current prices, this program would cost about US$309 mil-
lion, with a foreign cost component of US$228 million. Most of the planned
investment would be for power generation (US$210 million), predominantly to
construct hydropower plants (US$137 million). The remainder would finance
transmission, distribution, various replacement investments, studies and
consultant services. The expansion program includes the La Chapelle (30 MW)
hydropower scheme; the Guayamouc I hydroplant (mainly for siltation control
of the Peligre reservoir and with small generating capacity only); further
increases in thermal generating capacity in Port-au-Prince in 1984, 1985, and
1987; and preparation for hydropower developments in the Artibonite river
system and for thermal generation and distribution requirements of Port-au-
Prince during the end of the present and the coming decade.
30.        Rural electrification is being adressed in a study financed by
CIDA. Its results will be available during 1983. Together with the energy
sector proposals of IDA as identified in the recent energy sector assessment
report, this study will enable the Government to formalize a global electri-
fication policy for the whole country. At present, however, neither the
Government nor EdH dispose of the funds and technical capacity to implement a
substantial rural electrification program and for this reason, unplanned
village electrification is not encouraged. In order to help EdH concentrate
on accelerated implementation of its 1981-86 expansion program, assurances
have been received that the aggregate annual amount of extra-budgetary
investments in rural electrification would not exceed 0.2 percent of net
fixed assets, unless IDA otherwise agrees (Section 4.01(a) of draft Credit
Agreement, and Section 4.06(a) of the draft Project Agreement).



-8-
Tariffs and Rates
31.        In 1976, EdH implemented a new tariff structure in Port-au-Prince,
based on the principle of marginal costing which was later extended to the
country as a whole, but modified to allow social pricing (social rate) below
a certain level of consumption (30 Kwh per month) for low income families and
small artisan workshops. The social rate is presently USc 10.8 equivalent
per Kwh as compared to the average residential rate of about USc 13.0 equiva-
lent per Kwh and USc 14.4 equivalent per Kwh for a monthly consumption of
over 200 Kwh. Almost half of the residential consumers of Port-au-Prince
qualify for the social rate tariff. They consume on the average 20 Kwh per
month contributing only 3.7 percent to EdH's revenues. Since their monthly
bills barely reach the minimum charge of US$2.95 equivalent, revenues from
social rate customers are not even sufficient to cover metering and
amortization charges for house connections, and a large cross-subsidization
from higher tariff groups to the social rate group is taking place. Notwith-
standing this, current tariff levels are about in line with EdH's long-term
marginal cost. A fuel adjustment clause is in force and applied quarterly.
Organization of EdH
32.        The 1971 decree establishing EdH, and subsequent amendments,
state that the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity
constitute a State monopoly to be implemented through EdH. Policy directions
are given by its President (ex-officio the President of the Republic) and
exercized through EdH's Board of Directors.
33.        The company's chief operating officer is the General Manager, who
is assisted by three directors for operations, planning and administration,
all of whom are appointed by the President on the recommendation of the Board
of Directors. In mid 1981, EdH employed about 1.050 people (about one
employee per 65 consumers) of which 230 were stationed at locations outside
of Port-au-Prince. Staff quality is not yet fully satisfactory and there is
a lack of managerial, technical and administrative skills presently compen-
sated by the employment of Hydro Quebec International as general
consultants. EdH salaries are at levels (ranging from US$535 equivalent per
month for a recently graduated engineer to US$950 equivalent per month for a
department head or senior accountant) which make recruitment of specialists
difficult and are not yet enough to attract Haitian specialists residing
abroad to return to their home country.
34.        Under the first IDA power project, 20 engineers and technicians
were trained abroad, and on the job training for administrative personnel was
provided in an in-house training center. Under the second IDA power project
a training program for senior unit managers was arranged and a short-term (3
months) training consultant appointed to draft a new training concept to be
implemented under the proposed project. Also, with IDA financing, EdH's
accounting staff was trained and from 1979 to 1981, Price Waterhouse (Canada)
implemented an administrative innovation program (management reporting,
inventory and budget control) and drafted procedural manuals for headquarter
and district office operations. At the same time, EdH reorganized its
internal audit department and added a well qualified auditor to its staff.
EdH's accounts, since 1976, have been audited by Price Waterhouse & Co. of
Puerto Rico.



- 9 -
35.       Training and reorganization programs achieved a marked improvement
in administrative performance of EdH, revised its organizational structure
and introduced acceptable auditing procedures. Nevertheless, EdH continues
to need more and better qualified managerial, technical and administrative
personnel and training programs will have to be continued for several years
to come. In order to continue the process of organizational consolidation
and to guarantee efficient technical operation, EdH would also in the future
employ engineering, management and training consultants whose qualifications
would be satisfactory to the Association and who would be employed in accord-
ance with the principles and procedures set forth in the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency", published in August 1981 (Section 2.02 of the draft Project Agree-
ment).
Financial Aspects of EdH
36.       Prior to 1975, EdH's financial performance had been very weak,
mostly because of inadequate tariff levels, high energy losses, non-payment
of public electricity consumption and excessive reliance on short-term debt
financing. However, starting in 1976, and particularly since 1978, EdH
finances improved gradually. Its average revenue increased from USc6.5 per
kWh in 1978 to an estimated USc11.2 in 1981, representing an increase of
about 20 percent per annum.
37.       In order to achieve a minimum rate of return of 8 percent, as
agreed under previous IDA credits (Section 4.02 of the draft Credit
Agreement, and Section 4.03(a) of the draft Project Agreement), EdH has
implemented a program of tariff improvements. Besides attaining the planned
rate of return, it would allow the self-financing of 50 percent of invest-
ments in 1982. Under the same program, until 1986, EdH would only need to
raise tariffs by the percentage of expected inflation (estimated at 10 per-
cent per annum) in order to contribute internally about 35 percent towards
planned investments during this period. In order to verify these expecta-
tions and to ensure the dynamics of tariff improvements through the coming
years, qualified consultants would study the adequacy of EdH's present tariff
structure and furnish the results of such a study to the Association not
later than September 30, 1982 (Sections 3.04 of the draft Project Agreement).
38.       EdH's debt service ratio is expected to range from 5.7 in 1981 to
3.1 in 1986. The debt/equity ratio would comfortably range from 32:68 in
1981 to 51:49 in 1986. To provide the Association with an opportunity to
review the need for, and terms of, any future borrowings, EdH would not incur
long-term debt without the Association's prior consent unless internal cash
generation covers maximum debt service 1.5 times (Section 4.05(a) of the
draft Project Agreement). Likewise, EdH, without the prior approval of the
Association and prior to the completion of the project, would not undertake
any investment in the power sector exceeding the equivalent of one percent of
net value of its fixed assets (Section 4.01(a) of the draft Credit Agreement
and Section 4.06(a) of the draft Project Agreement). A revaluation of these
assets and registration of its results in EdH's books would be undertaken
annually (Section 4.04(a) and (b) of the draft Project Agreement).
39.       Regarding arrears in the payment of public sector electricity
bills, the Government and EdH in 1981 have concluded an arrangement for their
consolidation and to prevent the recurrence of arrears in the future.



- 10 -
Nevertheless, the Borrower has reassured IDA, that he will take all measures
on his part to ensure that electricity bills owed EdH by the Borrower's
departments and agencies continue to be paid in a timely fashion (Section
4.03 of the draft Credit Agreement). As an additional measure to improve the
financial status of EdH, the Borrower would allow the company to maintain its
liquid funds in interest-bearing accounts either at the central bank or
commercial banks or in investments not exceeding six months to maturity
(Section 4.05 of the draft Credit Agreement).
IDA Strategy and Participation in the Sector
40.       The Association, since the beginning of its involvement in the
power sector of Haiti, has sought to (a) assist in the formulation of a
national power development plan; (b) help Haiti develop the power sector by
using, to the extent possible, the country's own energy resources; and (c)
assist EdH to become an efficient and financially sound national power
company. Under the proposed credit, the Association would continue to pursue
these long-term objectives, particularly by seeking to rationalize sector
development; provide access to electricity to a greater number of households;
accelerate power service connection to labor-intensive industries; establish
adequate and reliable power service in Port-au-Prince as well as extend
services to principal towns; and increase EdH's institutional and financial
independence through better staff training, adequate pricing, reduction in
power losses and thefts, and increasing the overall management efficiency of
the company.
41.       The First Power Project (Credit 645-HA of July 1976 for US$16.0
million) included the first part (1976-78) of a two-stage power development
program then covering the period 1976-83. The decision to carry out this
program in two stages arose from constraints in the availability of both IDA
and local counterpart funds and from the desire to strengthen EdH
institutionally before it undertook larger investments. The objectives of
the First Project were threefold: technical, institutional, and financial.
The project addressed the urgent need to install 21 MW of diesel generating
capacity in Port-au-Prince at a new power station (Varreux) near the
industrial and commercial heart of the city, together with transmission
facilities, particularly to serve industry. Institutionally, EdH was
reorganized, its autonomy strengthened, and its technical competence
supported by technical assistance for engineering, project supervision and
staff training. The project was completed about 20 months behind schedule.
This delay arose because of a transport accident to the two small generators
and because of a major breakdown of the two larger units, afterwards repaired
by the supplier. Transmission facilities were completed on schedule. A new
tariff structure, coupled with improvements in operating efficiency, resulted
in a substantial improvement of EdH's financial position.
42.       The Second Power Project (Credit 895-HA of May 1979 for US$16.5
million and special action (EEC) credit 4-HA of May 1979 for US$6 million)
covers the second stage power development program for the 1979-83 period.
The project, receiving parallel CIDA financing, is adding 21 MW (net) capa-
city to the Varreux diesel station, transmission lines and substations in
Port-au-Prince, renovations of the Port-au-Prince distribution system, some
diesel units and related distribution networks in the provinces and
consulting services and training of EdH's staff.  The implementation of the



- 11 -
project's associated technical and institutional objectives suffered a
setback in early 1979, due to internal controversies in EdH concerning the
IDA-financed contract for the Varreux diesel station resulting in the dis-
missal of the General Manager, the Technical Director and the consultants.
This incident caused delays of about one year in effectiveness of the credit
and up to one and a half years in the implementation of both the institu-
tional and technical aspects. By allowing overlapping consultant services,
the Association has endeavored to minimize the effect of the delays.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Description
43.       The project comprises a portion of the 1981-86 power sector
expansion program and would mainly account for the requirements in additional
diesel generation capacity for Port-au-Prince. Other parts of the program
are being financed by KfW, the Government of Haiti and EdH itself. IDB is
expected to assist in the financing of the La Chapelle hydropower station,
the next hydropower development step in EdH's least cost program. Negotia-
tions were held in Washington from May 18 to 20, 1982. The Haitian delega-
tion was headed by Mr. Alix Cameau, Director General of EdH. The proposed
IDA project would include the following components:
(a) Installation of two 7 MW diesel generating units in a new power
station to be constructed at Carrefour in Port-au-Prince. The
power station would be built to accommodate 5 units (as required by
1985).
(b) Rehabilitation of about 10 km2 of the Port-au-Prince distribution
network. Current extensions either in Port-au-Prince and the
provinces would be financed with EdH's own funds.
(c) Surveys and final study, including preparation of bid documents, of
the Guayamouc I hydro plant, EdH's high priority project for
decreasing siltation of the Peligre reservoir.
(d) Construction of a new head office for EdH. (Preliminary design for
this component had been prepared under the Second Power Project).
(e) Continuation of general and administrative consulting services as
in progress under the second project. These services would
continue to cover all managerial and operational aspects of EdH and
minor studies with respect to EdH's development program.
(f) Repair of the Peligre hydro facilities. Several hydro mechanical
components have to be replaced or repaired and extensive concrete
repairs are required particularly in the stilling basin.
(g)  Training of EdH staff (continuation of training program initiated
under the second project).



- 12 -
Carrefour Thermal Power Plant
44.       With the completion in 1981, of the Varreux power station under the
second IDA project, Port-au-Prince has an available thermal capacity of 67 MW
of which 42 MW (63 percent) operate on Bunker C oil. To meet future
requirements, another 21 MW net capacity is required in 1983/84, at the
beginning of the dry season (October through May), 14 MW one year later and
another 21 MW in 1987. The proposed credit would finance 14 MW of the 21 MW
in capacity required in 1983/84. Because the Varreux station cannot be
extended beyond 7 units, a new site has been selected in the western part of
the city, near Carrefour. As a condition of effectiveness the main contract
for the Carrefour power generating units would have to be signed (Section
6.01(b) of the draft Credit Agreement).
Distribution Facilities
45.       The renovation of the Port-au-Prince network is urgently required.
The urban area of Port-au-Prince and suburbs covers about 35 km2 and at least
three-fourths of the network is in very poor condition. Many lines have been
extended indiscriminately; conductors are undersized and much of the equip-
ment is obsolete. It is hoped that starting with renovations covering about
2 km2 in 1982, an annual target of 4 to 5 km2 can be reached in 1983, using
both EdH crews and local contractors. The second IDA credit will finance
approximately 4 km2 in 1982-83, and the proposed credit would add another 10
km2. By the end of 1985, about 40 percent of the network at Port-au-Prince
would have been renovated. Agreement was reached between EdH and the telep-
hone and television companies, that these companies would renovate their net-
works (poles are used jointly) concurrently with EdH. Regarding the high
rate of power losses, covenants included in previous IDA power projects
(under the second IDA project, power losses were reduced from 33 percent to
the present level of about 27 percent) are reiterated under the proposed
project in order to gradually reduce these losses (not less than 2 percent
each year, starting 1982, until a level of 15 percent is reached) (Section
3.02 of the draft Project Agreement).
Studies for Guayamouc I
46.       Surveys, feasibility study and preparation of bid documents for the
Guayamouc I hydropower scheme would be financed under the proposed credit and
would establish whether construction of Guayamouc could be implemented
economically in several stages. The main function of Guayamouc would be to
protect the Peligre reservoir from further siltation (the power generation
component would be small) and it would have to be decided whether eventually
the construction of a low dam with a limited lifetime of 5-10 years could
offer a meaningful temporary solution to the siltation problem.
Construction of a New Head Office for EdH
47.       The present head office cannot adequately house EdH's personnel and
serve the public. A new head office, designed to meet EdH's future require-
ments is urgently needed and should be suitable to absorb about 5 years of
manpower and company growth as determined in a study by the general



- 13 -
consultants. The general consultants have prepared the preliminary design,
while final design would be executed by local architects under supervision of
the consultants and financed by EdH. The head office is expected to be
located on the premises of an old power station, in the center of the city.
Rehabilitation of Peligre Dam
48.       Since 1971, when the power generation facilities were completed at
the Peligre dam, no inspection of the waterworks had taken place. During a
recent inspection, deterioration of concrete was observed in many places as
well as extensive damage to the floor of the stilling basin. Except for the
immediate -- and already completed -- repair of an emergency gate, the safety
of the structures is not endangered, but the consultants (TAMS of the USA)
proposed a three-year repair program because most of the works can only be
carried out during the dry season. A seismic study would also be made to
determine whether the structures meet present day requirements. In view of
the importance of the Peligre facilities, the repair works have been included
in the proposed project. However, since the Peligre scheme also serves for
irrigation purposes, the proposed project would only finance 50 percent of
foreign exchange cost of construction and the Government and EdH would
finance the remainder (Section 3.02 of the draft Credit Agreement). Also,
EdH would introduce a system of periodic inspections of the dam once repairs
are completed (Section 3.05(b) of the draft Project Agreement).
Consultants to EdH
49.       The services of the general and administrative consultants
presently employed by EdH would continue under the proposed project. Their
assistance relates to all of EdH operational, planning and construction
aspects, however, their involvement would gradually decrease, with EdH's
growing own capabilities. In this respect, EdH created in 1979 a planning
section which would form the nucleus of a future planning department.
Staff Training
50.       EdH's staff training program would also be continued under the
proposed credit. Training would be provided for 13 engineers and technicians
(11 in Canada, 2 in France). The major training effort, however, taking
advantage of the expertise of the consultants, would be to improve the tech-
nical expertize and productivity of the general training center financed
under the first credit and of the diesel operators and maintenance center,
financed by the second IDA credit.
Project Execution
51.       As EdH still requires support with project implementation, HQI
(Canada) and Price Waterhouse (Canada) would continue as EdH's general and
administrative consultants respectively. HQI would assist EdH in detailed
engineering and procurement for the project, Price Waterhouse in the admin-
istrative and accounting fields.



- 14 -
52.       Under the Second  IDA Project, a Coordinating Committee comprising
EdH's Technical Director and the heads of all technical consulting firms
assisting EDH (HQI for IDA, BELT of Canada for CIDA and DECON for KfW) was
established. The committee would continue to meet regularly to coordinate
design work (including standardization of design), construction activities,
staff training, and supervision. In addition, assurances have been received
that at all times the central managerial positions would be filled by
competent and experienced persons whose qualifications are satisfactory to
the Association (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Project Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
53.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$34.0 million with
a foreign exchange component of US$27.0 million. The proposed credit of
US$26 million would finance 76 percent of total project cost and 96 percent
of foreign exchange cost. The Government would finance US$1 million of the
foreign exchange cost for the repair of the Peligre dam. The estimation of
project cost is based on January 1982 prices and expected inflation. It
excludes interest during construction and import duties and taxes, from which
EdH is exempted. A physical contingency, considered reasonable, of 10 per-
cent was assumed for construction, except for distribution networks for which
zero percent was used, because the uncertainty factor already had been taken
into account by slightly over-estimating the work that probably could be
performed. A price contingency has been added using the following assumed
inflation rates:  local costs 1982 onward - 10 percent; foreign costs 1982 -
8.5 percent, 1983 through 1985 - 7.5 percent, 1986 onward - 6 percent.
54.       The proceeds of the credit would be onlent by the Government under
a subsidiary loan agreement to EdH in US dollars for a period of 20 years,
including 4 years of grace, at an interest rate of 11.6 percent per annum,
and additional terms and conditions approved by the Association (Section
3.01(b) of the draft Credit Agreement).  The execution and ratification of
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and EdH as well as
the authorization or ratification of the Project Agreement by EdH would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed project (Section 6.01(a) and
6.02(a) and (b) of the draft Credit Agreement).
55.       Retroactive Financing.  Retroactive financing not exceeding US$0.8
million is proposed for consulting services since July 1, 1981 for the final
design and preparation of bid documents for the Carrefour diesel plant, and
for surveys, feasibility study, final design and preparation of bid documents
of the Guayamouc I dam and the power station.
56.       Procurement and Disbursement.  Procurement of goods and services to
be financed by the proposed credit, other than those of consultants, would be
procured by international competitive bidding, in accordance with the current
edition of the Bank Group Guidelines for Procurement of March 1977. Although
presently none of the project equipment is being manufactured in Haiti, local
manufacturers, if any were to emerge, would receive a preference of 15 per-
cent or applicable duties, whichever is the lower, for the purpose of bid
evaluation. Similarly a preference of 7.5 percent would be given to local
civil work contractors. All bidding packages over US$50,000 equivalent would
be subject to IDA's prior review of procurement documents. Disbursements
would be made for 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost for IDA-financed



- 15 -
contracts, or IDA-financed portions of contracts (Peligre), awarded for
equipment and materials and associated services (e.g., erection services for
diesel plant) and for consulting services, and similarly for 60 percent of
expenditures under civil works contracts. The latter percentage represents
the estimated foreign exchange cost of such contracts. Disbursements would
only be made against fully documented withdrawal applications.
57.       Engineering, Construction and Management.  HQI and Price Waterhouse
would continue as EdH's general and administrative consultants for the
project and for management and operational matters respectively. HQI would
also carry out the Guayamouc I study. Final design and bid documents for the
new head office would be prepared by experienced local architects, assisted
and supervised by HQI. The estimated cost of consultant services to be
financed under the project is US$5.1 million in 1981 prices of which about 17
percent constitutes the reimbursable part (i.e., travel, per diem expenses).
About 470 man-months of consultant services would be provided at an average
cost of about US$9,000/man-month (1981 prices) including salaries, social
overheads general expenses, accommodation and other benefits. The project is
expected to be completed by December 31, 1985.
Auditing Procedures
58.       Under the Second IDA Power Project, EdH has implemented comprehen-
sive internal audit and procedures for financial planning and management
reporting. EdH's accounts would continue to be audited by an external
auditor acceptable to the Associaton and would be submitted to the Associa-
tion within four months after the closing of each fiscal year (Section 4.02
of the draft Project Agreement).
Economic Evaluation
59.       The proposed project would increase the generating capacity of
Port-au-Prince and existing and new industries in the capital area would be
its main beneficiaries. However, through the distribution component, the
project also would allow better services over a wider area, directly benefit-
ting commercial and residential consumers. Since the proposed project
includes several components of EdH's 1981-86 investment program, and consid-
ering the difficulty of allocating benefits to each component, the internal
rate of return has been calculated for the investment program as a whole.
The cost streams, adjusted to early 1981 prices, were compared to incremental
revenues attributable to the project on the basis of the expected rates for
October 1981. On these assumptions, the rate of return for the program is
about 13 percent. Regarding the generating component, comparisons between
various types of plants showed that medium-speed diesel would represent the
least-cost solution for a discount rate of up to at least 16 percent. A
sensitivity analysis shows the rate of return to be very sensitive to changes
in electricity tariffs and moderately sensitive to changes in capital and
fuel costs.



- 16 -
Project Risks
60.       Though the number of qualified engineers in EdH has increased, EdH
is still a small company and its professional staff is not sufficiently
experienced yet to ensure minimal risks in project implementation. In order
to minimize this risk, the general consultant (HQI) will continue to super-
vise project execution.
Environmental Considerations
61.       As under previous IDA power credits, specifications concerning
maximum sulphur dioxide emissions, maximum noise level and thermal pollution
would be enforced for the Carrefour power station and power lines would be
routed to minimize visual impact.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Development Credit Agreement and Project Agreement
between the Republic of Haiti and the Association, and between the
Association and EdH respectively, and the recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed separately. Special conditions are listed in Section III
of Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness would be that EdH has
(1) signed the main contract for the power generating units, and that (2), a
subsidiary loan agreement has been executed and ratified between and by the
Government of Haiti and EdH, and that (3), the Project Agreement has been
authorized or ratified by EdH.
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
June 14, 1982
Attachments



-17 -                                                  ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
HAITI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
HAITI                              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. EM.)                                                             - MOST RECENT ESTI MATE )I
TUTAL              27.8                                  MDST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       14.0               1960  lb    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AiERICA & CARIBBEAN  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US)                   100.0        120.0     260.0    *               1616.2                     794.2
ENERGY CUNSUMPTIUN PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAiS UF COAL EQUIVALENT)       36.3         34.5       65.9                   1324.1                     707.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
PUPULAIOUN, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  3630.0        4235.0    4920.5    *
URBAN POPULATIUN (PERCENT OF IOTAL) 15.6          19.9       26.9                     64.2                       27.7
POPULATIUN PRUJECTIUNS
PUPULATIUN IN YEAR 200U (MILLIUNS)                          8.1
STATIUNARY POPULATIUN (MILLIUNS)                           17.0
YEAR SIATIONARY PUPULATIUN IS REACHED                    2090
POPULATlUN DENSITY
PER Sq. EM.                       130.6        152.3      177.0                     34.3                      55.0
PER Su. Eal. AGRICULTURAL LAND    259.0        300.0     345.3                      94.5                     130.7
PuPULATIUN AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
U-14 YRS.                          40.9         42.9      43.4                      40.7                      46.0
15-64 YRS.                          55.2         53.3      53.1                      55.3                      51.2
65 YRS. AND ABUVE                    3.9          3.8       3.5                       4.0                       2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TUTAL                                1.6         1.5        1.7                      2.4                       2.8
URBAN                               4.1          4.0        5.0                      3.7                       5.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       44.7        43.1       40.8                     31.4                      46.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THUUSAND)       19.3        16.5       14.0                      8.4                      15.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.0          3.0        2.8                      2.3                       3.2
FIAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THUUSANDS)         ..          ..       16.1
USERS (PERCENT UF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..        5.0
F)OD AND NUIRITIUN
INDEX UO FUUD PRODUCTION
PER LAPITA (1969-71-100)          104.0        100.0      92.0                     108.3                      89.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY UF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    88.0         87.0      93.0                     107.6                      92.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           47.U         47.0      51.0                      65.8                      52.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        17.0         17.0       18.0                     34.0                      16.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MURIALITY RATE       35.7        26.0       20.9                      7.6                      20.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    44.4          49.1       53.1                     64.1                      50.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THUUSAND)                               ..       150.0jc       ..                     70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT UF
POPULATION)
TUTAL                                ..           ..       14.0                     65.7                      27.4
URBAN                                ..           ..      38.0                      79.7                      74.3
RURAL                                ..           ..        7.0                     43.9                      12.6
ACLESS TU EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
uF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..         ..                     59.9
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..                     75.7
RURAL                                *-          1.0         ..                     30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           923U.5      11569.0    5936.5                    1728.2                   13844.1
PUPULATIuN PER NURSING PERSON    10342.3        7066.7    4230.1                    1288.2                    2898.6
POPULATlON PER HUSPITAL BED
IOTAL                            1567.4       1194.6    1219.0                     471.2                    1028.4
URBAN                             298.0           ..     583.4                     558.0                     423.0
RURAL                                ..           ..    3309.9                        ..                    3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..          ..
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HUUSEHULD
TOTAL                                ..          3.6       4.4
URBAN                                ..          2.2       4.2
RURAL                                 ..         4.3       4.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSUNS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..          1.9
URBAN                                ..          2.0
RURAL                                ..          1.9
ACLESb TU ELECTRICITY (PERCENI
UF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..          4.1       2.9
URBAN
RURAL



- 18 -                                                            ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
HAITI - SOCTAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
HAITI                              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV5RAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-a
MOST RECENr              MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb    LATIN AMERICA 1 CARIBBEAN  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                 46.0         51.0       58.0                     101.7                       73.7
MALE                  50.0         57.0         ..                     103.0                       96.8
FEMALE                42.0         46.0         ..                     101.5                       79.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   4.0          6.0        9.0                      35.3                       16.2
MALE                   5.0          8.0       13.0                      34.9                       25.3
FEMALE                 2.0          4.0        6.0                      35.6                       14.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY) 21.0             19.0       8.0                      30.1                        5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             43.0         52.0       41.0                      29.6                       36.2
SECONDARY                           13.0         18.0         ..                      15.7                       23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         15.0         23.3         ..                      80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           2.0          2.7        3.5                      42.6                       32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           5.8         19.6       20.6                     215.0                       69.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.5          2.6        2.9                      89.0                        8.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   11.0         18.7       19.7                      62.8                       20.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..        1.2                       3.2                        0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       1970.9       2104.4    2345.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    47.6         46.4       45.6                      22.6                       36.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               80.0         74.2       73.7                      35.0                       56.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   6.4          7.2        7.2                      23.2                       17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 54.3         49.7       47.7                      31.8                       37.2
MALE                                  58.4         54.3       52.7                      49.0                       47.1
FEMALE                                50.4         45.2       42.8                      14.6                       27.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.8          0.9        1.0                       1.4                        1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTLIATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (IS$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      169.0                        ..                      381.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..      144.0                     187.6                      156.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       82.0                    513.9                       334.3
RURAL                                 ..           ..       73.0                    362.2                       137.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       55.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..       78.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-eighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is sot uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise sated, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1965-70 average.
* The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population
estimates  shown in the 1981 World Bank                                                     May, 1981
Atlas are $270 (at 1978-80 prices) and 5,009.0
thousand.



LI)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                   
I.  ~~~~~~                    so~~~  .c.-.....0 .0
.00                       0o~~~~"C"t0to.0              1%~~~~,  t.t.~~~~                       '"S                  *01       .'         a 4 
P4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0I~*0   >lt*~
Z01.* 0 ~                                      U     S                     -s~~
a R ~ ~ ~ ~~                                                      o~
"0  0~~~to ~~i*0.0.I  0-1.0  00         0004~~~~  A000.
Z~~~~~.0             - ~ 0.                                  00.0                      -004   . o".
n~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~0~.3~                                            .0.                                   to 
0.0.0500  00 4 II~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
.01.0000.00  00002000l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  000000.0  0 0...1.100        0              0.030~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S . 1 
02  2j20000     .02 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~    o221.0000~~~~t 
00.00.01.   4.04000 01.01.0.00*  4000  .0,                £ 400*.'....2                           0t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.   32  001I.004.0014 275 
.0  .0000    00.0000   0  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--  --  -- 0 --00                                              O4.
0  .00                                      0.0000 .00  40~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ...   ...   
00.00.000 0.00 0   00 00.004  0004    1.300            -1000          04        4      .010.00Hi
.00.0 000 0000          0..00000000100   .0000100                            0 t oo0.o    0107



- 20 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
HAITI - ECONOMIC DATA 1/
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1981                                            ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (% in constant prices)
US$ Million       %                      1965-75 3/    1970-75 3/    .1975-81 4/
GNP at Market Prices                    1,572.7    100.0                        1.4             3.8              5.0
Gross Domestic Investment                 205.3      13.1                      11.8            14.2              5.1
Gross National Savings 2/                   1.9       0.1                      13.7            19.7             -4.4
Current Account Balance                  -116.0       7.4                       -               -                 -
Export of Goods, NFS 5/                   226.1      14.4                       1.2            11.9              4.8
Import of Goods, NFS 5/                   411.7      26.2                       4.7            10.0              7.7
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980
Value Added
US$ Million          %
Agriculture                               335.0        32.7
Industry 6/                               235.2       23.0
Services                                  453.0       44.3
Total/Average                   1,023.2      100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government 7/                   Central Government
G Million         x of GDP              G Million          % of GDP
1981        1975    1981                1981         1975    1981
Current Receipts                          1,171.5        13.1    14.7               655.9          9.3      8.2
Current Expenditures                      1,220.4        11.7    15.3                807.3         8.2    10.2
Current Surplus(+) or Deficit (-)           -48.9         1.4    -0.6              -151.4          1.1    -2.0
Capital Expenditures                        623.2         7.5      7.8               543.3         5.5      6.6
External Assistance (net) 8/                461.7         5.2      5.8               399.0         4.5      5.8
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1970    1976    1977         1978       1979      1980        1981
(Million G Outstanding End Period)
Money and Quasi-Money                           198.2   779.9   930.6   1,159.7   1,353.5   1,593.5   1,801.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector                    189.2   346.3   288.9        332.0      392.2      605.6      837.9
Bank Credit to Private Sector                    65.3   519.7   658.0        791.5      921.8   1,010.4   1,118.3
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi-Money as % of GDP                10.0    17.7    18.5        22.5        23.0      22.2       22.1
Consumer Price Index  (Base 1955 - 100)         124.0   247.3   264.4    257.5          291.0    343.7       415.9
Consumer Price Index in
Annual Percentages Changes                     3.3    10.2       6.9     -2.6         13.0      18.1       21.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector                     -2.1      8.9    16.6       14.9        18.1      54.4       38.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector                     9.9    15.2    26.6        20.3        16.5       9.6       10.7
Note:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
1/     Date refer to FY ending September 30.
2/     Does not include current transfers
3/     IHS, Comptes de la Nation, 3/31/81.
4/     World Bank estimates
5/     Net of imported inputs for assembly industry exports.
6/     Mining, manufacturing, public utilities and construction.
7/     Consolidated Accounts of Central Government and Public Enterprises.
8/     Net disbursements of loans and grants.
9/     N.A. is Non-Applicable.



- 21 -                                                                      ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
HAITI - TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                                           MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (Average 1978-81)
US$ Million       %
1975      1976      1977      1978       1979      1980      1981
(USS Million)                                  Coffee                                         56.4         34.2
Cocoa                                           5.2         3.2
Export of Goods, SFS                 105.7    147.3    181.0    203.6    209.1    288.1    226.1              Essential Oils                                  6.9          4.2
Import of Goods, NFS               -165.1   -225.5   -269.2   -292.2   -342.2   -414.0   -411.7               Bauxite                                        17.9         10.9
Resource Gap (deficit = -)          -59.4    -78.2    -88.0    -88.6   -133.1    -125.9   -185.6              Assembly Industry (net)                        30.3         18.4
Small Industries and Handicraft               22.5         13.7
Interest Payments (net)               7.0       -7.2    -12.1    -14.7    -13.4    -14.3    -17.8             All Other Commodities                          25.6       155.5
Other Factor Payments (net)            ..        ..        ..        ..        ..         ..        ..            Total                                     164.8        100.0
Net Transfers                        39.4       65.1      61.5      77.9      85.8       69.8      87.4
Balance of Current Account        -2T.   0    -I3        16    -25.4    -         3    8 . -6 07 16.0         EXTERNAL DEBT, SEPTEMBER 30, 1981               US$ Million
Direct Foreign Investment             2.7        6.8       8.0      10.0      12.0       13.0      15.7       Public Debt including guaranteed                      329.1
Net MLT Borrowing                    19.7      24.8       50.2      42.2      33.1      46.5       42.6       Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Disbursements                     24.9      33.3      60.5       51.3      39.3       9.9       55.8       Total Outstanding and Disbursed
Amortization                       5.2       8.5      10.3        9.2       6.2      36.6       13.2
Jther Items n.e.i.                  -18.5        0.1      -6.8    -16.5        29.8       0.9      24.4       DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOPR 1981                           %
Increase in Reserves (-)             23.1    -11.6    -12.8    -10.3          -14.0      11.8      33.3
Public Debt, including guaranteed                     9.4
Gross Reserves 11                     9.9       22.7      31.0      38.9       54.7    40.3        19.4       Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
net Reserves 1/                      -3.8        7.7      20.5      30.7       44.7    32.9        -0.2       Total Outstanding and Disbursed
Fuel and Related tiaterlals                                                                                   IBRD/IDA LENDING (March 31, 1982)                US9 Million
Imports                           12.9      17.1      23.6       24.5       34.5    63.0       61.0
Exports                             -         -          -         -          -        -                   Outstanding and Disbursed                            88.0
Undisbursed                                          43.2
Outstanding including undisbursed                   131.2
1/   Monetary Authorities.
-    Not Applicable.
Not Available
2/   1981 Debt Figures are not available yet.
June 1982



- 22 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HAITI
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1982)
-------US$ Million-------
(less cancellations)
Loan or
Credit                                                     Bank
Number        Year       Borrower           Purpose       Amount      IDA      Undisbursed
One loan and five credits have been fully disbursed          2.6      51.9
675-HA        1977     Republic of Haiti   Rural
Development            10.0           3.2
757-HA        1978     Republic of Haiti   Water Supply                6.6          3.2
770-HA        1978     Republic of Haiti   Education                  10.0          7.7
807-HA        1978     Republic of Haiti   Transporta-
tion                   15.0           1.2
895-HA        1979     Republic of Haiti   Power                      16.5          7.6
1106-HA       1981     Republic of Haiti   Agricultural                3.2          2.8
Rehabilitation
1121-HA       1981     Republic of Haiti   Ports                      11.0         10.7
1131-HA       1981     Republic of Haiti   Industrial Credit           7.0          6.8
Total                              2.6    131.2          43.2
of which has been repaid    2.6
Total now outstanding
Amount sold                        0.4
of which has been repaid    0.4         -
Total now held by Bank and IDA             131.2 1/
Total undisbursed                                        43.2
1/   Two credits of US$14.0 and US$4.0 equivalent for a highway and forestry
project respectively, were approved and signed subsequent to the above
date of Statement A; they are not yet effective.



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1982)
Type of     Amount in $ Million
Fiscal Year            Borrower                 Business    Loan   Equity   Total
Promoteurs et                 Integrated    3.00    0.15       3.00 1/
Investisseurs                   Poultry
Associes, S.A.
Total Gross Commitments                      3.00    0.15      3.00
Less Repayments
Total Commitments now held                   3.00    0.15      3.00
by IFC
1/   Not yet effective



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
C.   STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION as of March 31, 1982 1/
Credit 675      Rural Development Project; US$10 Million Credit of January 14,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 27, 1977; Closing Date:
Originally December 31, 1981 postponed to December 31, 1982.
In the beginning, the project was facing major difficulties but has
taken off well recently. Disbursements now are flowing rapidly. While agri-
cultural field trials and rural water supply components have progressed beyond
appraisal expectations, implementation of the roads component is slightly behind
schedule. The irrigation component has been reduced drastically. A major
unresolved issue is the inadequacy of sugar milling capacity in the project
area and of the coordination of cutting and milling of sugar cane. Some steps
have been taken by Government to improve the situation, and a consultant
is now engaged in determining the present status of these problems and
identifying the further action necessary. The matter will be further pursued
with Government on the basis of his findings and recommendations. The
Government has expanded the financial autonomy of the project agency and has
established a revolving fund to help speed up the disbursement process.
Credit 757      Provincial Towns Water Supply Project; US$6.6 Million Credit of
January 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 14, 1978;
Closing Date: Originally December 31, 1981, postponed to
December 31, 1982.
This project is about 18 months behind schedule because of original
delays in the appointment of consultants; delays in issuing bid documents and
the need to rebid for three of the seven project towns. The technical assistance
component is proceeding well. KfW (Federal Republic of Germany) agreed to
finance two towns when it became clear that the UNCDF grant was not enough to
cover three towns. UNCDF has increased its allocation for the remaining town.
The total cost of the project is about US$1.7 million above appraisal estimates.
Because of poor contractor performance, a re-arrangement of contracts has been
undertaken.
Credit 770      Second Education Project; US$10 Million Credit of March 16,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: July 25, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The project is about 18 months behind schedule due to a shortage
of local counterpart funds. However, IDB is providing such funds under a
post-Hurricane Allen loan to help Haiti meet local costs of IDB and IDA
projects. Construction has been stepped up under the supervision of the
Project Unit. Progress in the educational aspects of the project is also
satisfactory. An in-depth review of the project was carried out in September
1981 to ensure consistency of the project's educational aspects with recently
adopted educational reform policies.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects/investments in execution, and in particular to
report any problems which are being encountered, and the action being
taken to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Credit 807     Fifth Transportation Project; US$15 Million Credit of June 9,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 26, 1978; Closing Date:
Originally December 31, 1981, postponed to June 30, 1982.
(a) Road Component: Civil works have been completed and accepted by
Government. Studies for the preparation of a Sixth Highway Project
were completed and provided the basis for appraisal. The component
is almost fully disbursed.
(b) Coastal Shipping Ports Component: Construction of the three pilot
ports for coastal shipping is complete and the terminals are being
put into operation. The new facilities are efficiently administered
and experimental port charges are being collected from port users.
Consulting work on an accounting study for the National Port
Authority is progressing satisfactorily. The component is almost
fully disbursed.
Credit 895     -  Second Power Project:  US$15 Million Credit and US$6 Million
and EEC Special   EEC Special Action Credit of May 31, 1979; Date of
Action Credit 4   Effectiveness:  April 21, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The project, co-financed by CIDA (Canada) under a grant of
Can$17.1 million, suffered an initial delay resulting from a disagreement
between Government and EdH on contract award for the diesel generators and
the subsequent dismissal of EdH's management and main consultants. Credit
effectiveness was delayed almost one year and the implementation of important
institutional and technical aspects up to 18 months. However, due to quicker
delivery of generators and IDA-arranged overlapping of consultant services,
overall delay will only be about three months. The main component, the expansion
of the Varreux power station, proceeded according to schedule. Cost increases
caused a slight reduction in project scope (distribution component). The
project is now advancing and disbursing in a very satisfactory manner.
Credit 1106   -   Agricultural Rehabilitation Project; US$3.2 Million Credit
of April 13, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: October 19, 1981;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982.
The project is emerging slowly, however, the Government has now set
up a revolving fund to expedite project activities. USAID has supplied five
thousand tons of fertilizer and ICB for more fertilizer purchases under the
project is being initiated. Procurement of tools is expected to be completed
soon. Design work for farm service centers has been completed and locations
for 16 centers to be built under the project have been identified. A nursery
program has been established and the Ministry of Agriculture has increased
extension staff strength in the project area from four at appraisal to ten
at present.
Credit 1121    -  Port Development Project; US$11.0 Million Credit of April 13,
1981; Date of Effectiveness: November 16, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
Processing of the major contract of the project, to construct the new
terminal in Cap Haitien, is very advanced. The contract for seven coastal shipping
ports is being awarded and the contractor is already proceeding with preparations



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
for precasting piles and other work related to the project. The feasibility
study for the expansion of the international terminal at Port-au-Prince has
been started by the consultants. The weak cash position of the National Ports
Authority due to slow procedures in collecting outstanding debts and delays
in Central Bank transfers may influence project performance in the future.
Credit 1131    -  Industrial Development Project; US$7.0 Million Credit of
April 13, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: December 8, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The Industrial Development Fund has completed preparation of its
Operations Manual and its Internal Regulations. A first project has been
approved and another 52 applications are under appraisal or processing. Lack
of qualified personnel is hampering the pace of operation of the project.



- 27 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
HAITI
THIRD POWER PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Project identification:
(1)  Government presentation of
project to IDA:                      May 1980
(2)  Identification/preparation
mission:                              November 1980
(3)  Completion of feasibility
studies:                             June 1981
(b)  Appraisal mission departure:                July 7, 1981
(c)  Negotiations completed:                     May 20, 1982
(d)  Planned effectiveness date:                 October 15, 1982
Section II - Special IDA Implementation Action
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
During negotiations, assurances have been received regarding the
following matters:
(a) Conditions of Effectiveness
(1)  The signing by EdH of the main contract for the generating
units for the Carrefour power station (para. 44);
(2)  The execution and ratification of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between and by the Borrower and EdH (para. 54);
(3)  The authorization or ratification of the Project Agreement by
EdH (para. 54).



- 28 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b) Investment Limitations
(1) Prior approval of the Association to investments in the power
sector exceeding one percent of EdH's net fixed assets
(para. 38);
(2) Limitation of EdH's long-term debt (para. 38);
(3) Restriction of annual unbudgeted aggregate village and rural
electrification to 0.2 percent of net fixed assets (para. 30).
(c) Financial and financial control covenants
(1) Study on the adequacy of EdH's structure of tariffs and
periodic adjustments of electricity tariffs in order to earn
an annual rate of return of eight percent in fiscal year 1982
and thereafter (para. 37);
(2) Annual revaluation of EdH's fixed assets and registration
of its results in its books (para. 38);
(3) Authorization of EdH to maintain its liquid assets in
interest-bearing accounts or in investments not exceeding six
months, and timely and full payment of Government and public
agency bills owed to EdH (para. 39);
(4) Availability of funds for Haiti's share of the foreign
exchange cost of the Peligre dam repairs (para. 48);
(5) Reduction of system losses of electricity (para. 45);
(6) Adoption of adequate auditing procedures (para. 58).
(d)  Other Covenants
(1) Introduction of periodic inspection of Peligre dam works
and installations (para. 48);
(2) Employment conditions and procedures of consultants,
satisfactory to the Association (para. 33);
(3) Availability of qualified senior managerial staff (para. 52).



V                N -'J8~ ;d                               I Js
MV4 L-1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pO4fl !l11
J  wrr 'S ';'*t > = > i OIV9 S~N                                                                  b',p4o "OOIA  9X 
~0NonwsooxIM
.''-                                                             .'.i';''n'S3N NQ flRVLO"i rL                     jil- r-                                 di  -
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I(N1IlV                                                                      ,                                          ,    4  - - kR;  -onO)  V4Jnp C-  
visensmot-9                                               - -
*  sep4iJseAS   E A7S~                                    - '   .      :::'  U1Wl)
agwogowiasv 
A    00 GD -o i         t         _        7i' S   o4V1 'PJ\  S(iVQ naix  t1dV
7,? 7 A, 6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A ~1 ±3I±0
Id ~ ~ ~ ~     ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~        ~      ~       ~       I V
5o 2FDIIld $eP50 PqJ g E R;r\+AiluPql:JV 1 a  p                                                                                               s   S 7 v D I L I X  
0US <56Pq = < = ; ' z W01                                                                                                                               N11l M X3Nl
i t' h ''.' 4 f d , :       <      l    - '                                                                  i;$.                           0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OlddD3
J-Da~~~N'
N  V330    ~~~~~~~~~~I1N~~lV 7]~ 
i>_<''X'^.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O,Zl'vf<'  :0!-V  =Y~
3a -EL Hi C i e        os L                           00                                                                                                           1> K$      vs
Z Og,^ I-o1 einI



