0"FICIAL
DOCUMENTS CREDIT KUMBER 1281 HA
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Power Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1281 HA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1982, between
the REPUBLIC OF HAITI (hereiKafter called the Borrower) and the
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the
Proiect described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(B)  the Project will be carried out by Electricit& d'Haiti
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to Electricitf d'Haiti the
proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
Electricitfi d'Haiti;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definiions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "EdH" means Electricit6 d'Haiti, an autonomous agency
of the Borrower established by, and operating under the Bor-
rower's Loi-Cadre dated July 29, 1971, as amended by the Decree
dated April 8, 1977 published in the Moniteur on June 16, 1977;


﻿-2-
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and EdH of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement; and
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and EdH pursuant to Section 3.01
(b) of this Agreement, as the same may bez. amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twenty-three million one hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 23,100,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1986 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from a
date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement


﻿- 3 -
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Bor-
rower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding front time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each January 1
and July 1 commencing January 1, 1993, and ending July 1, 2032,
each installment to and including the installment payable on
July 1, 2002, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.10. EdH is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or per-
mitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause EdH to carry out the Project
and to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project


﻿-4-
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the other obliga-
tions of EdH therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable EdH to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
EdH pursuant to a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and EdH containing terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Association, including the
following:
(i) the principal amount of the sibsidiary loan repay-
able by EdH to the Borrower shall be the equivalent
(determined as of the date, or respective dates, of
repayment) of the value of tle currency or curren-
cies withdrawn from the Credit Account expressed in
terms of SDR's at the time of witiv:awal from the
Credit Account;
(ii) the subsidiary loan will be repaid by EdH to the
Borrower in thirty-two semiannual installments over
twenty years (including four years of grace);
and
(iii) interest shall be charged at a rate of at least
11.6% per annum on the outstanding balance of the
subsidiary loan but shall be capitalized during the
four year grace period.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such anner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and of the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall make available to EdH as a
grant such funds as shall be required to pay promptly as needed
one-half of the foreign-exchange costs of the construction
included in Part F of the Project.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall not, without the
Association's prior approval undertake, or permit EdH to under-
take, prior to the completion of the Project, any investment in
the power sector exceeding the equivalent of one per cent (1%) of
the net value of EdH's fixed assets in operation nor permit the
aggregate amount of unbudgeted village and rural electrification
costs in any year to exceed 0.2% of sucn net value.
(b) For the purpose of Sub-section (a) above, the term "net
value of fixed assets in operation" means the gross value of fixed
assets in operation less the related accu:mulated depreciation, all
as revalued in accordance with Section 4.04 of the Project
Agreement.
Section 4.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall, from time to time, take all steps
necessary or desirable (including but not limited to adjustments
of EdH's tariffs) to enable EdH to earn the annual rate of return
specified in Section 4.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary
on its part to ensure that electricity bills owed EdH by the
Borrower's departments and agencies be paid on time.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall not permit EdH to use its
resources for any purpose other than to pay the costs of its
operations and investments and to service its debts.
Section 4,05. The Borrower shall take such steps as shall be
necessary to authorize EdH to maintain its liquid funds in
interest-bearing accounts or in interest-bearing investments not
exceeding six months to maturity.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿-6-
(a) EdH shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement
or obligation of EdH under the Project Agreement;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that EdH will be able to perform its obli-
gations under the Project Agreement;
(c) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution of EdH or for the
suspension of its operations; and
(d) the Decree dated April 9, 1977 referred to in Section
1.02 (a) of this Agreement shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and
adversely affect the ability of EdH to carry out the covenants,
agreements and obligations set forth in the Project Agreemenc.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and EdH; and
(b) any.event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Sutsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and EdH; and
(b) the contract for the supply of the two generating units
included in Part A of the Project has been signed.


﻿- 7 -
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by EdH, and is legally binding upon EdH in accordance
with its terms; and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and EdH and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and EdH in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03.   The date                           is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
K ICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.10 of this
Agreement, the Secretary of State of the Borrower responsible for
finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secrftairerie d'Etat des Finances
et des Affaires Economiques
Palais des Ministares
Port-au-Prince
Haiti


﻿-8-
Cable address:                        Telex:
Secr6tairerie d'Etat des          2030 347
Finances et des Affaires
Economiques
Port-au-Prince
Haiti
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street !.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Colombia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
/iidn Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated        % of
(Expressed in     Expenditures
Category                    SDR Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Materials and equip-           9,790,000      100% of foreign
ment for two diesel                          expenditures
units, ancillary works
and services, Part A
of the Project
(2) Materials and equipment,       2,670,000      100% of foreign
Part B of the Project                        expenditures
(3) Materials and equipment,         750,000      100% of foreign
Part D of the Project                        expenditures
(4) Materials, equipment             440,000      50% of foreign
and services, Part F                         expenditures
of the Project
(5) Civil works, Parts A,          1,860,000      100% of foi.eign
B and D of the Pro-                          expenditures,
ject                                         and if by domes-
tic contractors,
60% of local
expenditures
(6) Civil works, Part F              180,000      50% of foreign
of the Project                               expenditures
(7) Consultants' services,         4,890,000      100% of foreign
under Parts C and E                          expenditures
of the Project


﻿- 10 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                    SDR Equivalent)   to be Financed
(8) Training, Part E of            220,000        100% of foreign
the Project                                  expenditures
(9) Unallocated
2,300,000
TOTAL       23,100,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $800,000
may be made in respect of Category 5 on account of payments made
for such expenditures before that date but after July 1, 1981.


﻿- 11 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Part A:   Construction of a new Diesel power station at Carrefour
in Port-au-Prince with two 7 MW generators providing an additional
net capacity of 14 MW and with future accommodations for three
additional units;
Part B:   Rehabilitation of about 10 km2 of the electricity
distribution network in Port-au-Prince;
Part C:   Carrying out of surveys and a feasibility study and the
preparation of bidding documents for the proposed Guayamouc I
hydroelectric plant, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association;
Part D:   Construction of new headquarters office space for EdH;
Part E:   Strengthening of the management and operations of
EdH through the employment of consultants and experts in the
fields of planning, design, construction, administration and
training and through the carrying out of staff training programs
satisfactory to the Association; and
Part F:   Repair and renewal of facilities at the Peligre hydro-
electric station.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1985.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of          ,
198  .
FOR SECRETARY


