Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10845
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM (SAL I)
(IDA CREDIT 1660-NIR AND AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT A-012-NIR)
JUNE 30, 1992
V-
WA~~~~A
Country Operations Division
Sahel Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(annual averages)
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)*
1986        US$1.00    =       CFAF 346.30
1987        US$ 1.00    =      CFAF 300.54
1988        US$1.00    =       CFAF 297.85
1989        US$ 1.00    =      CFAF 319.01
1990        US$1.00    =       CFAF 272.26
1991        US$1.00    -       CFAF 282.1 i
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCEAO -       Banque Centrale des Etats de I'Afrique de l'Ouest
BRDN  -       Banque de D6veloppement de ia Republique du Niger
CNCA  -       Caisse Nationale de Cr6dit Agricole
OPVNI  -      Office des Produits Vivriers du Niger
PCR    -      Program Completion Report
PESAP -       Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program
PIP     -     Public Investment Program
SAL    -      Structural Adjustment Loan (Credit)
UMOA  -       Union Monetaire Ouest Africaine (West African Monetary Fund)
UNDP  -       United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
October I to September 30
*The CFAF is tied to the French Franc at the rate ot' FF I to CFA F 50.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 30, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Program Completion Report on Niger - Structural
Adjustment Program (SAL I) (IDA Credit 1660-NIR
and African Facility Credit A-012-NIR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Program Completion Report on
Niger - Structural Adjustment Program (SAL I) (IDA Credit 1660-NIR and African Facility Credit A-012-
NIR)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part 11 of the report contributed by the Borrower.
No audit of this program has been made by the Operations Evaluadion Department at this time.
Yves Rovani
by H. Eberhard Kopp
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLTC OF NTGER
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM (SAL 11
(IDA CREDIT 1660-NIR AND AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT A-012-NIRt)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE   .......                  ......................................                                  i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ...................................                                                   iii
PART 1: PROGRAM  REVIEW  FROM  THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE                                ........              I
A. Program  Identity ........................1..............                                             I
B.  Program  Background  ....................................                                            I
C. Program  Experience  ....................................                                             3
Preparation  .........................................                                            3
Objectives and Design  ..................................                                         4
D. Implementation   .......................................                                             6
E.  Major Program  Results  ..................................                                           7
Overview   ..........................................                                             7
Macroeconomic Performance ....................e                                                   8
Public Resource Management ......            ........................                             9
Parastatal Reform  .....................................                                         10
Agricultural Policy  ........ ............................                                       10
F. Performance  .........................................                                               11
Bank Performance .....................................                                           11
Borrower Performance ..................................                                          12
Project Relationship ....................................                                        13
Procurement and Disbursement .............................                                       13
G. Lessons Learned .......................................                                              13
PART 11: PROGRAM REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ...                                               15
English Summary ..............  ..........................                                              15
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION  .........................                                              21
Basic Data Sheet .......................................                                           21
Niger: Key Macroeconomic Indicators .........................                                      22
Summary of Actions and Studies Completed   .....................                                   23
Staff Inputs ....... _ .... _.                                                    ..    24
Status of Policy Actions at Board Presentation and Mid-term
Review, Plus Later Developments (Policy Matrix) .................                                25
ATTACHMENT: Government Comments on the PCR   ..................                                           31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM (SAL I)
(1DA CREDIT 1660-NIR AND AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT A-012-NIR)
PREFACE
This is the Program Completion Report (PCR) for the first Structural Adjuscment Program in
Niger, for which IDA Credit 1660-NIR in the amount of SDR 18 million and Special Fund for Africa
Credit No. A-012-NIR in the amount of SDR 36 million were approved on February 18, 1986. The
credit was closed on December 31, 1987, as scheduled.  It was fully disbursed, with the last
disbursement request being received before December 31, 1987, and disbursed with a value date of
January 5, 1988.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Country Operations Division of the Sahel DepartmenL,
Africa Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was based, inter alia, on the President's Report, the Credit Agreement
and Letter of Development Policy, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda and reports.



- iii -
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM (SAL I)
(IDA CREDIT 1660-NIR AND AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT A-012-NIR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.    The objectives of structural adjustment in Niger are to improve economic growth prospects
while reducing budgetary and external balan^es to sustainable levels. The SAL supported reforms in
three areas: public resource management, parastatal reform, and agricultural policy, with the emphasis
on areas where inefficiencies were most acute and improvements would have the greatest beneficial
impact on the country's budgetary and balance of payments position. Key monitorahle actions included
adoption of three-year recurrent expenditure budgets and investment programs in line with the
restructuring objectives (in parallel with IMF-assisted expenditure budget reform), reduction in the
number of products subject to price control, reduction of agricultural subsidies and price support, and
completion of a number of studies preparatory to the next stage of reforms.
Implementation Experience
2.     A lengthy preparation period, between a May 1984 identification mission and January 1986
appraisal, was required to gather and analyze basic economic and financial data and work out a
Government-IDA strategy and programs. During this period, Government continued to implement
policy reforms launched in 1983, which SAL I supported and extended. The credits became effective
in May 1986. Good performance in policy reform was reported at a March 1986 supervision mission
and at the midterm review in November 1986. The only performance shortfalls noted at this time were
in the area of agricultural reform, where progress in reforming grain marketing, agricultural credit, and
agricultural research was slower than had been hoped, though these delays were not serious enough to
delay disbursement of the second tranche, scheduled for early 1987. The credit was fully disbursed by
the scheduled closing date.
Results
3.    The main result of joint efforts under SAL I was to stabilize deficits in the balance of payments
and government budget by halting commercial borrowing, increasing concessional loans and reducing
debt service payments. Other major policy achievements included liberalization of prices, abolition of
monopolies and cutting losses in parastatal enterprises. In terms of short-term economic performance,
Government efforts under SAL I contributed to improvement in Niger's economic performance over
the 1984-87 period, covering the intensive preparation period and release of the two IDA/SFA credit
tranches. External and government budget deficits declined substantially beginning in 1984, inflation
fell and GDP grew nearly 8% in 1985, boosted by excellent rains.
4.    However, despite sustained and continuing price and trade liberalization and public enterprise
reform since completion of this SAL, budgetary and fiscal reform efforts lagged after 1987, and
achieving sustained growtf  with reasonable budgetary and external imbalances has remained an elusive
goal. Niger has experienced a prolonged period of austerity during which GDP has fluctuated



- iv -
essentially as a function of rainfall, as in the past. Because farm price liberalization coincided with
record harvesFs, many farmers lost expected income in this period as the result of a policy intended to
raise farm income. Terms of trade have continued to decline, and balance of payments viibility has
again recently t n postponed to 1993 despite mergency debt relief and debt cancellation.
5.     Some apparent gains proved superficial and failed to produce needed changes. Reforms in the
preparation of investment program documents were not accompanied by reforms in budgetary structures
or procedures, required to rationalize resource allocation and strengthen expenditure control. Stated
budgetary targets to reduce the wage bill and increase operations and maintenance outlays and social
sector expenditure have not been met. Investment programming is not adequately linked with the
recurrent budget, nor do technical ministries coordinate their activities with the Planning Ministry.
While new procedures and the shift in public investment financing from internal to external sources have
resulted in a shift in sectoral composition which is in line with the objectives and strategies of the five-
year development plan for 1987-90, the project implementation rate is still too low, primarily for
institutional reasons. Stated reform of the cereals marketing agency's function did not lead to changes
in internal policies and practices. Reorientation of agricultural research and its forward linkage to local
exL.clsion services aid not come until recently (1990i91).
Findings and Lessons Learned
6.    Ir a country as severely constrained by climate and resources as Niger,; id where important
dynamic elements of the economy are either not monetized or unreported, it is important to recognize,
as the Government and the Bank did, that productive investment opportunities are difficult to identify
and that structural reform is a long-term process. However, it is also necessary to translate this
recognition into more modest expectations than were set for SAL I, so that visible gains can sustain
long-term effort; to monitor more rigorously, so that progress is not only recorded in documents and
indicators but bears real fruit; and to develop better knowledge of private sector constraints, so that
private actors car, be both willing and able to provide investment and productive opportunities, once
price and trade restrictions are relaxed.
7.     Both parties have learned important lessons since the closing of SAL I four years ago. During
SAL I, the Bank tended to assume that new private sector investment would fuel economic growth
following liberalization measures. In fact, new private investment never materialized due to many
disincentives, including failure of the national development bank (BDRN) and subsequent paralysis of
the financial sector, the poor and declining competitive position of the economy, a lack of clear signals
that Government had changed its traditionally negative stance towards the private sector. Provision was
made under the follow-up credit for a Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program (PESAP, IDA
Cr. 1833) as well as in industry and energy sector work, to identify constraints on private sector
activity, and a better understanding of the non-monetized sector of the economy and of cross-border
trade with N'geria, much of which goes unrecorded, should also emerge from the currer.c work
program.
8.    The expectations set for the SAL also underestimated the weakness of the institutions involved
in SAL I implementation, the lack of coordination between ministries, and the depth of internal rivalries
and entrenchment of interest groups. With the death of President Kountche in 1987 and beyond the
SAL I implementation period, these factors sapped the momentum for sustained structural reform from
within, while drought, the decline in terms of trade, and inability to respond by adjusting the exchange
rate delivered the coup de grace from without. Strategy and policy papers prepared internally and
jointly in 1990 and 1991 show a more realistic setting of goals and a renewed emphasis on building
implementation capacity.



PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM (SAL I)
(IDA CREDIT 1660-NIR AND AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT A-012-NIR)
PART 1: PROGRAM REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Program Identity
Program Name:       Structural Adjustment Program
Credit No.:         IDA Credit 1660-NIR
African Facility Credit A-012-NIR
RVP Unit:           Africa
Country:            Niger
Sector:             Non-Project Lending
B. Program Background
1.    NIiger is a landlocked country subject to desertification, with social indicators among the lowest
in Sahelian countries and one of the poorest countries in the world. Since 1965, per capita incomes
have declined by an average of 2% per annum. The main constraints to long-term development in
Niger are its vulnerability to weather, low level of resources (poor soil, fragile and degrading ecology,
low rainfall, low literacy -- 15% for adults), overdependence on a single export, uranium, a highly
centralized political system which has impeded broad-based development and slowed development of
the formal economy, and the shrinkage since 1984 of the modern, taxable sector. The last-mentioned
trend is particularly disquieting, given that only a fraction of rural production is marketed in
documented and monetized exchanges, and unrecorded cross-border transfers and international
commerce, especially with Nigeria, are estimated to equal roughly half o. recorded total trade.
2.    Historically dependent on subsistence agriculture, livestock exports and cross-border trade with
Nigeria, Niger's economy was transformed in the 1970s by uranium export receipts. Highly favorable
market conditions for uranium in the late seventies fueled the development of the modern sector and
propelled the public sector into a don.inant position in the economy, including the creation of a dozen
new public enterprises and the rapid expansion of the civil service with increasingly favorable wages
and benefits. Favorahle weather conditions during the same period accelerated rural sector production.
Although outstanding debt more than trebled and budget and external deficits began to emerge,
optimistic predictions for longer-term growth prospects suggested these were within sustainable limits.
3.    Since the beginning of the eighties, however, Niger's economic performance deteriorated
sharply, reflecting a weakened uranium market and renewed drought conditions. The modern private
sector contracted sharply, dominated as it was by the uranium industry and service activities whose
fortunes were highly dependent on conditions in the uranium industry and the size of the Government's
construction program -- construction, trans,nort and commerce. Many public investment projects were
undertaken without sufficient attention to their economic viabiiity, .he implementation capacity of
government agencies or recurrent financing and maintenance needs. Expecting quick recovery of
uranium prices, Government continued to implement ambitious development plans by increasing reliance
on commercial foreign borrowings to finance investment projects. Initial budget cutbacks were mostly



-2 -
in maintenance and materials expenditures, which led to a more rapid deterioration of capital stock and
a fall in public service delivery levels at the most basic level. But the civil service wage bill and high-
lovel health and education services continued to expand, along with the growing interest obligation of
heavy foreign debt. Growing parastatal deficits were rinanced by public financial institutions, leading
to near-bankruptcy of the banklng system.
4.     Niger's membersh.p in the UMOA meant it could not respond via exchange rate adjustments
to the declining terms of trade. Thus throughout this period and up to the present day, the onus of
economic adjustment fell entirely on internal measures, leading to levels of austerity which proved
politically unsustainable. Government first took drastic action in 1983: wages and salaries were to be
frozen, supplies and invest.. --t expenditures cut back, and foreign borrowings tightly controild. These
measures were the first steps in the Government's stabilization program, for which it sought support
from the IMF and IDA.
5.     During the 1983-85 period, Niger made considerable progress towards reducing domestic and
external imbalances:  the budget deficit and the deficit on external account u tre both reduced
significantly by cutting infrastructure investment and imports, domestic credit was contained, and capit !
inflows and external debt relief were higher than initially proiected. Government's attempt to limit
current expenditures was less successful and did not improve their structure, as operations and
maintenance continued to be cut to protect the wage bill, and revenues declined in spite of new tax
measures taken due to the downturn in economic activity. The performance of several parastatals did
improve, however, and their financial position was strengthened. Furthermore, continued drought
conditions resulted in a sharp decline in food crop production and loss of nearly half of the livestock
herd in 1984, and the closure of the Nigerian border in early 1984 also had a negative impact.
6.     The 1984 drought brought Niger its worst economic conditions in half a century. From this
low point, Niger began a recov.ery in 1985. Donors responded to the drought by increasing the level
of their assistance; then the drought broke, and the 1985 harvest was excellent, contributing to good
GDP growth (para. 28). France made unprecedented purchases of uranium in 1986 and 1987, easing
somewhat the Government's financial crisis, and several rounds of debt restructuring lifted the most
important fiscal threat to government stability. Government's stabilization program during this period
was supported by three IMF Standby arrangements, and by debt rescheduling agreements reached with
the Paris and London Clubs. An IDA-funded Economic and Financial Management Improvement
Project (Cr. 1493-NIR), designed to meet the immediate needs for short-term data and analytical
requirements for a structural adjustment program, along with longer-term institutional issues in key
economic ministries, became effective in November 1984.
7.    It is against this background that the SAL was being prepared; in response to a September 1983
request from President Kountche to Bank President Clausen, an identification mission took place in May
1984, th~. program was appraised in November 1985, and it became effective in May 1986. A
complementary Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program (PESAP), requiring lengthy analytical
work on nearly 60 individual enterprises was being prepared at the same time. The PESAP was
appraised in 1987 and became effective in 1988. A completion report for the PESAP will be prepared
in the spring of 1992.



-3 -
C. Program Experience
Preparation
8.    The heart of the structural adjustment program being evaluated heee was the long preparation
process, based on the principle of government "ownership" of policies and reforms. Considerable care
was taken to assure close association between work and mission schedules for agriculture, education,
infrastructure and industry/energy sectors with the formulation of adjustment policies during SAL I
preparation. Both the SAL and the resulting sectoral projects benefitted from this coordination. In the
program's design, a deliberate effort was made to separate relatively easier and quicker structural
changes included in SAL I, from more difficult problems, reserved for the PESAP and an expected
SAL II, and from sectoral work (paras. 11-13). While the assecsment of Niger's economic situation
and priorities carried out during SAL I preparation has stood the test of time, remaining the basis for
current economic strategy, in retrospect many of the actual projections made during this early period
proved overly optimistic. It also appears that the shift of focus to parastatal refoim under the follow-up
credit supporting PESAP tended to divert attention, on the part of the Government, f'iom monitoring
of macroeconomic reform issues, such as wage bill reduction and lack of international competitiveness.
The design of the SAL was conceptually sound but it assumed Government commitment throughout the
process. In the beginning, the commitment was there as evidenced by all the measures taken leading
to the release of the tranches of the IDA credit. Much later adjustment appeared to have become more
difficult as evidenced, for example, by the Government's inability to control the fiscal situation, and
commitment eroded (para. 35). The death ot President Kountche in November 1987 and unfavorable
external circumstances (uranium price drop, devaluation in Nigeria) further contributed to an erosion
in commitment to reforms.
9.    In undertaking this first structural adjustment effort, both Government and IDA were embarking
on new territory in a number of respects, and the fact that a learning process was underway sets the
scene for understanding the strengths and weaknesses of the program. Both sides were deeply
committed and invested substantial energy. Only time could reveal the gap between sincere commitment
and the limits of what it was possible to deliver. The Bank team was starting from scratch both in the
sense of this being a first effort to tackle economy-wide structural issues in Niger, and that preparation
was taking place in the early days of structural adjustment lending, before any feedback about the
pitfalls was available (the first assessment of adjustment lending was published in late 1988). On the
Nigerien side, the concepts of adjustment lending were difficult to grasp, especially given the relatively
low level of IDA exposure in Niger compared to other countries even in the same region. Virtually
all IDA projects prior to 1980 were in agriculture of roads. In addition, the autocratic structure of
Government meant that ministry heads "generally f-:i they have little to say in policy formulation" (Res
Rep to Sr. Loan Officer, April 1984).
10.   Perhaps the most critical sense in which both sides started from scratch was the absence of basic
economic data in general, and analysis of parastatals in particular. Another joint handicap in terms of
speed of preparation was the need for macroeconomic analysis and assistance to be combined with
parallel efforts in a number of major sectors. There ar- important gains to combining sectoral and
macro missions and strategy formulation and this also requires more time. Within the Bank, besides
sectoral and inacro teams, the newly formed Public Enterprise unit within the Bank was involved.
President Kountche's request for a SAL came in the same September 1983 letter as that requesting the
technical assistance project. Studies and assistance required to prepare the SAL could be financed under
a technical assistance project, and indeed such a project, called the Economic and Financial Management
Improvement Project (PAGEF), was appraised in March 1983, and quickly produced three studies



-4 -
which fed into the SAL preparation: a diagnostic of public en.erprises, a study of measures to liberalize
prices, and an inventory of cross-debts among public enterprises. Even with these, five heavily staffed
missions were required between May 1984 and October 1985 to identify, prepare and appraise the SAL.
Objectives and Design
11.    President Kountche's September 1983 letter linked the need for quick parastatal reform to
adjustment credit. The Bank's structural adjustment program objectives were to improve economic
growth prospects while keeping budgetary and external balances at sustainable levels. The overall
strategy, as first articulated in connection with the 1983 annual meetings, stressed the importance of re-
establishing rational use of government resources, primarily by focussing on parastatal reform and
public investment.  Government seemed already to have taken proper steps to control current
expenditures on its own. Fiscal reforms and cost recovery measures in education and health would
increase government revenues. This wculd provide needed funds for current expenditures to forestall
longer term problems, such as road maintenance, to provide basic health and education services to the
bulk of the population, and funds for debt repayment. Revision of public investment in favor of
economically viable projects would lay the foundation for future growth.
12.    The structural adjustment program was designed to complement the Government's current
stabilization efforts (para. 6). The stabilization program was setting the demand management targets
for the economy while the structural reform program was expected to ensure that those targets were met
through policies that maximized supply responses and, therefore, growth. This was to be achieved by:
(i) increasing the efficiency of existing investments; (ii) improving policies for more efficient future
investments; and (iii) establishing improved policies for strengthening the country's human and physical
resources. Since the preparation and implementation of such a comprehensive adjustment program
require several years, the Governrent opted for a phased approach, addressing the most urgent
structural problems rapidly while reform measures in other areas were being developed. The first phase
of the SAL (SAL I -- supported by IDA Credit 1660-NIR and SFA Credit A-012-NIR) thus focused on
policy reforms in areas in which inefficiencies were most acute and where policy improvements would
have the greatest beneficial impact on the country's balance of payments position.
13.    Specific objectives were to: (i) improve public resource management. Budgetary stringency
was to be combined with changes in the structure of budgetary outlays to increase the efficiency of
existing and future investments, and to reallocate funds to strengthen the country's resource base.
Reform measures included the restructuring of current expenditures, preparation of a three-year rolling
investment program, increased domestic resource mobilization through cost recovery, improved debt
management, and institutional reforms; (ii) reform the parastatal sector. Reforms of the parastatal sector
were geared to improving its performance and reducing its burden on the government budget while
simultaneously introducing appropriate incentives for private investment, in particular through pricing
and marketing liberalization. Three key areas were targeted: revision of incentive policies to improve
parastatal performance and stimulate private investment, reform of he institutional and legal framework
for public enterprises, and restructuring of the sector through reha-.latation, privatization and liquidation
programs; (iii) reform agricu:tural policy. Reforms concerned a reorientation of the sectoral investment
program, liberalization of cereals marketing, reduction of input subsidies, improvement of the
agricultural credit system, and reorientation of agricultural policy; and (iv) undertake studies to
eventually extend the adjustment effort to such other areas as energy, forestry, livestock, industry and
trade. This structural adjustment program was to be implemented by Government with continuing
assistance from a number of sources. IDA's contribution would comprise a technical assistance project
(Economic and Financial Management Improvement Project, Cr. 1493-NIR), a credit in support of the



SAL being reviewed here, a public enterprise sector adjustment operation (PESAP, Cr. 1833-NIR), an'i
a public enterprise institutional development project (Cr. 1838-NIR, ongoing).
14.    For a few months, the Bank attempted to work out with Government which of the 54 parn3tatals
for which preliminary diagnostics had been prepared should be privatized, rehabilitated or liquidated.
The decision to put public investment at the top of the agenda and split off the bulk of parastatal reform
into a separate project came in late 1984. This change followed the views of the first head of the public
enterprise unit within the Bank, who cautioned against trying to sort out the parastatal mess before
establishing a healthy macroeconomic environment and a clear government policy regarding the role
of parastatals and Government's obligation to them. The BDRN, crucial to the functioning of the
financial system, would be the only parastatal to be rehabilitated under the SAL, and OPVN, the grain
marketing parastatal, would be restructured.
15.    Following a May 1984 identification mission, two preparation missions went to Niger in
October and December. The first preparation mission, termed a public investment mission found that
sectoral strategy papers and basic economic data which were to have been prepared would not be ready
until the next spring. The economy was in deep recession and the financial crisis barely manageable.
Even at this early date, the Bank's chief economist was concerned that debt relief would allow
Government to defer politically and socially painful measures such as civil service reform, a concern
which later turned out to be justified. But the critical state of external and budget deficits had created
a strong sense of urgency: in 1982, debt service had risen to 52% of exports and the deficit on current
account to US$ 175 million, about 10% of GDP.
16.    Pre-appraisal took place in March of 1985. The period between pre-appraisal and appraisal
was used to good effect to redirect and move reform efforts forward. Between March 1985 and the
January 1986 appraisal, Government restructured its 1985/86-1987/88 recurrent expenditure program
to reduce subsidies and increase maintenance and supplies expenditures, introduced cost recovery
measures in health, education, water supply and irrigation, finalized proposals for reducing debt service
for review at a donor's conference, drafted sectoral strategies and a three-year investment program for
1985/86-1987/88, and established a framework and instruments for expenditure programming.
Likewise, in the area of parastatal reform, price and trade controls were liberalized, fiscal treatment of
parastatals was equalized with that of private enterprises, a program for priority rehabilitation of ten
parastatals was established, rehabilitation of BDRN was initiated, principles and a timetable for
privatization/liquidationof other parastatals were established, and a study on cross-debts was completed.
In the area of agricultural reform, subsidies had been reduced, imports liberalized, initial steps were
taken to reform the agricultural credit system, and grain security stock, pricing, and marketing policy
was reformed.
17.   Two areas were flagged at pre-appraisal as requiring more time to be resolved: revision of the
investment code, for which current GON texts did not incorporate earlier Bank comments, and revision
of employment policies to contain the wage bill. The investment code revision was pursued under the
PESAP, while civil service employment and wages policy were the subject of a study financed under
the technical assistance project (PAGEF, Cr. 1493-NIR). Partially addressed in a second education
project, civil service reform remains a politically explosive issue to this day (announcement of the end
of automatic recruitment of university graduates into the civil service and other Bank-supported policy
changes in early 1990 touched off bloody demonstrations in four major cities). The technical assistance
project also financed two other studies whose completions were conditions for release of the SAL
second tranche, one on cost recovery measures in health, livestock and education, and one to diagnose
the agricultural credit bank. The SAL also included studies in three key areas requiring in-depth



-6-
analysis in order to extend structural adjustment into other areas of the economy. These were industrial
and trade policies, the financial sector, and policy issues in forestry and livestock, including land tenure,
pricing and taxation policies.
18.   Four areas of risk were detailed in the Staff Appraisal Report: timing of reform measures,
responsiveness of the private sector, development of the rural resource base, and external factors
(internationin economic conditions and weather). In fact, the targets set, which were more qualitative
than quantitative in any case, were judged to have been met following the midterm review, and external
factors proved largely favorable. However, the private sector was not in fact sufficient to provide an
impetus to economic growth, and Government and donor efforts to strengthen the rural resource base
of the economy made little progress during this credit's lifetime. In fact, the latter two risks should
more appropriately be taken to, apply to the longer-term structural adjustment program as a whole rather
than to the first phase being reviewed here.
D. Implementation
19.   The credit was to be disbursed in two tranches and was expected to be fully disbursed within
18 months of credit effectiveness. The first tranche of US$40 million equivalent (US$30 million from
the African Facility and US$10 million from IDA) would be available upon credit effectiveness.
Following Board approval of the SAL in February 1986, the credit was signed in March and became
effective in May. A single supervision mission was fielded in March 1986, followed by a major
midterm review mission in November 1986 and a Donors' meeting in December 1986. The second
tranche was released following fulfillment of all conditions soon after the midterm review. The focus
of the Bank's policy-based lending in Niger turned to preparation of the PESAP, ongoing since early
1985. The SAL closed in December 1987.
20.   At the first supervision mission in March 1986, which coincided with the signing of the credit
agreement, good performance in policy reform was reported, except in the area of cereals marketing
and stocks. A concurrent IMF review mission also gave good marks: economic indicators showed that
all the measures envisaged under the Standby program had been implemented and all the performance
criteria through December 1985 observed. By the time of the mid-term review in October/November
1986, Government had adopted a budget showing it would reduce growth in personnel expenditures,
increase provision for materials and supplies, including a major increase in allocations for road
maintenance, reduced subsidy payments, and a shift within the investment program toward rural and
human resource development. The initial diagnostic stage of a study to prepare civil service reform had
been completed on schedule, and ILO had agreed to execute the second phase. Government had taken
provisional measures to limit new hiring and to abstain from cost of living adjustments in public
salaries.
21.   A study of cost-recovery measures had been launched and would be completed later than
expected, so its recommendations would first be acted on in the context of the 1987/88 budget.
Government was adhering fully to the policy of prudent external debt management: it had contracted
no new non-concessionary loans for a year and had formulated a comprehensive draft financing plan
for 1987-91, with technical assistance from UNDP and IDA, which was discussed at a donor's meeting
in late 1986.
22.    Major price and trade liberalization measures had been put into effect, the import monopoly
of the state grain marketing agency was abolished, standard charters for four types of parastatals in line
with the new legal and institutional framework had been approved, a new personnel statute for public



enterprises had been adopted, and first steps had been taken to introduce a system of performance
contracts between Government and individual public enterprises. Measures taken resulted in the
privatization of 13 enterprises, rehabilitation efforts for 6 more, integration of two more into
government agencies, and liquidation of one more; and nine of the most heavily subsidized enterprises
had reduced their operating losses from CFAF 10 billion in 1983 to 1.5 billion in 1985. A program
to settle outstanding cross-debt arrears among public enterprises and Government had been formulated.
Settlement of arrears was begun during the 1986/87 fiscal year and continued under the PESAP.
23.   The only performance shortfalls noted at this time were in the area of agricultural reform, and
these were not serious enough to delay disbursement of the second tranche. On the positive side,
agricultural subsidies were reduced, and a study on informal rural credit and an audit of the agricultural
credit agency were completed. However, conversion of the cereals marketing and storage agency,
OPVN, to a security grain stock management agency and reduction of grain stocks to no more than
80,000 tons were delayed because farm price decontrol coincided with record harvests, leading to a
rapid decline in farmgate prices. This led OPVN at end 1985 to continue purchase operations, some
of them at fixed producer prices. Further swollen by late arrivals of food aid, OPVN's cereal stocks
had risen to about 160,000 tons, an all-time record. Measures were worked out during the mid-term
review which were intended to reduce stocks to the required level and completely decontrol farm prices
over the next year; in fact, these measures were implemented much more slowly.
24.    A second deferment had to be accepted for agricultural credit reforms. The agricultural credit
institution, CNCA, was not successful in recovering credits, not even after special action was taken by
Government. Since study and audit results made it clear that there was no justification for a specialized
agricultural credit institution, Government decided to develop a more appropriate system, and CNCA's
future would be resolved in the context of the PESAP. Lastly, instead of a revised 1986-88 agricultural
research program and budget, efforts remained at the level of a needs assessment with redefinition of
the national agricultural research program expected by the end of 1987.
E. Major Proeram Results
Overview
25.   The main result of joint efforts under SAL I was to stabilize deficits in the balance of payments
and government budget by halting commercial borrowing, increasing concessional loans and reducing
debt service payments. Other major policy achievements included liberalization of prices, abolition of
monopolies and dismantling and cutting losses in parastatal enterprises. SAL I is also important because
it established a foundation for structural adjustment work: a diagnosis and a set of priorities. On the
other hand, in a larger context, and particularly with the benefit of longer hindsight that is usual for a
PCR, the gains made can seem dwarfed by the enormous constraints to growth, both external - erratic
rainfall, a non-competitive economy locked into a regionally fixed exchange rate, and border closings
and devaluation in Nigeria -- and internal -- chronically low investment, a weak modern private sector,
lack of answers for increasing agricultural production and for harnessing the highly dynamic informal
sector, which is the greatest driving force in the economy.
26.   In seeking to understand this apparent paradox, it may be helpful to contrast the need on both
sides to see quick results, at least in some areas, with the deep-rootedness of the problems facing Niger,
the low institutional capacity to implement agreed reforms, and the recognition that recovery is a long-
term process. Apart from resource and environmental problems, political constraints included a
lessening of control at the center following the death of President Kountche in 1987, the lack of



-8 -
alternatives for influential and vocal groups once subsidized university education and guaranteed
government jobs for university graduates were abolished, and, until recently, the exclusion from the
political process of a large cross-section of the population, including powerful private sector interests.
27.   Program design in these early stages also fell victim to inexperience with structural adjustment
operations, especially in terms of the proper sequencing of reforms and the Bank's optimism about
private sector response and about the Government's ability to sustain the momentum of reform in the
absence of any visible positive results from the citizens' point of view. Further adjustment efforts now
being formulated will be more effective to the extent that both parties can face up to the political and
social problems, as well as the severe economic limitations, and chart a course towards a shared vision
of a Niger-to-be.
Macroeconomic Performance
28.   The objective of the program as a whole is to accelerate economic growth while keeping
budgetary and external imbalances at sustainable levels, and the objective of SAL I was to address the
most urgent structural problems rapidly while reform measures in other areas were being developed.
In terms of short-term economic performance as well as meeting the specific requirements set for release
of the second tranche of the IDA credit, SAL I can be seen as a success. It was felt in mid-1987 at the
outset of the PESAP that Government's efforts under SAL I had contributed to improvement in Niger's
economic performance over the 1984-87 period, covering the intensive preparation period and release
of the two credit tranches of SAL 1. Current account and budget deficits declined substantially
beginning in 1984, inflation fell from nearly 10% to less than 2%, and real GDP grew nearly 8% in
1985 and estimated at around 7% for 1986. (As suggested in para. 6, a number of factors such as good
harvests -- in addition to efforts under the SAL -- contributed to this growth in GDP. It would have
been interesting to have a breakdown in terms of contribution to growth by external factors and the SAL
efforts but this is not available. It is thus assumed that all sources contributed.) GDP growth was
projected at 2.3 % per annum for 1987-90, significantly above the zero percent growth trend in the
decade before the uranium boom. These gains were generally in line with the expected macroeconomic
impact as stated in the SAL President's Report: to halve the decline in GDP and allow an increase to
about 2.9% per annum in the early 1990s.
29.   However, the budget deficit has been the only indicator to show sustained progress since 1987,
and even this steady decline has not been enough to meet agreed targets. While Government's overall
fiscal deficit met program targets in 1988/89, the current budget deficit failed to mneet the target,
amounting to CFAF 11.4 billion compared with a target of CFAF 8.2 billion (1.1 % of GDP). Despite
increased donor assistance and a sharp rise in French uranium purchases in 1987, debt service rose to
an unsustainable 50% of exports of goods and services in 1988 and emergency debt relief was required.
And despite continuing price and trade liberalization, public enterprise reform and rehabilitation of the
banking system in 1988 and 1989, sustained economic growth remains an elusive target. GDP has
fluctuated in part as a function of rainfall, as in the past, falling again in 1987 and 1989 due to poor
rains, and rising in 1988 with outstanding rains.
30.   According to the 1990 Policy Framework Paper for Niger, the country continues to face
considerable obstacles to growth, both natural -- its low level of resources -- and structural: the
remaining weaknesses in public resource management, an excessively large civil service, a still sizable
and inefficient public enterprise sector, and excessive government intervention in economic activity,
which has limited the role of the private sector and discouraged savings and investment. A steadily
declining export price for uranium combined with lower flows of external financial assistance than



9-
originally envisaged, has changed Niger's medium-term prospects. Despite official debt cancellation,
balance of payments viability, expected to be realized by 1992 is now likely to be delayed by about a
year.
31.   Structural reforms are to continue in the same areas covered by SAL I and the PESAP, with
a shift in emphasis to implementation capacity and investment in human capital. In addition, substantial
effort has been invested since the completion of this SAL in identifying the constraints on private sector
growth. Over a dozen Government and donor studies were prepared in 1987, and the Planning Ministry
undertook a survey of the informal sector, in anticipation of the June 1988 Private Sector Round Table.
In August 1991 donors met to review a report proposing alternate institutional mechanisms and other
requirements for channeling donor assistance in support of private sector initiatives (funds are available
from the European Development Fund). In the meantime, Government has been revising the Investment
Code, the single most important uarrier to private investment. The code as announced in February 1990
lifts restrictions on the transfer of revenues outside Niger, guarantees against expropriation and provides
for tax relief, all significant concessions to the private sector.
Public Resource Management
32.   The goals of this component were to improve the composition of public expenditures, strengthen
investment programming, increase the efficiency of the civil service, expand cost recovery, and
strengthen external debt management. Budget and investment documents prepared since 1985/86 have
reflected the agreements made under SAL I. Budgets adopted for 1985/86 and 1986/87 reflected new
expenditure priorities; in the 1987/88 budget, growth in personnel expenditures was reduced and
provisions for materials and supplies and road maintenance were increased. These budgets also
reflected the reduction of subsidies and other measures to improve cost recovery in higher education,
health, irrigation and water supply, including the abolition of most scholarships and reduced school
construction costs. A major study was undertaken to prepare for civil service reform, aimed at
containing th, wage bill over the long term and improving the efficiency of public services.
33.   The institution of a three-year rolling investment program improved medium-term planning
significantly, as demonstrated by the programs prepared in 1985 and 1986. In these programs, the
emphasis shifted toward rural development and human resources. The revised investment program was
based on sectoral strategies that were formulated as part of the adjustment program. Government
received assistance in preparing the new investment program under the IDA-supported PAGEF
(Cr. 1493-NIR), which improved significantly the quality of statistical data produced by the Ministry
of Plan, assuring regular publication of general economic indicators and introduced the methodology
to prepare the three-year rolling public investment program, thereby contributing to the centralization
of formerly dispersed investment data. PAGEF support also resulted in computerization of fiscal and
customs administrations, which simplified economic analysis, improved the effectiveness of tax
adm.nistration and put in place an external debt management system. To improve the revenue base,
Government adopted a number of tax reform measures with IMF assistance, including the introduction
of a value-added tax in 1986. Government followed a policy of prudent debt management by soliciting
more grant funding and by contracting loans only on concessional terms.
34.   However, as reported in the PCR for Cr. 1493-NIR, these adopted plans were not accompanied
by reforms in budgetary structures or procedures required to rationalize resource allocation and
strengthen expenditure control. Investment programming is done with little regard to data reliability.
The investment budget is not linked with the recurrent budget, technical ministries do not coordinate
their activities with Ministry of Plan, nor do the economic indicators generated by Ministry of Plan



- 10 -
form the basis of macroeconomic policy. While new procedures and the shift in public investment
financing from internal to external sources have resulted in a shift in sectoral composition which is in
line with the objectives and strategies of the Five-Year Development Plan for the 1987-90 period, the
project implementation rate is still too low, due in part to institutional reasons.
35.   As mentioned earlier, in the beginning of the SAL process and through the SAL I period,
government commitment was there as evidenced by the measures taken that led to tranche releases.
However, as adjustment became more difficult to sustain (e.g., continued control of the fiscal situation)
following the SAL I period, commitment began to disappear. For example, when the results of the civil
service and cost recovery studies became available in 1989, Government rejected them as a basis for
policy reform. During joint discussions to prepare a 1990 Country Strategy Paper and the 1991 Public
Expenditure Review, it was reported that stated targets to increase operations and maintenance outlays
and social sector expenditure were not being met, and in fact priority had been given to paying the wage
bill.
Parastatal Reform
36.   Government began its program of parastatal reform by abolishing all import monopolies and
quasi-monopolies, with the exception of those for petroleum products. As an accompanying measure,
consumer product prices were substantially liberalized. These measures have had a positive impact on
both product availability and prices. Government also made good progress towards the stated goals of
reducing the drain on its budget of subsidies to parastatals through privatization or liquidation. By mid-
1987, 16 enterprises were privatized, integrated into government agencies, or liquidated. These efforts
showed the desired results. Between 1983 and 1987, the financial performance of public enterprises
improved markedly. Of the 13 major enterprises which had accounted for most of the sector's losses,
9 reduced their operating losses from CFAF 10 billion in 1983 to 1.5 billion in 1985. Substantial
progress was recorded in the rehabilitation programs of key enterprises that are to remain in the public
sector (utilities). To consolidate these improvements, Government took the first steps to develop a new
legislative framework governing its relationship with public enterprises.
37.    Reform of two important parastatals, which it was felt could not wait for the launching of the
PESAP, was less successful. These were the development bank, BDRN, and the cereals marketing
agency, OPVN. While BDRN did improve its performance as far as new lending operations were
concerned following the implementation of strict credit controls, the recovery of outstanding credits
remained unsatisfactory, particularly from the private sector. Government therefore prepared a revised
action program, including specific measures to strengthen loan recovery. As for OPVN, while its
failure to reduce stocks could be attributed to external circumstances (para. 23), a performance audit
conducted in late 1986 revealed that internal policies and practices had not changed to reflect the agreed
change in the agency's role. Following the release of the second tranche of SAL I and start-up of the
PESAP and the PE institutional development project, parastatal reform bogged down. Analysis of the
reasons for this will be presented in the PESAP PCR scheduled for completion in the spring of 1992.
Agricultural Policy
38.   The most significant reform in agricultural policy was in grain marketing and storage. The
official price regulation system was abolished and the price stabilization function of the cereals
marketing agency (OPVN) was eliminated, leaving the agency only to manage a security stock. To
reduce budgetary allocations, subsidies on agricultural implements were eliminated and subsidies on
other inputs were reduced to 30% of the wholesale price by 1987. At least in the short run, however,



- I1 -
the abolition of agricultural price regulation and input subsidies reduced rather than improved farm
incomes. It had also been hoped that the liberalization of the cereals market would allow access by
small private traders, thereby improving the overall efficiency of intermediation to the benefit of
producers and consumers, but because OPVN did not change its procedures for selling grain surpluses,
a few large wholesalers continued to dominate the grain market. Looking beyond the SAL I period,
restructuring of OPVN continues on the basis of a performance contract concluded in 1990, and
subsidies for agricultural inputs were reduced to a maximum of 15% of their wholesale price by the end
of 1990.
39.    Progress on reform of the agricultural credit system and reorientation of agricultural research
were not as significant as had been expected. A new agricultural research program was implemented
only in mid-1990 (supported by IDA Credit 2122-NIR). These shortfalls were partly the result of
inadequate information and analysis of the rural sector, and during SAL implementation, funding was
obtained from IDA's Special Project Preparation Facility to assist Government in formulating future
policy reforms and long-term investment strategies for the rural sector. On the basis of this and other
agricultural policy studies and discussions with major donors, Government established an interministerial
subcommittee to prepare a strategy for the development of the agricultural sector. By end-1990,
Government was to have adopted temporary measures to address the most urgent rural land management
problems, and by end-1991, a new rural code for rural land reform.
F. Performance
Bank Performar.e
40.   The economic assessment made by Government and the Bank for this SAL managed to avoid
some of the pitfalls of early structural adjustment lending such as excessively short-term or narrowly
focussed measures, or failing to support investment in education, health and infrastructure maintenance.
The SAL program itself strove mightily to address medium and long-term issues such as the recurrent
budget and investment in human resources as well as the issues of the moment relating to external and
internal deficits. However, the Bank did not perhaps go far or deep enough into its analysis of the
institutional aspects of implementation. It rightly stated that structural reform of Niger's economy
would be a long-term process, in particular because productive investment opportunities for the country
are difficult to identify, but this recognition was not adequately reflected in its overly high expectations
of SAL I nor in its insufficiently rigorous monitoring provisions.
41.    While the underlying diagnosis of the economic situation has stood the test of time, the actual
projections made of potential recovery scenarios seem unduly optimistic in retrospect (see 1991 Public
Expenditure Review, Annex, Table III). Clearly unforeseen exogenous developments, including
recurrent drought and deteriorating terms of trade have played a role; nonetheless, at the very least, the
Bank seriously underestimated the weakness of and lack of communication among the institutions whose
heads were directly involved in SAL I development and implementation, in particular with regard to
current expenditure, the banking system, and public enterprise restructuring. Equally short-sighted
seems the reluctance of the Bank to face the need to look at Niger within the context of regional and
sub-regional trade, despite acknowledgement of its substantial trade -- recorded and unrecorded - with
Nigeria, its main regional trading partner, and of the disastrous economic consequences of continuing
deterioration in relative prices with Nigeria. As recently as the 1990 Policy Framework Paper, the
small size of Niger's domestic market is cited as a natural impediment to its growth. It is the regional
market, especially Nigeria, whici is relevant, as is abundantly documented in two recent internal reports



- 12 -
(Corridors de transport en Afrique sahelienne: le cas du Niger, 8814-NIR, AFTIN, May 1990, and
Niger: Private Sector Development, AF5IE, yellow cover, April 1989).
42.   The overall impression remains that the Bank was in a hurry to show visible results in terms
of economic indicators of success, and seemed to have been satisfied to focus on statistical indicators
and budget documents, in the case of current expenditure; it took some time before it became aware that
actual expenditure often bore little resemblance to written assurances or planned budgets and actions
which were the basis for tranche releases. The need to deliver a success story over a three-year period
in a development situation with 20-year problems distracted the Bank from acquiring or applying the
necessary knowledge in what makes the country tick -- its poiitical economy in particular.
43.   It is also important to remember the context within which Bank staff were operating: low
supervision coefficients meant short, small and infrequent missions; with the start-up of the PESAP, the
focus of staff and management attention shifted to the public enterprise sector, to the detriment of
follow-up on public expenditure. The internal upheavals due to the reorganization of the Psank in
1987/88 would also have constituted a major distraction and energy drain for most Bank staff, uncertain
of their future job security.
Borrower Performance
44.   There is every indication that Government was not only strongly committed during the initial
phases of structural reform (para. 8) but had clear ideas about specific needed reforms, even if it was
not able to implement them. It has also demonstrated very clear thinking concerning reforms it did not
feel were appropriate or possible, in particular when national security issues were seen to override
economic considerations, as in the case of the refusal to be pressured into liquidation of a bankrupt
cement plant. While cheaper cement could be purchased from Nigeria, the possibility of border
closures, currency fluctuations, and monopolisticprice increases made it politically unacceptable to close
the plant, whose main customer is the uranium mine, source of most of Niger's foreign exchange.
45.    However, when political constraints were involved, Government could have been more
forthcoming and perhaps more inclined to set long-term goals when it felt uncomfortable with Bank-
proposed short-term goals. There are two clear and critical examples: Government's position vis-a-vis
the private sector, and civil service reform. In a March 1987 review of Government's industry policy
paper, the Bank correctly detected Government's ambivalence on the role of the private sector: while
stating it wished to give full initiative to the private sector (and actually took measures -- lifting price
controls, removing import restrictions, privatizations, etc.), Government at the same time was
attempting to increase state participation in major industrial projects. The Bank reviewer felt that
Government intentions were not clear.
46.   It is also clear that Government's implementation capacity fell shor. of what top-level,
centralized decision-makers ordered to be done. At the managerial and staff level, an assessment made
of OPVN in late 1986 might well apply to other agencies as well, that it operated from one day to the
next, with at most a perspective of a few months rather than a few years. It is also important to
recognize the handicap delivered to Government by the death of President Kountche in 1987. President
Kountche appeared to have embodied Government commitment to the SAL. Upon his death, his
successor succeeded in consolidating power and implementing needed constitutional reforms but lacked
President Kountche's authority; particularly in the first few years after his death, internal conflict
flourished and detracted from the adjustment effort. It is also unfortunate that weak Bank supervision



- 13 -
of a major training program in key ministries under the PAGEF meant that needed job skills had not
been acquired under that effort (see PAGEF PCR, August 1991).
Project Relationship
47.   The project relationship appears to have been strongest during the preparation period and up
to the midterm review in late 1986. Indicative of the good levei of dialogue is the agreement to accept
a higher level of grain stock than the Bank felt was justifiable on purely budgetary grounds, and a lower
level than Government was really comfortable with in terms of per capita emergency requirements.
Some friction developed over the Bank's insistence on a quick solution to the cement plant situation as
a condition of second tranche release, but reason prevailed and the Bank agreed to allow more time for
a final decision, given that the diagnostics had been done. Since the Bank had accepted Government's
request for major assistance to parastatal reform and the thrust of its follow-on effort to SAL I was
focussed in this area, a needed SAL I supplement for general budgetary support was wrapped into the
PESAP.
48.   Government and the Bank failed to agree on the design and composition of a second technical
assistance project in 1989, and the dialogue between Government and the Bank tended to deteriorate.
The negative effect of these factors on the structural adjustment effort could only be reinforced by the
lack of concrete, visible results beyond the SAL I implementation period either in the Bank's terms --
economic indicators -- or Government's -- living conditions. Still, Government continued to express
its commitment to adjustment and kept in place the key economic ministers of Finance and Plan during
two Cabinet reshuffles. The structural adjustment dialogue has revived since the 1990 preparation of
a Country Strategy Paper within the Bank, a Policy Framework Paper prepared jointly in 1990, and
a Public Expenditure Review in 1991.
Procurement and Disbursement
49.    Disbursements were handled by BCEAO in Niamey, which had no trouble mastering the
required procedures and did a meticulous job, according to the midterm review. Funds were disbursed
on time and there were no cancellations. Lengthy and at times arbitrary Government procurement
procedures created some delays in start-up of studies linked to SAL I (financed under the PAGEF).
On more than one occasion, Bank documents indicate doubts that involved local staff and officials fully
understood what was required under Bank rules, and in fact procurement guidelines were distributed
anew in early 1987. Examples of difficulties include poorly qualified consultants on the short list for
the industrial incentive study, and Government insistence on giving the cost recovery study to the
second place bidder because the first place bidder had already won "too many" contracts.
G. Lessons Learned
50.    Sustaining a long-term adjustment process requires not only accurate diagnostics and priorities
but also planning for visible gains over a realistic time period. The need for "ownership" goes beyond
agreeing on overall diagnostics and needed measures; if the consequences of different courses of action
are not worked through, then the process (as opposed to the principle) of adjustment is not internalized.
Without full internalization of the adjustment process, implementation tends to become mechanistic, real
structural change over the long haul is unlikely to occur or to be sustained. Working at a pace closer
to what was politically acceptable in Niger would have considerably extended the time frame, but it
might have led to more of the successes under the Program (Sections D and E) being sustained beyond
the meeting of tranche release conditions.



- 14 -
51.   The conceptual soundness of the design (para. 8) notwithstanding, this type of effort for SAL I
in Niger would also have put heavier demands on the Bank team in terms of working through the
consequences of theoretically necessary reforms. One example is in farm price and subsidy reform;
while it would be surprising if it had not occurred to Bank staff that removing farm price supports and
input subsidies could, in a good year, squeeze farmers' profits, it seems from the 1988 report on SAL I
prepared by Government (see Part 11 of this PCR) that this result amounted to a major disappointment
from the Borrower's point of view. Was Government naive in its trust that implementation of Bank
recommended policies would lead to short-term (i.e., during SAL I implementation period - 1985/86-
1987) improvements? Did the Bank fail to clearly present alternative scenarios, or was it indifferent
to the short-term penalties?
52.   It could be said that the structural rigidities of the Bank itself during this period got in the way
of successful structural adjustment lending in this case: an institutional preference for focussing on
public sector activities and for an individual country perspective rather than a regional or subregional
coordination given the influence on Niger's economy by its giant southern neighbor, Nigeria. Such
incentives tend to operate particularly strongly during a period of major internal reorganization such as
that experienced by the Bank in 1987-89. Even more serious is the Bank's underestimation of
underlying constraints to structural adjustment, in particular, long-term implementation capacity and
inadequate inter- and intra-governmental coordination. Diagnostics of the Planning and Finance
Ministries for the PAGEF had already revealed how soft capabilities were below the top level in those
two ministries, how compartmentalized the sectoral ministries, and how poor investment implementation
capacity. One can only surmise that pressure to show success across the board for a range of economic
indicators was as strong within the Bank environment as the need for speedy financial assistance was
on the Borrower's side, and that these pressures overcaine any awareness of deeper and more difficult
constraints.
53.   The lack of rigorous monitoring measures, which allowed shortfalls in the reform of current
expenditure and of BDRN to be masked by Government assurances, may have seemed appropriate at
the time SAL I was being designed, since it was designed as an initial, quasi-emergency effort and the
important thing was the list of qualitative, short-term measures established for second tranche release.
54.   Awareness of some of the above issues, most of which point to questions of sustainability of
reforms (admittedly difficult to anticipate especially in the present case where initially there was
Government commitment to the Program), appears to be reflected in the 1990 Country Strategy Paper
and Policy Framework Paper, the latter prepared jointly by Government, the Bank and the IMF and
covering the 1990-93 period. While the basic overall strategy remains substantially the same,
implementation capacity over the long-term becomes a major focus, current expenditure receives greater
attention, the service sector is now seen as a potential source of growth rather than as a "non-
productive" sector, and the importance of the private sector and regional trade issues is clearly reflected
in the strategy and the Bank work program.



- 15 -
PART II: PROGRAM REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Prepared by:Republic of Niger, Supreme Military Council
Ministry of National and Regional Planning
Project Appraisal and Programming Department
April 1988
ENGLISH SUMMARY
[Translator's notes in brackets]
Full report in French available from the Project File
December 1991
Contents of Document
Main Report (38 pages)          Annexes (4 + 36 + 12 + 2 pp.)
I. Introduction                1. Round Table Communique
(Geneva, July 1, 1987)
II. Program Objectives
III. Budget Policy & Management 2. Report on PESAP (12/87)
IV. Parastatal Reform          3. Sectoral Measures & Studies
(Education II, Health, Energy II,
V. Agricultural Policy           Transport, PPODR, Agricultural subsidies)
V". Studies                    4. Minutes of Rural Sector Round Table
(Niamey, December 19, 1986)
VII. Program Impact
List of Tables in Main Report
1. Government Income and Expenditure, 1985-1988, Forecast and Estimated
2. Public Investment, 1985-1988, Estimated and Actual



- 16 -
Digest of Main Report
Introduction
1.    This document is the completion report which the Republic of Niger is required to submit within
six months of the closing date in the Credit Agreement. It covers more than SAL I in the narrowest
sense, since the annexes present complementary sectoral measures taken or studied during the 1986-88
period.
Objectives
2.    The objectives of SAL I are quoted from the Letter of Development Policy of December 30,
1985.
Budget Policy and Management
3.    Government revenues did not ii;.ease as rapidly as forecast over the 1985-88 period, despite
substantial improvement in tax collection, because of general economic difficulties, especially in the
modern sector. Overall income increased substantially due to the IDA/SFA credit and IMF drawdowns.
The growth of personnel expenses was less than the rate of inflation. Supply expenses ("materiel"),
after increasing substantially in 1985, decreased in real terms. Transport and housing expenses are
more or less in line with SAL forecasts, as are the reductions in government scholarships and subsidies
and the increase in road maintenance. [See Table 1; note that comparison is being made between
"previsions" or forecasts, and "inscriptions budgetaires", which means budget estimates; if these were
the actual figures, one would expect them to be called "comptes".]
4.    A new three-year Public Investment Program (programme des investissements de l'etat) and a
one year investment budget were created prior to SAL I in September 1984, covering financing and
staffing for projects financed by Government budget, loans, and grants. Since then, four such PIP and
BI were adopted following review with the Bank in August (PIP 1985/87 + BI 1985 through
PIP 1988/90 + BI 1988); Government conducts an implementation review in March/April. The PIP
have evolved in the sense of limiting loans and increasing grant financing while holding the level of
Government budget constant in real terms despite financial difficulties, and also in terms of shifting
staffing towards directly productive sectors and social sectors.  [See Table 2, which compares
"dotations" with "realisations", 1985-88.1
5.    Resource mobilization objectives are summarized from the Letter of Development Policy and
the main measures taken: introduction of the value added tax on January 1, 1986, lowering of the tax
on domestic natural gas and simplification of export taxes in September 1986, lowering of import tariffs
in May 1987, completion of the first phase of a study on cost recovery measures in August 1987,
introduction of some health charges in October 1985, allocation of routine and periodic maintenance
of village water supply to village and provincial authorities respectively, and initiation of a revision of
the investment code in connection with preparation of the Round Table on the Private Sector [no date].
6.    Concerning external debt, Government took out no new commercial loans, increased the share
of grant financing, and improved terms of debt with donors. Public debt management improved
substantially due to better information based on a new computerized debt management system introduced
with IMF and Bank assistance. The steps involved in preparing the Round Tables held in Geneva in



- 17 -
June/July 1987 (medium-term development plan) and in Niamey in 1988 (rural, transport, and r-ivate
sectors) are reviewed. The main results are the review of the 1987-1991 Economic and Social
Development Plan and the associated Financing Plan, agreement on the sectoral round tables, and
presentation of Government's request that donor coordination be formalized and reinforced, and that
major donors be involved in preparation of IMF and Bank programs.
Parastatal Reform
7.     A list of 23 decrees (decrets, arretes, ordonnances) is given along with the dates of their
enactments between 1983 and 1987. A reference is made to the progress report on the PAGEF (IDA
Cr. 1493-NIR) given in Annex 2 to the document.
Agricultural Policy
8.     The main achievements in agricultural policy have been: price liberalization for millet, sorgho
(no price control), peanuts and niebe (indicative prices), rice and cotton (price ceiling)- adoption of a
bidding system for surplus millet and sorgo marketing; restriction of cereals marketing board to
management of a grain security stock of 80,000 tons plus food aid; and abolition of all agricultural
subsidies except on fertilizer. As a consequence of the latter, combined with lower farm income due
to falling prices and liberalization of trade in farm products, there has been an immediate and sustained
drop in the use of farm inputs (fertilizer, animal traction). The situation is characterized by the risk
of lower quality products due to an increase in the sources offering them for sale, a lack of knowledge
concerning actual supply and demand for farm inputs, and the inappropriateness of certain agricultural
supplies to the bio-economic conditions of farming in Niger.
9.     Concerning agricultural credit, the agricultural credit agency (CNCA) has suspended credit
operations and concentrated on debt collections. The lack of credit has created concern in the rural
sector. CNCA collection efforts have yielded little result and this is linked to the lack of new credit
being offered. Two round tables have been held, one on rural credit in December 1986 and one on
rural development in March 1988. Government has decided to liquidate CNCA and establish a new
system of agricultural credit.
10.   Concerning agricultural research, the Ministry of Plan coordinated a six-month study of
agricultural research in Niger in which 70 Nigerien university and ministerial professionals participated,
assisted by ISNAR and financed by the Bank. The stages of this work are described, culminating in
a donor's meeting to review the diagnostic and proposed program in October 1987 and preparation of
a final report in January 1988. [The report's contents are not indicated.] A first operational tranche
of the new research program is set to begin during March 1988, following a joint FAO/ISNAR mission
to establish program costs and financing requirements. A meeting will be organized with donors by the
end of 1988 on the final program.
Studies
11.   Seven studies are listed as having been planned under the SAL, and seven others have also been
started or are about to start.



- 18 -
Planned studies                    Additional studies
1. Civil service reform        1. Agricultural strategy
2. Tax incentives for investment, 2. Obstacles to private sector development
and trade restrictions       3. Restructuring of OPEN
3. Cost recovery measures      4. Mutual guarantee associations
4. Parastatal cross-debt arrears  (societes de caution mutuelle)
5. New agricultural credit system  5. Development of entrepreneurial spirit
6. Banking system              6. Public sector contract administration
7. Supply and distribution of  7. Operating cost requirements
petroleum products             (besoins en depenses de fonctionnement)
12.   Civil service reform: This study was to have started in February 1987 but has been delayed
by the long and difficult negotiations between Niger arid ILO (letter of agreement signed July 1987) and
by a series of negotiations between Niger and the World Bank concerning the composition of the
national working group. The Bank preferred a group seconded to the Study Unit (Cellule d'Etude)
while the Civil Service Minister preferred only the group's president to be permanently appointed. The
solution adopted was a mixed group of permanent and non-permanent members. The first phase
concerning job analysis (analyse des postes) began in October 1987. To date, all ministries except
transport and tourism have been visited and the provinces of Niamey, Tahoua, Agadez and Dosso have
received the questionnaire. The team is currently doing field work in Zinder-M *adi and Diffa. The
four months allocated for this phase will be substantially exceeded given the magnitude of the task
(22,000 civil servants to be covered plus teaching staff, the judiciary and the Republic Guard) and
considering that the data will be required for later stages of the study. The timetable will need to be
adjusted. [No proposed new timetable indicated.]
13.   Industrial incentives: The request for bids was launched on January 1987, bids were opened
May 19, 1987 and evaluated on June 2 and 9, 1987. They were forwarded to the CCM June 25 and
the Prime Minister's letter of agreement is dated July 21, 1987. The file was forwarded to the World
Bank, which rejected the bidding due to incorrect procedures in a letter dated September 21, 1987, and
proposed a new timetable in a letter dated October 22, 1987. The Planning Minister reopened the
MCI/T [?] on November 2, 1987, and Government and the Bank reached agreement on the short list
and the invitation to bid during the PESAP review mission of January 25 - February 12, 1988. The
request for bids was again launched on April 2, 1988, the study is expected to start in July 1988 and
the final report is expected in December 1988.
14.   Cost recovery: Government's comments were sent to the consultants for inclusion in the final
report which is expected in April 1988, when Government and the Bank will examine the report and
decide on next steps.
15.   Cross-debts: This study was carried out in liaison with the World Bank and IMF and led to a
settlement program included in the PESAP. The required amounts have been included in the 1988
budget.
16.   Agricultural credit: See para. 10 above, Agricultural Policy.
17.   Banking system: Government and the Bank agreed on a short, list and invitation to bid during
the PESAP review mission January 25 - February 12, 1988. The reouest for bids was launched on
April 14, 1988, the study should start May 16, and the final report be ready by November 16, 1988.



- 19 -
18.   Petroleum product distribution: Finalization of the terms of reference involved several rounds
during the second half of 1986. Invitation to bid was launched January 21, 1987, bids were opened
April 21 and May 2'1, bids were forwarded to the CCM July 10, the Prime Minister gave his agreement
August 17, and the Ministry of Trade and Industry contacted the Bank for start-up August 31, 1987.
The Bank then requested all bids, which were forwarded September 23, 1987. In a telex of
November 27, 1987, the Bank advised Government that it could not agree with our recommendation
(BUNETI/BEICIP) and that bidding would need to be repeated. The Minister of Commerce agreed,
submitting a revised list of consultants; the Bank removed all local consultants for reasons which are
not shared by Government. lhe invitation was relaunched March 4, bids were reviewed April 27, and
the final report is expected December 1988.
19.    Other studies: The agricultural strategy report, second phase report was completed February 4,
1988 anu was distributed to donors prior to the Round Table on Rural Development of March 1988.
Terms of reference for the private sector study were agreed on in a Niger-Bank meeting in March 1988
and the final report is expected for early June.  The short list and invitation for the study for
restructuring OPEN were agreed during the January/February 1988 PESAP review mission and the final
report is expected end June 1988. The Bank contacted the Enterprise Development Institute at the
University of Laval (Quebec) in January 1988 concerning its interest in participating in the studies on
entrepreneurial spirit and mutual guarantee associations; a visit from EDI/ULQ is expected in April
1988 and the three-month study could begin in May 1988. Status of the public sector contract
administration study is given in the attached report of MTEP/SE/SEM, point 111-3-6 page 3 [report not
found]. The operating cost study, which covers all government services, is underway and a preliminary
report is expected in mid-August 1988.
Program Impact
20.   The impacts of SAL I should be measured by comparing the results in the target areas with
those anticipated in the President's Report and assessing what [part of these] can reasonably be
attributed to SAL implementation. Five types of impacts are summarized: improvements in public and
private investment, reduction of internal and external deficits, increased economic production, a halt
in the fall of household consumption, and a risk of short-term social costs to be offset in the long run
by a more efficient economy and accelerated growth. However, the President's Report is cautious in
forecasting that the most positive SAL results will not be visible until the early 1990s, and in setting
out four elements which could threaten these results: poor private sector response, lack of long-term
development solutions for the rural sector, falling uranium prices, and poor rains.
21.    In the case of some results, it is difficult to attribute them to SAL implementation, such as the
good harvest of 1986 or the grain deficit of 1987. Among those results which may in effect be
attributed to SAL implementation are improvements in the public investment program (increase in
volume, shift towards productive sectors and infrastructure maintenance), improvements in information
and control over public investment, reduction in parastatal operating expenditures, payment of overdue
public arrears, arrears reduction in the state banking system, improved management and financial
position of parastatals, and stabilization of external debt service. However, much remains to bu done
to assure the acceptance of new information and control measures for public investment and to improve
absorptive capacity for investment grants; the private sector has not responded, Government revenue
has fallen and its budget deficit increased, balance of payments situation has worsened, and debt service
remains at an unsustainable level. The current (1987-91 Financing Plan needs to be revised in this
light.



- 20 -
22.   It is not yet possible to quantify the impact of thc SAL on agricultural activity. However, a
number of agricultural policy reforms have created problems and appear to contradict the expected
results. Price liberalization was supposed to improve farm income by encouraging diversification, but
such behavior, which is rational in a market economy, is less so in an economy which is still largely
based on subsistence and where crop options are limited. The good harvests of 1985 and 1986 led to
a sharp drop in grain prices and certainly did not lead to improved income for most rural residents.
In addition, the sudden abolition of agricultural subsidies is incompatible with any desire to extend
more intensive farming methods and improve yields. Low farm income, compounded by new cost
recovery measures and lack of agricultural credit, have created setbacks to modernization. This has
become virtually impossible, given that the price of most agricultural inputs has increased from 10%
to 70% betweer .984 and 1986.
23.   Austerity policies and low rural income have added to the difficulties of the industrial and
commercial sector: demand is insufficient and markets limited. Valued added in the modern
commercial sector dropped nearly 25% in real terms between 1985 and 1987, and in manufacturing
output has stagnated.
24.   Social costs during the SAL period have been substantial: a 5% drop in employment in the
private modern sector in 1986, sustained fall in real salaries of civil servants, loss in monetary income
in the rural sector, stagnation or fall in average income of informal entrepreneurs between 1982 and
1987, coupled with a rapid increase in the number of entrants. While new cost recovery measures are
needed from a budgetary point of view, they may well lead to further deterioration in sanitation
conditions and reduce access to education, given the fall in purchasing power. That current standards
of living are very low is confirmed by a household consumption survey carried out in Niamey in 1987,
which revealed that food absorbed about 54% of the total, while health and education shares were a
mere 4% and 1% respectively. In rural areas, it is estimated that food absorbs 80-90% of total
household consumption.
25.   SAL measures have contributed to the improvement in the overall viability of Niger's economy,
but despite Government's efforts to reduce the public sector's role and leave more initiative to [private]
economic actors, the combined results of these measures and efforts have not been sufficient to assure
real economic grovTh even in the medium term. Insufficient attention to the demand side made it
possible to believe that fiscal, customs, and administrative reforms would be enough to revive private
investment but this has not been the case. Likewise in the rural sector, liberalization measures were
supposed to stimulate growth; it would have been more prudent to move more slowly until the micro-
economic behavior of farmers is better understood.



- 21 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
BASIC DATA SHEET
CREDIT DATA
(Amounts in US$ millioins)
As of 09/30/91
OriQinal      Disbursed /a   Canceled      Repaid Outstanding /a
IDA Cr. 1660-NIR       20.0           23.19          --           --       24.89
SFA Cr. A-012-NIR      40.0           45.28          --           --       49.79
Original Dates       Actual Dates
Strategy Brief (in lieu of
Initiating Memorandum)                                    09/23/83
Letter of Development Policy                               12/30/85
Negotiations                                               12/19/85
Board Approval                                             02/18/86
Effectiveness                                              05/22/86
Credit Closing                         12/31/87            12/31/87
Actual Completion                     06/30/88             06/30/88
CUMULATIVE CREDIT DISBURSEMENT
FY 87                FY 88
(i)    Planned               54.87                 68.47
(ii)    Actual               54.87                 68.47
(iii)   Actual as %           100                   100
of Planned
MISSION DATA
No. of       No. of         Date of
Month/Year       Weeks         Persons        Report
Identification          05/84             2             7           06/26/84
Preparation 1           10/84             3            20           11/19/84
Pre-appraisal           04/85             3             6           06/18/85
Appraisal               10/85             3            17           05/13/86
Supervision 1           03/86             4             5           05/13/86
Supervision 2           11/86             2            13           03/03/87
(midterm review)
FOLLOW-ON ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. 1833-NIR/A-31-NIR), approved June 25, 1987 in the amount
of US$60 million IDA, US$20 million Africa Facility.
/a Disbursed amounts differ from the original amount of the credits in terms of US$ because of changes in
the US$/SDR exchange rates.



- 22 -
NIGER: KEY MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS
Indicators           1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991
% GROWTH IN:
GDP                  -0.8  -2.6  -16.1   7.8   3.7  -0.7   7.0  -3.3   3.1   3.1
GDP per capita       -3.6  -5.4  -18.9   4.7   0.7  -3.6   3.9  -6.3   0.0   0.0
Private consumption
per capita          -12.9   7.5  -10.2   0.5  -2.1  -3.2   1.2   0.6   0.1   0.0
Exports             -20.1   9.7  -7.9  -15.2   2.0  -7.8  -6.4  -11.1  -2.6   1.8
Imports               0.2  -5.1  -15.2  14.7  -20.0   5.7  -4.5  -1.6   3.7   0.8
Sources: 1987 PESAP PR, Annex I for 1982-84; 1990 Policy Framework Paper, Annex B, for 1985-91
RATIOS TO GDP:
Gross Investment     26.9  11.4  -1.4  12.7   9.5   8.6  11.1    9.5  10.5  10.6
Revenue              11.3  10.2  11.4  11.1  11.0  11.3  10.5  11.0  11.3  11.5
Budget Deficit        7.1   6.6   5.2  -9.4  -9.2  -9.5   -10  -10.5  -11.6  -10.2
(excl. grants)
Current account       9.7   4.6   1.7   4.0   2.1   3.7   2.7   4.3   3.6   2.7
deficit
Debt service          9.9   7.5   9.5   9.8   9.6   8.8   7.5   7.4   6.0   5.8
Sources: 1987 PESAP PR, Annex I for 1982-84; 1990 Policy Framework Paper, Annex B, for 1985-91
DOLLAR/CFAF AMOUNTS:
in billion 1987 CFAF
GDP                   745   731   607   626   666   650   682   658   678   n.a.
Gross Dom. Investment  113   107     7    81    53    60    76    63    65   n.a.
Private Consumption   616   587   552   536   575   544   542   514   n.a.   n.a.
Exports               147   156   141   127   121   121   125   124   124   n.a.
Imports               202   194   164   189   151   151   138   124   125   n.a.
Population (mnillions)    5.9   6.1   6.3   6.6   6.8   7.0   7.2   7.4   7.7   n.a.
Exchange rate         329   381   437   449   300   297   319   300   300   300
(conversion factor)
Source: Unified Survey, December 1991.
in billion current CFAF
Government Revenue                  70    70    74    76    68    72   n.a.   n.a.
Budget Deficit                     -64   -59   -62   -64   -68   -64   n.a.   n.a.
Source: 1990 Country Strategy Paper, Annex B.
in million US$
Current Account Deficit                  -220  -187  -222  -214  -226  -265  -263
Debt Service                              142   178   191   174   153   142   145
Source: 1990 Poiicy Framework Paper, Annex B.



- 23 -
NIGER: STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(IDA Credit No. 1660-NIR)
(SFA Credit No. A-012-NIR)
SUMMARY OF ACTIONS AND STUDIES COMPLETED
I. ACTIONS
Actual Dates
A. PITBLIC RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
1.  Adoption of 1986/87 budget in line with restructuring objectives *  September 1986
2. Adoption of 1986/87-1988/89 public investment program in line with
restructuring objectives *                                          September 1986
B. PARASTATAL REFORM
1. Reductions in the number of products subject to price control
(from 250 to 64) *                                                  November 1986
2.  Adoption of legislation by June 1986 to adjust organization of ministries  PESAP
affected by new system
3. Adoption of revised parastatal employment laws by June 1986          October 1986
4.  Completion of preparation for rehabilitation programs for OPVN and OPT   PESAP
by March 1986
5.  Final decision on Air Niger, CNCA, Soniceram by October 1986        PESAP
6.  Initiate program to eliminate cross-debts                           PESAP
C. AGRICULTURAL POLICY
1. Satisfactory progress in application of new grain security policies *  November 1986
2. Complete CNCA audit and start-up action on program to improve
debt collection *                                                   April 1986
3. Further reduction of subsidies for fertilizer on annual basis        1985/86
4. Revision of 1986-88 research program and budget                      1989
* Required for second tranche release.



- 24 -
II. STUDIES
Actual Dates
A. PUBLIC RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
1. First phase of study of civil service to be completed #         September 1986
2. Completion of feasibility study of Irhazer irrigation project
3.  Completion of study of cost recovery #                         PESAP
(April 1988)
B. PARASTATAL REFORM
1.  Study on industrial incentives, study of financial sector,     PESAP (December
study of petroleum distribution                                1988, June 1989)
2. Complete study on SNC (cement factory) by 10/86                 October 1986
C. AGRICULTURAL POLICY
1.  Complete study on CNCA (agric. credit) by 10/86                October 1986
# Financed under PAGEF.
STAFF INPUTS
(in staff weeks)
Stage of                                         Fiscal Years
Project
Cycle           1984   1985    1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991    1992   TOTAL
Preparation      1.0*    1.7*   19.2                                                      21.9*
Appraisal                       44.7                                                      44.7
Negotiations                    18.0                                                      18.0
Supervision                     13.5   42.7    4.8       0.7             0.1             143.5
PCR                                                                              6.0**     6.0**
TOTAL             1.0*    1.7*  95.4   42.7      4.8    0.7        --    0.1    6.0**   232.1
* Underestimates staff input; substantial input to this task during this period was probably recorded as
country/sector work for Niger.
** Estimated.



POLICY AREA          ACTION TAKEN BY          MONITORABLE ACTION TO            MIDTERM REVIEW STATUS   LATER DEVELOPMENTS
AND OBJECTIVES   GOVERNMENT                   BE TAKEN                         (June 1987)                    (from 1990 CSP, 1991 PFP)
(prior to Board pres.,  (* Condition for release of
Feb. 1986)               second tranche)
A. PUBLIC
RESOURCE
MANAGEMENT
1. Improve efficien-   Budget program for     Adopt 1986-87 budget in line    Budget adopted as required      From being in balance in
cy of existing     1985/86-1987/88 adopted   with restructuring objectives*  Sept. 1986.                    1984, current budget showed
investment        to restructure recurrent                                                                 deficit of 2% in 1988. Still,
expenditure program:                                                                     priority development needs
- reduce subsidies                                                                       cannot be satisfied and deficit
is increasing.
- improve ratio of                                       Provisions for raterials and    Targets to increase operations
supplies/personnel                                      supplies increased. Major      and maintenance outlays by
expenditures                                           increase in allocation for road  10% per year, and to increase
- increase maintenance                                   maintenance.                    social sector expenditures have
expenditures                                                                           not been met.
- contain wage bill      First phase of study of civil   Diagnostic phase of study       Civil service wage bill                    un
service system to be completed*    completed Sept. 1986. ILO to    increased by about 6-7% per
carry out second phase.        year in real terms during
Growth in wage bill reduced.   1984-89. New recruitment
Provisional measures to limit  policies not enforced. Their
new hiring of staff and to     announcement in early 1990,
abstain from cost-of-living    along with reduction in
adjustments in public salaries.    university subsidies, led to
l ________________                            ____________________________                                    bloody    riots.
2. Strengthen        Public investment        Adopt 1986/87-1988/89           Investment program adopted     Public investment has
development of    program for 1985/86-      investment program*             Sept. 1986. Shift towards rural   stagnated due to low
resource base to    1987/88 adopted                                         sector and human resource      implementation levels.
improve prospects                                                           development.                   Redirection of investment to
for growth                                                                                                 social sectors and
infrastructure maintenance
rather than new investment has
held. However, investment
implementation is very poor
due to low institutional
capacity (overly centralized,
complicated procedures, lack
of counterpart funds.).



POLICY AREA          ACTION TAKEN BY          MONITORABLE ACTION TO            MIDTERM REVIEW STATUS   LATER DEVELOPMENTS
AND OBJECTIVES   GOVERNMENT                   BE TAKEN                        (June 1987)                     (fiom 1990 CSP, 1991 PFP)
(prior to Board pres.,  (* Condition for release of
Feb. 1986)               second tranche)
Complete feasibility study of   Study began end 1986.
Irhazer project*                 Completion delayed because
scope redefined.
3. Increase resource   Measures taken to      Complete study of further cost  Study started Jan. 1987, to be  Tax revenues declined from
mobilization and    expand cost recovery in   recovery measures*            completed mid-1988 and          10% of GDP in 1982 to less
improve           health, education, water                                  reflected in 1987/88 budget.   than 8% in 1989 due to
efficiency in use    supply and irrigation                                                                 decline of modem sector and
of public services                                                                                         inability or lack of political
commitment to tax large-scalc
informal sector.
Measures taken to
transfer maintenance of
small infrastructure to
beneficiaries
4. Improve external   Medium-term borrowing   Donors conference to be held    Donors' conference held
debt position     strategy formulated to    during 1986 to discuss multi-year
reduce debt service      financial plan                  No new loans in 1986/87. (JON
prepared comprehensive draft
financing plan for 1987-91 with
TA from UNDP and IDA.
UNDP Round Table scheduled
for June 1987.
5. Improve           Insthutional framework
framework for     and instruments for
expenditure       expenditure
planning          programming
established, including
formulation of sectoral
l ___________________  strategies



POLICY AREA          ACTION TAKEN BY          MONITORABLE ACTION TO           MIDTERM REVIEW STATUS   LATER DEVELOPMENTS
AND OBJECTIVES   GOVERNMENT                   BE TAKEN                        (June 1987)                     (from 1990 CSP, 1991 PFP)
(prior to Board pres.,  (* Condition for release of
Feb. 1986)               second tranche)
B. PARASTATAL
REFORM
1. Improve resource   Measures taken to       Further reduction in the number    Number of products subject to    Further pricing and trade
allocation and    liberalize price and trade   of products subject to price  fixed price margins reduced   reforms are needed: abolition
strengthen        controls:                control*                         from 250 to 64; all other price    of remaining price controls
potential for     - list of controlled items                                controls removed.              and administrative price
supply responses    has been reduced;                                                                      setting, import quotas,
simplification of tariff system.
- import licensing and                                   State marketing agency's import
monopolies and quasi-                                   monopoly abolished and
monopolies have been                                    performance improved.
dismantled
2. Eliminate         Fiscal treatment of      Study on industrial and trade
distortions       parastatals has becn     policies; study of funancial sector
equalized with that of
private enterprises
3. Increase         Institutional framework   Adopt legislation by June 1986 to                              New institutional framework
efficiency of     for parastatal sector has    adjust organization of ministries                           has been developed under
resource          been strengthened:       affected by new system                                          PESAP, granting more
allocation and    - tasks of Ministry of                                                                   autonomy to public enterprises
use; reduce         Tutelle redefined                                                                      while increasing
budgetary                                                                                                  accountability.
transfers
Adopt revised parastatal        New personnel statute, Oct.    Public sector wage levels are
employment laws by June 1986    1986.                          still too high (3-4 times those
in Nigeria) due to remaining
legal and administrative
distortions.
- legal framework for                                    Standard charters approved,
SVT/parastatal                                          Sept. 1986. Individual
relations established                                   parastatals to bring statutes into
conformity by March 1987.
Preparation of performance
contracts between GON and
individual parastatals has begun.



ITORABLE ACTION TO         MIDTERM REVIEW STATUS   LATER DEVELOPMENTS
AND OBJECTIVES   GOVERNMENT                  BE TAKEN                        (June 1987)                    (from 1990 CSP, 1991 PFP)
(prior to Board pres.,  (* Condition for release of
Feb. 1986)              secondtranche)
Nine of 13 main parastatals   Direct subsidies reduced from
reduced operating losses from  25% to 7% of current budget
CFAF 10 billion in 1983 to    outlays between 1983 and
CFAF 1.5 billion in 1985.     1989. But new arrears
accumulated by some
enterprises caused delay in
release of PESAP 3rd tranche.
Program for priority    Complete preparation of         OPVN rehabilitation to be      OPVN performance improved
rehabilitation of 10    rehabilitation programs for     prepared by mid-1987 with      in 1988/89.
parastatals established;  OPVN and OPT by March         support from PESAP.
1986;*
Complete studies on SNC and
CNCA by Oct. 1986;*
Final decision on Air Niger,    Air Niger: GON is selling two    Air Niger: Airplanes to be
CNCA, SNC by Oct. 1986*         last planes and then Air Niger    sold by Sept. 1990.                    c
will be liquidated.
CNCA: Task Force on           CNCA: Liquidated in 1988.
agricultural credit formed (see
also C below)
SNC: Study completed Oct.     SNC: To be liquidated by
1986. Discussions underway; to   Sept. 1990.
be resolved in context of
PFSAP.
BDRN rehabilitation                                     BDRN action program shows      Provisional restructuring action
program initiated                                       mixed results. New lending     plan agreed in 1989 wl TA
better, recovery of outstanding    from BCEAO, France and WB
credits unsatisfactory. A new  and adopted June 1990. In
action program is being       meantime, BDRN bankruptcy
prepared.                     is a main contributor to
financial crises. Cumulative
losses equivalent of 5% of
GDP. Since late 1989,
progress in establishing a new
and healthy commercial bank
which will ultimately replace
BDRN, a first step in
restructuring plan.



POLICY AREA          ACTION TAKEN BY          MONITORABLE ACTION TO            MIDTERM REVIEW STATUS   LATER DEVELOPMENTS
AND OBJECTIVES   GOVERNMENT                   BE TAKEN                         (June 1987)                    (from 1990 CSP, 1991 PFP)
(prior to Board pres.,   (* Condition for release of
Feb. 1986)               second tranche)
Principles and timetable                                  To date, 13 parastatals have   Under PESAP, 16 enterprises
for privatization/                                       been privatized, 2 incorporated   to be privatized of which 11
liquidation of parastatals                               into ministries, and I          complete or underway by mid-
established: liquidation                                 liquidated.                     1991, and 7 to be liquidated of
and privatization in                                     Underway: 6 major               which 6 have been completed.
progress                                                 rehabilitations, including      31 enterprises will stay in the
utilities (water, electricity,  public sector.
telecoms);
5 privatizations. 2 liquidations.
Study on cross-debts    Initiate program to eliminate    Two-stage program adopted:      Inventory of all cross-debts
completed                cross-debts.                    CFAF 3 billion arrears will be    and gov't arrears to be
settled in 1986/87; remaining  completed by end 1990. All
CFAF 20 billion to be settled  cross-debts and gov't arrears
over next 2 years in context of   to be settled by end 1991.
PESAP. All cross-debts are to
be eliminated by 1989.
C.
AGRICULTURAL
POLICY
1. Increase         Grain security stock,    Satisfactory progress in         OPVN role reduced to           Reform in process to make
efficiency of     pricing, and marketing   application of new policy*       management of security stock.    effective the new role of
resource use and    policy (role of OPVN)                                   Accumulated stocks are to be   OPVN in storing and
reduce budgetary   has been reformed                                        sold off using tender procedure   distributing food aid, based on
transfers                                                                   to reduce stock from 160,000   a 1991 performance contract.
tons to agreed 80,000 tons.
Cereal price regulation
abolished including indicative
l________.___________                                     prices.
Subsidies for agricultural   Further reduction of subsidies on   Subsidies reduced: average rate   Subsidies are to be reduced to
implements have been     annual basis (1986-88)          of subsidies on agricultural    15% of wholesale price by end
eliminated;                                              inputs now less than 30% of     1990.
Subsidies for fertilizer                                 cost of commercial inputs.
have been reduced, and
l______________  imports liberalized



POLICY AREA         ACTION TAKEN BY          MONITORABLE ACTION TO          MIDTERM REVIEW STATUS   LATER DEVELOPMENTS
AND OBJECTIVES   GOVERNMENT                  BE TAKEN                       (June 1987)                    (from 1990 CSP, 1991 PFP)
(prior to Board pres.,  (* Condition for release of
Feb. 1986)              second tranche)
Initial steps taken to  Complete study on rural credit in   Rural credit study completed in   Improved financial
reform agricultural credit  June 1986;*                 Oct. 1986.                    intermediation is needed in the
system:                 Complete CNCA audit and start    CNCA audit available April   rural sector.
- audit of CNCA         action or. program to improve its   1986. Credit recovery record
initiated              debt collection*               remains poor, no justification
- provision of interim                                  for specialized agricultural
agricultural credit in                                credit institution. Task force
development projects                                  will work out a better
only                                                  arrangement. CNCA fate to be
decided under PESAP.
2. Lay the basis for   Agricultural Research  Revise 1986-88 research program   Study of existing agricultural  National ag research program
improving         Institute has been      and budget*                     research system by ISNAR       began in 1990 to enhance
sectoral         transferred to Ministry                                  (CGIAR member) will be         existing institute's capacity and
growth prospects   of Agriculture;                                        completed in 1987 and program   improve coordina'ion with
Agricultural research                                  to be redefined by end 1987.   extension. Research structure
policy is being redefined                                                             needs to be further
with external assistance                                                              strengthened and priorities
redirected toward farming
systems and natural research
management, and away from                 o
single crop research. Link to
extension requires significant
improvement, since workers
are unable to provide basic
level of service due to lack of
equipment and supplies.



- 31 -
ATTACHMENT
Page 1 of 3
Government Comments on the PCR
THE REPUBLIC OF NIGER
TRANSITIONAL GOVERNMENT
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE
THE MINISTER OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE
Ref. No. 0169/ME/F.DAEP/SRES                            Niamey, February 7, 1992
The Principal Country Officer
Country Operations Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Region
The World Bank
Dear Sir,
Ref: Your Letter of January 10. 1992
Subiect: Structural Adjustment Program (SAL I)
Thank you for your Project Completion Report on the "Structural
Adjustment Credit (Credits nos. 1660 and A-12 NTR)."
By way of general comment, I wish to inform you of my satisfaction
with the quality of the report as far as its balanced observations with respect
to the results achieved by the project. In particular, I would like to stress
the various conditions under which the project activities were implemented.
It should be emphasized that the difficulties encountered were often
linked to agro-climatic conditions and,  especially,  to the institutional
environment prevailing at the time in Niger, as well as to the internal
procedures of the World Bank itself.
This being said, we consider the report an internal document of your
institution. It does, however, call for the following specific comments from
us:
PART I
1.       Structural adjustment was more difZicult to achieve than the World
Bank's report suggests, because it was undertaken in the context of the shock
engendered by developments in Nigeria (which were not taken into consideration
when the SAL was being prepared).
2.       Should there have been structural adjustment, then there should have
been a recovery of growth in the international goods (exportable and importable
goods) sector, thanks to an improvement in competitiveness of the economy of
Niger; this was not the case during the period under examination in the World
Bank's report.   Such an improvement would have implied a fall in the real
exchange rate, accompanied as far as possible by an increase in



- 32 -
ATTACHMENT
Page 2 of 3
competitiveness.   Given the magnitude of Niger's trade with Nigeria. it is
clear that a realistic calculation of the real effective exchange rate would
have to take account of the evolution of the exchange rate between these two
countries which was characterized by a serious decline in Niger's
competitiveness vis-a-vis Nigeria.
3.       Unequal Adjustment in the Modern and Informal Sectors: in order to
understand genuinely the effect of such shocks and of the adjustment policy,
one must be able to perceive the evolution that took place in the various
sectors of the economy. The rural sector's value added during the adjustment
period tended to fall in nominal terms and in percentage of GDP. As for the
non-agricultural informal sector, it tended, compared with 1981, to increase
in nominal value and in real value. The evolution of the non-primary modern
trading sector was in distinct contrast with that of the non-agricultural
informal sector, since its value added fell sharply in current francs between
1980 and 1987 (34.3 percent and 24 percent, respectively). One of the basic
characteristics of Niger's economic evolution during the adjustment period was
therefore the growing informalization of the non-agricultural economy, and this
represents a reversal of earlier trends.
4.       These contrasts in economic evolution reflect the capacity of the
various sectors to respond to external shocks and to the economic policy
measures adopted. Four reasons may be given by way of explanation: the unequal
dependency of each sector in the face of declining internal demand, the uneven
impact of exchange rate variations on the different sectors, the dissimilar
flexibility of their costs, and their varying contributions to the fiscal
effort during the period.
5.       The above analysis has implications for the social consequences of the
adjustment policy.   First,  adjustment was socially costly,  since it was
accompanied by a fall in GDP and, worse, in per capita GNP. Secondly, in so
far as adjustment policy was implemented primarily through a decrease in public
expenditures, it affected the various beneficiaries of such expenditures,
doubtlessly in an unequal manner.
6.       Budgetary policy cannot be pursued in the same manner as it has been
in the past. Given the decline in income implied in the informalization of the
economy, it is not possible to reduce public expenditures indefinitely without
compromising the proper functioning of the State and, as a consequence,
economic development.
7.       In sum, we also share the view that the results of excessively liberal
economic policies have not met with expectations.
Such liberalization policies have led to:
- At the economic level, precariousness of the competitiveness of our
economy and its increasing informalization;
- At the social level, impoverishment of the middle classes and
especially of the least privileged.



- 33 -
ATTACHMENT
Page 3 of 3
PART II
With respect to the second part of the report concerning the document
of April 1988. it can still be considered valid.
Indeed, it covers execution of the project already completed, and
states that nothing new has since been undertaken, except for the PESAP which
will, as agreed with you, be the subject of a specific evaluation.
Sincerely yours,
Signed/Laoual Chaffani



