Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
C iQ. /6 o -AfLz
Reprt No. P-4185-NIR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 18.3 MILLION
AND A PROPOSED AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT
OF SDR 36.6 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
FOR A
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
January 23, 1986
Tbb document ba a roictd dbutmm an my be msW by mdpients ony in the perfuamce of
tbd ofchddud   If cotmt ma a  OIdmwe be dboe wb   Woeld Bank uthertonro..



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  -  CFA Franc (CFAF) i/
US$1.00  =  CFAF 437 (1984 average)
CFAF 385 (December 1985)
CFAF 1 billion -  US$2.3 million (1984 average)
US$2.6 million (December 1985)
I/  The CFA Franc is tied to the French Franc at the rate of CFAF 100 -
FF 2.
SYSTEMS OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC)
I metric ton (m ton) = 2,205 pounds (lbs.)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCEAO     Banque Centrxle des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
BDRN      Banque de Developpement de la Republique du Niger
CA        Centre d'Approvisionnement
CM        Centre Multiplicateur
CHMAN     Centre des Metiers d'Art du Niger
CNCA      Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole
COPRO-
-NIGER   Commercialisation des Produits de Premi&re Nicessite
INRAN     Institut National de Recherche Agronomique du Niger
LDP       Letter of Development Policy
LEYMA     Compagnie Nationale des Assurances
NIGELEC   Soci&t& Nigirienne d'Electricite
NITRA     Societe Nationale de Transit
OFEDES    Office de l'Exploitation des Eaux du Sous-Sol
OLANI     Office du Lait du Niger
ONAHA     Office National des Amenagements Hydro-Agr_coles
OPT       Office des Postes et Telecoimunications
PVN       Office des Produits Vivriers du Niger
RINI      Societe Riz du Niger
SNC       Societi Nigirienne de Cimenterie
SNCP      Societe Nationale des Cuirs et Peaux
SNT       Societe Nationale de Television
SNTN      Societe Nationale de Transports Nigiriens
SONARA    Societie Nigerienne de l'Arachide
SONICERAM      Societ& Nigerienne de Ciramique
SONICHAR       Societ4 Nigerienne d'Exploitation de Mines de Charbon
SONIEN         Societe Nigerienne pour les Energies Nouvelles
SONIDEP        Societe Nigerienne de Distribution des Produits Petroliers
SONIFAME       Societe Nigerienne de Fabrications Metalliques
SONITAN        Societe Nigerienne de Tannerie
SONITEXTIL     Societe Nigerienne de Textiles
SONUCI         Cirance Tmmobiliire
SOPAC          Sociite de Papiers et Cahiers
SOTRAMIL       Transformation et Commercialisation du Mil
UAB            Usine d'Aliments du Betail
UNCC           Union Nigerienne de Credit et Coop6ration
VETOPHAR       Projet de Pharmacie Vetrinaire
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE
Credit and Program Summary                                        i-ii
PART I - THE ECONOMY                                                 1
A.  Economic Performance in the 1970s                           2
B.  The Economic Crisis in the Early 1980s                      3
C.  Recent Economic Developments                                5
D.  Structural Problems of the Economy                          6
PART II - THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A.  Objectives and Approach                                     8
B.  Public Resource Management                                  8
C.  Reform of the Parastatal Sector                            14
D.  Agricultural Policy                                        21
E.  Program Development in Other Areas                        26
F.  Effects of the Structural Adjustment Program               27
PART III - THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A.  Credit History                                             32
B.  Relationship Between the Proposed Credit and
Policy Reforms                                      34
C.  Benefits and Risks                                         34
D.  Credit Amount                                              37
E.  Disbursement and Procurement                               38
F.  Monitoring of Actions                                      39
G.  Cooperation with the IMF and Other Donors                  39
PART IV - OTHER BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGER                      39
PART V - RECOMMENDATIONS                                            41
Tables:   1.  NIGER - Economic Structure and Performance,
1975-1983                                    4
2.   NIGER - Characteristics of Major Parastatals         15
3.   NIGER - Scenarios With and Without
Structural Adjustment                       28
4.   NIGER - External Capital Requirements,
1986-90                                     30
5.   NIGER - Matrix of Policy Actions to be
supported under SAC I                    35-36
Annexes:  I.   Social and Economic Indicators                       42
II.   Status of Bank Group Operations in Niger            48
III.   Supplementary Data Sheet                            50
IV.   Letter of Development Policy                        51
V.   Use of IMF Resources                               81
This document has a resiced distnbution and may be used by recipients only in the perfomance of |
thew ocial duie Its contents may not otberwie be disloosed without World Bank aut ion.



NIGER
FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:                Republic of Niger
Credit Amounts
IDA:                SDR 18.3 million (US$20 million equivalent)
African Facility:   SDR 36.6 million (US$40 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard
Program Description:     The proposed credit would support the first phase
of the Government's structural adjustment program
which aims at increasing the efficiency of
resource use in the Nigerien economy and
strengthening the country's resource base for
future econcmic development, as well as improving
the public finance position and the balance of
payments. The first phase of the structural
adjustment program focuses on areas in which
inefficiencies are most acute and where policy
improvements would have the greatest beneficial
impact on the country's budgetary and balance of
payments position: (i) public resource
management; (ii) the parastatal sector; and
(iii) agricultural policy. Reform measures in
public resource management include the
restructuring of current expenditures, preparation
of a three-year rolling investment program,
increased domestic resource mobilization through
cost recovery, improved debt management, and
institutional reforms. Parastatal reforms are
being introduced in three key areas: revision of
incentive policies to improve parastatal
performance and stimulate private investment,
reform of the institutional and legal framework
for public enterprises, and restructuring of the
sector through rehabilitation, privatization and
liquidation programs. Reforms in agricultural
policy concern a reorientation of the sectoral
investment program, liberalization of cereals
marketing, reduction of input subsidies,
improvement of the agricultural credit system, and
a reorientation of agricultural research policy.
The program also includes studies to eventually
extend the adjustment effort to such other areas
as energy, forestry, livestock, industry and
trade. The program is described in the attached
Letter of Development Policy.
Program Benefits:        The policy reforms are expected to:  (i) improve
public sector resource management, in budgetary



operations and parastatal performance; (ii) reduce
policy distortions that impede private sector
economic activities; and (iii) strengthen the
resource base of the economy, particularly in the
agricultural sector, and hence the country's
growth prospects and balance of payments position
over the medium to long term.
Program Risks:           Niger's structural adjustment program has four
major risks: (i) problems with respect to the
timely and sustained implementation of the
measures and follow-up actions; (ii) insufficient
initial supply response by the private sector to
provide an impetus to economic growth;
(iii) uncertainty about the short-term success of
efforts to strengthen the resource base of the
country as approaches for improving the
performance of the agricultural sector are still
being developed; and (iv) disruption of the
adjustment program because of deteriorating
international economic conditions and climatic
factors. Several elements in the adjustment
program, however, reduce the risks. The
Government has thus far shown a strong commitment
to implement the reform program and ensure
follow-up action, and the private sector appears
willing to become more active.
Financing Plan:          IDA                       US$20 million equivalent
African Facility         US$40 million equivalent
Estimated Disbursements: The credit would be disbursed in two tranches:
US$40 million equivalent upon effectiveness (of
which US$10 million equivalent from IDA), and the
remaining US$20 million equivalent after a
performance review to be held 6-9 months after
effectiveness.
1986      1987
-US$ million equivalent-
Annual                          20        40
-  IDA                           5        15
-  African Facility             15        25
Cumulative                      20        60
-  IDA                           5        20
-  African Facility             15        40
Appraisal Report:        This is a combined President's and Appraisal
Report.
Map: IBRD 19400



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPNENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
AND A PROPOSED AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF NIGER FOR A
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit for SDR 18.3 million (US$20 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms to the Republic of Niger to support the first phase of
the Government's structural adjustment program. It is proposed to supple-
ment this credit with a credit of SDR 36.6 million (US$40 million equiva-
lent) from the Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa (the African
Facility), established by Resolution No. IDA 85-1, of May 21, 1985.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        This section is based on the findings of an economic updating
mission which visited Niger in August 1984 and subsequent structural
adjustment missions. Annex I contains country data.
3.        Niger is a vast landlocked country with a population of six
million concentrated in a narrow band of arable land along its southern
border. It is among the poorest countries in the world, with a per capita
CNP of US$190 in 1984 and, like other Sahelian economies, it faces formid-
able natural constraints to sustained economic growth. The economy is
dominated by the rural subsistence sector and by the uranium mining sector
which, since the mid-seventies, has been the country's principal foreign
exchange earner and an important source of government revenues. Despite
its meager resource base, Niger has traditionally been self-sufficient in
food production (except during the Sahelian drought periods) and a minor
exporter of livestock and crops. Highly favorable market conditions for
uranium in the late seventies fueled the development of the modern sector
and propelled the public sector into a dominant position in the economy.
Since the beginning of the eighties, however, Niger's economic performance
has deteriorated sharply, reflecting a weakened uranium market and renewed
drought conditions. The country once again has to rely heavily on the
subsistence rural sector and, at the same time, overcome the financial
imbalances and structural weaknesses in its economy which are the legacy of
the uranium boom.
4.        Niger is a member of the West African Monetary Union, which
operates a common central bank (BCEAO). The Central Bank issues the common
currency of the member countries, the CFA Franc, whose full convertibility
into French Francs at a fixed rate of 100 CFAF = 2 FF is guaranteed by
France. BCEAO maintains at least 65Z of its foreign exchange reserves in
the Union's operations account with the French Treasury which provides
member countries with automatic overdraft facilities. The countries of the
Union have a common interest rate structure. The Monetary Union thus
imposes a discipline over monetary and balance of payment policies of the



- 2 -
member countries which constrains their use of some macro policy
instruments.
A. Economic Performance in the 1970s
5.        During the first half of the seventies, Niger exhibited the
features of a resource-poor Sahelian country. Economic performance was
dependent on a limited nutber of crops (millet, sorghum, groundnuts and
cowpeas) and livestock, both of which were severely constrained by poor
soils and unfavorable climatic conditions. This was dramatically illus-
trated when a devastating succession of droughts, beginning in 1972, led to
a sharp decrease in crop production and a decimation of the country's
livestock herd. As a result, real gross domestic product declined, falling
in 1973 to some 15% below its level at the end of the sixties. Crop and
livestock exports also fell by nearly one-third between 1972 and 1975, and
a corresponding reduction in the country's total exports was avoided only
by the growing importance of uranium exports. Throughout this period, the
rural sector continued to dominate the economy, accounting on average for
around one-half of GDP and three-quarters of export earnings. Investment
during the period was a modest 12-15% of GDP. nearly all of which was
financed by foreign sources since the economy was not able to generate
significant domestic savings.
6.        During the second half of the decade, Niger's economic perfor-
mance improved dramatically due to two factors which appeared to indicate a
permanent improvement of the resource base but proved to be short-lived.
First, growth of the rural sector accelerated due to favorable weather
conditions and a successful herd rehabilitation program. Crop production
increased sharply and, by the end of the decade, Niger was even producing a
small grain surplus. Second, buoyant world demand led to a marked rise in
the country's uranium production and in associated government revenues.
Investment increased considerably, reaching nearly 28Z of GDP in 1980, with
over two-thirds being financed by domestic savings made possible by the
boom conditions. As a result, real GDP grew at a high average rate of 7.5%
per annum and export volume at 10% per annum. Although outstanding debt
more than trebled and sizeable budget and external current account deficits
began to emerge at the turn of the decade, optimistic predictions for the
country's longer-term growth prospects suggested these were within sus-
tainable limits.
7.        The uranium boom brought with it fundamental changes in the
economy.  First, the modern sector began to play a more significant role.
Its share in GDP rose from around 27% in 1975 to 36% in 1980 due chiefly to
the growth of the uranium industry, which by 1980, the peak year of
production, accounted for 13% of GDP and 80% of export receipts. The
modern private sector outside the uranium industry, however, remained
small. The private sector expansion that did occur during the boom period
was, moreover, concentrated in service activities -- construction, trans-
port and commerce - whose fortunes were highly dependent on conditions in
the uranium industry and the size of the Government's construction program.
8.        Second, the public sector grew rapidly.  The increased foreign
exchange earnings and budgetary resources resulting from the expansion of
uranium production, coupled with substantial government borrowings, sup-
ported escalating public recurrent expenditures and a large public



investment program. By 1979/80, government recurrent expenditures had
risen to 9Z and public investment to 192 of GDP, the latter accounting for
over two-thirds of total investment. A large part of the recurrent
expenditures supported a rapidly expanding civil service with increasingly
favorable wages and benefits, and provided subsidized services to the urban
population. Many of the public investment projects were undertaken without
sufficient attention to their economic viability, the appropriateness of
their design, the implementation capacity of government agencies, and
future recurrent financing and maintenance needs. A dozen new public
enterprises were established during the boom period, bringing the number of
parastatals to over 60. By the beginning of the eighties, parastatals
accounted for 11% of GDP and 50% of employment in the modern sector. Poor
management and inappropriate government policies, however, led to large
operating losses in many public enterprises, thus increasing their
financing needs.
9.        Finally, as a result of the two changes discussed above, the
rural sector became less dominant in the economy, although its continued
importance accentuated the dualistic structure of the economy. Crop and
livestock production increased substantially but did not keep pace with the
growth of the modern sector; by 1980, the share of the rural sector had
fallen to 43% of GDP and 20% of export proceeds. Moreover, the sector
developed few links with the modern economy and its growth potential
continued to be limited by the overutilization of soils, the extension of
cultivation into marginal areas due to population pressure, a secular
reduction in rainfall, and the lack of technological improvements suited to
Niger's rainfed agriculture.
B. The Economic Crisis in the Early 1980s
10.       The favorable economic performance ended abruptly in 1981 (see
Table 1). Real GDP stagnated in 1981 and 1982, and then declined by 3% in
1983. A weakened world demand for uranium, which resulted in a 22% reduc-
tion in Niger's uranium production between 1981 and 1983 and a fall in the
US dollar price, was the principal cause of the economic contraction. The
mining sector's share of GDP fell from 13% in 1980 to 8% in 1983, which was
close to its pre-boom level. The decline in mining activity and subsequent
cutbacks in the government's investment program resulted in a substantial
decrease in construction and public works activities and reduced the share
of the modern sector to 30% of GDP, just above its pre-boom level. Rural
production, though unaffected by the shrinkage of the modern sector, also
stagnated because of a period of serious drought starting in 1982, although
output value initially increased as a result of substantial increases in
official prices of the principal cash crops.
11.       The slowdown in economic activity was accompanied by the emer-
gence of sizeable fiscal deficits. Budgetary revenue, which had peaked at
13% of GDP in 1980/81, fell to 10% of GDP in 1982/83. This rapid deterio-
ration reflected the heavy dependence of revenues on the modern sector and
on international trade, both of which declined relative to GDP over this
period. Reduced revenues, however, were not immediately matched by a
cutback in public expenditures. Expecting a quick recovery of uranium
prices, the Government continued to implement its ambitious Five-Year
Development Plan by relying increasingly on commercial foreign borrowings



- 4 -
to finance investment projects. An expanding wage bill and the growing
interest obligation of tlae external debt placed increasing demands on the
Government's current budget. Initial cutbacks were principally in mainte-
nance and materials expenditures which led to a more rapid deterioration of
the existing capital stock and inefficiencies in the delivery of public
services. The budget deficit averaged 9Z of GDP over the 1980/81-1982/83
period. Two-thirds of the accumulated deficits were financed through
external borrowings. The financing demands of the public sector led
domestic credit to expand at an average of 15% per annum between 1980 and
1983. Moreover, financing the growing parastatal deficits by public
financial institutions led to near-bankruptcy of the banking system.
TABLE 1: NIGER - ECONOMIC STRUCTURE AND PERFORMANCE
1975-1983
1975      1980      1983
---(percent)-   -
GDP growth ( in real terms)                     0.6       4.9      -2.6
Rural sector/GDP                               49        43        46
Mining sector/GDP                               6        13          8
Modern sector/GDP                              27        36         30
Investment/GDP                                20         28         14
Public Investment/GDP                           9        19         10
Government expenditures/GDP                    13        20         17
Budget deficit/GDP                            -1         -6        -7
Sbare in export earnings:
-  agriculture/livestock                    53         20        22
-  uranium                                  47         80        78
Current Account Deficit/GDP                   -1        -12        -4
External debt outstanding
and disb./GDP                             16 a/     35        54
Debt service/Exports                            9 a/     22         34 b/
Public debt service/Revenues                   11        11        45 b/
Memorandum Item
GDP (Current CFAF billion)                    156       536       675
a/   Public debt only.
b/   Scheduled payments.
Source:   Bank calculations based on government data.



-5-
12.       The financial imbalances in the public sector were accompanied by
sizeable deficits in the external current account. Including official
grants, the current account deficits averaged 9% of GDP during 1980-83.
The U.S. dollar value of uranium exports, which accounted for about
three-quarters of export receipts, decreased at an average annual rate of
13% while other exports (mainly agricultural products) decreased by 5Z
annually. Current account deficits were nonetheless reduced due to a more
rapid decline in imports. The financing of these and earlier deficits,
however, forced the country to accumulate a heavy foreign debt which
reached CFAF 361 billion in 1983 (54% of GDP), of which 77% was public or
public-guaranteed debt. 1/ As a result, debt service payments rose
sharply. The debt service/exports ratio increased from 22% in 1980 to 34Z
in 1983 while the public debt service/public revenues ratio increased from
112 to 45% during the same period.
C. Recent Economic Developments
13.       Faced with rapidly deteriorating economic conditions, the Govern-
ment took drastic action in 1983 to reduce the domestic and external
financial imbalances. Demand management measures were introduced in the
1982/83 budget including a freeze in wages and salaries, cutbacks in
supplies and investment expenditures, and tighter control on foreign
borrowings. These measures were the first steps in the Government's
stabilization program which was subsequently supported by three IMF Standby
arrangements, the last of which was approved in November 1985. The stabi-
lization program is designed to: (i) improve the tax effort; (ii) limit
the growth of current expenditures; (iii) reduce and restructure investment
expenditures; (iv) reduce the Government's domestic arrears; (v) improve
the financial performance of parastatals; (vi) restrain foreign borrowing;
and (vii) decelerate domestic credit expansion. The program also includes
initial steps to liberalize pricing and marketing policies, reduce the size
of the parastatal sector, and reorient public investment towards directly
productive sectors. Debt rescheduling agreements were reached with the
Paris Club in November 1983, 1984 and 1985, and with the London Club in
early 1984.
14.       Despite the impact of the drought on public expenditures and the
balance of payments, which required some modification of initial targets,
implementation of the stabilization program thus far has been satisfactory.
Niger has made considerable progress towards reducing its domestic and
external imbalances. In the first two years of the program (1983/84-
1984/85), the budget deficit and the deficit in the external account were
both reduced significantly to about 5% of GDP. Domestic credit was
contained while capital inflows and external debt relief were significantly
higher than initially projected. The reduction in the budget deficit
principally reflected a nearly 50% cutback in investment (mainly infra-
structure) expenditures. The Government's attempt to limit current
1/   Of the public or public-guaranteed debt outstanding at the end of
1983, about 36% consisted of multilateral credits (of which 15% from
IDA), 36% of bilateral loans (mainly from France and Saudi Arabia),
25% of loans from private lending institutions (mainly in France and
the U.S.), and 3% of suppliers credits.



- 6 -
expenditures was less successful and did not improve their structure as
operations and maintenance continued to be cut. The performance of several
parastatals did improve, however, and their financial position was
strengthened, thus reducing their demand on the government budget. On the
revenue side, the downturn in economic activity led to a reduction in
revenue collection in spite of the new tax measures taken. The reduced
deficit in the external current account was due almost entirely to the 27%
reduction in imports brought about by expenditure reductions.
15.       Real GDP in 1984 is estimated to have fallen for the third
successive year. The 16% decline in 1984 is even sharper than that of
previous years due primarily to the continued drought conditions which
resulted in a 30-40% decline in food crop production and a loss of about
40% of the livestock herd. The reduced level of public expenditures and
the closure of the Nigerian border since early 1984 also had a negative
impact on GDP. The outlook for 1985 and 1986 is somewhat better. GDP is
projected to recover some of its earlier decline and grow at an average
rate of about 6%, due mainly to a strong recovery of the rural sector
following the recent abundant rainfall.
D. Structural Problems of the Economy
16.       The ability of the country to achieve acceptable fiscal and
external positions and to establish the foundations for future growth is
highly constrained by the structural weaknesses in the economy which
emerged as a result of the uranium boom, and by the country's narrow
resource base. Inefficiencies in public resource management and the large
and inefficient parastatal sector have contributed to the downturn of the
economy. In addition, the small modern private sector, the weak agricul-
tural base and the underdeveloped human resources have further limited the
growth of the country. These issues have to be addressed more vigorously
than they have been in the past if sustained improvement in economic
performance is to be achieved.
17.       Inefficient Public Resource Management. The underlying structural
issues in the area of public resource management in Niger are the dominant
role of the public sector in the economy and the low efficiency of public
sector intervention, both with regard to resource mobilization and to
expenditure. During the uranium boom, the Government used the public
expenditure program as the primary instrument for allocating financial
resources in the economy and for generating economic growth. As a result,
the financial and managerial resources of the public sector were severely
strained and serious inefficiencies developed in resource allocation.
Public investment became biased towards infrastructure and building
projects, which doubled their share of the investment program during the
boom period, while agricultural investment suffered from a lack of viable
projects, unsatisfactory project design and a shortage of domestic counter-
part funds. Moreover, an imbalance developed between funds allocated to
new investment and to efficient use of existing investment. This problem
was aggravated by the structure of recurrent expenditures which favored
personnel and subsidies over operation and maintenance. The rapidly
increasing interest burden which resulted from the expanded public debt
exacerbated the structural problems associated with recurrent expenditures.
In addition to a weak domestic revenue base, cost recovery for public
services was insufficient.



-7-
18.       Large and Inefficient Parastatal Sector.  Public enterprises
dominate large segments of modern production and commercial activities.
They have proliferated into uneconomic activities and have acquired privi-
leges which discourage private sector investment. Many parastatals have
incurred substantial operating losses and have been unable to make finan-
cial contributions to their investment programs. Government regulatory
policies in the areas of pricing, procurement and employment have been a
principal cause of their poor performance. Excessive government inter-
ference in management, lack of qualified personnel at all levels and
inadequate accounting practices have also negatively affected their perfor-
mance.
19.       Small Modern Private Sector.  Niger's modern private sector is
very poorly developed. Its industrial sector is small by any standards,
being handicapped by the limited size of the market, the lack of a raw
material base and the landlocked pos-tion of the country. In addition to
these impediments, government regulatory and incentive policies have not
been conducive to the development of viable activities in the industry and
trade sectors. Pricing and marketing controls have contributed to dam-
pening private initiative. Investment incentives have focused more on
promoting investment per se than on the longer-term economic viability of
projects. As a result, investment projects often have not been in line
with the country's comparative advantage, have used capital inefficiently
and have provided only limited employment opportunities. Moreover, incen-
tives have discriminated against export and small-scale industries, and
have given the Government excessive control over private investmen,
decisions.
20.       Weak Resource Base.  Niger's economic growth has been and will
remain limited by its meager resource base, landlocked position and rapid
population growth. The subsistence agricultural sector will remain the
mainstay of the economy for the foreseeable future although, in its present
form, it cannot be expected to create significant surpluses. Apart from
the vulnerability of the sector to the vagaries of the weather, it is
handicapped by the continued degradation of soils and of the environment.
Modern technical packages suitable for Niger's rainfed agriculture have not
yet been developed and irrigation development is plagued by high cost. The
deterioration of existing irrigation perimeters and other infrastructures
has also hampered productivity. Moreover, pricing policies for agricul-
tural inputs and products have distorted incentives for cost-effective
production. Over-exploitation of land has also led to declining soil
fertility and to desertification wnich result in heavy losses in agricul-
tural production.
21.       The human resource base of the country is extremely underde-
veloped. Primary education enrollment rates have been declining and, at
23%, are among -he lowest in the world. Only 8% of the population (0.5% of
women) is literate, which makes introduction of any innovations in the
rural areas very difficult. Basic health services are poor due to finan-
cial constraints and inefficient allocation of budgetary resources. The
high population growth of ,.O% per annum puts additional pressure on the



country's resource base and further increases the budgetary burden of
providing basic services.
PART II - THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A. Objectives and Approach
22.       To accelerate economic growth while keeping budgetary and exter-
nal imbalances at sustainable levels, the Government of Niger recognizes
that its current stabilization efforts have to be complemented with an
adjustment program aimed at overcoming the structural problems in the
economy outlined above. The objectives of structural adjustment and
financial stabilization are mutually supporting as improvements in the use
and allocation of resources will be pursued within the overall limits of a
sound financiAl framework, i.e., the stabilization program will set the
demand management targets for the economy and the structural reform program
will ensure that these targets are met through policies that maximize
supply responses and, therefore, growth. This will be achieved by:
Ci) increasing the efficiency of existing investments; (ii) improving
policies for more efficient future investment; and (iii) establishing
improved policies for strengthening the country's human and physical
resources.
23.       Since the preparation and implementation of such a comprehensive
adjustment program require several years, the Government has opted for a
phased approach, addressing the most urgent structural problems rapidly
while reform measures in other areas are being developed. The first phase
of the structural adjustment program focuses on policy reforms in areas in
which inefficiencies are most acute and where policy improvements would
have the greatest beneficial impact on the country's budgetary and balance
of payments position: (i) public resource management; (ii) the parastatal
sector; and (iii) agricultural policy. This focus is appropriate. Bud-
getary policy is the major economic policy instrument available to the
Government under the arrangements of the West African Monetary Union; and
agriculture is the key sector for future growth and development of the
country given the dim outlook for Niger's uranium industry. The program is
outlined in the Government's Letter of Development Policy (Annex IV) and
described more fully below. The preparation of specific reform measures in
other sectors is also an integral part of the first phase of the
Government's program. To this end, the Government is undertaking studies
to identify and prepare reform measures for energy, forestry, livestock,
financial sector, industry and trade to be implemented in subsequent phases
of the adjustment program.
B. Public Resource Management
24.       As mentioned earlier, the role and size of the public sector in
Niger needs to be reduced in line with more limited resource availability.
In addition, a more efficient use of budgetary resources will be required
to better utilize existing investments, expand essential services and
strengthen the basis for future economic development. To this end, spe-
cific reform measures have been designed to restructure government expendi-
tures.



-9-
Structural Issues
25.       Expenditures.  Analysis of the recent evolution of Niger's public
expenditures indicates that reductions in the government budget deficit
have mainly been achieved through cuts in investment expenditures which,
having peaked at 19% of GDP in 1979/80, fell to 5% of GDP in 1983/84. To
the limited extent that current expenditures have been affected, cuts have
come primarily from the already underfunded categories of materials and
supplies, including counterpart financing for foreign-financed projects.
These developments have resulted in a number of structural imbalances in
the government expenditure program: (i) a high share and rapid growth of
personnel expenditures; (ii) inefficiency in the delivery of public ser-
vices; (iii) inadequate maintenance; and (iv) poor matching of investment
expenditures with development needs.
26.       During 1979/80-1983/84, the government wage bill grew at nearly
9Z per annum representing over one-third of current outlays.  The rapid
growth of personnel expenditures, despite a general wage freeze, has been
due primarily to the Government's employment polices. The majority of
students enrolled in higher education receive gover.ment scholarships and
are entitled to enter the civil service upon completion of training; once
in the civil service, periodic promotions and complementary training are
automatic. In addition, these policies have resulted in a top-heavy
personnel structure (44% of total staff are top-grade civil servants) which
has created a severe imbalance between central administration and opera-
tions in a number of important ministries.
27.       The expansion of the wage bill, in combination with cuts in
expenditures for supplies, has also exacerbated imbalances between outlays
for personnel and for supplies, thus reducing the ability of public agen-
cies to deliver services efficiently. At the end of the 1970's the sup-
plies/wage bill ratio was around unity but by 1982/83 it had fallen to 1:2.
This deterioration has either disrupted services or raised unit costs to
abnormally high levels. The education and health sectors are prime exam-
ples of the latter; these two sectors now account for over half of civil
service employment and the increasing share of their budgets devoted to
salaries has led to rapidly increasing costs per student and per patient.
28.       Another structural issue related to recurrent expenditures
concerns insufficient funding for maintenance of existing facilities. The
problem is best illustrated by the transport sector where under-funding of
both periodic and routine maintenance has led to premature degradation of
the road network, thus necessitating costly rehabilitation. A similar
problem exists for irrigation and water supply schemes, health and
education facilities, and administrative buildings. Until the Goverment
can meet the operating and maintenance costs of existing projects or
transfer these costs to beneficiaries, it will be difficult to justify new
infrastructure projects.
29.       Fundamental imbalances have also emerged in the composition of
capital expenditures vis-a-vis the development needs of the country.
During the uranium boom, the availability of foreign financing became
generally a more important criterion for project selection than economic
viability. As a result, large external debts have been incurred for
projects of little relevance to the long-term develoument of the country.
The design of certain projects has also been inappropriate with respect to



- 10 -
service standards and choice of technology. For example, the Government
has devoted excessive expenditure to the construction of paved roads
relative to less costly gravel roads which are more appropriate to the
level of traffic. Finally, there has been a problem of matching public
expenditures with the Goverrnment's stated equity goals. Infrastructure and
social sector projects have favored urban over rural populations and
higher-level over basic services. For example, in the health sector only
about 10% of resources were allocated to rural dispensaries - where 10
million consultations take place annually - while the bulk of resources
were devoted to urban hospitals. In education, expenditures on primary
education have stagnated resulting in a decline in the enrollment ratio,
while expenditures on secondary and higher education have expanded rapidly,
despite the fact that the current number of graduates already exceeds the
needs of the modern sector.
30.       Resource Mobilization.  The steady decline of government cevenues
since the onset of the economic crisis reflects two weaknesses in tne
revenue system. First, tax revenues are highly dependent on international
trade and modern sector activity, both of which have declined relative to
GDP. Second, non-tax revenues are derived primarily from the Government's
share in the profits of parastatals and mining enterprises, which have
fallen sharply in recent years. As part of its stabilization program, the
Go)vernment is addressing these weaknesses by introducing measures to
broaden the revenue base and improve the buoyancy of the tax system.
However, despite the measures already taken and those to be implemented --
including the introduction of a value-added tax - the short-term prospects
for increasing tax revenues are severely limited by the current structure
of the economy. Additional resources will need to be mobilized if
essential investments are to be made and efforts to improve the basis for
long-term development are to be strengthened.
31.       The need for additional resources beyond those which can be
mobilized via the tax system highlights the potential role of cost recovery
measures, particularly user charges, to finance goods and services provided
by public agencies. Few data are available on revenues from user charges
in Niger, but the large transfer payments to consumers through the budget
and the increasing claims of the operating agencies for financial support
cf their programs suggest that they are minimal. Direct transfers to
consumers alone amounted to 18% of public current expenditures in 1983/84,
mostly for health and education programs as well as fringe benefits for
civil servants. The present distribution of these benefits is, moreover,
highly skewed towards higher income groups living in urban areas. For
example, in the health sector the poorer income groups bear a dispropor-
tionate share of costs. They pay for drugs while civil servants and other
wage earners receive free drugs at urban facilities. Similarly, emphasis
on higher education and the provision of scholarships tends to benefit a
select group of the population without adequate consideration of their
relative ability to pay.
32.       There will also be a continuing need for Niger to mobilize
supplementary external resources. However, Niger's external debt position
is critical and will remain so for the rest of the decade. Successful debt
reschedulings in recent years have permitted net capital flows to remain
positive, but have involved substantial costs in terms of higher moratorium
interest rates and future debt service obligations. The need for addi-
tional external resources while facing these substantial debt service



- 11 -
obligations requires action on two fronts. First, further debt resched-
uling is essential in the short-term, although its implications for debt
service obligations in the early 1990s need to be monitored very closely,
since excessive rescheduling to permit short-term increases in public
expenditures would only create an aggravated crisis in subsequent periods.
Second, a more prudent borrowing policy is necessary to assure that the
structure of the debt is improved in the medium-term. Such a policy needs
to focus not only on the terms and conditions of new borrowing but also on
the choice of projects financed with external resources.
33.       Finally, the issue of distortions in the tax system and their
effect on future growth needs to be addressed. Data are not currently
available to assess the extent and full effect of such distortions, but two
areas warrant study in order to prepare reform measures. The first is the
import tax structure which favors import replacement activities over
exports, results in disparate and excessive levels of effective protection
and encourages capital intensive production. A related problem concerns
the fiscal incentives provided under the Investment Code which aggravate
the distortions occasioned by the import tax structure and increase the
impediments to export activities.
Reform Program
34.       The principal reform measure in the area of public resource
management is the preparation, by the Government, of a three-year budget
program (1985/86-1987/88) which reflects policy improvements under the
structural adjustment program in four important areas: (i) restructured
recurrent expenditures; (ii) formulation of a rolling investment program;
(iii) expanded domestic resource mobilization and increased efficiency of
the revenue system; and (iv) improved external debt management. Two
additional measures adopted by the Government, i.e., the preparation of
comprehensive sectoral strategies and the strengthening of financial and
economic management capabilities in the Ministries of Planning and Finance,
have been the key to the formulation of these reforms. The 1985/86 budget
was adopted in September 1985, along with a budget framework for 1986/87
and 1987/88 which consists of expenditure and resource mobilization targets
to be reviewed annually in light of past performance and new developments.
The annual review will be used not only to finalize the following year's
budget, but also to extend the budget program by another year and thus
institutionalize the process of planning on a rolling multi-year basis.
35.       Restructured Recurrent Expenditures.  The three-year budget
program reflects an alteration in the structure of recurrent expenditures
in three important ways: (i) increased allocations for operation and
maintenance; (ii) a freezing in personnel expenditures in real terms; and
(iii) reduced transfers to consumers (see LDP, Attachment 2). The Govern-
ment is reviewing the operation and maintenance needs for public infra-
structure, and is committed to significantly increase this category of
expenditure for existing facilities and to make adequate provisions for the
oper__ion and maintenance of new infrastructure. As a first step, the
budget program includes an increase in real terms in expenditures for
materials and supplies over the 1985/86-1987/88 period. As a complementary
measure, the Government has transferred the maintenance of small



- 12 -
infrastructure, such as small-scale irrigation and educational facilities,
to beneficiaries.
36.       Recognizing that the rapidly growing public wage bill must be
curtailed and that the structure of public employment is directly related
to efficiency issues, the Government is currently undertaking, with IDA
assistance, a study of the civil service system which will form the basis
for a comprehensive reform program. The first phase of the study is to be
completed by September 1986. In the meantime, the Government has frozen
personnel expenditures in real terms. Moreover, a decision has been taken
to discontinue, as of fiscal year 1985/86, new hirings of several
categories of staff to contain civil service employment.
37.       The three-year budget program prescribes a 3X annual reduction in
real terms in the level of direct subsidies. To this end, additional cost
recovery measures have been introduced for public services in the health,
education, irrigation and water supply sectors, as outlined below. Para-
statal reform measures will also substantially reduce the transfers to
public enterprises (see Section C below).
38.         Rolling Investment Program.  The introduction of a three-year
rolling public investment program constitutes a major improvement in
investment programming.  Agreement has been reached between the Governmeat
and IDA on the size and broad sectoral composition of a program for the
period 1985/86-1987/88, taking into account the public sector's implemen-
tation capacity and the likely availability of domestic and external
resources.  The three-year program foresees total investments of 275.5
billion CFAF on a commitment basis, with the annual investment program
growing from 80 billion CFAF in 1985/86 to 103 billion CFAF in 1987/88.
This represents a gradual increase in the rate of planned public investment
from 9.7% of GDP in 1984/85 to 11% of GDP in 1987/88. The investment
program will be reviewed by IDA on an annual basis.
39.       The structure of the investment program is based on sectoral
strategies prepared by the Government and a thorough reassessment of the
economic justification of ongoing and newly committed projects. The
composition of the program (see LDP, Attachment 4) reflects an increased
focus on productive sector investments, human resource development programs
to ease Niger's long-term development constraints, and rehabilitation of
existing infrastructure. The share of the productive sectors will increase
from 381 of investment expenditures in 1984/85 to 45% in 1985/86-1987/88.
Rural development investments will grow particularly rapidly, passing from
26Z of investment expenditures in 1984/85 to 38% in 1985/86-1987/88.
Social infrastructure programs will increase steadily throughout the
three-year period, rising from 25% in 1984/85 to 31% in 1987/88. Within
this category, expenditures will be reoriented towards programs responding
to long-term development needs. Education and health programs will
therefore increase substantially, from 4.6Z and 1.7%, respectively, of
investment expenditures in 1984/85 to 72 and 4% in 1987/88. Transport and
communication infrastructure, on the other hand, will decline from 32% of
investment in 1984/85 to 20% in 1987/88. In addition, periodic maintenance
will receive priority over new construction projects.



- 13 -
40.       In the context of the three-year investment program, the Govern-
ment has reached agreement with IDA on a number of large projects which are
currently being implemented or contemplated. In the agricultural sector,
the Government has decided to reorient the "national productivity pro-
jects", a process which has already begun with the restructuring of the
IDA-financed Maradi II Project. The Government is also committed to a
re-evaluation of large new projects in agriculture (Keita, Irhazer) to
ensure their economic viability. In the transport sector it has been
agreed that, given the high level of recent road construction, priority
will be given to periodic maintenance in order to avoid the need for major
rehabilitation investments in the future and to keep transrort costs from
rising due to deteriorating infrastructure. New road construction, in
particular the Zinder-Agadez road project and the "Route de l'Unite", will
be substantially reduced compared to original plans. Finally, recognizing
the need to concentrate investment in productive sectors, the Government is
committed to substantially reduce its planned investment in a national
stadium which is financed by concessional aid.
41.       Domestic Resource Mobilization and Cost Recovery.  The Government
aims to improve the efficiency of resource mobilization by introducing cost
recovery measures and reducing distortions in the tax system. In conjunc-
tion with the adoption of its 1985/86 budget, the Government has taken
specific measures to recover a greater share of the costs of public
services from clearly identified beneficiaries. This will allow a continu-
ation and expansion of a minimum number of basic services for the majority
of the population despite increasing budgetary constraints. The new cost
recovery measures are also likely to improve the efficiency with which
public services are used. The measures already taken include: (i) a
reduction in scholarships; (ii) an improved application of existing
hospital fees; and (iii) the introduction of user charges for school
supplies, irrigation, provision of potable water and medical evacuations.
Additional cost recovery measures are being prepared for implementation in
the 1986/87 budget year. To that effect, the Government has initiated a
study, to be completed in June 1986, to evaluate the scope for further cost
recovery taking into account the ability of beneficiaries to pay,
collection costs and the nature of the user charge most appropriate for the
kind of service provided.
42.       The Government has also started preparations for an improvement
in the efficiency of the tax system. A value-added tax will be introduced
in early 1986. Moreover, a study is being conducted on trade policies and
industrial promotion and incentives policies, including a review of the
Investment Code. On the basis of this study, which is expected to be
completed in October 1986, fiscal and trade reform measures will be
prepared for implementation during subsequent phases of the structural
adjustment program.
43.       External Debt Management.  The Government is committed to
continue its prudent debt management policies introduced under the stabili-
zation program. In its structural adjustment program, the Government will,
during the 1986-88 period: (i) refrain from contracting any new loans on
non-concessional terms; (ii) aim at obtaining concessional funding on terms
and conditions comparable to IDA's and, as a minimum, obtain maturities
exceeding twelve years on all new concessional assistance; and



- 14 -
(iii) examine, in consultation with IDA, all proposed borrowing by para-
statals. In 1986, the Government is committed to organizing a donors
conference with assistance from IDA and other institutions. A multi-year
financial plan for Niger to support the implementation of the structural
adjustment program and alleviate the country's debt service burden will be
presented at this conference (see para. 120 below.) With regard to debt
data administration, the Government is committed to strengthening its debt
monitoring system and computerizing its debt management. To that effect,
technical assistance from the IMF, and the IDA Economic and Financial
Management Improvement Project (Credit No. 1493) will continue to
strengthen relevant services in the Ministries of Planning and Finance.
44.       Sectoral Strategies.  As a basis for formulating specific mea-
sures to effect structural changes in the budget, the Government has
prepared comprehensive sectoral strategies for rural development, water
supply, energy, road infrastructure, telecommunications, education and
health (see LDP, Attachment 3). Preparation of these sectoral strategies
by government working groups involving all concerned agencies represents an
important procedural reform in and of itself, since no consistent basis
existed previously for making expenditure decisions. The strategy state-
ments are the first step in the Government's effort to formulate sectoral
objectives, translate these into realistic and appropriately balanced
programs for recurrent and investment expenditures, and identify efficient
cost recovery measures.
45.       Institutional Reforms.  Implementation of the public resource
management component of the Government's structural reform program, partic-
ularly the introduction of a three-year rolling investment program, neces-
sitates complementary institutional reforms in the concerned ministries,
most notably the Ministries of Plan and Finance. The Ministry of Plan I-dS
begun to strengthen its investment programming system by improving the
organization of its programming cycle and by introducing more rigorous
procedures for the economic evaluation of investment projects. In partic-
ular, better coordination with technical ministries should be forthcoming
as a result of training being provided to the latter on programming tech-
niques. Such training is the first step towards the creation of program-
ming units in each of the technical ministries. The Ministry of Plan has
also begun to strengthen its own capacity to supervise and monitor the
implementation of investment projects in order to ensure their conformity
with sectoral objectives and to provide information for the annual update
of the rolling investment program. In the Ministry of Finance, steps have
been taken to improve its financial planning department and to reinforce
its budget preparation and fiscal administration. Overall, the economic
and financial management capabilities of both the Ministry of Planning and
the Ministry of Finance will continue to be strengthened under IDA's
Economic and Financial Management Improvement Project.
C. Reform of the Parastatal Sector
46.       Reform of the parastatal sector is a critical element of the
Government's structural adjustment effort. Because of its direct links to



- 15 -
both the public and the private sectors, reform of the parastatal policy
framework is paramount to improved public resource management as well as
successful development of private initiative and growth of the country's
modern sector.
Structural Issues
47.       The parastatal sector, in general, has performed poorly and its
productivity is nearly one-third below that of the private modern sector.
Many enterprises have incurred substantial operating losses, most notably
SONICHAR (the coal mining and electricity company), OPVN (the cereal
marketing agency) and NIGELEC (the power and water distribution company).
Their deficits have been financed largely by government transfers and
domestic and external borrowings which are guaranteed by the Government
(see Table 2). As a result, at the end of 1983, public enterprises
accounted for almost one-half of Niger's foreign debt and one-third of
outstanding domestic credit. The situation is particularly severe in the
domestic banking sector where a financial parastatal, BDRN, dominates.
BDRN has financed operating losses of other parastatals; this has not only
cut off credit to other sectors of the economy, but also poses a severe
liquidity problem for the banking system as a whole.
TABLE 2: NIGER - CHARACTERISTICS OF MAJOR PARASTATALS
------------------CF---BILLION CFAF---
Number of     Value    Operating       Government      Domestic    External
Staff       Added      Losses       Contribution      Debt         Debt
(1983)      (1983)    (1979-83)       (1979-83)        (1983)      (1983)
SONICHAR      430          5.4        23.1            6.8            5.0         41.3
OPVN          600          4.9         9.3            0.5           12.0          5.2
NIGELEC     1,100          2.6         1.8           (0.1)           1.9          0.7
Others a/  10,770         16.2        (0.1)          34.1           18.7         30.8
TOTAL      12,900         29.1        34.1          41.3            37.6         78.0
a/   Excludes financial parastatals.
Sources: IDET-CEGOS/SEMA, March/April 1984, and
Bank staff estimates.
48.       The reasons for the poor financial performance of the public
enterprise sector are manifold. Most prominent among them are: (i) inap-
propriate incentive policies; (ii) deficiencies in the legal and institu-
tional framework for the overall supervision/coordination for parastatal
sector activities; and (iii) poor management of individual enterprises.



- 16 -
49.       Inappropriate Incentive Policies.  The macroeconomic incentive
framework has been a key constraint on the efficient operation of
parastatals and on private sector development. First, the price control
system is particularly complex and applies in various forms to nearly all
goods and services. The fixed price ceiling system, the fixed price margin
system and the price notification system have, in many instances, resulted
in distorted price signals, disruptions in market supply, slow adjustment
nf prices to external changes and high administrative costs. Under the
fixed price ceiling system, the Government sets a CFAF price ceiling for
each of the products concerned, on the basis of cost information provided
by importers and local producers. This system has usually entailed
considerable delays in modifying prices once costs had changed. The system
applied to over 50 imported goods and local services as well as practically
all products of local industries benefitting from the Investment Code. The
system of fixed price margins is less rigid in that the Government
determines the margins on profits and for financial costs, but not for
other cost elements. The system of price notification, thus far, has been
applied to two companies which no longer benefit from the Investment Code.
The vastness of the country and openness of the economy made the price
policies difficult to implement effectively. A large parallel market has
developed, and, in times of shortages, the Government has had to adjust
official prices in line with those of the parallel market. Second, the
fiscal regime has discriminated against private enterprises by exempting
parastatals from the turnover tax. Finally, the Investment Code has been
biased towards large and capital intensive investment, has offered monopoly
privileges for local production and trade, and has discouraged export-
oriented investment.
50.       Deficient Legal and Institutional Framework.  The institutional
and legal framework for the public enterprise sector has also been a major
factor in its poor economic and financial performance. First, the current
legal framework regulating public enterprises is highly complex and does
not provide a clear basis for defining appropriate Government-enterprise
relations. Neither the Government objectives assigned to enterprises nor
the required autonomy to be exercised by enterprises in achieving these
objectives are adequately specified. Second, Government supervision has
emphasized day-to-day control over public enterprise activities rather than
per ormance-based evaluation and accountability. In practice, public
enterprise managers have had little discretionary power with regard to
pricing, personnel and procurement decisions, and most day-to-day mana-
gerial decisions have been taken by supervising agencies. Third, due to
its own financial difficulties, the Government has been slow to settle its
accounts with public enterprises. The concerned enterprises have, in turn,
developed considerable tax arrears and delayed payments to other enter-
prises thus creating a complex web of cross-debts. Thus, institutional
arrangements have neither achieved effective control nor encouraged
accountability and performance on the part of enterprises.
51.       Poor Management.  The above-mentioned deficiencies in the macro-
economic and institutional framework have been further aggravated by poor
management in many public enterprises. There has been a lack of qualified
personnel at all levels in spite of general overstaffing. Accounting,
billing, collection and auditing practices have been highly deficient.
Moreover, financial irresponsibility has been encouraged since, given the



- 17 -
social objectives assigned to enterprises and the lack of institutionalized
evaluation systems, it has been difficult to hold managers responsible for
the financial performance of their firms.
Parastatal Reform Program
52.       The Government has recognized the need for reform of the public
enterprise sector since 1983 when it decided to implement emergency mea-
sures for key enterprises and to commission diagnostic studies of 54
parastatals. These emergency measures, introduced in conjunction with the
stabilization program, focused on seven enterprises and included price
increases, personnel cutbacks, domestic trade liberalization and improve-
ment in management and accounting systems. As a result, significant
improvements in financial performance have already been achieved in most of
these enterprises. A reduction in overstaffing contributed to the improved
performance; for example, three enterprises -- OPVN, COPRO-NIGER and OFEDES
- were able to cut their total staff by over 1100 employees, i.e., by 38%.
As an initial step in improving the overall management of the parastatal
sector, the Government created a Ministry of State Enterprise in August
1984 and issued legislation in December 1984 specifying its role and
functions, its organization and the number of enterprises falling under its
direct authority. One of the key functions assigned to the Ministry was
the introduction of a review system for public enterprise investment
proposals. This system complements the Government's own investment program-
ming reforms described above. Lastly, studies were commissioned on pricing
and trade policy, parastatal legal statutes, public enterprise cross-debts
and parastatal audits in order to provide the detailed information neces-
sary to formulate additional reforms.
53.       In the context of its structural adjustment program, the Govern-
ment has now embarked on a comprehensive reform of the parastatal sector
which consolidates the measures taken earlier and introduces broader
reforms intended to rationalize the sector. The objectives of the reform
program are to increase the efficiency of public enterprises, reduce the
financial burden of the parastatal sector on the government budget and
encourage private sector development. To this end, policy reform measures
have been introduced in three areas: (i) revisions in incentive policies;
(ii) improvements in the legal and institutional framework for the para-
statal sector; and (iii) implementation of programs for the rehabilitation,
privatization and liquidation of individual enterprises.
54.       Incentive Policies.  The program includes specific measures to
improve and equalize the structure of incentives facing both parastatal and
private enterprises by reform of price, trade and tax policies. First,
with the exception of the monopoly on petroleum-product imports, all
monopolies and quasi-monopolies extended to parastatals as well as to
private entrepreneurs have been removed as of October 1, 1985. Second, in
November 1985, the number of products and services subject to the fixed
price ceiling system was reduced from over 50 to 7 items. These products,
considered essential in nature by the Government, are petroleum products,
salt, water, electricity, bread, flour and transport tariffs. The
remaining products will be subject to the more flexible system of fixed
price margins. Third, for all local industrial products benefitting from
the provisions of the Investment Code, the fixed price ceiling system has



- 18 -
been replaced by a less rigid price monitoring system. Finally, the system
of fixed price margins was improved in January 1986 by the revision of
regulations on cost calculation and mark-up percentages, and by the
streamlining of procedures for periodic revision. The Government has also
committed itself to further price and trade liberalization in the future.
Before June 1986, it will submit proposals to IDA for reducing the list of
import products subject to the system of fixed price margins. The price
regime applicable to local industries will, moreover, be further revised in
the context of the overall study on industrial and trade incentive policies
mentioned earlier.
55.       The pricing and internal trade reform measures have substantially
changed the role of COPRO-NIGER, the parastatal marketing agency. In the
past, COPRO-NIGER was assigned the task of stabilizing the prices of
certain imported consumer goods; it had an import monopoly for these goods
and sold them at administratively fixed prices in its own retail outlets.
This monopoly position permitted COPRO-NIGER to become the second largest
parastatal in terms of total sales (surpassed only by the petroleum distri-
bution parastatal) and develop an extensive system of cross-subsidies
whereby potential government revenues, such as monopoly profits from
cigarette sales, were used to subsidize other imported consumer goods. As
part of the reform program, COPRO-NIGER's import monopolies were eliminated
in October 1985 and all its retail outlets closed. COPRO-NIGER has been
transformed into a monitoring agency whose task is not to stabilize prices,
but rather to monitor supply and demand of a limited number of essential
imports with the objective of purchasing additional quantities if shortages
are likely to occur. These additional supplies are to be sold at market
prices via regular commercial wholesale channels in order to avoid the need
for subsidies and the duplication of marketing services already provided by
the private sector.
56.       The Government has also taken action to equalize the fiscal
treatment of parastatals with that of private enterprises by abolishing, in
November 1985, the exemption of parastatals from the minimum tax on turn-
over.
57.       Institutional and Legal Framework.  A second element of the
Government's parastatal reforms concerns revision of the institutional and
legal framework within which parastatals operate. In this respect, two
important improvements were introduced in January 1986. First, the
statutes of parastatals were clarified by legislation which: (i) classi-
fies parastatals into three distinct categories, e.g., autonomous
government agencies, state corporations and mixed enterprises; (ii) defines
the charter of each category of public enterprise; and (iii) specifies the
structure and responsibilities of their management. Second, a decree was
issued specifying the supervision functions to be exercised by the
Government over the operations of each category of public enterprise.
58.       These measures will ensure an appropriate balance between effec-
tive surveillance by the Government over parastatal activities on the one
hand, and sufficient autonomy at the level of the individual enterprises to
enable efficient management of their daily operations on the other. In
particular, the highly complex legal framework, which both hindered



- 19 -
efficient parastatal operation and provided a convenient shield from
performance-related evaluation, has been simplified. Also, the reciprocal
obligations and responsibilities of the state and individual enterprises
have been clarified. Objectives have been clearly defined and a system of
performance-based evaluation introduced. Finally, the modalities of
government control over enterprises have been lightened as well as reori-
ented from questions of probity to those of productivity. In order to
render the new institutional regime fully operational, the Government will
also adopt legislation, by June 1986, to adjust the organization of the
ministries affected by this new system. In addition, the Government will
adopt legal measures related to parastatal employment policy by June 1986.
These measures are expected to separate parastatal employment from the
civil service, institute a performance-based salary scale and promotion
system, and grant enterprise managers control over recruitment and firing
of staff.
59.       Restructuring the Parastatal Sector.  The third element of the
parastatal reform program is a fundamental restructuring of the sector.
Based on the diagnostic studies of the 54 enterprises and subsequent
discussions with IDA, the Government has formally decided to retain only 25
enterprises in the public sector, to privatize partially or fully 22
enterprises, and to liquidate any of the latter for which divestiture
proves impossible. Of the remaining seven enterprises, the operations of
four (Air Niger, CNCA, UAB, and SONICERAM) have been suspended while
awaiting a final Government decision, by October 1986 at the latest, on
their future. Finally, three enterprises (Vetophar, Labocel and CM) were
integrated into the services of the Ministry of Animal Resources in
December 1985. These decisions explicitly recognize that scarce public
sector managerial and financial resources must be allocated to the highest
priority activities and that certain kinds of operations can be more
efficiently undertaken by private enterprises than by public ones.
60.       In addition, the Government has prepared an action program which
defines specific steps and a timetable for the implementation of the
rehabilitation, privatization and liquidation programs for the individual
enterprises. Ten major parastatals have been selected for priority reha-
bilitation. For six of these enterprises (SONICHAR, BDRN, ONAHA, RINI,
OFEDES and NIGELEC), rehabilitation is already underway with support from
IDA and/or bilateral sources. Detailed programs for further rehabilitation
of two additional enterprises, OPVN and OPT, will be prepared by March 1986
as parr of a proposed IDA Public Enterprise Rehabilitation Project.
Finally, the Government has commissioned studies, to be completed by
October 1986, to determine the rehabilitation possibilities for the two
remaining enterprises, SNC and CNCA.
61.       The rehabilitation program for the development bank (BDRN) is of
particular importance, given BDRN's dominant position in the banking sector
and its close involvement with other public enterprises. BDRN is by far
the largest banking institution in Niger with approximately two-thirds of
the deposits and loans of the sector and the largest branch network.
Moreover, it plays a critical role in financing the activities of virtually
all public enterprises. The financial health of BDRN declined dramatically
in the early 1980s due to the general economic slump which resulted in a
high level of repayment arrears on outstanding loans to both private and
public enterprises, and because of weak structures and management within



- 20 -
the bank itself. In 1984, an audit revealed that, if the quality of its
portfolio were assessed realistically, BDRN's net worth position would be
negative, that its profit margin was falling rapidly and that it faced
increasingly serious cash-flow problems. In conjunction with IDA. BDRN
prepared a detailed action plan to consolidate its finances, improve its
profitability and strengthen its management. Specific measures already
undertaken include the first tranche of a major capital increase, legal
proceedings to recover unpaid debts, a 20% reduction in personnel, an
internal reorganization to improve operations, and establishment of formal
ties with a French banking group for technical assistance and training.
These measures have already resulted in some improvement in BDRN's
financial performance. Deposits increased by 50% between 1983 and
mid-1985, and its cash-flow position has also improved. Additional
measures will be taken under the adjustment program to ensure BDRN's full
rehabilitation. These actions focus on strengthening BDRN's capital base
further, recovering additional unpaid debts, matching the sources and
applications of funds, tightening credit approval procedures, instituting
variable interest rates, improving BDRN's financial structure and further
institutional strengthening.
62.       The privatization of selected parastatals was started in January
1985. To date, three enterprises (SONITAN, SNCP and CMAN) have been
totally privatized and private sector management contracts have been signed
for three hotels. Negotiations are underway for the privatization of three
additional enterprises (the SONIDEP distribution network, SNT commercial
operations and SOTRAMIL) which will most likely be completed in early 1986.
Finally, in October 1985, the Government initiated a program to reduce its
shareholdings in 9 mixed ownership firms (SONITEXTIL, LEYMA, SNTN, RINI,
NITRA, SONARA, SONUCI, OLANI and SNC) which is expected to be completed by
the end of 1986.
63.       The Government recognizes that certain public enterprises
included in the group to be privatized may be financially and economically
nonviable. Despite considerable past investment in these enterprises,
there may be no real alternative to their liquidation since private buyers
are unlikely to be forthcoming and their continued operation would consti-
tute an unsustainable drain on public finances. For these reasons, the
Government has already begun liquidation proceedings for four enterprises
(SOPAC, SONIFAME, SONIEN and UNCC) and is committed to liquidate those
additional parastatals for which private investors cannot be found.
64.       The above-mentioned restructuring measures are expected to have
an immediate positive impact on public finances. First, the rehabilitation
of the 10 selected public enterprises, which together accounted for about
35 billion CFAF of operating losses over 1980-83 and received 10 billion
CFAF in government contributions over 1979-83, should bring about a marked
improvement in their profit statements thus reducing the need for future
borrowing and government transfers. Second, the privatization or
liquidation of public enterprises will further reduce the drain on
budgetary resources. Those enterprises that will be completely privatized
or liquidated together accounted for operating losses of almost 2.5 billion
CFAF in 1980-83 and received government transfers of 11 billion CFAF over
the 1979-83 period.



- 21 -
65.       The Government's multi-year program also includes action on two
recently completed studies which are complementary to the restructuring
efforts described above. The first concerns the resolution of the cross-
debt issue. Elimination of the substantial arrears that have built up
between public enterprises as well as between enterprises and the Govern-
ment is a prerequisite for both successful rehabilitation and privati-
zation. A first draft of a government-commissioned study to determine the
level of these cross debts was completed in December 1985 and the Govern-
ment, in consultation with the IMF and IDA, will prepare a program to
eliminate these arrears. The second concerns the restructuring of the
water supply sector. A study of its structure has recommended the creation
of a national water utility authority (Societe Nationale de Distribution
des Eaux) which would be responsible for the distribution of potable water
in urban areas. This revised institutional setup would consolidate the
responsibilities for urban water supply which are currently split between
the electric utility (NIGELEC) and the groundwater development authority
(OFEDES). The Government will make a decision on this recommendation in
early 1986.
D. Agricultural Policy
66.       As outlined earlier, Niger's economy is dominated by the subsis-
tence rural sector which employs about 80Z of the population and accounts
for half of GDP, 20% of merchandise exports, and 15% of public expendi-
tures. The sector covers the activities of 19 parastatals and accounts for
a major proportion of private sector trading activities. The rural devel-
opment strategy which the Government pursued in the last ten years to
achieve food self-sufficiency was implemented through large-scale projects
in all subsectors that were based on unproven technical packages and heavy
institutional infrastructure. The Government also intervened in agricul-
tural input, product, and financial markets to overcome perceived weak-
nesses in private sector activities. Good weather and abundant public
resources masked the generally disappointing results of this strategy. The
public finance crisis provoked a major review of Government policies, and
initial reforms were implemented to improve investment performance and
public sector support programs. The structural adjustment program will
begin to address the more fundamental issues that constrain the development
of the sector to set the stage for improved performance and growth in the
future.
Structural Issues
67.       Investment Strategy.  In the wake of the 1973/74 drought, the
Government adopted a rural development strategy aimed at attaining food
self-sufficiency. This strategy, which was supported by the majority of
Niger's donors, determined the Government's investment program, supporting
policies and intervention in the rural sector for a decade. The agricul-
tural investment program included five regional productivity projects to
extend a standard technical package to all farmers, and a program to bring
1,000 ha per year under irrigation.   In livestock, two major programs were
initiated to restore the herds and improve the management of rangeland. In
addition, a program was undertaken to strengthen forestry development,
expand seedling production, and experiment with new production techniques.
To support these programs, measures were taken at the national level to



- 22 -
strengthen the crop protection agency, establish a national research agency
(INRAN), and expand technical training facilities. Large public management
units were set up to execute the projects.
68.       Technical Constraints.  The weak technical base on which the
productivity projects were founded, explains, in large part, their lack of
success. The standard technical package, applied without modifications in
all productivity projects, consisted of chemical fertilizers, improved
seed, heavy ox-drawn plows, and simple planting and weeding equipment. The
package, however, was not appropriate for Niger's climatic conditions, and
the country's weak resourcE base imposed further limits on the use of
modern technology to raise productivity. Sandy soils with weak water
retention impede the economic use of chemical fertilizers and heavy ox-
drawn plows. The difficulties of designing technical packages for rain-fed
agriculture are also exacerbated by extreme variations in micro-climates
and soil conditions as well as by farmers' understandable reluctance to
adopt innovations which, in view of climatic conditions, often involve a
substantial risk of crop failure. Since the standard package provided only
marginal economic and financial return to the farmers, the rate of adoption
was poor and default rates on credit exceeded 60% nationwide.
69.       Technical constraints also hampered the development of production
in other subsectors. In irrigation, the small size of schemes, relying on
the Niger river as the only major source of surface water, and the poor
water retention of soils increased investment costs and jeopardized opera-
tional viability. While small irrigation using ground water appeared
technically feasible, its development was constrained by the remoteness of
the most promising regions and the low efficiency of traditional water
raising technology. In livestock, the few feasible techniques to improve
breeds and the carrying capacity of the rangeland had already been
c-ploited. The main issue, i.e., to improve range management by estab-
lishing viable pastoral groups and according them usufruct rights over
pasturages, however, was not addressed. In forestry, dryland as well as
irrigated high yield tree plantations maintained by the Government proved
tco costly. Village and farm level woodlot operations were impeded by the
lack of a high yield species, the scarcity of suitable land, and the lack
of incentives owing to low market prices of fuel wood in the cities as well
as forestry and land tenure codes.
70.       Agricultural Research.  The performance of-INRAN in carrying out
agricultural research was also disappointing. Its bias towards basic
research was driven by the perception that the technical package extended
by the large projects would not be successful without a new breed of high
yield, drought-resistant cereal. However, given INRAN's limited resources
and a reluctance by Niger's donors to provide support, the focus on basic
research meant that urgently required adaptive and farm system research was
neglected. Also, while adaptive research components were included in
productivity projects, they were less useful than anticipated owing, in
part, to lack of collaboration by INRAN.
71.       Government Intervention.  Government intervention in agricultural
markets increased during the last decade since it was felt that the private
sector could not effectively support the development program. These
interventions, which occurred through expanded operations of various



- 23 -
parastatals, often proved ineffective as well as very costly in terms of
public resources. Government financial contributions were insufficient to
fund the large-scale subsidization intended to take place through these
parastatals, thus jeopardizing their financial viability.
72.       In the agricultural input markets, government intervention
through the confederation of the cooperative movement (7JNCC) and a govern-
ment supply agency (CA) proved unsuccessful. Due to financing constraints
and inefficiencies in the distribution system, imported inputs had to be
rationed and deliveries to farmers frequently arrived too late for the crop
season. In addition, agricultural equipment produced in government-owned
workshops suffered from inappropriate design and high production cost.
73.       In product markets, the Government intervened through price
control at the producer and consumer level, trade monopolies accorded to
parastatals, and the selective granting of licenses to private operators
for the export and import of foodstuffs and livestock. The most important
parastatal in this respect was OPVN, the grain marketing agency.  OPVN's
functions in the past were to stabilize cereal consumer prices through the
operation of a stabilization stock, promote agricultural production through
guaranteed cereal producer prices, distribute food aid, and maintain a
grain security stock. In 1983, OPVN's combined stocks reached a record
level of 166,000 tons, of which about one-quarter was classified as secu-
rity stock. The level of stocks, in general, was high because producer
prices were much higher than market prices, and OPVN was obliged to keep
buying while it was unable to sell. As a result of these policies, the
financial situation of OPVN deteriorated sharply in recent years, and it
accumulated large deficits. As an illustration, OPVN's deficit in 1983 was
estimated at about CFAF 2.4 billion, which represented over 20% of its
turnover. At the end of 1983, OPVN alone accounted for one-third of the
parastatal sector's outstanding domestic credit. At that time, it was also
evident that OPVN's price stabilization efforts had been ineffective, both
at producer and consumer levels, and that its objectives had not been
compatible with its limited financial means.
74.       Finally, the operati-ons of the Government's agricultural credit
bank (CNCA) were plagued with several problems. CNCA was originally set up
to finance a wide range of agricultural activities, including production
inputs, marketing, and transformation. The bulk of its lending, however,
was channeled as short-term credit to agricultural parastatals, namely OPVN
and UNCC, both experiencing financial difficulties. To compensate for a
serious shortfall in resources from deposits and a low rate of loan
recovery, CNCA turned to heavy short-term borrowing from the central bank
to financing its activities. CNCA did not have direct control over credit
recovery from cooperatives and, until recently, managed its credit to
farmers through UNCC and ONAHA, the irrigation authority. Poor credit
recovery and the low estimated demand for medium-term credit put into
question the viability of CNCA's original function. When the financial
crisis emerged, CNCA's already precarious financial position collapsed,
leaving the formal agricultural credit system of the country inoperative.



- 24 -
The Policy Reform Program
75.       The shortcomings of the Government's rural development strategy
were initially masked by weaknesses in reporting systems, the absence of
farm system research to test the validity of technological assumptions,
buoyant public revenues provided by the uranium boom, and favorable rain-
fall that permitted production to keep abreast of domestic demand. The
financial crisis and the subsequent drought, however, provoked a reassess-
ment of the investment program. Realizing that its approach had not been
effective, the Government began to reorient the productivity pro4ects.
Also, starting in 1984, a first series of policy reforms was undertaken to
address the most glaring problems of public intervention in the sector.
Initial reforms were introduced in cereal marketing to reduce OPVN's
financial losses and allow the private sector to participate in retail
trade; and a program to reduce input subsidies was initiated. Also, a
study on informal credit was started to help determine the role of the
public sector in rural financial markets. In general, the review process
highlighted the need for more basic changes in rural development policies
and public intervention in the sector.
76.       As part of its structural adjustment program, the Government has
reformulated its rural development strategy and supporting policies (see
Attachment 3 to LDP). Reform measures include: (i) a reorientation of the
investment program; (ii) a redefinition of agricultural research priori-
ties; (iii) the reform of grain pricing, marketing, and security stock
policies; (iv) the reduction of subsidies for agricultural inputs; and
(v) initial reforms of the agricultural credit system. These measures
constitute only the beginning of a comprehensive reform of agricultural
policies. Complementary measures are required in other subsectors, such as
livestock and forestry, and follow-up action will be needed to fully
implement the details of the ongoing reforms, as e.g., in grain policy and
agricultural research.
77.       Investment Program.  The revised rural development strategy
implies a substantial change in the investment program. As explained
above, rural developmenc projects that would present economically viable
approaches are still being developed, and for this purpose various studies
and pilot activities have been included in the investment program. Given
the large portfolio of ongoing projects, the Government has also begun to
review their need for reorientation. In rainfed agriculture, ongoing
projects, including the productivity projects, are being reoriented towards
a more flexible technical approach which includes testing input packages
under different local conditions. New projects will take the form of small
rural operations, i.e., production and infrastructure investments, that
will be initiated by farmers. Operation and maintenance of these projects
would also be financed by the local communities. In irrigation, the
Government will apply a rigorous economic analysis to any new project,
including the Irhazer irrigation scheme which is currently being studied.
While the longer-term potential for expanding irrigation on the Niger River
is under review, the emphasis of investment will be on the rehabilitation
of existing irrigation schemes and on small-scale groundwater irrigation
for off-season production. Ongoing projects in the livestock and forestry
subsectors will also be reoriented to better adapt them to present condi-
tions, provide for more participation of the rural population, and reduce
operating expenditures funded by the Government.



- 25 -
78.      Agricultural Research.  The restructuring of INRAN's research
program constitutes an important component of the structural adjustment
program. While the prospects of a significant technological breakthrough
are not bright, progress can nevertheless be achieved in improving farm
system technology by a cautious adaptation of modern techniques to local
systems and by an improvement of traditional agricultural techniques. To
that end, INRAN is redefining its research priorities, according particular
emphasis to a limited number of applied research themes capable of respond-
ing to the farmer's most urgent technological needs.  This will include
emphasis on Improvements in rainfed agriculture.   A revision of INRAN's
research program to reflect this strategy and to ensure its coherence with
INRAN's implementation capacity and financial constraints has been
initiated with external assistance. The review will also form the basis
for preparing a longer-term research program to be supported by a proposed
IDA-financed project.
79.       Grain Security Stock, Pricing and Marketing Policy.  Under its
structural adjustment program, the Government has substantially liberalized
grain marketing in Niger. Domestic trading as well as the import of millet
and sorghum have been completely liberalized; exports will be allowed on a
case by case basis, depending on the adequacy of domestic supply. Price
regulation has also been abolished; the Government will publish a set of
producer prices for market information purposes but these prices will not
be imposed on cereal traders nor supported by OPVN. Consumer prices will
be determined by market forces, and a smaller stock will be maintained for
security purposes.
80.       These revised policies will result in fundamental changes in the
role and operations of OPVN. Its price stabilization stock will be
eliminated. Its overall stock will be limited to a grain security stock of
maximum 80,000 tons that will allow the country an emergency cereal supply
in case of a major drought, while awaiting international food assistance.
This stock level, equivalent to three months of consumption by nomads and
the urban population, appears adequate in light of the experience gained
during the recent drought. OPVN's marketing operations will be limited to
rolling over one-third of the security stock annually which is required to
prevent spoilage. At least 80% of these operations will take place at the
wholesale level, through a competitive tendering system. OPVN's retail
operations will be limited to well-defined remote areas. Prices in these
areas will reflect market prices and transport costs. OPVN will draw down
the security stock by more than one-third only in case of a food emergency,
for which a definition has been agreed with IDA. Even under emergency
conditions, OPVN will continue to purchase only as a wholesaler, througn
the tendering system.
81.       The above reform will substantially improve the functioning of
the grain market in Niger by widening the scope of competition as the past
policy impediments to private sector participation have been removed. In
particular, it is hoped that the significant reduction of OPVN's retail
trade will encourage the entrance into the market of new participants,
particularly the small- and medium-scale traders who so far could not
compete with OPVN's subsidized operations. The reform also meets the
Government's objective of food security at an affordable cost of OPVN's
operations, which is estimated to require about 2% of budgetary revenues



- 26 -
per annum. Moreover, OPVN's new operational rules constitute an appro-
priate framework for engaging continuous donor support for reconstituting
the stock in the future, should it be necessary to draw it down in the case
of a national food emergency. The proposed IDA Public Enterprise Rehabili-
tation Project would provide assistance in carrying out OPVN's restruc-
turing program.
82.       Agricultural Inputs.  Policy reforms concerning agricultural
inputs aim at expanding access to inputs, encouraging efficient production
and use of agricultural equipment, while at the same time reducing subsi-
dies to alleviate the burden on the budget. As part of the reform program,
subsidies for equipment have already been phased out in 1985. For fertil-
izer, a subsidy will be maintained on the ground that farmers cannot fully
bear the risks of crop failure. However, the subsidy rate will be deter-
mined each year on the basis of an ex-ante budgetary allocation and real-
istic estimates of demand in order to avoid rationing. The rate will be
reduced gradually and limited to a maximum of 15% of the commercial
wholesale price by 1988.
83.       Agricultural Credit.  Currently, the role of agricultural credit
in Niger is limited due to the lack of economically feasible technical
packages using modern inputs for high risk rainfed agriculture. There may,
however, be an increased need for agricultural credit as technical
solutions become available. Measures in the area of agricultural credit,
therefore, aim at arresting the current system's financial losses while a
new system is being studied. The Government is undertaking detailed
studies of CNCA operations, including an audit, to assess the extent of its
financial deterioration. A major study of rural financial markets, that
will be completed in October 1986, will assess the true demand for formal
and informal credit. On the basis of these studies, IDA will assist the
Government in redefining the future role of the agricultural credit system.
In the interim, new lending by CNCA has ceased in order to prevent further
deterioration in its financial position and limit its budgetary incidence;
however, a minimum of agricultural credit will continue to be provided,
selectively, through specific agricultural development projects.
E. Program Development in Other Areas
84.       To extend the structural adjustment program into other areas, the
Government will undertake a number of studies, as outlined in Attachment lB
to the Letter of Development Policy (Annex IV). They address structural
issues in the economy that require further in-depth analysis before policy
reforms can be formulated. Three areas have been identified thus far. As
mentioned above, a comprehensive review of industrial and trade policies
will be undertaken as a basis for preparing reform measures in this area.
Moreover, a financial sector study will be initiated. Policy issues in
forestry and livestock will be studied, including land tenure, pricing and
taxation policies, to extend structural adjustment into other areas of the
rural economy. In conjunction with the forestry sector, government
policies in the energy sector will be reviewed. Together with the studies
mentioned in the individual components of the adjustment program, these
studies would serve to prepare future adjustment programs.



- 27 -
F. Effects of the Structural Adjustment Program
85.       In the medium term, the structural improvements in public
resource management, the parastatal sector and agricultural policy should
make it possible to gradually increase economic growth without causing
undue strains for the government budget and the country's balance of
payments. The reform program will reduce the policy impediments to higher
and more productive utilization of the country's existing resource base.
However, this resource base is small and the extent of supply response to
the improved policy environment is uncertain because of Niger's low level
of development. A necessary corollary to the policy reforms, therefore, is
a concerted development effort to strengthen the country's physical and
human resources. This will be a long-term process, in particular because
productive investment opportunities for a country like Niger are difficult
to identify. Substantial additional work is needed to formulate an appro-
priate development strategy which would allow the economy to grow on a
sustained basis. Table 3 illustrates a medium-term scenario that reflects
the full and timely implementation of the adjustment program and relatively
cautious assumptions about its initial supply response. This scenario is
contrasted with a situation in which past policies would be continued.
86.       Macroeconomic Impact.  Barring periods of drought to which Niger
remains extremely vulnerable, the structural reforms now being implemented
should enable the country to halt the recent decline in GDP and allow an
increase to about 2.9% per annum in the early 1990s. Most of this
improvement is projected to result from a greater efficiency of investment
as its level would expand only moderately due to continuing financial and
physical constraints. Public investment, on a disbursement basis, is
projected to grow only gradually to an average 9-10% of GDP since the
choice of viable projects in agriculture will initially remain constrained
by the lack of appropriate technical packages. However, public investment
would become more productive as a result of better utilization of existing
facilities, particularly in the parastatal sector, and a shift in new
investment away from large infrastructure projects towards directly produc-
tive activities. Moreover, private investment, in response to the ongoing
price and trade liberalization efforts, would gradually make a more
significant contribution to economic growth and development. However, its
level would remain low, reaching only 4X of GDP in the early 1990s because
of the country's constrained physical and human resources.
87.       In terms of the composition of growth, a start would be made to
adjust the economy to the reduced uranium prospects by focusing on the
agricultural sector and, to a lesser extent, on the trade and small-scale
manufacturing sectors, as the principal sources for sustained economic
development in the medium term. Agricultural production is projected to
grow by an average 2.7% per annum in the early 1990s as a result of the
Government's new rural development strategy aimed at encouraging quick-
yielding small operations and rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructure.
The liberalization of the cereals market would allow access by small
private traders thereby improving the overall efficiency of intermediation
to the benefit of producers, as well as consumers. The longer-term
prospects for the sector, however, would remain critically dependent on the
development of new technologies for rainfed cultivation and, therefore, on
the outcome of the adaptive research efforts initiated under the structural
adjustment program.



- 28 -
88.       The trade and manufacturing sectors would increase their relative
contribution to GDP growth, although only marginally in the initial years
of the structural adjustment period. Growth in these sectors would
accelerate to 31 per annum as a result of the elimination of monopoly
privileges and licensing restrictions; this would encourage the
establishment of small and medium-size traders and artisan craftsmen,
better equipped to provide farmers with locally-manufactured equipment and
maintenance services. Finally, the public enterprises already operating in
these sectors would achieve greater efficiency through the ongoing
parastatal rehabilitation program.
TABLE 3: NIGER - SCENARIOS WITH AND WITHOUT
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT a/
-    ----Period Averages-
With Structural           Without Structural
Indicator                        Adjustment                   Adjustment
1986-90        1991-95         1986-90        1991-95
GDP growth (Z p.a.) b/           2.0             2.9             1.3           1.1
Shares in GDP (M)
Investment                      12              14             10              8
Public Investment                9              10              7              6
Government Recurrent
Expenditures                    8               7              7              5
Budget Deficit                   3               2              3              1
Current Account Deficit c/       3               2              2              1
External Debt (disb.)           49              40             51             41
Export growth (% p.a.) d/        3.2             4.1            1.3            1.2
Import growth (X p.a.) d/        2.0             3.2            1.0            0.6
Debt Service e/|Exports
Without future debt relief   43               25             45             34
With future debt relief       35              28             n.a.           n.a.
Public Debt Service/Revenues
Without future debt relief   46               29             69             77
With future debt relief       40              34             n.a.           n.a.
a/   These scenarios are intended to illustrate the structural adjustment process.
They are based on various estimates and assumptions about domestic and external
parameters which could be invalidated by subsequent developments.
b/   Constant prices.
c/   Net of grants.
d/   Period average excludes 1986 in which exports and imports are projected to fall
significantly reflecting the impact of the recent drought.
e/   Debt service payments include IMF repurchases.
Source: Bank staff projections.



- 29 -
89.       The structural reforms, in combination with Niger's ongoing
financial stabilization program, would enable the Government to reduce
budget deficits to a sustainable level of 2X of GDP in the early 1990s.
Initially, revenues would grow in line with GDP reflecting fiscal measures
implemented in connection with the stabilization program and higher cost
recovery. Ultimately, the rehabilitation of the parastatal sector,
together with the introduction of improved incentives policies, would
promote the development of the modern sector and thus broaden the country's
tax base and improve its tax ratio. Recurrent expenditures would decline
slightly in real terms. Interest payments on the public debt would stabi-
lize, albeit at a relatively high level, but their ratio to government
revenues would fall gradually. A higher surplus on current government
operations would increase the local contribution to the public investment
program, particularly to the Government's counterpart financing obligations
of foreign-financed development projects. This surplus, in combination
with somewhat higher levels of net external aid (including IDA's structural
adjustment assistance) would allow a moderate expansion of the public
investment program.
90.       The structural improvements in the economy would be reflected in
the country's balance of payments. Because of the reform measures, exports
of agricultural products and livestock would grow after the severe negative
effects of the recent drought have been overcome, reducing - albeit
marginally - the country's heavy dependence on uranium export earnings.
More importantly, the share of food grain in impor.s would be reduced in
line with the continued expansion of domestic cereals production. Finally,
interest payments on foreign debt would be stabilized through a combination
of debt rescheduling and a more prudent external borrowing strategy.
Overall, the acceleration of export growth relative to import growth, in
combination with reduced reliance on foreign savings through improved
public revenue performance, would gradually limit the current account
deficit of the balance of payments to about 2X of GDP in the early 1990s.
91.       However, high gross capital inflows would continue to be required
to assist the country in meeting its heavy repayment obligations on debt
contracted during, and immediately after, the uranium boom. Table 4
piovides projections, consistent with the structural adjustment scenario,
of Niger's external capital requirements during the period 1986-1990. If
grants and gross annual disbursements of public long-term capital were to
remain at 1985/86 levels, i.e., CFAF 60 billion and CFAF 38 billion
respectively, a significant financing gap would remain. This gap would
reach CFAF 23 billion in 1988 and gradually fall thereafter. Part of this
gap could, if necessary, be covered by the use of reserve instruments and
monetary borrowing. However, recourse to the latter would further strain
the country's debt service position and should therefore be limited. The
gap would thus need to be filled by continuing debt relief or by
corresponding increases in financial assistance from bilateral and
multilateral donors, or a combination of these two. The size of the annual
gap would roughly equal that of 1985 -  which was, in that year,
covered largely by debt rescheduling -- and should therefore be considered
financeable although assistance levels in 1985 were somewhat higher than in
earlier years as a result of the drought. Opportunities for rescheduling
Niger's debt will become progressively smaller in the coming years; and
excessive rescheduling would entail an undesirable build-up of debt service



- 30 -
obligations in the early 1990s. Non-traditional forms of financial
assistance, such as retroactive terms adjustment, are thus needed. Also,
future financial assistance to Niger should, as much as possible, be made
available on terms and conditions most appropriate for the country's
adjustment effort: (i) grant or IDA-type concessional terms to improve the
country's future debt position; (ii) quick-disbursing non-project
assistance to enable thc ccointry to refinance existing debt and alleviate
current heavy debt service obligations; and (iii) financing of a major
proportion of local cost of development projects to reduce budgetary
pressures. Finally, financial commitments by the donors should be made on
a longer-term basis in order to facilitate expenditure/investment planning
by the Nigerien Government. As mentioned earlier, a multi-year financial
plan for Niger will be presented to the country's donors at a conference
during 1986 (see para. 120 below).
TABLE 4: NIGER - EXTERNAL CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS
1986-90
(in billion CFAF)
1983     1986     1987      1988     1989      1990
(Estimate)  ----------Projections---
CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE 1/        -100.2    -78.1    -81.4    -86.3    -89.5    -94.5
(excluding grants)
FINANCING:
Grants 2/                        64.5      53.7     60.0     60.0      60.0     60.0
Non-Monetary Capital, net        11.4       1.4     11.0     12.3      14.5     17.7
Public long-term, net          15.0      7.2      11.0     10.2      12.2     14.5
Disbursements 3/             38.5     37.8      38.0     38.0      38.0     38.0
Amortization 4/             -23.5    -30.6    -27.0    -27.8    -25.8    -23.5
Private long-term, net         -3.8     -3.8       0        2.1       2.3      3.2
Short-term, net/errors          0.2     -2.0       -        -         -        -
Monetary Capital, net 5/          4.3       1.3     -6.9     -9.2      -3.9     -1.7
Additional financing/
debt relief                    20.0     21.7      17.3     23.2      18.9      18.5
of which rescheduling          17.8
1/  Current account deficits reflect capital inflow requirements associated with the
higher investment under the structural adjustment program. These deficits are,
therefore, higher than those projected by the IMEF.
2/  Assumed constant during 1987-90 at CFAF 60 billion (1985/86 level).
3/ Assumed constant during 1987-90 at CFAF 38 billion (1985/86 level).
4/ Scheduled payments.
5/ Does not include new IMF drawings beyond current (1986) Standby.
Source:  IMF/Bank staff projections



- 31 -
92.       Niger's external debt is projected to increase to FCFA 430
billion in 1990, but would fall to a level of 44% of GDP. Moreover, its
structure would improve gradually as a result of the longer maturities and
more concessional interest rates to be obtained on new borrowing.
Initially, debt service payments would remain very high, and even
unmanageable if further debt relief is not forthcoming. Without debt
relief, external debt service obligations would average 43Z of export
earnings during 1986-90, and public debt service would constitute 46% of
government revenues. With debt relief, these ratios would be reduced to
35% and 40%, respectively and fall to more sustainable levels thereafter.
93.       Distributional Impact.  The structural adjustment program would
allow a gradual improvement in living standards in Niger which, in the
absence of the program, would be curtailed significantly as a result of
reduced availability of external assistance and constrained imports, as
outlined in paragraph 98 below. The reform program would halt the secular
fall in consumption experienced during recent years. On the other hand,
by comparison with the earlier period of rapid growth and abundant
financial resources, the adjustment program would inevitably entail some
social costs as the country makes a painful transition to a period of
slower development and austerity. However, while financial stabilization
efforts continue, the structural reforms would ensure that: (i) the
structure of expenditure programs is modified to benefit a larger
proportion of the country's population; and (ii) that any unavoidable,
short-term, social costs are more than offset by long-term benefits
associated with greater economic efficiency and higher growth.
94.       As indicated earlier, restructuring of the public expenditure
program would result in a significant reduction of transfers and subsidies
through the introduction of higher user charges for selective services,
such as curative health care and tertiary education, as well as the provi-
sion of subsidized products. Whereas these measures would increase the
prices of these services and products, their impact on the country's poor
is expected to be limited as their main beneficiaries have so far been the
higher income groups in urban areas. Moreover, public savings so generated
would be channelled into the continued expansion of a number of basic
services, such a preventative health services and primary schooling, which
benefit the population as a whole. The reorientation of the public invest-
ment program would, similarly, benefit a larger proportion of the country's
population. The renewed emphasis on rural development as well as on human
resource development and social services, such as village water supply,
would primarily benefit lower income groups outside of Niger's urban
centers.
95.       The reform of the parastatal sector would involve some painful
adjustments, at least in the short-term. The emergency measures introduced
by the Government in some key enterprises have already resulted in a
significant reduction of their labor force and further layoffs will occur
in those enterprises still to be rehabilitated or identified for liquida-
tion. In the medium term, however, these workers are likely to be absorbed
by the gradual expansion of the modern private sector given their previous
work experience and relatively high skill level, both of which are in short
supply in Niger.



- 32 -
96.       The effects of the price and domestic trade liberalization
measures on the lower income groups would be mixed. Previous experience
with the liberalization of some essential products in Niger has shown that
their prices rose initially but then stabilized as a result of greater
competition among domestic traders. The availability of these products to
all segments of the population, however, improved significantly. Any
upward pressure that the liberalization of the cereals market would exert
on consumer prices for food grains is likely to be more than offset, at
least in the short term, by the beneficial impact of the buoyant cereal
crop in 1985. In the medium term, increased cereal production would have a
more permanent downward effect on food grain prices although such prices
are likely to fluctuate considerably depending on the vagaries of the
weather. However, the country's security stock, in combination with food
aid, would ensure that food grain prices are held down to reasonable levels
in case of a major crop failure.
97.       The elimination of official support prices for millet and sor-
ghum, dictated by budgetary considerations, could reduce farm incomes and
production incentives. On the other hand, its possible negative effects
should not be overstated. Even in 1982/83, the year of the highest OPVN
purchases on record, the producer price subsidy amounted, on average, to
only 1% of farm cash income. Moreover, beneficiaries of the subsidy have
been mainly larger farms, since smallholders do not usually produce
significant marketable quantities of grain.
98.       Scenario without Structural Adjustment.  This scenario, which
assumes a continuation of past policies, clearly demonstrates that the cost
of not adjusting would be very high for Niger's economy and population. In
the absence of structural adjustment measures, ecoromic growth would be
seriously limited by public finance and balance of payments constraints.
GDP growth would reach an average of only 1.1% p.a. in the early 1990s.
Bad policy performance would reduce the availability of additional external
financing, particularly in the form of non-project financing, and would
constrain overall budgetary outlays while expenditures for personnel and
interest payments would continue to grow. Delivery of public services
would be negatively affected and public investment severely reduced, thus
compounding the inefficiencies in the public sector. Private investment
would remain low because of the lack of incentives due to policy
distortions and the depressed state of the economy. Due to the external
financing constraints and the absence of possibilities to obtain debt
relief, the current account deficit would need to be smaller, thus
constraining imports. Despite lower overall grnwth and borrowing, the debt
service burden, in particular for the public seccor, would reach
unsustainable levels.
PART III - THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A. Credit History
99.       Initial agreement between the Government and IDA on the broad
outline of a medium-term structural adjustment program was reached in May
1984. At that time, a detailed work program was drawn up for the comple-
tion of the economic and sector work necessary for the formulation of the
specific policy improvements that would be implemented under the first
phase of the Government's structural adjustment program. Also, an



- 33 -
agreement was reached as to which preparatory work would be undertaken by
the Government or by IDA, and which work would require assistance from
consultants to be financed under the IDA Economic and Financial Management
Improvement Project. This Project, approved in June 1984, was designed to
assist the Government in the preparation of a structural adjustment program
by financing economic and financial studies, as well as strengthening
management and planning capabdlities in the Ministries of Planning and
Finance.
100.      During the preparation of the structural adjustment program, the
Government formed an Interministerial Committee for Structural Reform,
chaired by the Minister of Planning. This Committee, composed of twelve
ministers, assumed the responsibility for coordinating the preparatory
work, reviewing the recommendations for policy reform, and liaising with
the IDA structural adjustment missions.
101.      Work on the public resource management component of the proposed
credit was started during an IDA public expenditure review mission in
October 1984. This mission analyzed, with the Government, the likely
availability of public resources in the medium-term future, minimum
requirements for recurrent and capital expenditures, public debt service
obligations, as well as sectoral development policies. On the basis of the
mission's findings, a Public Expenditure Report was prepared and its policy
recommendations discussed with the Government in May 1985. On its part,
the Government created a number of interministerial working groups,
consisting of senior civil servants assisted by consultants, to formulate a
macro-financial framework for the period 1986-88 and to prepare detailed
sectoral strategies as a basis for determining programs for recurrent and
investment expenditures, as well as resource mobilization measures.
102.      Work on the program of parastatal reform was initiated in mid-
1983 when a major consultant's study was commissioned, financed by a PPF
advance for IDA's Economic and Financial Management Improvement Project, to
conduct diagnostic studies of 54 public enterprises. In May 1984, the
Government and IDA reviewed the results of this study. On its basis,
initial improvements were introduced in the operations of a number of key
enterprises and a need for further work was identified, particularly in the
areas of price and trade liberalization, as well as in the institutional
and legal framework for the parastatal sector. This work was undertaken
with the assistance of local and foreign consultants, and progress was
reviewed by IDA in October 1984 and March 1985. The results of the diag-
nostic studies were used in the formulation of programs for rehabilitation,
privatization or liquidation of the 54 public enterprises.
103.      Work on the agricultural policy component of the proposed credit
was closely linked to the other two components, i.e., to the public
resource management component with respect to the reorientation of the
investment program for the rural sector, and to the parastatal reform
program as far as the restructuring of the operations of OPVN, CA, CNCA and
INRAN were concerned. For the formulation of improvements in the cereals
marketing/security stock policies, the input subsidy regime and agricul-
tural credit, extensive use was made of studies undertaken by USAID in
connection with the preparation of its Agriculture Sector Development Grant



- 34 -
to Niger. The preparation of the agricultural policy component was
reviewed by IDA in March 1985.
104.      The credit was appraised in September/October 1985, following the
IMF's negotiations of a third Standby program and the preparation of the
Government's budget for 1985/86. Negotiations were held in Washington, in
December 1985; the Nigerien delegation was headed by H.E.M. Almoustapha
Soumalla, Minister of Planning. Supplementary credit data are provided in
Annex III.
B. Relationship Between the Proposed Credit and Policy Reforms
105.      The proposed credit would support the first phase of the
Government's medium-term structural adjustment program. The rationale for
this program was discussed in Part II. The Government has provided the
Association with a Letter of Development Policy (Annex IV) which describes
the specific measures that have been or will be taken during this phase of
the adjustment program. These measures are summarized in Table 5. The
credit would ease Niger's financial strain during the adjustment period,
not only with respect to external capital requirements, but also by
increasing budgetary resources. Furthermore, the credit would offer
additional resources needed for the financial rehabilitation of public
enterprises.
C. Benefits and Risks
106.      Benefits.  The policy refcrms described above are expected to
lead to improvements in public sector resource management, both with
respect to budgetary operations and parastatal performance, as well as
strengthen the agricultural resource base of the economy and hence the
country's growth prospects and its balance of payments position over the
medium to long term. Estimates of the quantitative impact of these bene-
fits were provided in Part II.F. The credit would also provide quick-
disbursing foreign exchange on concessional terms which would assist the
country in meeting the substantial financing requirements it faces during
the adjustment period.
107.      Risks.  Niger's structural adjustment program has four major
risks. The first relates to its timely and sustained implementation. The
program would establish an improved policy framework whose impact would
depend critically on appropriate follow-up action. For example, the
adjustment program provides the policy framework for the restructuring of
the parastatal sector, but its success will also depend on the implementa-
tion of specific programs for individual enterprises over several years.
The improvement in the structure of recurrent expenditures is another
example. Achievement of the targets requires substantial measures to
reduce subsidies and to increase cost recovery. Reactions of the popula-
tion to such measures are not yet known and might affect the pace of their
implementation.
108.      The second major risk concerns the supply response to the reform
measures aimed at removing the policy constraints on private investment.
It is yet to be learned how seriously policy distortions have retarded
private sector activities in the past as compared to structural



- 35 -
TULE 5:  TIIR - MiTIIII       EICY ACTIOS TOE K   WPUl                mEl sac I
CTIIS TllB                                  nImI IW    STII                        =ITII  vm FOK SH
PLICY  AEl                 aw    IE                             ST EI AW        IECWK  TEN                                                          o   e    Tm
A. PLIC EStLE              1. lebrev  off lciemcy of            ldgt program for 1985Ib-                     Adopt 19h-17 buget so lose with               It.
KIASEMMI                  inmastim  smoesteeit              I7W     adapted to restructure                rnt#uitmring   bjettiM
recurret   prdituri prWram:
- redac  skideTs
- Iwo"r rat a of emplas/l
petiiiu  enpendites
r leCe"" .into0Se
eapefiitur-es
- cuntam  a a  imII                          Farst poase .s tudy of cmviI wrvice          Ty
antesl to be cmpl.ted
2. Streatien devlermt of            P blic setmet Praorm  far                     apt tfiU7-1lUhI9 towstoat                    ys
rwe eo   ta imp z     wpe1e 191SM-19171   adapted                              prqrm;
proapcts 6  growth                                                             Caplete fmaboilzly stdy Win
of Irw  project
3. lcrearZ rnawce mils-             A. rbaera  take  to  epei                     Complett stagy of frthter t                  yet
latim aed aeprove efficiency        cost recovery in health,                   rtoary mtasures
in m  of plic  ervien               Idecation, mter supply. and
ar-rzgat*im.
b. 1esures takcn to trmsfer
mintnuocc of small isfrntructte
to bmi.acisries
*. Improv ezterual det psitian   Nedi_irtarm borreezu  stretey                    bamc cefrect to be hId
for-mited to reduce dt sevic.                durg IWI to discuss
emits-yw   Itnta al plan
5. Impro  f raeurk for              lestitutisal framewor    d msetr-
expeeditare planiag              utc       npf e  itere prt4rasm;o
entebbled, incladiqn #u-mabm  of
ectnal strategies
S. UASTATOL  KEF           1. Improve rmrce allocation         baawe  take" b  liberalize                    Furthe  redactiru   ma the number             ye
nd stregtae  pdtetial for        pric ad trade cotrds:                         of preducts uject to pr;ice  wutrol
srply rnqoes                     - list ef cmtruilJd itm
ha bmee reduce;
- ieport licsaeg sad moopuliesl
qssS       itseh bow bow dimatled
2. 6isinte  ietortions              Fiscal treatot ef watatals                    StRudy m   dustral sad
has   e equlized wit that cf                 tra_e Policies; etudy of
prvate mtprtpris                             financual sKtor
L  Intrnse efficiency of            a. Instittiemal fraemrt for                  Adpt  lislation by Jun  lUf to
resource allocation and               ratatal tectur has bee                   adjust  gi zlatmon of ministries
ss  reduce budgetary                stregttf ed:                              affsctad by am  systs
transfers                           - tasks of Ministry of
uttile redeined
- lqeal fra_tk fur                        hupt rWised  rastatal
f/Wlaaststai relatiuns                  employment laws by Jun  IfUI
established



- 36 -
mWIc OKA                  summ                                It W(h1                                          NEKl _                               Km IN"
S. P           I.fr  prwity t-              CWi.tqqd e "rtim  of vd-
biilitatim  e.1 e  ae-                   llitaim prWi  r    fo  WM mg
statB1 ntdablud;                         WT by hrcd 1T;
urn. rbilitatam  VWraM                   Espleto sun     o  S aCd wa
amstisatd                                an  by Ott. liuN
Fela bdcsi.m a A1 NII,
CA,  lUtE  by kt. 1in
C. Prtuipin  ad tiwtable fer
primvttzatiIeliguidata. of
paraslatals .tabliebag:
laqsamatao. ni privatitat
in pregrns
d. Study e crm-ub   cqlteb                  lstiate rworm  to sliimati
Cro-mbts
L   RSICkIuIA  PLlnC      L. Incriass effaficcy of            a. Era,l ucritV *tKkt, Prcin1,              EtifKctery proghas in
frerc   ws aid rudKrs                d earbtinq psiy (rale of                dplacatao ale  vlally 
bed,twy trmifrs            r        WA  las bm refdri
*. hsidiis hr aicsItwra
implanets Skm Sues
alsiintid
S. Shidis  r f  rtilitr haw                 Farthur ruectim  of subsides
bm  rodoced, cd imports                  a amul bais (19-U)
liberalized
d. l..ttal step ta t. t   rmEwo             buelte etedy#  raral tredt
egricdtual crdit sisn:                   in Joe Ilnk
-  dit go D1 iritiatd                     mltab        edit c   start
- prwasie  of isterim                     wtim  m Iram to ampre 
agricultural rndit im                  Its debt c.llettze
development prji cts UNIT
2. Lay tk bais for iWrving         Pqriceteral r  1ah lstitut                 blevie  116-1I1 resr.cb  rWm
stral grertA pe cts             bs bum. trafewrr   to faust,r               mi beigu
dI Igrijcltera *rideltral
resrcb pulic is bing
redaimd ith atwea  aistace
314135



- 37 -
deficiencies of the real economy such as a small domestic market, low
purchasing power, limited raw material base and lack of skilled labor.
Thus the private sector response may not be sufficiently large during the
first phase of the adjustment program to provide an impetus to economic
growth.
109.      In this connection, a third risk arises.  The success of the
structural adjustment program will depend critically on the efforts being
made by the Government and the aid donor community to strengthen the
resource base of the economy, i.e., the development of the rural sector.
The outcome of these efforts is uncertain. Technically and economically
viable approaches for strengthening the country's agricultural base are
still under development, and there is no guarantee that appropriate solu-
tions for long-term sustained development of the rural sector will be
found.
110.      Finally, the success of the adjustment program also depends on
exogenous factors, especially international economic conditions and cli-
matic factors. The adjustment scenario is based on the assumption that
uranium exports would not deteriorate further. Another downturn of uranium
exports would tighten the country's budgetary and balance of payments
position. The sustained implementation of the program also assumes that no
major drought would disrupt economic development. Both of these possible
events would result in delays of the program's implementation and postpone
its benefits.
111.      There are several elements in the adjustment program that reduce
the risks. First, the Government has so far shown a strong commitment to
the reform program, both by involving large parts of Government in the
preparation of the policy measures and by implementing difficult measures
under adverse economic circumstances. Indications are that this colMitment
will continue in the future. Moreover 'reforms are being implemented
gradually to facilitate acceptance by LLIe population. Even if a slowdown
were to occur in the implementation of particular elements, this would not
necessarily threaten implementation of the overall program. Second. the
Government has already taken significant steps to rehabilitate public
enterprises, and aid donors are providing assistance to individual public
enterprises to ensure implementation of the reforms at the microeconomic
level through organizational, management and training support. Third, the
private sector seems to be willing to become more active, as their interest
in taking over parastatals demonstrates.
D. Credit Amount
112.      The proposed IDA credit of US$20 million equivalent, together
with the proposed credit of US$40 million equivalent from the African
Facility, would finance about 10% of Niger's merchandise imports in the
period July 1986 - December 1987, and meet about 25% of the country's gross
external capital requirement for the same period. The credit amount would
cover 3% of budgetary expenditures in Niger's budget year 1985/86, 11% in
1986/87, and 7% in 1987/88. The amount of the proposed IDA contribution
was determined on the basis of the IDA allocation for Niger. taking into
account other priority needs for which IDA assistance has been requested.



- 38 -
E. Disbursement and Procurement
113.      The proposed credit would be disbursed in two tranches and is
expected to be fully disbursed within 18 months of credit effectiveness.
The first tranche of US$40 million equivalent - of which US$30 million
equivalent from the African Facility and US$10 million equivalent from
IDA -- would be available upon credit effectiveness. The second tranche of
US$20 million equivalent -- African Facility US$10 million and IDA US$10
million -- would become available about 6-9 months later. Disbursement of
the second tranche would be contingent upon satisfactory progress made by
the Government in carrying out the structural adjustment program, in
particular: (i) adoption of the 1986/87 budget acceptable to IDA;
(ii) adoption of the 1986/87-1988/89 public investment program acceptable
to IDA; (iii) further reduction in the number of products subject to price
controls; (iv) satisfactory progress in the implementation of OPVN's grain
marketing and storage reforms; (v) completion of the CNCA audit and start
of an action program to improve debt collection; and (vi) completion of the
following studies: first phase of the study of the civil service system,
feasibility study of the Irhazer agricultural project, study of the
extension of cost recovery systems, and studies of CNCA and SNC.
114.      The Government of Niger would be the Borrower.  The Central Bank
of the West African States (BCEAO) would be responsible for maintaining the
credit accounts and for submitting withdrawal applications and supporting
documentatior to the Association.
115.      Disbursement and procurement procedures have been designed to
ensure the rapid drawdown of the credit proceeds. The credit would reim-
burse 100% of the foreign exchange cost of eligible imports on the basis of
evidence that they were paid for and imported after credit signing.
Eligibility for reimbursement from the African Facility Credit would be
limited to imports from Part II members of IDA and from other countries
designated as eligible by the Administrator under the African Facility.
Imports financed from other sources would not be eligible for IDA financ-
ing. Expenditures for goods procured under invoices for US$10,000
equivalent or less would not be eligible for financing out of credit
proceeds.
116.      Both private and public sector imports would be eligible for
financing. For contracts of US$4 million equivalent or more, procurement
would be made through international competitive bidding in accordance with
IDA guidelines. Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost
less than US$4 million equivalent each would be awarded on the basis of the
normal procurement procedures of the purchaser. Certain commonly traded
commodities may be purchased through price quotations available from
organized international commodity markets. For contracts of less than US$4
million equivalent, reimbursements would be against statements of
expenditure. S-pporting documents related to these contracts would be
retained in the Central Bank of the West African States and made available
on request to the Association for review.
117.      The Borrower would open separate special accounts for the IDA
Credit and the African Facility Credit at the Central Bank of the West
African States on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
The authorized allocation would be US$3 million equivalent for the IDA
account and USS6 million ecuivalent for the African Facilitv account.



- 39 -
F. Monitoring of Actions
118.      The Government will maintain the interministerial committee that
was established to prepare the first structural adjustment credit (see
Part III.A). This committee would monitor the implementation and impact of
the structural adjustment program, prepare future adjustment measures, and
liaise with the Association for the purpose of reviewing progress under the
adjustment program. Following the disbursement of the first tranche of the
credit, the Government would submit to the Association a report evaluating
the progress made in the implementation of the adjustment program since
credit approval. This report would serve as a basis for the mid-term
review of the program which, in turn, would form the basis for the release
of the second tranche. The Government would submit to the Association a
final report on the implementation of the adjustment program upon full
disbursement of the credit.
G. Cooperation with the IMF and Other Donors
119.      Work on the proposed structural adjustment credit has been
carefully coordinated with the IMF, particularly in the areas of public
resource management, parastatal reform, and pricing policy. The IDA
pre-appraisal mission overlapped with the IMF mission which reviewed the
1984/85 Standby arrangement, and an IDA staff member worked closely with
the IMF mission that visited Niger in August/September 1985 to prepare the
1985/86 Standby arrangement. Draft documents and views were exchanged at
every stage in the processing of the proposed credit. The IMF staff is in
agreement with the thrust of the structural adjustment program which is
complementary to that supported by the 1985/86 Standby arrangement.
Niger's financial relations with the Fund are summarized in Annex V.
120.      As mentioned earlier, the Government will schedule a donors
conference in 1986 to discuss the implications of its structural adjustment
program for donor assistance. The conference will focus most importantly
on the formulation of an appropriate macro-financial plan for Niger to
obtain donor support for alleviating the country's current and future debt
service obligations. The need for significantly higher, long-term
commitments of grant or IDA-type concessional financing as well as the
desirability of retroactive terms adjustment and/or further rescheduling of
part of the country's outstanding debt will be presented to the donors.
Other issues to be addressed at this conference include the choice of
investment projects in line with the Government's sectoral strategies, the
need for increased non-project assistance to support policy reform, and the
reorientation of assistance away from new physical investment projects
toward financing recurrent local costs associated with the efficient
operation of existing programs and facilities.
PART IV - OTHER BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGER
121.      Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Group operations in
Niger as of September 30, 1985. As of that date, the country had received
26 IDA credits totalling US$243.7 million. IFC investments amounted to
US$2.2 million. Ten credits were for the rural sector (drought relief,
rural development, forestry, irrigation and livestock), and eight for
roads, primarily aimed at upgrading the main and feeder road networks.
Seven other credits covered telecommunications, education, power and



- 40 -
industrial development. An Economic and Financial Management Improvement
Project was approved in June 1984.
122.      While the Government's macroeconomic performance has been quite
satisfactory during recent years, its performance in project preparation
and implementation has been rather mixed. This is particularly true for
the agricultural sector where the Second Maradi and Dosso projects have
encountered major difficulties due to inadequate institutional
arrangements, management problems, a lack of proven technical packages for
rainfed farming, high investment and operating costs of irrigation, and
poor credit recovery. These projects, together with the First Livestock
Project, have also suffered from generally cumbersome administrative
procedures, local funding problems, and the recent severe drought. To
assist Government in alleviating the effects of this drought, the
Association has amended several ongoing projects to finance seeds and
destocking of herds. While highway and feeder road construction projects
were implemented on schedule, the progress of social infrastructure
projects, i.e., education, has been slow. Thus, environmental,
institutional and managerial constraints explain why IDA's lending program
- two projects a year amounting to about US$20 million - has been
relatively small in recent years and less than originally expected.
Reflecting these difficulties, the disbursement ratio declined continuously
from 59% in FY80 to 16% in FY83; following the introduction of the special
action program, it rose sharply to 48! in FY84. However, the disbursement
ratio of 23% in FY85 remained significantly below the ratios for comparable
countries such as Togo (32%) or Benin (31%).
123.      As a result of the strong policy dialogue between IDA and the
Government of Niger, IDA's operational strategy in the country has changed
significantly, and its emphasis is now on supporting policy reforms. To
that end, IDA's lending instruments have been diversified to include
structural adjustment and other forms of policy lending, as well as project
lending which would assist the Government in both increasing the efficiency
of resource use and, in the long run, developing the country's productive
resources. This would entail an increase in IDA's lending program for
Niger in coming years provided that the Government remains successful in
defining and implementing a program of broad policy reform. A further
increase in the lending program would result from Niger's eligibility under
the African Facility.
124.      The focus of IDA operations would be on continued macroeconomic
reforms and their translation into policy measures at the sectoral level.
Depending on the success of the Government's efforts to implement the first
phase of its structural adjustment program, IDA operations would include
additional structural adjustment credits in the future to extend the
reforms to other areas. In addition, sector-based lending operations would
assist the Government in supplementing these macroeconomic reforms, partic-
ularly in the area of public finance. These operations would support the
implementation of the Government's sectoral strategies, in particular
through: (i) revised investment programs which emphasize maintenance and
increased cost-effectiveness; (ii) restructured recurrent expenditure
budgets; and (iii) new cost recovery measures.
125.      Recent and future IDA operations reflect this approach.  The
recently approved Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (FY85) focuses on the



- 41 -
rehabilitation of existing infrastructure and increased recovery of opera-
tion costs in irrigated areas. Similar sectoral approaches are being
proposed in Health for FY86 and in Transport and Primary Education for
FY87. The Transport Sector Project would also be proposed for cofinancing
from the African Facility.
126.      The structural adjustment effort would also need ta be supported
by institutional changes and technical assistance. This applies in partic-
ular to the parastatal reform program. A proposed Public Enterprise
Rehabilitation Project (FY87) would provide technical assistance and
training for the implementation of the sector-wide reforms and would
finance the rehabilitation of key public enterprises.
127.      In agriculture, the most importanlt sector for longer-term growth
of the Nigerien economy, the policy changes initiated under the structural
adjustment credit would be supported through subsequent project lending
operations. IDA lending would, as a priority, support agricultural
research (FY87), i.e., assist the Government in translating the refocused
agricultural research strategy into a multi-year work program as well as
support its implementation. Future lending to increase production would
take the form of small rural operations to support gradual development of
irrlgation potential, provision of services to pastoralists, and crop-
livestock integration.
128.      The proposed credit would be the first operation for Niger
presented during this fiscal year. A Health Project has been appraised and
is expected to be presented to the Board later in FY86.
PART V - RECOMMENDATIONS
129.      I am satisfied that the proposed IDA Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the A.sociation and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed Credit.
130.      I am satisfied that the proposed African Facility Credit would
comply with the provisions of Resolution No. IDA 85-1 of May 21, 1985, and
recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed African
Facility Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
January 23, 1986
Washington, D.C.



- 42 -
Annex I
TILE  i&                                         Page 1 of 6
NICER                 - SOcIAL IDtCATMS DATA SHEUT
NIGER                      REF~~~~~~~EREINCE GROWN (WEIGAITED, AVER-AGESj re
MOST                    (MOST RCENT ESTIMATE) lb
RECENT         LOW IlNUC  AFRICA        MIDDLE Tgbin
lstCb      197tunb ESTImAT1L        SOm or SARA          AFRICA S. 'V *A
AREA (TWTuAV I SQ. U)
rorm.                            1207.0     1267.0      1267.0
41:KLttLLTUIRAL                   12S.0      130.0       131.2
CUP  R CAPITA (US))                   ..          ..        240.0             23S.8                   1063.8
CY Coumwn   NI CAPTA
(KILOGRMS or OIL EQUIVALENT)        3.0       16.0        32.0              62.3                    5S1.5
POPUATICI An viTAm  STArTISTC
POPULATKON*HID-I8AA (TOUSANDS)   324.0      4146.0      6002.0
URII  POPULATION CE OF TOrAL)       5.s        S.4        13.3              20.1                     32.0
POPULATION POJECTIONS
POPUlATION N WEA  000 (ILL)                             L.5
STATIGMAEY POPrIATION (KILL)                            40.0
POPULATION   HNnTI                                       2.0
POPULATION DISITS
PER Sq. M.                        2.6        3.3         4.5              33.2                     05.1
PEA SQ. MU. AGIE. LAND           25.3       31.9        44.1             112.8                    124.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE Cl)
0-14 YRS                        44.7       46.2        45.9              46.0                     45.6
154  iRS                        52.6       51.1       51.4               50.0                     51.5
65 SD aBOVE                       2.5        2.5         2.5               2.9                      2.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (S)
TOTAL                             1.2        2.5         2.9               2.8                      2.9
URBAN                             3.0        6.2         6.9               6.4                      5.1
CRUDE SItU RATE (MR T ODS)         47.3       49.6        52.0              47.2                     47.0
CRUDE DEART RATE (E  THOWS)        26.0       24.2        19.7              17.8                     15.0
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.3        3.3         3.4               3.3                      3.2
FAMILT PLANAI
ACCEPTORS. ASJAL (TEOS)           ..
USERS (2 or MAuD  MM)             .          ..          10                3.3                      6.4
woo. -ITn
INDZ. Or FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                     112.0       96.0       86.0               33.3                    62.9
PMM CAPITA SU,nY Or
CALOES (Z or REQUIRsrS)         100.0       66.0       100.0              87.7                     98.5
PEINUS (RANS PR DAY)             65.0       56.0        71.0              51.9                    55.4
OF WHICH ANDIAL AND PULSE       ALa        18.2        26.0 IC           15.7                     16.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATh RATE        51.0       41.0        25.0              23.1                     16.6
hLTS
LIr EcXrPC. AT SBlI   C(TARS)     40.6       41.4        44.9              47.8                     52.0
INFANT "OrT. at (PER TEOUS)       191.0      171.0       139.0             119.5                   10N.8
ACCESS TO SAME MATER (EPOP)
TOTAL                             ..        20.0        33.0 Rd           27.1                     42.4
BN                                ..        37.0        41.0 t            63.5                    67.5
RURAL                             ..        19.0        32.0 7T           19.3                     35.8
ACCESS To CXCREXA DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..         1.0         7.0 Id           26.5                     28.9
N                                 ..        10.0        36.0 7T           65.4                     57.7
RURAL                             ..         ..          3.0              20.8                    20.7
POPULATION Pv  PHTSTCIA         92400.0    60090.0    38790.0 is         27901.7                  11791.7
POP. U    SING PERSON            9240.0 /f  7260.0     4650.0 T           330S.4                  2459.8
POP. PvR  OSPITAL RED
TOTAL                          2480.0     2300.0      1040.0 1.         1273.6                    951.1
URN                               ..       370.0       420.0             4 428.2                 368.8
RURAL                             *-      4380.0      2020.0            3292.5                   4371.9
AIIISSIONS PCR HOSPITAL BED        10.4 /b    34.7 /t     ..                ..                      27.Z
aSEIC
AVERAGC SIZE OF OUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             ..         ..
URIAN                             ..         ..
cURAL                             ..         ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONSIROGN
TOTAL                             ..         ..
UEDN                              ..         ..
RURAL                             ..         ..
PERCENAGZ OF OWELLINGS VMIl ELECT.
TOTAL                             ..         ..
UN                                ..         ..
RURAL                             ..         ..



43-                                                       Annex I
T A a 1. i, IA                                     Page  2  of  6
NICIl                      C SMIA  INDICATOIS DATA ISlIlT
llCUe                                WKAmk CGRUUPS (wW3Nuil  AVERAGES) 1-
MST                      (NOSBT RCEwT 1TUINAE) /b
1914h,Llb  11IbECRTI               L0oW IN1I AfItCA         NIIOLE lNCKE
r 1 ESDIAp       201TII IfC SAKAA      AVRICA S. U1* bNAHA
ADJUSTED RIIOLUICUT RATIOS
PRIMARsY  TOTAL                    5.0        14.U        23.0              b 47.8                    95.7
HALZ                    7.0        1A.0        29.0 I.           77.6                     IoO.U
FEMlALE                 3.0         9.0       m7O 7e             54.9                      63.2
SECOUDI*tY: TOTAL                  0.3         1.0        4.0 /a            13.5                      17.3
HALE                    1.0         2.0         5.0 7;           17.9                      25.0
FEMALE                  0.1         1.0         2.0 7T            9.1                      14.8
VOCATIONAL (2 OF StCUNDAII)          4.3         2.7         l.a              13.2                       5.9
PUPI-TCACHER RATIO
PRIlAY                            43.0 if    39.0        43.0               64.9                      41.1
SlCONDAKV                         11.0w       z0.O        26.U _a           27.4                      Z3.5
PASSENGER CAUSITNOUSAND M0P          0.3         1.4         2.4 /I            3.8                      2u.8
RADtO RECCEVERSITHOOSAND POP         3.0        35.0        45.9              55.J                     1U U.
'AV EEVERS/THOUSAND PM.                           .          1.Z 22 2.I
EWS'SPAPER ("DAILI CCENUAL
INTEREST") CIRCUIATION
PZR THOUSAND POPULATION             U.3         0.5         0.9               5.0                      18.4
CINEA ANNUAL AMNDANEICIAPITA         ..          0.2        ..                 0.5                       0.4
lA    inaC
TOTAL LAOR FORtC  (TUS)           lo4.0      1320.0      1900.0
FMAE (PERCENT)                     9.0         9.7        10.2              34.2                      36.2
ACRICULTURE CPUCEINT)             95.0        93.0        91.0 Id           77.5                      54.5
INDIUSTR  (PEACET)                 1.0         2.0         3.0 71            9.7                      18.3
PARTICtPATION RATE (PECENT)
TOTAL                             32.9        31.8        31.3              39.3                      36.8
MALE                              60.2        58.1        57.3              50.9                      47.1
FMtALZ                             5.9         6.1         6.3              28.1                      27.2
EcoNIc DEPEISENCT RATIO              1.4         1.5         1.5               1.3                       1.3
-o     I lK lSOIm
PERCar OF PRIVAE INCOMHE
REDV    Br
HIGNIST 5S or                      ..USE.DLDS
HIGHEST 20t OF IOUSMOLDS           ..
LOW=ES 201 OF NOUSZELDS            ..
LOISr 401 OFr WISEHOLDS            ..
Form    11001' SOUIIP"C     t#01
ESTINATER ABSOLUT  POVERTYr INCUI
LEVCL (USS PER CAPITA)
URDA                               ..          ..        t33.0 IC          165.5                     59U.7
RURAL                              ..          ..         ..                95.0                     275.3
ESTIMTD REATIVE POVERMt INCO
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..         ..               113.1                     545.6
RURAL                              ..          ..        53.0 Ie            67.6                     201.1
ESrIMATD POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVEY INCOE LlVEL CZ)
UREA                               ..          ..         ..                36.6
RURAL                              ..          ..         ..                61..
Nr AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
NO T E S
la  The grop averages for each 1ndicatoS ame  opulatio.w-wlghtd arigImetic sma. Coverag. of co-era-
a oag the indicators depends on availability of data ad I net am for.
/b   Unle,. otherisne noted. "Da-a for 190 rcfer to any yar  between 1959 and lvbl; 'Data for 197U" between
1969 and 1971; and data for 'Nost Reemt Ratlete' betwen 1961 and 1983.
Ic  1977; /d 1980; /I 1975; /f 1V62; /e 1976; /b 1964; /I 1966.
.UIE. 19U5



- 44-                                                   Annex I
Pate 3 of 6
DEFINlMlONS OF SOCIAL INDICATOItS
Notes: Although the data are drawn from sourcegenerllyjudpd the most authoritativeand reliable. it nhould also be noted that they may not be miernationally
comparable beeute of the tacI or stdadzed definitions nd concepts used by different countries in colleing the data. The data are. nonethelesa, useful to
deocribe orden of magmtudec indicate trends and characterizecertain major differences betwen countries.
The eference groups aft ( l the same country group of the subject country and (2J a country group with somewhat higher average income ihan the country
group of the subject country (except for "H 3h Income Oil Exporters- group where 'Middle Income North Africa and M iddte Enat- is chosen becaus of sronger
scio-culturl a6nities). In the reference group data the average ae population weighted arithmetic means for ech indicator and shown only when majority
ofithe countrre in a group has data for that indicator. Since the coversge ofcountries anong the indicatomdcpends on the availability of data and is not uniform.
caution must bee ercued in relating avernas ofone indicator tosnother These aveaes are only useful in companag the valuc ofone indicatel aI a time among
the country and reference groups
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                             Crd Birtk Rate (perthousandJ-Number of live births in the year
Total-Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters:   per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                          Crmk Death Rate (per thosand)-Number of deaths in the year
Agricnltural-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or     per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to  Gross Reprodaction Rate-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                              will bear in her normal reproductive period if she expeiences
present age-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current           in 1960. 1970, and 1983.
market prices. calculated by same conversion method as World         m    Plaming--Acceprors, Annual (thousaadsl-Annual num-
Bank Atlas (1981-83 basis): 1983 data.                             ber of acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of'national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                     family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.        FAiy XPlaimn-sers (percent ofmarrked w men)-The percen-
petroleum, natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal dec-     tage of married women orchild-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita. 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form orcontracep;ion. Women
1982 data.                                                         of child-bearing age are generally women aged 1549. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                    groups.
TotalPopoton AMid-Year (thosnds)-As orJuly 1; 1960. 1970           FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 data.
Index ofFood l'reda   Per Capta (1969-71= *OOJ Index of per
Urban Population (percent of total) -Ratio Of urban to total       capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population: different definitions of urban areas may affect comnar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability or data among countries. 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.        include primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
Populaion Proictions                                               which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Pipulation in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.     excluded); they comprise cereals, root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on     vegetables, fruits, nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets, livestock, and
total population by age and sext fertility rates, mortality rates, and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters    on national average producer price weights: 1961-65, 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.                Per Capite Supply ofecales (perent of reqairen-ts)-Comput-
Stationary population--Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supphes available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period, while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. imports less exports and changes in stock. Net supplies
Inet reproduction rate= 1). In such a population, the birth rate is  exclude animal feed, seeds for use in agriculture, quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also    food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population   estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights,
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level,                                         waste at household level: 196 1. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Momentum-Is the tendency for population growth to       Per Capita Supply of Protein (grms per day)-Proteon content or
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  percapita net supply ofrood perday. Net supply offood is defined
achieved. that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is mreasured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams
the year t. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment level from year t onward. 1985 data.                          75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Population Density                                                 average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqkrn.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-      Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                   Per Capita PIotein Supply Fom Animat and Psdse-Protein supply
Per sq.kn. agricultural !and-Computed as above for agricultural    of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day: 1961 -6.
land only, 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                              1970 and 1977 data.
Pbpulation Age Structue (percent)-Children (0-14 years). work-     Chid (aqes 14) Death Ratr (pertrhound)--Numberofdeaths of
ing age (15-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                 group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Population Growth Rate (percent-e-otal-Ann ual growth rates of     from life tables: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.       HEALTH
Popubtion Growth Rate (percent)-arhn-Annual growth rates           Life Exrp tany at Birth (years)-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.        infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



- 45                                                 Annex I
Page 4 of 6
at the time of of its birth were to stay dIe same dhroughout its life;  PIip-tewher Ratio - pr*nary. and sew  dar?-Total students en-
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                    roled in primary and secondary eveks divided by numbes of
hAo    Mwr , Ate (per thuusmba-Number of infants who die    teachers in the corresponding lvels.
befoe reachig one yr of age per thousand live births in a given
yewr 1960.1970 and 1983 data.                                CONSUMPTION
Aeaitgo So*  Wow (pecN of  ,ftv, md                          Pousew Cow (pe thma Wpopulalou)-Passe r can cona-
Nrsi-Nmber of people (toaL utbn. and rural) with  onable     prise motor Cas seating ls than eight pesn  excludes ambul-
aDm  to safe wter supply (mcludes trad surface wate  or      ances. heanes and military vehideL
utniid but unwonamiated water such as that from pmoectd      DaM& Receed (pe thousandpolatiau)-All types of revce
borhoks, sprinp and sanitary wdls)  petages of their rspoc-  for radio broadcas to gmene  public per thouand of population.
tive populadans. In an urban area a public fountain or sadpost  excle un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
located noi more than 200 meters from a house may be considered  registration of rdio sets was in effect; data for rct years may
as being within reasonable ass of that house. In rural a     not be conparabe since most countres abolisd iend rsing.
remnableaccesa would imply that the houswife or memnbers. or the TDuvr prr..ideaa.-Vreevr o  racs
housdbold do not have to spend a dispropotoe part of the day  To genera  (p      _ rhousadpopulation: rexes for broulc st
in fetcig the family's water need                            t       in o outal public per   inyas populen gsatio n rduda m sesd wV
Access to Ex &   Dbpl (pea of Pepltisj-o   ew                rcrs in countries wid in years wn   sation of IV s,  was
and rriF-Number of people (total. urba, and rual)  rved by   in
exrta disposal as peretages of their respective populions.   AGksqw Cwcaioa (pgr ths=dpepdzWior-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the collection and disposaL with or  age ciciistion of 'daly genera interest newspaper. defned as a
without treatment, of human cxcrea and waste-water by water-  periodical publication devoted primarily to recording enal news.
borne systens or the use of pit privies and  milar insllations.  It is consdeed to be -daly' if it appears at leat four times a week.
Pepuhto pgr Phynbcin-f1pulation divided by nwnber of prac-   Cimi AAal AUxmace P er CHp_ per Tm-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university levd.  number of tickets sold during the year. induding admissions to
PI'phlam per Namig Penrs_-Population divided by number of    drive-in cnemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurscs. assstant nurses,
practcal nurses and nursimg auxilies.                        LABOR FORCE
dvm per Hoa B-ad ,   gd                       Popu ltion MdTotal a   Forcg (thousands)-Economically active persons, in-
(totl urban. and rural) divided by their respective number of  cluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewie.
hospital beds available in public and private general and    students. etc.. covering popuation of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rehabilitation center. Hospitals are estasiuntets  various countries are not comparabk 1960. 1970 and 1983 dau.
pennaently staffed by at least one physician. Establishments prov-  Fam   (percent)-Fdiale labor forc as pernmtage of total labor
iding principafy custodi  cae  are not included. Rural hospitals,    force.
however. indude health and medical centers not permanently staffed  ASicoft" (perJwr-Labor force in fariing. foresry. huntg
by a physician (but by a medical assistant, nurse. midwife. etc.)    and fshing as percentage of total labor formee 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited rang  data.
of medical faciltes.                                         IJAstry (pffear)-Labor force in mining. construction. manu-
Adialas pgr Hospial 8-Total number of admissions to or       Eaturing and electicity. water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.     force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Phio   Rate                  me. uudftuie-POrticipation
HOUSING                                                      or actvity rates are computed as total, ma.e, and remale labor fore
A-ere i;ze of Hossehold (perw  per howehWl)--e4 whi.         as percentags of totaL male and remale population of all ages
adawil-A household consists of a group of individuals who share    respectivdy; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILO s
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflectig age-sex structure of the population, nd
may not be included in the household for statistical purpose.  long time trend. A few cstirmats are from national sources.
Avrage Nauen  r of Persons per Doom-t-otal  w o a swal-      &amic Depexdency Dane-Ratio of population under 15. snd
Average number of persons per room in all urban. and rual    65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellgs, respectivdy. Dwellings xclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.               INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Prentae of Dwe&is with Ectrkltp-t4  arb.s. ond rwd-          Pffertar of Twai Diosak 1lecome (botA ai cas and kAW-
Conventional dwellings with eectricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to pecentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total. urban. and rural dwellings respectively.      hold incone.
EDUCATION                                                    POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4srwed woAm  Ratios                                        The folowing estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Fyhnary school - toldt. male .r femae--G;oss total. male and  levels. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enroUlment of al ages at the pnmary kvel as percentages of  Esti~td Absrte Poverty income Levl (USpEr p
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  and wAl-Absolute poverty income level is that income lewd
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionaUy adequate diet plus essential
differecs in country pracces in the .ges and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordabl.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Estiared Relai  Pot Incom  Level (USi per cipww)-w
education, gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some  , d rai-Rural relative poverty income klvel is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
agr                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost or
Scwndffy school - total. nal and femal-Computed as above.    living in urban areas.
secondary education requircs at least four years of approved pri-  Esiad Popslaton Below Absokute Poverty Inom  Leve (per-
mary instruci   provides genraL vocationr. or teacher training  cenr)-wrbam ad nal- NLrcent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspond-  who are -absolute poor."
ence courses are generally excluded.
Vocational Erolh i (percet of secvndaryi-Vocationa iusitu-             Cornparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technical industriaL or other programs which operate  Econornic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secDndary institutions.                          June 1985



ANNEK I
- 46-                                                 Page 5 of 6
11641S  ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Annul Gruath Rat  (l: at Constait Prices
Amunt                       Actual               Est.                   ProjKteti
(hillions of                                - - -     --
Indicator                           193 USS)        1911     1992     1983     1984    1985      196b     1987    19919    199       1990
NATIONAL AC:01TS
Gross Oaustic Prcduct                   170        1.0I   -0.89    -2.    -16.0:    ,.:1        4.01,    1.?      1.41     1.61     1.91
Agriculture                           917        0.4?      1.3    -3.52   -20.01    la.4      4.31     2.2?     2.31    2.4?      2.5?
Industry                              30        20.21    -7.7,     0.9?   -21.1:.  l.5S    1.                                     1.!?
of which: Mining                     146     -29.01  -12.9?      3.42   -i1.r.      .9      0.0?     0.0? O 0.01    0. 0        0.0?
Service                               574        7.9?   -0.3n    -0.9n   -16.91    9.'I    5.4?        0.1?     0.41    0.9!    0.9?
lort Tain and htits                   74       -5.4l    2.5?   -17.0?   -21.1?      l.OI    0.4?    -0.9?      4.51    4.3,   4.5?
Cosmtlon                                167l        19.1?   -3.7?   4.2?   -7.6?    -2.2;   -1.1?        .0?     1.21     1.6!     1.9?
Gross Fixed Capital Formation            239     -146.9?   -33.3;  -16.02   -17.7?    -9.3?      1.0?    3.4?     6.61     2.5?     1.7?
Exprt  of  oods                          371        2.71   -13.3?    9.2?   -10.9    -9.0?    -4.2?      9.0?     1.7?      1.5?    1.64
Impwrts of Deds                         422       -1.U4  -11.3?   -14.82    -7.2?   I.S:  -17.1?        6.0?     0.51     0.7?     0.9?
PRIMES                                               1991     1992     1933     1984    1995    1996      1997     190B      L999    1990
P eDlflator 113100)                                B4.5    92.S      100    10.7   116.9   125.0   134.0   143.0    153.0   164.0
Exchaqe late (CFDFJUSS)          iaveragel        271.7   329.4   391.1   437.0   472.4
Export Price lode  11983S1001                     100.4    99.1   100.0   104.7   100.7   111.4   114.6   123.6   131.0   134.4
imort Price trae  (1993*1001                      101.6   102.9   100.0      ".7   101.5   103.0   111.3   120.1    129.7   139.7.
Torn of Trade ldeo- (1911300)                      98.9    96.3   100.0    107.0   197.1   103.2   104.1    102.9    101.0    97.6
Slare of SIP at larket Prices (11                 beraye Aml luue  ID
lat current prices)                            (at costant prices)
Cateory                                    1970    1975      1990     195      1990           1970-75  1975-90  1980-95  195-90
goss Dohstic Product                           100.01   I00.0?   100.0?   100.0?   100lo               0.3      7.12    -2.U      2.1?
Agriculture                                  42.01    44.4?    4:.il   44.5    49.9?                2.3?     5.i3   -0.5?      2.71
Industry                                     10.12    27.5?1     . 7 .--         15.7?             2.4       3.12   -9.9?      1.4?
of which:  Muining                          0.11     5.B1    12.i;    9.2:    7.42              IJ0.71   :4.9?   -10.51    0.0?
Services                                     29.2:   21.71    29.7?    35.07.  ;0.U?               -5.15   14.1?   -0.7?       1.5
Import TaiesiDuties                          19.7?     4.5?     5.0?     3.4%     5. 5            -24.9r    I1. b    -9.51    2.61
Share in GOP
Consumption                                  86.71    86.9;   77.41    97.1?   69.11                0.3?     4.7?     1.6?     0.71
Gross Fixed Capital Formation                 16.91    21.9?    20.31    12.Bl   11.51              5.5?    12.9%  -19.0G      3.1l
Exports of 6nods                             12.3?    19.5?    22.5?    20.2?    19.5               9.n    12.1:   -5.9?       1.7?
lmports of Goods                            2'3.9?    25.9?    31.3?    24.41   :2.2?               9.02    10.6Z   -5.11   -2.2?
PUBLIC FINANCE                                               1975     19aO     1995     199o
Current Revrtes                                       '9.2      4.1     48.0     99 3
Curren: Expenditures                                  17.3    50.9    70.4        3.1
Current Surplus W  or De.ic:t ;-P                      2.9    13.3    -2.4    'b._
Caoital Expediture                                     1.5     70.2    55.0        96
Foreign Finnciung  (including                            -    40.4    52.5    47.1
rescheduling



7                                                  ANMEX I
Page 6 of 6
6 A L A4N C E  O F  P A Y N      E 11 T 5   an d   E I T E R N A L  C A P I T A L  and  D E   T
Actual               Est.            Projected
C A       T E 6                                                           - R  -
1981     19B2    193    2984    1985    19k          1917    1990    1999    1990
SU11RY OF BALANCE OF PAYEIITS                                       Illillions of Current US Sl
Exports of Goods                           497.6    369.1   370.?   309.3   264.3   285.2   317.2   342.0   368.0   3B9.3
of ubich: Urania                           373.5    279.2   209.7   230.3   215.3   249.2   261.7   274.5   299.7   302.9
Agriculture and                 124.1      90.I    61.4    54.0    33.0    34.9    40.7    51.7    62.6    68.4
Livestock
Imports of 6eeds                          -662.0   -533.7  -422.5  -340.0  -357.7  -330.8  -379.0  -411.0  -447.0  -405.3
of shich: Food                              29.4     27.7    32.3    25.2    74.9    37.5    30.9    40.5    42.1    43.7
Other Cesuer Goods               94.9      91.3   124.9    93.4    96.4        9.6   104.5   109.0   115.2   121.0
Petrolewu and its Products      135.4    119.2    34.6    27.0    33.7    40.7    41.6    42.9    43.7    44.9
Intermediate & Capital goods    l95.7    295.5   191.9   152.2   115.2   120.0   145.0   164.2   197.1   211.5
Services [net)                            -115.2   -119.7   -93.5   -92.6   -92.0   -92.7   -09.7   -9. 1   -90.6   -96.6
Transfers                                  108.6    108.0    90.1    73.3   109.1    84.8    M9.9    77.6   113.3   132.1
Private                                  -46.4    -36.5   -39.4   -32.1   -31.3   -32.9   -37.5   -0.3   -43.5   -47.0
Public                                   154.9    144.5   119.5   105.4   139.4   117.7   127.3   137.9   156.9   179.1
Current kcount Balance                    -171.0   -175.3   -65.0   -51.9   -77.2   -53.5   -60.7   -60.5   -54.2   -50.5
Current kcount Balance                   -326.9   -319.0  -184.5  -157.1  -216.6  -171.2  -199.0  -199.4  -211.1  -229.6
excluding Public Transfers
Financing ltems, Total                     206.4     45.4    76.4    43.9    24.7        3.1    27.2    43.9    62.3    76.4
NILT loans (net)                           236.6     25.9    39.4    46.5    24.3        7.5    27.2    43.9    62.3    76.4
Official-source loans (net)              254.8     40.0    66.5    56.4    32.4    15.3    27.7    39.9    57.9    70.3
Private-surce loans (net)               -29.2    -22.2   -20.1    -9.9    -0.2    -0.3          0.0     4.9      5.4     7.4
Other Capital Inet)                        -29.2     19.6    39.1    -2.7       0.4    -4.4       0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Overall Balance                         36.6   -129.9    11.4    -7.9   -52.5   -50.4   -33.5   -16.6          8.1    25.9
External Capital and Debt
____________________________
GrDss Disbursements                        279.3    204.0   116.3   117.    107.6
Public                                 284.1    114.6    97.7   113.5    83.3
External Debt
Outstanding and Disbursed                962.5    920.8   903.6   915.4   976.3
Debt Service on IILT
Total Ibefore Rescheduling)              153.8    193J.9   138.0   151.0   134.7
of which: Interest                      93.1     91.8    63.7    62.0    57.3
Principal                    70.7    112.1    74.3    90.0    77.4
Aescheduling                                                 9.0    49.0    3B.5
Total (after Rescheduling)               IS3.9    193.9   129.0   102.0    96.2
Payments as I of Exports : mbo Resch.     30.92    52.5Z   34.4!   45.2X   46.71
of Goods and Ion Factor : *ith Resch.                     32.2!   30.52   33.3!
Services



- 48 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGER
A. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS
(as of September 30, 1985)
Borrower: Republic of Niger
US$ Million
Credit    Fiscal                               Amount (less cancellation) c/
Number     Year      Purpose                   TDA a/ b/         Undisbursed
Fourteen credits fully disbursed               78.8 
885      1979      Livestock                  12.0                  4.3
886      1979      Feeder Roads               10.0                  1.6
967      1980      Dosso Agr. Dvt.            20.0                 17.3
1026      1980      Second Maradi Rural Dvt. 16.7                   10.0
1151      1981      Education                  21.5                  7.7
1225      1982      Industrial Development   16.0                    9.2
1226      1982      Second Forestry            10.1                  7.0
1309      1983      Water Supply                6.5                  4.9
1394      1983      Fourth Highway             23.6                  8.2
1493      1984      Economic & Financial       11.7                  9.7
Management Improvement
1511      1985      Power Eng. and T.A.         7.5                  7.6
1618 d/   1985       Irrigation Rehabilitation 9.3                   9.3
Total                         243.7                 96.8
of which has been repaid   (3.4'
Total now outstanding
and held by IDA            240.3
Total undisbursed                                   96.8
a/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
b/   Computed at the rate of the approval dates.
c/   Computed at the September 30, 1985, rate of US$1.05940=1 SDR.
dI Not yet effective.



- 49 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1985
Loan                                         Amount
Number    Year    Borrower          Purpose   of Loan a/  Equity a/  Undisbursed
(US$ Million equivalent)
619-NIR   1982   Les Moulins        Flourmill   2.22        0.33         0.33
du Sahel S.A.
(MDS)
a/   Amount at time of approval.



- 50 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
NIGER
FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the program        20 months
(b)  Appraisal mission                        September/October 1985
(c)  Completion of negotiations               December 19, 1985
(d)  Planned date of effectiveness            April 1, 1986
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
Prior to October 15, 1986, or other agreed date, the Bank will
review the Government's progress in implementing the structural adjustment
program (para. 113).
Section III - Special Conditions
Release of the second tranche of US$20 million equivalent of the
credit would be contingent upon satisfactory progress made by the
Government in carrying out the structural adjustment program, in
particular:
(1) adoption of the 1986/87 budget acceptable to IDA;
(2) adoption of the 1986/87-1988/89 public investment program
acceptable to IDA;
(3) further reduction in the number of products subject to price
controls;
(4)  satisfactory progress in the implementation of OPVN's grain
marketing and storage reforms;
(5) completion of the CNCA audit and start of an action program to
improve debt collection;
(6) Completion of the following studies:
(a) first phase of the study of the civil service system;
(b) feasibility study of the Irhazer agricultural project;
(c) study of the extension of cost recovery systems; and
(d) studies of CNCA and SNC.



- 51 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 30
UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION OF
ORIGINAL FRENCH TEXT
NIGER SAC
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
December 30, 1985
Dear Mr. Clausen,
Re: Niger's Structural Adjustment Program
1.        To complement its program of financial stabilization, the Govern-
ment of Niger has decided to implement a program of structural reform of
the economy. Through this letter of development policy, the Government of
Niger requests from the World Bank a first Structural Adjustment Credit to
support the implementation of the first phase of this program. To this
end, I would like to recapitulate briefly the objectives of the structural
adjustment program (SAP), the reforms introduced to date, and outline the
actions that the Government plans to take during the first phase of the
SAP.
Current Economic Situation
2.        After a period of rapid economic growth, the performance of
Niger's economy deteriorated sharply in 1985, triggered primarily by a
weakening in the demand for uranium and a worsening of its external terms
of trade. Moreover, the persistence of unfavorable climatic conditions
caused a stagnation in agricultural production in 1981-83 and a dramatic
drop, in the order of 40%, in 1984. Finally, the closure of the Nigerian
border since April 1984 has seriously affected the economic and financial
conditions of the country.
3.        The slowdown in economic activity has led to a serious
deterioration of the country's public finances and the balance of payments
and has severely constrained the development of the country. Faced with
these difficulties, the Government introduced a multi-year financial
stabilization program, supported by two DMF Standby Programs in 1983/84 and
1984/85. This program has been designed to: (i) improve the tax effort;
(ii) limit the growth of current expenditures; (iii) reduce and restructure
investment expenditures; (iv) eliminate the Government's domestic payment
arrears; (v) improve the financial performance of public enterprises;
(vi) restrain foreign borrowing and reschedule external debt service; and
(vii) decelerate domestic credit expansion. Good progress has already been
made towards these objectives, but more time will be needed to complete the
process of financial stabilization. For this purpose, a third Standby
Arrangement was recently concluded with the IMF for fiscal year 1985/86.



- 52 -                    ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 30
Objectives of the Structural Adjustment Program
4.        To establish a solid basis for the future economic development of
Niger, the Government intends to complement its current austerity efforts
with structural reforms in the economy aimed at improving resource alloca-
tion and promoting domestic production. These structural changes initially
focus on three areas where structural weaknesses are most pronounced and
which are critical for the success of the ongoing stabilization program.
First, t..dgetary stringency will be combined with changes in the structure
of budgetary outlays to increase the efficiency of existing and future
investments, and to reallocate funds to strengthen the country's resource
base. Sezond, a comprehensive reform of the parastatal sector will be
undertaken to improve its performance and reduce its burden on the govern-
ment budget. Simultaneously, appropriate incentives for private investment
will be introduced, in particular through pricing and marketing
liberalization to establish a stronger and more efficient private sector
capable of making a greater contribution to the economic development of the
country. Third, policies for the development of the agricultural sector
will be modified to improve the efficiency of resource use in this
important productive sector upon which most of the population depends for
its livelihood. These three components of the first phase of the SAP are
described in detail below. The recently adopted reforms, as well as others
that will be adopted in the course of the first phase of structural
adjustment. are enumerated in Part A of Attachment 1 of this letter.
5.        The above program of action constitutes the first step in the
process of structural adjustment which, out of necessity, will take several
years to implement fully. A fourth component of the program concerns the
preparation of a number of studies, listed in Part B of Attachment 1.
These studies will be undertaken to extend structural reforms to other
sectors such as energy, forestry, livestock, as well as industry and
commerce, for which more time is needed to prepare reforms. Moreover, it
should be noted that, while all these adjustment measuires are designed to
reduce the constraints to more efficient production, they alone will not be
able to set in motion an engine of growth. The supply response to these
incentives, however, will not in itself ensure economic recovery since it
is constrained by Niger's weak base of utilized resources and its low level
of development. As a corollary to these reforms, the Government, there-
fore, itcends to continue strengthening the country's human and physical
resources. Substantial further work is required by Niger, with the support
of its aid donors, to better asses, the country's development potential,
reformulate its investment strategies, and determine the corresponding
financing requirements.
Budgetary Policy and Management
6.        The basic structural issue in the area of public resource manage-
ment is the need to limit the dominant role of the public sector in the
economy and to improve its efficiency, at the level of both resource
mobilization and expenditures. For that purpose, the Government has
adopted the budget for 1985/86 as well as a budgetary framework for the two
following fiscal years (see Attachment 2). This program contains the
following structural reforms: Ci) restructuring of recurrent expendi-



- 53 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 30
tures; (ii) formulation of a rolling three-year investment program;
(iii) strengthening of domestic resource mobilization efforts and cost
recovery for public services; and (iv) formulation of an external financing
strategy in line with the country's debt servicing capacity. These reforms
are based on the sectoral strategies prepared by the Government which are
summarized in Attachment 3. These strategies reflect the Government's
first attempt to formulate sectoral objectives and translate them into
programs for: (i) recurrent expenditures; (ii) investment expenditures;
and (iii) resource mobilization.
7.        Restructuring of Recurrent Expenditures.  To improve the effi-
ciency of public investment, the Government will substantially increase
expenditures for the use and maintenance of existing infrastructure, and
will make the necessary budgetary appropriations for the adequate operation
of new infrastructure. In the budget program, the average annual growth
rate of the provisions for materials and supplies will increase from 2%
in the period 1982/83-1984/85 to 10 in the period 1985/86-1987/88. In
addition, measures have been introduced in the irrigation and education
sectors to transfer the maintenance of infrastructure to beneficiaries,
thus reducing their budgetary incidence.
8.        On the other hand, the growth in expenditures on personnel,
subsidies and transfers will be reduced. To contain its rapidly growing
wage bill, the Government is currently undertaking a study which will
provide the basis for reform of the civil service. Until the results of
this study are available, the Government will limit the increase in
personnel expenditures to the inflation rate. To this end, the Government
specifically adopted the following measures for fiscal year 1985/86: a
freeze on the number of contractual staff and of staff in Category C which
is the largest category. Direct subsidies to consumers will be reduced
significantly in 1985/86-1987/88 through a combination of efficiency
improvements of public enterprises (cf. para. 15ff) and the introduction of
user charges for public services (cf. para. 12).
9.        Three-year Rolling Investment Program.  Investment programming
has been improved substantially through the introduction of a three-year
rolling investment program. Agreement has been reached between the Govern-
ment and the World Bank concerning the size and composition of an invest-
ment program for the period 1985/86-1987/88, taking into account the
implementation capacity for projects, the availability of external and
domestic financial resources, and the development priorities of the
country. This program, which is summarized in Attachment 4, is based on
the above-mentioned sectoral strategies and on an extensive review of the
economic viability of ongoing and new projects. The investment program
projects an overall volume of 275.5 billion CFAF for the period 1985/86-
1987/88. The annual amounts will move from 80 billion CFAF in 1985/86 to
92.5 billion CFAF in 1986/87 and 103 billion in 1987/88, the latter amounts
being indicative. This represents a gradual increase in the investment
rate from 9.7% of GDP in 1984/85 to 112 in 1987/88. The composition of the
adopted program reflects the new strategy of the Government to favor the
directly productive sectors as well as the rehabilitation of economic and
social infrastructure. Thus, the productive sectors constitute 45% of the
overall program. The share of social programs will increase substantially
to take account of the needs in education and health. As a consequence,



- 54 -                    ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 30
the share of economic and administrative infrastructure will decrease. The
size and composition of the three-year investment program will be reviewed
periodically with the World Bank at the time of preparation of the annual
investment budget.
10.       On a number of large projects, the Government and the Bank have
reached the following agreements: (i) In the agricultural sector, the
Government has decided to reappraise the Keita project in consultation with
the donor concerned and the World Bank. The Government will undertake a
detailed study of the Irhazer project and review it with the World Bank
before taking a final decision with respect to the implementation of the
project. (ii) In the social sectors, the use of the teacher training
college is being studied in the context of the reorientation of the educa-
tion policy, which is underway with World Bank support. (iii) In the
transportation sector, the priority will be given to periodic road
maintenance. Concerning the Zinder-Agadez road, the technical
specifications for the section beyond Tanout will be reduced from 7 m to
6 m with tarred surface and from a 10 m to an 8 m platform, in consultation
with the donors. During the structural adjustment period, the Government
will implement no more than 40% of this section and will limit the funding
allocated to the Zinder-Agadez road project to a maximum of CFAF 12
billion. The "Route de l'Unite" will be limited to the section
Dadjiri-Diffa. (iv) The investments in the national stadium will be
readjusted in consultation with the Government of the People's Republic of
China.
11.       Resource Mobilization.  Under its stabilization program, the
Government has already adopted measures aimed at increasing the tax effort
and improving tax administration. In its new Standby Program, the Govern-
ment is committed to introducing a value-added tax in January 1986, and to
restructure the petroleum product taxes. The emphasis under the structural
adjustment program will be on improving the efficiency of the tax system.
To this end, the reform of the Investment Code which is being revised with
World Bank assistance, will be included in a broader study of fiscal
investment incentives ard taxes and duties on external trade. This study
will form the basis for a reform of industrial and trade policies envisaged
for a subsequent phase of the structural adjustment program.
12.       Cost Recovery Measures.  L Aecific measures have already been
taken, in conjunction with the adoption of the 1985/86 budget, to recover
an increasing share of the costs of public services in the health, educa-
tion, and water supply sectors to ensure that a minimum of such public
services will be available to as large a segment of the population as
possible. These measures will also have a beneficial effect on the
efficiency with which these services are used. Moreover, budgetary
allocations for scholarships have been reduced, hospital fees are being
applied more rigorously, and user charges introduced in the following
areas: (i) medical evacuations; (ii) school supplies; (iii) operation and
maintenance of irrigation systems; and (iv) water supply to rural and urban
populations. These measures will already reduce the anticipated
expenditures for these items by about 9% in 1985/86. In addition, the
Government has initiated a study, to be completed in June 1986, to assess
the possibilities for a further extension of cost recovery measures taking
into account the beneficiaries' ability to pay and the costs of collection.



-55 -                     ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 30
On the basis of this study and the capacity of the population to pay, the
Government envisages to gradually expand the cost recovery system.
13.       External Debt Management.  Niger's external debt position is
critical and will remaiu so for several years. The Government is committed
to continuing its prudent debt management policies, in conformity with the
recommendations of the IMF. and will refrain from new commercial borrowings
during the 1985/86-1987/88 period. For the financiag of the public expen-
diture program, the Government will above all resort to external grants or
concessional credits. Thus, the aovernment will refrain from contracting
new loans in the maturity range of 0-12 years with the exception of debt
rescheduling or refinancing and IMF drawings. The financing of the
parastatal sector will take account of the situation of each individual
enterprise and dec'sions will be taken in consultation with the Bank.  The
Government will organize a donors' conference in 1986 to discuss the
support of the structural adjustment program by external aid and to
strengthen aid coordination in the future. Particular emphasis will be put
on financing requirements of concessional aid comparable to IDA's.
14.       Institutional Improvements.  The introduction of a three-year
rolling public expenditure program has led to institutional reforns, in
particular:
iii the Ministry of Finance:
- creation of the Department of Studies and Projections;
- creation of a financial inspectorate; and
- strengthening of the fiscal and financial departments with
assistance from bilateral donors and the IMF.
in the Ministry of Planning:
- establishment, by ordonnance no. 84-34 of September 27, 1984,
of a three-year investment program and budget for the
Government;
- strengthening of the Department of Project Evaluation and
Programming and the Department of Investment Financing through
technical assistance from the World Bank; and
- strengthening of the Department of Economic Analysis and
Planning with UNDP assistance.
The technical capabilities of these two Ministries will continue to be
strengthened with assistance from the IDA-financed Economic and Financial
Management Improvement Project, assistance of the IMF -- in particular with
respect to debt management -- as well as other multilateral and bilateral
assistance. In addition, the Government has created and is making
operational, in the Office of the Prime Minister, a Bureau of Organization
and Methods to better coordinate and master this important effort of
strengthening the management capabilities of the administration and the
public enterprises.
Reform of the Parastatal Sector
15.       Improving the performance of the parastatal sector through a
rationalization program as well as institutional reforms, constitutes a
principal element of the Government's structural adjustment program. To



- 56 -                    ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 30
this end, reform measures have been introduced in three areas: (i) revi-
sions in the policy framework to provide incentives for the efficient
operation of public enterprises as well as to encourage private sector
development; (ii) adoption of an appropriate institutional and legal
framework for the parastatal sector; and (iii) implementation of programs
for the rehabilitation, privatization, and liquidation of individual
parastatals and elimination of their cross-debt arrears.
16.       Incentive Policies.  The Government has embarked on a program of
gradual liberalization of the price and trade system, with the objective to
improve resource allocation and market efficiency. In 1985, the list of
products and services subjected to price ceilings has been reduced consid-
erably, leaving only se%en products - considered as essential or strategic
products - under this system (petroleum products including gas, salt,
water, electricity, bread, flour and transport). The prices of all prod-
ucts of local industry benefitting from the advantages of the Investment
Code, which thus far were also subject to price ceilings, will be subjected
to a system of less rigid control. With respect to the regime of fixed
margins. the price structure and the applicable margirs have been revised
and the administrative procedures improved. Before June 1986, the
Government will submit to the Bank a proposal for a reduction in the number
of products subject to the "taux de marque". Finally, with the exception
of imported petroleum products and gas, all import monopolies and quasi-
monopolies granted to public as well as private enterprises have been
removed including, since October 1985, the import monopolies previously
granted to COPRO-NIGER. The reform of industrial and trade policies,
following the study mentioned in paragraph 11, will likewise encourage
private sector development. The price system for local industrial products
will be further revised in the context of that study.
17.       In November 1985, the exemption of public enterprises from paying
the 1% minimun tax on turnover was abolished, thus equalizing the fiscal
treatment of )arastatals with that of private sector enterprises.
18.       Institntional and Legal Framework.  Important improvements have
been introduced in the institutional and legal framework defining the
relations between the Government and public enterprises. A Ministry of
Tutelle was created in August 1984 to be responsible for the overall
management of the parastatal sector, the coordinati.on of government poli-
cies vis-3-vis the individual enterprises, and the supervision of rehabili-
tation programs. In December 1985, the Government adopted important
legislation as well as implementing rules and regulations defining the
charter of public enterprises, including their structure and organization
as well as their relations with the different authorities concerned. These
texts aim at ensuring a balance between, on one hand, effective government
supervision over the activities of public enterprises and, on the other
hand, sufficient autonomy to enable them to manage their operations effec-
tively. This autonomy will, in particular, be assured by the introduction
of a system to define objectives and evaluate performance, focusing on
financial and economic results. These texts also clarify the division of
responsibilities with regard to financial control of public enterprises.
Before June 1986, the Government will harmonize the organization of various
ministries affected by this new system. It will also adopt, by that time,
a personnel statute for public enterprises.



-57 -                     ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 30
19.       Restructuring of the Parastatal Sector.  In 1982, the Government
initiated a restructuring program for the parastatal sector in conjunction
with its stabilization program. Significant progress has already been made
in the physical and financial rehabilitation of enterprises such as
SONICHAR, NIGELEC, OPVN and OPT. Diagnostic studies were undertaken by
consultants for 54 enterprises in 1983/84. On the basis of these studies
and taking into consideration the economic viability and strategic impor-
tance of these enterprises, the Government decided in October 1984 to
retain 25 corporations in the parastatal sector and to privatize, fully or
partially, 22 corporations; those of the 22 enterprises that cannot be
privatized, will be liquidated. The activities of four other enterprises
-- Air Niger, CNCA (new lending), SONICERAM and UAB -- have been suspended
awaiting the final decision of the Government on their future, to be taken
in October 1986 at the latest. Finally, in December 1985, the Government
decided to integrate three enterprises (Vetophar, Labocel, CM) into
departments of the Ministry of Animal Resources. The Government has
commissioned a study to establish the levels of cross-debt arrears among
public enterprises and between the Government and the enterprises. On the
basis of this study, which was completed in December 1985, the Government
will prepare, with support from the IMF and the World Bank, a program to
settle the arrears.
20.       A multi-year restructuring program has been prepared in collabo-
ration with the World Bank. First, ten public enterprises have been
selected for priority rehabilitation, which should have a considerable
positive effect on the economy since these enterprises accounted for 95% of
the financial losses and about 45% of the production of the sector in
1982/83. Moreover, this group of enterprises includes the development bank
(BDRN), which accounts for 80% of domestic credit and 50% of banking assets
in the country, and plays a critical role in the public enterprise sector.
The BDRN action program is presented in Attachment 5. For six of these
enterprises (SONICHAR, BDRN, ONAHA, RINI, OFEDES and NIGELEC),
rehabilitation is already underway, either with support from the World Bank
or with support from other donors. For two enterprises (OPVN and OPT),
detailed rehabilitation programs will be prepared between October 1985 and
March 1986. For the two remaining enterprises (SNC and CNCA), the
Government has initiated additional studies to determine, by October 1986
at the latest, the extent and nature of the rehabilitation efforts. IDA
has agreed to support this restructuring program under a parastatal sector
rationalization project (PSRP).
21.       Second, the process of privatization of public enterprises which
began even before the above-mentioned diagnostic studies with the
privatization or liquidation of four enterprises, has been taken up again
in January 1985 with the transfer of three enterprises (SONITAN, SNCP and
CMAN) to the private sector. Moreover, three hotels (Hotel Air in Agadez,
Le Sahel and the Grand Hotel in Niamey) have been leased to the private
sector under a management contract. Negotiations for the privatization of
three other enterprises (Distribution network of SONIDEP, commercial
activities of SNT and SOTRAMIL) are ongoing. If the Government does not
find private investors for these enterprises before March 31, 1986, they
will be liquidated. The Government has also defined a program for reducing
its participation in nine enterprises of mixed public-private ownership



- 58 -                   ANNEX IV
Page 8 of 30
(SONITEXTIL, LEYMA, SNTN, RINI, NITRA, SONARA, SONUCI, OLANI and SNC).
This program has started and will be completed before the end of 1986.
22.       Third, faced with the difficulties encountered in the priva-
tization of certain parastatals, the Government has already started liqui-
dation for four of the 22 enterprises to be privatized (SOPAC, SONIFAME,
SONIEM and UNCC).
23.       Moreover, a restructuration study of the water supply sector
resulted in the recommendation to create a "Societe Nationale des Eaux"
(SNE) responsible for distribution of drinking water in urban areas.
Agricultural Policy
24.       Under the structural adjustment program, policy actions are being
implemented to improve resource use and allocation in t;xe agriculture
sector and to prepare the basis for accelerated development in the rural
areas of the country. These measures cover four areas: (i) reform of the
cereal pricing, marketing and security stock policies; (ii) reduction of
subsidies for agricultural inputs; (iii) initial reforms of the agricul-
tural credit system; and (iv) redefinition of Niger's agricultural research
program.
25.       Cereal Policy.  In the context of the 1983/84 stabilization
program, the Government has taken initial steps to improve its cereal
policy through a reduction in OPVN's retail outlets, the elimination of
OPVN's monopoly for grain imports, and the introduction of a tender system
for OPVN's buying and selling operations. Whereas these measures have
improved the financial position of OPVN and encouraged private sector
participation in cereals trading, their impact thus far has unfortunately
been limited due to the drought. Further reforms are required, particu-
larly in the management of OPVN's stock which still constitutes a major
burden on the Government's budget and has led to serious distortions in
cereal prices. Therefore, starting with the 1985/86 harvest season
(Nevember 1985), the following new measures will be implemented: OPVN will
maintain only a security stock, the size of which will be determined by the
availability of budgetary allocations and concessional external assistance.
The size of OPVN's security stock will not exceed a level of 80,000 tons.
OPVN's stabilization stocks will be eliminated progressively. OPVN's
annual buying and selling operations will be limited to renewal of
one-third of the security stock annually. At least 80% of OPVN's buying
will be conducted through tender procedures of competitive bidding at the
wholesale level. The official production prices for millet and sorghum
will only have an indicative character and will not be binding for OPVN,
which will be buying through tender procedures. Internal trading and
imports will remain free; exports will be liberalized in case of saturation
of the domestic market.
26.       An exception to the above measures will be made for the remote
areas, as defined in Attachment 6. In these areas, OPVN will continue its
retail selling operations. Buying and selling prices in these areas will
be determined as a function of wholesale prices obtained under OPVN's
tender system, adjusted for the costs of transportation between the OPVN
warehouses and retail outlets.



- 59 -                   ANNEX IV
Page 9 of 30
27.       The annual sales to renew the security stock will not exceed one
third of this stock except in the case of an emergency situation, as
defined in Attachment 6. Even in these exceptional cases, the purchases of
OPVN will continue to be conducted through the tender system. To limit its
financial charges, OPVN will, in priority, use seasonal credit
rediscountable by the Central Bank for the financing of its market
operations. The cost of OPVN's security stock will be covered by annual
allocations from the Government's budget.
28.       Agricultural Inputs.  With the objective of limiting budgetary
outlays for transfers and subsidies, the Government has taken the following
steps with respect to agricultural inputs. First, subsidies on the pur-
chase of agricultural implements have been eliminated as of 1985. In
addition to reducing government budgetary subsidies, this measure will also
enhance the competitiveness of small artisan blacksmiths. Second, a
subsidy for fertilizer distribution will be maintained on the ground that
farmers cannot fully bear the risk of a drought. The subsidy rate will be
fixed annually, based on an explicit budgetary allocation and on demand
estimates for fertilizer, in order to avoid the need for fertilizer
rationing as has been the case in the past as a result of the tight
budgetary position of the Government. This subsidy rate will be reduced
gradually and, from 1988 onwards, will not exceed 15% of the price the
Centrale d'Approvisionnement is charged by its commercial suppliers.
29.       Agricultural Credit.  The Government is committed to a review and
eventual reform of the agricultural credit system. The principal source of
agricultural credit in Niger, the "Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole"
(CNCA), is in critical financial condition, due to poor loan recovery and
excessive involvement in the financing of losses of the public enterprises.
A detailed review of CNCA's operations is underway as well as a study of
future credit needs of the rural sector. These studies will be completed
in October 1986. On their basis, the Government will define a new agricul-
tural credit system and the appropriate role of CNCA. Interim measures
have already been taken to prevent a further deterioration of CNCA's
financial position, limit its budgetary incidence and provide a minimum of
agricultural credit, if needed: (i) new lending by CNCA has been tempo-
rarily halted; (ii) a detailed audit of CNCA has been started; and
(iii) interim arrangements have been made outside CNCA, with agreement from
the World Bank and other donors, to provide agricultural credit in those
projects in which a clear need for credit is established and prospects for
loan recovery are deemed reasonable.
30.       Agricultural Research.  Niger's future development depends
critically on agricultural research to develop technologies which are
appropriate for the type of agriculture and livestock found in Niger.
Agricultural research will thus have to be oriented towards a limited
number of applied research topics which respond to the most urgent problems
encountered by the farmers. The national agricultural research institute
(INRAN) has formulated a research strategy focused on applied research
topics that aim, in particular, at improving rainfed agriculture, and has
prepared an initial research program for 1985/86-1987/88. In order to
analyze individual research projects within this program as well as their
consistency with the research capacity and budget of INRAN, the Government
and the Bank have agreed to undertake a thorough study in 1985/86. The



- 60 -                   ANNEX IV
Page 10 of 30
results of the study will be jointly examined by the Government and the
Bank with the aim of preparing an agricultural research project financed by
IDA for 1986/87.
Studies for Future Structural Adjustment
31.       Under the first phase of its structural adjustment program, the
Government is committed to undertake several studies to prepare reforms
which complement those already taken, in order to assure the success of the
structural adjustment process of the economy of Niger in the medium term.
Several of these studies have already been mentioned in the preceding
paragraphs: reform of the civil service; reform of the fiscal investment
incentives and taxes and duties on external trade; expansion of cost
recovery measures in the public sector; study of the elimination of
parastatal cross-debts; preparation of public enterprise rehabilitation
programs; and study and improvement of the agricultural credit system.
Other studies will be carried out to extend structural adjustment to other
sectors of the economy such as energy, forestry, livestock, industry and
trade, and the financial sector. These studies will be financed either
under IDA's Economic and Financial Management Improvement Project or from
other aid sources.
Monitoring of the Structural Adjustment Program
32.       During the preparation of the first phase of the structural
adjustment program, the Government created an Inter-Ministerial Committee,
chaired by the Minister of Planning. This Committee will continue its work
in the future and will be responsible for: (i) monitoring and evaluating
the progress of the ongoing reforms as well as their impact on the economy;
(ii) formulating and preparing recommendations for future structural
adjustment measures; and (iii) liaising with the World Bank for periodic
progress review of the first phase of the structural adjustment program.
Conclusion
33.       In view of the initiatives taken by Niger in the formulation and
implementation of the first phase of the structural aajustment program, the
Government requests your favorable consideration for the extension of a
first Structural Adjustment Credit in the amount of at least US$60 million.
Sincerely yours,
/s/ Hamid Algabid
Prime Minister
Attachments



-61 -                      ANNEX IV
Attachment 1
Page 11 of 30
A. POLICY REFORMS IN THE FIRST PHASE OF THE
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
I.   Measures Adopted
Budgetary Policy and Mar. gement
1.        Adoption of the 1985/86 budget and the budgetary framework for
1986/87-1987/88 (September 1985).
2.        Adoption of cost recovery measures with respect to scholarships,
hospital tariffs, medical evacuations, school supplies, operation and
maintenance in irrigation, and water supply (1985).
3.        Introduction of a three-year rolling investment program and,
within this context, decision on the size and sectoral composition of the
investment program for 1985/86-1987/88 (September 1985).
4.        Decision on major public investment projects proposed for
1985/86.
5.        Adoption of sectoral strategies for rural development, education,
health, water supply, energy, transport and telecommunications (December
1985).
6.        Introduction of reforms in the Ministries of Planning and Finance
to improve the institutional framework for budgetary and investment
programming (1985).
7.        Adoption of a medium-term borrowing strategy (September 1985).
Parastatal Sector
8.        Reduction of the list of over 30 products subject to price
ceilings to seven: Petroleum products (including gas), salt, water,
electricity, bread, flour and transport (November 1985).
9.        Introduction of less stringent price controls for all products of
local industries benefitting from the Investment Code (November 1985).
10.       Revision of the price structure and applicable margins under the
price margin system and adoption of improvements in its administrative
procedures (November 1985).
11.       Abolition of all import monopolies and quasi-monopolies, with the
exception of petroleum products and gas (October 1985).
12.       Abolition of the parastatal exemption from paying the 12 minimum
tax on turnover (November 1985).



- 62 -                        ANNEX IV
Attachment 1
Page 12 of 30
13.       Creation of a Ministry of Tutelle for the public enterprise
sector (August 1984).
14.       Adoption of a legal framework for government/parastatal
relationships, including a performance evaluation system (January 1986).
15.       Decision on restructuring the parastatal sector:  retain 25
corporations; privatize, partially or fully, 22 corporations or liquidate
them if privatization is not possible; suspend the activities of 4
corporations awaiting a final decision; and absorb 3 corporations into
other public sector entities (October 1985).
16.       Initiation of rehabilitation programs for SONICHAR, BDRN, ONAHA.
RINI, OFEDES and NIGELEC (1984 - 1985).
17.       Process of transferring ownership of SONITAN, SNCP and CHAN, and
management of 3 hotels (L'HGtel Air in Agadez, Le Sahel and Le Grand Hotel
in Niamey), to the private sector. (1985)
Agriculture
18.       Major reform of the grain marketing, pricing and stock policy
(October 1985).
19.       Eli'Ination of subsidies on the purchase of agricultural
implements (1985).
20.       Decision to fix the subsidy rate for fertilizer annually on the
basis of an explicit budgetary allocation and fertilizer demand estimates
(November 1985).
21.       Adoption of interim measures with respect to CNCA:  suspension of
new lending operations; detailed audit of the enterprise (April 1985).
II. Other Measures to be adopted in the First Phase
Public Resource Management
22.       Study and reform of the civil service system (1986-1987).
23.       Annual review of the investment program, including, in 1986, the
Keita and Irhazer projects.
24.       Introduction of a value-added tax (January 1986).
25.       Revision and eventual expansion of the cost recovery system
(fiscal year 1986/87).



- 63 -                         ANNEX IV
Attachment 1
Page 13 of 30
Public Enterprises
26.       Reduction of the number of products subjected to the system of
fixed margins (June 1986).
27.       Harmonizing the organization of the various ministries with the
new institutional framework for the parastatal sector (June 1986).
28.       Adoption of a Personnel Statute for public enterprises (June
1986).
29.       Final decision on the future of Air Niger, CNCA, SONICERAM and
UAB (October 1986).
30.       Formulation of rehabilitation programs for OPVN and OPT (March
1986).
31.       Decision on privatization or liquidation of the distribution
network of SONIDEP, the commercial department of SNT and SOTRAMIL (March
1986).
32.       Reduction of government participation in SONITEXTIL, LEYMA, SNTN,
RINI, NITRA, SONARA, SONUCI, OLANI and SNC (October 1985 - end 1986).
33.       Liquidation of SOPAC, SONIFAME, SONIEN and UNCC (1984-1985).
34.       Study and preparation of a program to settle the debt arrears
among public enterprises and between the Government and these enterprises,
with IMF and World Bank support.
Agriculture
35.       Gradual reduction of the subsidy rate on the distribution of
fertilizer to a level not exceeding 15% of the price the Centrale
d'Approvisionnement is charged by its suppliers (1986-88).
36.       Definition of a new agricultural credit system and the possible
role of CNCA within this system (October 1986).
37.       Study and formulation of a research strategy for INRAN
(1985-1986).
B. STUDIES TO PREPARE FUTURE POLICY REFORM
1.        Study on the possibilities for an expansion of the cost recovery
system.
2.        Study of investment incentives and taxes and duties on external
trade.
3.        Studies to extend the reforms to other sectors of the economy
such as energy, forestry and livestock.



- 64 -
ANNEX IV
Attachmant 2
Page 14 of 30
NIGER: BUDGETARY REVENUES AND CURRENT EXPENDITURES
1982/83 - 1987/88
(Excluding grant-financed expenditures)
----     BILLION CFA FRANCS                            z
Est.               PROGRAMN-    GROWTH
1982/83   1983/84  1984/85   1985/86   1986/87   1987/88  1985-1988
REVENUES                  68.8       70.0       68.0       72.6      76.0       83.6        7.1Z
- Tax revenue             62.6       61.1       60.7       65.3      68.0       75.6        7.6Z
- Non-tax revenue          6.2        '8.9       7.3        7.3       8.0        8.0
CURRENT EXPENDITURES      55.4       65.2       71.4       71.2      80.8       82.8        5.0Z
- Personnel               22.2       23.1       25.1       26.9      28.8       30.8        7.11
- Materials & supplies   11.4        12.8       11.8       12.4      13.6       15.0        8.3Z
- Interest                 9.2       13.6       17.1       16.2      22.6 a/   21.3 a/
- Routine road main-
tenmce                   1.4        1.4        1.3       1.5        1.8        2.2      19.01
- Scholarships             2.3        2.3        2.4       2.2        2.2        2.1      -3.7Z
- Other subsidies          5.9        5.4        5.4       5.2        5.1        5.0      -2.5Z
- Transport                3.6        3.6        3.7        3.8       3.9        4.0        2.5Z
- Housing                  0.8        0.8        0.9        0.9       0.9        0.9        O.OZ
- Other b/                -1.4        2.2        3.8        2.0       1.9        1.5     -22.01
CURRENT BALANCE           13.4        4.8       -3.4        1.5      -4.8        0.8
a/   To be revised; scheduled payments; Impact of future rescheduling not included.
b/   Includes some "materials and supplies" items.



- 65 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment 3
Page 15 of 30
SECTORAL STRATEGIES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT
1.        Rural development in Niger (agriculture, livestock, forestry,
fishery, environment), is limited by the following major constraints:
(a) the unstable climate, which implies important risks in the adoption of
new technologies;
(b)  the rapid population growth which, during a period of favorable
rainfall, has resulted in an extension of crop cultivation into
pastoral areas, where the returns on agriculture are poor, as well as
in a gradual shortening of the fallow period;
(c) the difficulties in rapidly developing the irrigation potential, which
is, moreover, limited by suitable soils and surface water, by the high
pumping costs, and by current implementation and operation capacities
as well as financial constraints;
(d) the absence of a modern agricultural technology for rainfed crops
which can be easily adopted, proves to be superior in its application
to the ones presently used by farmers, and provides them with better
insurance against the climatic risks;
(e) a great sensitivity to the variations in rainfall of nomadic cattle
raising, which is still hardly integrated into sedentary agriculture;
this is compounded by the inadequacy of existing techniques to
increase herd productivity and the absorptive capacity of the grazing
areas as well as to halt their excessive exploitation;
(f) the accelerated deterioration of the vegetation, in a country with
limited forestry resources, while wood represents an essential energy
source for the population and the absence of an appropriate forestry
technology, which would halt deforestation, to fill the growing gap
between supply and demand of firewood, and to have a favorable impact
on soil conservation;
(g) the inadequacy of structures, institutions and interventions in the
area of agricultural credit and of provision of inputs, which has had
an unfavorable impact on the success of rural development operations,
and which has resulted in costs that are difficult to bear for public
finances.
2.        The Government's choice of strategies is severely limited by the
very nature of these constraints, which either cannot be influenced by the
Government (rainfall, type of soil, availability of surfaci' water outside
the Niger River valley), or can only be alleviated in the long run through
a sustained investment effort, the results of which are necessarily
uncertain (notably research to improve technologies in agriculture and



- 66 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment 3
Page 16 of 30
integrated agricultural-livestock-forestry systems). On this basis, three
major components of a rural development strategy can be distinguished:
(a) a pragmatic investment selection policy, aiming to make the best
use of existing technologies in increasing production at the level of
the farmers and the communities. This approach favors actions of the
"small rural development operations" type in a broad sense, and the
mobilization of local initiatives. It is supported by an incentive
policy to increase production incentives and incomes (subsidies
playing a minor role, and only when they can be supported
finan_ially), and by the delegation of responsibilities to the
comnunity level (user rights for the herders, guaranteed land tenure
for the farmers, in particular for irrigation and forests). In any
case, every investment will have to be able to produce the necessary
resources to cover itb operation and maintenance costs and thus
ensure its continuation without recourse to external financing. The
Government's role will, therefore, consist of encouraging and
supporting the initiatives, through necessary and justifiable means,
in order to provide farmers with sustained and permanent access to
inputs, machinery and credit, while at the same time avoiding
excessive financial outlays which would lead to a rationing of
production factors.
(b) a long-term policy to support technological research for integrated
agricultural-livestock-forestry systems (at the national level and in
direct collaboration with regional and international institutes), in
order to develop the appropriate technological packages; and
(c) a long-term policy of irrigation development, including close
collaboration with the riparian countries, witnin the framework of the
international derelopment of the Niger River, to optimize the
utilization of the water resources of the river; the use of ponds and
bottoms-lands as well as the development of techniques to collect
surface water, and the use of wells/boreholes for agricultural and
livestock.
3.        The adoption of this strategy has necessarily important
consequences regarding the nature and content of the investment programs
that will be undertaken for its implementation. The strategy will imply,
in particular: (i) a case-by-case review of ongoing projects to improve
their effectiveness; this could result in their reorientation if needed,
taking into account local conditions and the farmers' capacity to take over
projects -- and even to their abandonment if justified; (ii) the
implementation of traditional irrigation programs, with priority given to
the rehabilitation of the existing systems and taking explicit account of
the seasonal variations in the flow of the Niger River; (iii) the design
and implementation of the first phase of a program of small rural
development operations including small irrigation schemes, paying
particular attention to a prompt and permanent evaluation of the results;
(iv) the strengthening of livestock services to ensure better support to
the subsector and its integration into farming; and (v) complementary
measures aiming at a reorientation of research, a refocusing of OPVN's
activities, the creation of an operational agricultural credit system and
the rationalization of input subsidies.



- 67 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment 3
Page 17 of 30
4.        An extensive program aiming at the rehabilitation of the
subsector of medium and large-scale irrigation will be implemented to boost
production of irrigated crops, alleviate marketing constraints, and induce
the cooperatives to assume full responsibility over the operation and
maintenance of the systems. New projects will have to adhere co the
principles of cooperative management and, if suitable, to the management
systems introduced by the -ehabilitation projects, in addition to meeting
the regular evaluation criteria. Niger will actively pursue its
cooperation with the countries bordering on the Niger River, with the
objective of finding a common solution to the problem of optimal water
utilization.
5.        The development actions in the regions of rainfed agriculture
will adopt a new approach, based on strengthening the productive base
through small-scale irrigation and area development. A particular emphasis
will be put on:
Ca) the integrated approach to productive systems (agriculture/forestry/
livestock), with the primary concern on soil conservation and halting
the decline in its productivity;
(b) the strengthening of complementarities and the reduction of conflicts
between rainfed crops and small-scale irrigation, the optimal
exploitation of groundwater resources, as well as the utilization of
techniques to preserve the moisture of the soil;
(c) the imperative need for protecting the soil against the risks of
desertification;
(d) the comparative advantages of different crops in each geo-climatic
zone;
(e) the Government's decision to encourage the active participation of the
people concerned, and to respond to the demands of rarmers and
communities; and
(f) taking account of the experimental nature of pilbt operations and of
the lessons that should be drawn from them, the strengthening of the
national supervision and evaluation services to increase their
effectiveness in rapidly analyzing information and of applying it to
larger-scale programming and investment operations.
6.        In the pastoral livestock sector, the investment opportunities to
increase the productivity of the herds are very limited. The increasing
involvement of pastoralists in measures to reform the use and management of
grazing grounds as well as the progressive application of appropriate cost
recovery and of environmental protection measures will encourage
pastoralists to better assure the protection of their environment, and will
form the basis of a new organization of the livestock sector. Generally,
government support will be limited to establish a competent livestock
service, capable of controlling the health of the herd and of meeting the
herders' demand for inputs, vaccines and medicine. All these products will
be supplied to the herders at non-subsidized prices, the only exception



- 68 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment 3
Page 18 of 30
being, in case of necessity, vaccines used to combat major endemic
diseases. Mcreover, actions to develop sedentary livestock (fodder crops,
animal traction, milk production) will be integrated with agricultural
development, which will benefit from organic fertilizer.
7.        The national debate on the environment has demonstrated the
complexity of the battle against desertification and the deficiencies of a
sectoral approach (forestry plantations). The principal objective of the
forestry subsector is to develop an action program integrated into
agricultural production, which should allow a strengthening of the
productive base by contributing, at the same time, to environmental
protection and firewood supply. The activities of the forestry services
will fncus primarily on establishing decentralized nurseries of varieties
that meet the needs of the rural population, and on technical assistance to
the communities. Training for forestry technicians and a strengthening of
the national forestry services will be necessary to support these actions.
Studies will also be initiated to establish the necessary legal, regulatory
and incentive measures to encourage the population to undertake forestry
operations at the village level. Direct government operations to establish
plantations and protect the environment will be limited to countering
environmental degradation in sparsely populated areas.
HEALTH
8.        Structural adjustment in the health sector aims at restoring the
balance between the objectives assigned to the sector and the priorities
that emerge from actual resource allocation in the health sector.
Imbalances are particularly noticeable between: (i) curative and
preventive health care; (ii) urban and rural health services; and
(iii) outlays for personnel and supplies (declining supplies/personnel
ratio).
9.        Consequently, priority will be given to a more rigorous planning
of human, physical and financial resources, to pursue the objectives of
improving basic health services (strengthening services at the intermediate
level and in outlying regions) while taking into account the budgetary
constraints for recurrent as well as investment expenditures:
(a) Human resources: define more precisely the tasks and duties of staff;
assign para-medical graduates with priority to the existing basic
health facilities in order to improve their effectiveness; adjust
training output to the rate of infrastructure expansion, and determine
annually the number of entrants to para-medical schools based on
staffing requirements by types of institutions, beginning with the
1986 school year, and expand training of existing staff to all levels.
(b) Infrastructure: specify the functions of the different health care
institutions; limit investments in hospitals to rehabilitation
projects or improvements in services; to this end, the Government will
study: (i) the possibility of relocating certain services of the
national hospital of Niamey to the university hospital complex; and
(ii) the creation of specialized services, with particular regard for
budgetary imbalances. Awaiting the result of this study, the



- 69 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment 3
Page 19 of 30
budgetary appropriations for hospital services in Niamey will be
maintained at their fiscal year 1985/86 level in real terms; new
construction of basic infrastructure will be programmed to improve
health care coverage (population density, accessibility), while
respecting budgetary constraints to finance the ensuing recurrent
costs; priority will be given to rehabilitate infrastructure and
improve maintenance.
(c) Supplies: reduce the number of drugs imported by ONPPC and give
priority to the purchase of generic drugs through international
competitive bidding and to hospital packaging; expand the distribution
network for medicine;
(d) Financial resources: improve financial management at all levels;
study the feasibility of transferring certain types of expenditures to
local communities starting in fiscal year 1985/86; reduce the
expenditures for medical evacuations abroad through a reduction of
unit costs and the introduction of cost-sharing by the beneficiaries
based on socio-professional classifications, beginning in fiscal year
1986/87; apply hospital fees strictly; establish and apply service
charges at the local health care level.
10.       The investment program for 1986-88 will give priority to
strengthening existing facilities, to the creation of new facilities in
deprived areas, and to public health programs. A new project will
strengthen the training and retrainirLg of personnel.
11.       With UNFPA assistance, the Nigerien Government will formulate an
action program to implement the recommendations of the national seminar on
population. Finally, efforts will continue to develop a national nutrition
policy.
EDUCATION
12.       In the education sector, Niger is confronted with a double
imbalance between (-) the current development trends of the sector and the
long-term training needs of the country on the one hand, and (ii) the
objectives of the education system and the economic and financial realities
of the country on the other. This double imbalance has, over time, been
aggravated by the high unit costs of training at all levels and by an
inefficient allocation of available resources. Notwithstanding the
significant share of the government budget allocated to education (22%),
Niger's primary enrollment ratio (20%) is one of the weakest in Africa.
Moreover, although the post-primary enrollment ratio remains poor, the
modern sector of the economy will not be able to absorb all the graduates.
Concurrent with the growing unemployment among these graduates, Niger
continues to cope with a serious shortage of certain categories of middle
and higher level technicians.
13.       Conscious of these imbalances and of the degradation in the
educational system provoked by the economic and financial crisis, the
Government has decided to substantially adjust sectoral objectives and
resource allocation.



- 70 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment 3
Page 20 of 30
14.       Priority will be given to stemming the decrease in the enrollment
ratio of primary education and, subsequently, to its progressive increase.
To that effect, the Government has decided to undertake a thorough reform
to improve the effectiveness of the teaching staff, to give priority to
training associate teachers, and to adapt the training programs to the
realities of the country. The Government has also decided to encourage the
creation of primary schools in the private sector and to expand the primary
education capacity through a low-cost school construction program, making
better use of local reinforced construction material. A more rational
utilization of existing infrastructure in the rural areas as well as the
physical rehabilitation of certain schools will also allow an increase in
the number of students.
15.       The refocusing of priorities on primary education will be
combined with a deliberate slow-down in the expansion of secondary and
higher education. As much as possible, all future expansion of secondary
education should be concentrated on the lower level and pursued through the
decentralized construction of schools, which would reduce drop-out rates,
construction costs and, particularly, unit operating costs, due to fewer
needed scholarships. The qualitative improvement of the teaching staff
will be pursued through a reform of the teacher training system, which is
being prepared, and through retraining of certain teachers.
16.       Access to higher education will be based strictly on individual
qualifications as well as on the needs of the economy and the
administration.
17.       The economic development of Niger will depend to a large extent
on the availability of technicians and specialized labor. Nevertheless,
taking into account the high costs of training, the Government will
carefully assess the needs of the country before establishing any new
technical and higher level training.
18.       In view of its financial constraints, the Government would not be
able to allocate a larger share of its resources to the education sector,
especially as far as operation and maintenance are concerned. Assuming
that official development assistance will finance most of the investments,
operation and maintenance of the system will have to be financed largely by
the Government and the beneficiaries. The qualitative and quantitative
improvement of primary education will, therefore, only be possible to the
extent to which the Government -- through a combination of more efficient
utilization and reallocation of existing resources within the sector -- is
able to free itself from the constraints of a rigid budgetary ceiling and
rapidly increasing costs. The following measures, which aim to realize
savings and to transfer a larger share of operation and maintenance costs
to the beneficiaries, will be introduced:
(a) Construction of primary schools with local reinforced materials and
adapted to local conditions, starting in school year 1985/86 (costs of
a classroom will be reduced from 4.3 million to 2.5 million CFAF).
(b) Construction of small secondary schools, starting in 1985/86. The
unit costs for a school (four classrooms, one administrative building,



- 71 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment 3
Page 21 of 30
a laboratory, and housing for four teachers) will be reduced from 280
million to 107 million CFAF. Moreover, for most of the students
scholarships will no longer be needed (36,000 CFAF per student per
year).
(c) Participation of the beneficiaries in the construction and maintenance
of classes (under way).
(d) Gradual restructuring of the teacher staff in primary education,
emphasizing the training of associate teachers, will start in 1985/86
(savings per new teacher: 261,000 CFAF per year).
(e) Retire from service those teachers recognized as unfit for the
profession (under way).
(f) Eliminate teaching allowances for administrative staff (anticipated
savings: 72 million CFAF in 1986).
(g) In urban centers, transfer to the parents the cost of school supplies
beginning in 1986/87 (anticipated savings: 64 million CFAF p.a.).
(h) A commission has been created to study and revise the scholarship
system, including the amount and conditions of scholarships. Stipends
are no longer being paid during vacations to those students who have
not successfully completed the annual exams. Together with other
measures to limit the scholarships of unsuccessful students, savings
of about 168 million CFAF have already been realized in 1984/85.
(i) Promote private education and strengthen control over private
institutions to ensure the quality of education.
WATER SUPPLY
19.       Niger has endorsed the objectives of the United Nations
International Water and Sanitation Decade aiming to provide the entire
population with drinking water by 1990. In the urban sector, the
introduction of water supply systems in all communities of at least 4000
inhabitants has been planned. In the rural sector, priority has been given
to the construction of a well for every 300 to 400 beneficiaries. On the
basis of these objectives, a large water supply program, supported by the
international community, has been undertaken.
20.       Initial results of the program, together with the financial and
economic crisis in Niger, led the Government to review its objectives and
investment priorities. Imbalances have appeared which threaten to
compromise the achievements of the past and the programs of the future.
The major problems are:
(a) investment and maintenance costs which exceed the capacity of cost
recovery in the sector based on present tariffs;



- 72 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment 3
Page 22 of 30
(b) the degradation of rural water supply due to wells silting up, the
fact that about 50% of the handpumps do not operate and the
deterioration of urban water supply facilities;
(c) the preference of the villagers for open wells over drilled boreholes
equipped with handpumps, although the latter cost about two times less
in terms of investment and maintenance; and
(d) the limited management and absorptive capacity of government agencies
in the sector and the considerable deterioration in the sectoral
finances.
21.       The corrective measures that have already been taken to make the
best use of already completed and future investments are still inadequate.
The Government has, therefore, decided to adjust its sectoral policies and
priorities in order to improve the management of the sector and to
establish a sounder basis for future investments. In this context, the
Government is preparing a study on the management of water resources
(evaluation, evolution and operation). This reorientation includes:
(a) Urban water supply: priority will be given to reorganizing the
institutional setup of the subsector before undertaking new
investments in the capital and in secondary cities, and to
establishing full cost recovery for water from the beneficiaries;
(b) Rural water supply: priority will be given to rehabilitating existing
facilities and to control more effectively ongoing investment programs
before undertaking new investments. The Government will formulate new
investment criteria which take into account the effective demand as
expressed by the village communities. To confirm this demand, a
contractual agreement will be established in which the village commits
itself vis-a-vis the Government to participate financially in the
investment and maintenance of the facility. Differential schedules,
proportional to investment costs, will be established to induce the
villagers to choose, where technically possible, drilled boreholes
instead of open wells.
(c) Pastoral water supply: the existing facilities will be handed over to
herder groups -ho will take responsibility for their maintenance and
renewal. No new pastoral water supply investment will be undertaken
before the formulation of a new disengagement policy by the Government
in this sector.
22.       With regard to the accompanying measures, the public institutions
responsible for the management and supervision of the investment programs
will be strengthened, in particular through the creation of a national
water supply authority that will be fully responsible for urban water
supply, and through strengthening the Ministry of Hydraulics at the
regional level. The Government will continue its program of disengagement
from the maintenance of village facilities, and the rehabilitation and
reorientation of OFEDES, partially transformed into a civil works agency,
will be carried through. Measures will be taken to encourage small
enterprises and beneficiaries to maintain the rural water supply



- 73 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment 3
Page 23 of 30
facilities. The Government will also revise urban water tariffs based on
financial balance in the sector and on long-term marginal costs and will,
if needed, revise the method of cross-subsidization between the capital and
the secondary cities where the cost of water is considerably higher.
ENERGY
23.       Niger's energy requirements are for 80% met by woodfuels.  Almost
the entire commercial energy supply is imported. The main problem faced by
the country is the growing imbalance between supply and demand for fuelwood
accentuated by deforestation around urban centers and the threat of
irreversible desertification. The Government also has to formulate a
<viable> energy conservation and investment strategy that can reduce the
import drain on the balance of payments while expanding local production.
24.       Niger's priorities in the energy sector will, therefore, be in
the following areas:
(a) strengthening demand management through incentives to conserve energy
in all areas and through promotion of new technologies;
(b) research and development of local substitute energy sources;
(c) better utilization of existing assets in electricity production and
distribution facilities to make them more profitable; and
(d) expansion of the adaptive research program of ONERSOL, in particular
through the development of improved stoves on the basis of butane and
kerosene.
25.       In addition to the forestry program and completion of the
Goudel I project, this strategy will be supported by a reasonable
investment program:
(a) Accelerated introduction of an improved stove, first in the urban
centers and subsequently in the villages;
(b) Accelerated mining exploration program to verify the coal or lignite
deposits already identified;
(c) Initiation of an adaptive research program to develop and test
improved stoves on the basis of butane and kerosene and adapted
technologies for the transformation of biomass; and
(d) Promotion and revival of petroleum exploration in association with the
private sector.
26.       With regard to complementary measures, the following action
program will be initiated:
(a) Restructuring of government agencies responsible for the sector in
order to strengthen the orientation of household energy policy;



- 74 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment 3
Page 24 of 30
(b) Strengthening the taxation of wood exploitation and marketing in the
urban centers to encourage conservation and increase the
competitiveness of substitutes;
(c) Promotion of efficient energy utilization in the modern sector through
price adjustments to achieve full recovery of production costs, and
extension of government technical assistance to public and private
enterprises, aiming particularly at energy savings in buildings
through energy audits;
(d) Incentives for the private sector to develop and manage energy supply
systems; and
(e) Review and adaptation of laws and regulations concerning the planting,
exploitation and marketing of forestry products.
ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE
27.       During the 1970s and 1980s, the paved road network has been
expanded significantly. Considering the age of the infrastructure
constructed during the iast decades and in spite of Niger's sustained
efforts for its mainte.-,.ace, the economic and financial crisis has created
an imbalance between the needs for routine and periodic maintenance and the
national capacity in the public as well as the private sector to mobilize
resources to maintain the existing road network.
28.       Substantial external assistance would be necessary to contribute
to the maintenance, rehabilitation and economic utilization of Niger's road
network.
29.       A transport sector study is underway, to redefine sectoral
policies and produce a master plan for the development of the transport
sector.
30.       The priorites for the 1986/88 investment program will therefore
be:
-    to undertake a maintenance and rehabilitation program for the
road network to allow the country to make optimal use of existing
infrastructure;
-    to implement a limited program to expand the secondary road and
rural road networks, carefully selected in relation to other
investment programs;
-    to continue ongoing projects;
-    to continue consolidation efforts which are justified to open up
remote areas.
31.       New road construction projects will reflect the priorities listed
above.



- 75 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment 3
Page 25 of 30
32.       Complementary measures will be adopted to enhance the -iational
financial and institutional capacity. Among others, the Government has
already increased the tax on petroleum products and has allocated part of
the revenues of the stabilization fund to the national budget. The sector
study, mentioned above, will make it possible to formulate a cost-recovery
policy. At the institutional level, the sectoral authorities have
strengthened road management by the creation of a Road Management Unit and
a Public Works training center. The capacity for management and
utilization of the equipment fleet for public werks will also be
strengthened.
33.       Rehabilitation and maintenance works will be undertaken by
private enterprises, by government agencies or, possibly, by communities
using labor-intensive approaches, depending on the circumstances.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS
34.       The main problem in the telecommunications sector is to make
efficient use of the heavy investments made during the last decade. The
financial position of the telecommunications sector, including the
television system, currently shows a significant deficit requiring large
government subsidies to the users of the system, which distorts government
resource allocation. The capacity of the sector to recover costs through
tariff increases is limited because the users of telecommunications and
telex facilities, in particular, can switch to other means of
communication. Sectoral finances, therefore, can only be improved through
a set of measures aiming at expanding the subscriber network, selective
tariff increases, and reductions tn the operating costs of sector agencies
with the objective of eventually achieving self-financing of the sector.
35.       The sectoral objectives, therefore, are to implement a policy of
consolidation as well as institutional and financiaT rehabilitation through
the execution of the following program of action:
(a) profitable utilization of the existing network through the
implementation of the second phase of PMETT aiming at an expansion of
the subscriber network and a review of the economic viability of other
elements of the sectoral investment program;
(b) review of technological options to interconnect the outlying regions
with low traffic density (connections by telephone lines and by hign
performance radiotelephonic systems);
(c) complementing the national television program in the villages with a
cost-recovery policy at the level of the beneficiaries has been
introduced;
(d) study of the institutional setup of the sector in order to determine
the broad outline of an eventual reorganization; and
(e) studies on marketing tariffication/tariff-raising and cost-recovery
for telecommunications and the national television system.



- 76 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment 4
Page 26 of 30
NIGER: COMPOSITION OF THE PUBLIC INVESTMENT PROGRAM
1984/85 - 1987/88
(in percent)
Average
1985/86 -
1984/85   1985/86   1986/87   1987/88  1987/88
I.   PRODUCTIVE SECTORS              38.5      &5.0       45.0      45.0      45.0
Rural Development               25.8     38.0        38.0      38.0
Other Productive Sectors        12.7       7.0        7.0       7.0
II.  SOCIAL PROGRAMS                 25.5      28.5       31.0      31.0      30.2
Education                        4.6      5.6         7.0       7.0
Health                           1.7       1.8        4.0       4.0
Water Supply                    14.7      15.6       15.0      15.0
Urban/Human Development          4.6       5.5        5.0       5.0
III. ECONOMIC INFRASTRUCTURE         31.7      17.1       18.0      20.0      18.4
Roads and Bridges               26.5      11.1       15.0      19.0
Telecommunications               5.2      6.0         3.0       1.0
IV.  OTHER PROGRAMS                   4.2       9.4        6.0       4.0       6.4
TOTAL                    100.0    100.0        100.0      100.0    100.0
Memo Item:
TOTAL (billion CFAF)   *             69.0      80.0        92.5     103.0    275.5



- 77 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment 5
Page 27 of 30
BDRN ACTION PROGRAM
BDRN's action program aims to continue the rehabilitation and
strengthening of BDRN's financial position and to consolidate its
institutional capabilities. To achieve these objectives, BDRN and IDA have
agreed that the following actions will be undertaken:
Rehabilitation and strengthening of BDRN's financial1position
a.    Strengthening the capital base:  The capital increase subscribed to
by the Nigerien shareholders of BDRN (about 1.4 billion CFAF), will be
released before January 31, 1986. Since the foreign shareholders of BDRN
will not participate in the capital increase, BDRN will make an effort to
obtain the subscription and payment of the difference between the approved
capital increase (5.4 billion CFAF) and the amount subscribed to date (3.3
billion CFAF), prior to the above date, from the BCEAO and other potential
Nigerien shareholders that have already been approached. In February 1986,
the Government of Niger and BDRN will present IDA with specific proposals
for achieving the capital increase of 5.4 billion CFAF, in the event that
BDRN has been unable to find new shareholders.
b.    Loan rerovery:  BDRN will increase its loan recovery effort, even
though the provision of 22.65 billion CFAF made prior to September 1984
adequately covers its risks, according to an independent auditor. In
particular:
i)   with respect to the 19 billion CFAF (about 85% of the unpaid amounts
and frozen accounts) owed by its 100 biggest clients, BRDN will
start, firmly and with government assistance, legal procedures to
reduce arrears to 15 billion CFAF by March 31, 1986, 10 billion CFAF
by September 30, 1986, 5 billion CFAF by March 31, 1987, and zero by
September 30, 1987. BDRN will write off all outstanding loans that
are reasonably deemed to be irrecoverable as well as reschedule loans
when it deems this appropriate and without undue risk. In the latter
case, BDRN will provide to IDA on December 31, 1985, and subsequently
on each of the dates mentioned above, the list of rescheduled loans
and the necessary evidence to verify that payment schedules have been
respected, together with a progress report on the recovery of these
loans. If a debtor does not respect the new schedule, BDRN must,
within the following three months, either recover the debt or write
it off at the end of its fiscal year.
(ii) with respect to the other arrears and non-performing accounts, BDRN
will present to IDA, before November 30, 1985, a recovery plan for
the outstanding loans as of September 30, 1984, with quantiLative
targets to be achieved by specified dates. This plan will be updated
on the basis of the September 30, 1985, status of these accounts and
presented to IDA before January 30, 1986. The recovery plan will aim
at eliminating all arrears by September 30, 1987, at the latest.
BDRN will provide IDA with a corresponding progress report at the
same time as the progress report mentioned earlier.



- 78 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment 5
Page 28 of 30
(iii) with respect to past dues of the Government (about 1.6 billion CFAF)
and public enterprises (six of which account for about 3.5 billion
CFAF of arrears of the 100 biggest clients), the Government will
present to IDA a repayment plan as soon as the study on cross-debts
has been completed in December 1985.
c.    Matching of maturities of resources and their uses:  BDRN will ensure
that its term assets will not normally exceed its term liabilities.  It
will prepare quarterly statements of its available resources and their uses
starting end September 1985, which it will transmit to IDI. This statement
will include the average cost of funds and the average margin. The latter
must always exceed 3%.
d.    Loan approval:  BDRN will finance a project only after its financial
viability has been assessed, adequate resources are available and adequate
guarantees have been provided.
e.    Interest on time depit    BDRN will not apply fixed rates on its
lending. It will index its interest rates to money market rates in such a
way that the latter ill never exceed the former.
f.    Improvement of financial ratios:  The above-mentioned actions as well
as the in-depth study of the accounts should allow to substantially improve
the financial ratios of BDRN, for which the following targets have been
set:
(i)   equity/total debt:  a minimum ratio of 6% has to be attained on
September 30, 1987, at the latest.
(ii)  the term debt/equity ratio shall not exceed 4:1 after the capital
increase of 5.4 billien CFAF has been achieved.
(iii) the liquid assets/short-term deposits ratio has to be kept above 75%.
(iv)  the arrears/outstanding portfolio ratio must be reduced to about 25%
on March 31, 1986, 20% on September 30, 1986, 15% on March 31, 1987,
and 10% on September 30, 1987.
(v)   the arrears/outstanding portfolio ratio has to be at or below 10% by
end September 1987.
Strengthening of BDRN's institutional capability
a.    Staffing.  BDRN undertakes to achieve the planned reduction in its
staffing (by about 150 people) before end December 1985.
b.    Procedures.  BDRN will codify its procedures or adapt those that have
already been codified ro its new organizational structure. Loan recovery
and approval procedures will be codified with priority, before the end of
December 1985. All other procedures will be codified before the end of
December 1986.



- 79 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment 5
Page 29 of 30
c.    Staff training.  BDRN will arrange internships of one to two-months
for its directors of central departments with relevant counterparts in the
Groupe des Banques Populaires de France, with which BDRN has an association
agreement. The training plan approved by IDA for other staff will be
implemented with assistance from the Groupe des Banques Populaires de
France before end December 1985.



- 80 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment 6
Page 30 of 30
Grain Pricing, Marketing and Stock Policy
Definition of "Remote Areas" and "Emergency Situation"
1.        The exceptions allowed in the normal OPVN operations for remote
areas and emergency situations respond to absolute necessities of national
solidarity. In the$e circumstances, the Government will have the
possibility to use these exceptions and to designate the areas affected
accordingly.
2.        Thus, remote areas and emergency situations are defined by the
following criteria:
Remote areas will be those areas to which access is difficult due to
lack of roads, and which have a chronic grain deficit and lack private
traders. These areas include all the livestock areas of the
Departments of Zinder, Dosso, Niamey, Diffa, Maradi, Tahoua and the
whole department of Agadez with the exception of the cities of Agadez,
Arlit and Tchirorienne.
Emergency situation is a situation in which the availability of food
suffers from a deficit which cannot be absorbed through commercial
stocks and timely imports. An emergency situation could also be
caused, in a cyclical fashion, especially by nomad populations when,
in a given year, they have neither the food available nor the economic
capability to carry them through from the end of one harvest period to
the following year's harvest.



-81-                          ANNEX V
Page 1 of 1
NIGER
FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
USE OF IMF RESOURCES
(In'itillions of SDRs)
Purchases                  Charges      Repurchases       Trust
Credit    CFF   Trust Fund   Total                                      Fund
tranches             loan                                              Payments
1978       --        --        5.4         5.4       0.3
1979       --        --         --          --       0.3            __               __
1980       --                  7.3         7.3       0.4
1981                            --          --       0.4
1982            --        --               --        0.4
1983      6.8      24.0         --        30.8       0.6            --               --
1984     14.4        --         --       14.4        3.2
1985      9.6        --         --         9.6       3.9            --               --
1986       ...      ...        ...         ...       4.8           1.5             2.53
1987       ...      ...        ...         ...       4.6          16.1             2.53
1988      ...       ...        ...         ...       3.2          21.9             2.53
1989       ...      ...        ...         ...       2.1          11.7             1.45
1990      ...       ...        ...         ...       1.4           4.9             1.45
Charges and repurchases have been projected on the basis of purchases
outstanding as of January 31, 1986.
Source: IMF.
er



0. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     '
N  I G  E  R                                                                   >L I B  Y  A   _
FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT                                                         .7
PREMIER CREDIT A L'AJUSTEMENT STRUCTUREL .
22'     @     National capital / Capitale nationale                                    /                                                \
@3    Department capitals / Chef-lieu de d6partement                      7
International boundaries /Limlte dWtat ou de territoire        7                                                         I
Department boundaries ILimite de d6partement              7
0      100      200     300                             .                                                                          S
I                - -  - -  -      kilometers          /0..
O     50    1W0   150   200 mIle.                                           A       G               E     Z
.>     ,.t                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  G  A  D  E  Z 
F                                                                                                          *
MALI~~~~~~~~L
M    A   L   I            i           s                                                      t!
In Gall   0Agadez                                   D
TAHOUA\             0                                            I0                     
'as                   j      71}         ~~~~~~                                             ~~~~~~~~~~\s  oz  | 
Tchin.Taradben   I              __I 
0                           .                           I 
Abalr  (0
_   , ~    n,^neOu        \                                              Z Z  I N  D  E  R                   d NI /
0     0Abao 1c
0Arou       IA                   Tehouag    O                           0Tonautf
0 oS          N I A M E Y         )      i       1(o e fO doa r    l                                                        C   H   A   D
8WAA04           i~~~Flingud     l 111B15    Sousa  IDhr llbr
_stOTiro TIillobir | Ooi             }Mod..  I M A R A D 1IN                                         _     Nguigao\
O~~~~l~~~    0 ~~~~~~           MMAyahle                        G..'L*14
. 0T     o GoIhqn                   \                         Mawak.    N              Goao      fU'
--'D", g iDrichl                                   der -        U Tncrorew Znd3 er /;
' NIAMEY)        .'  Logo     ,r-  EI,n INkanni%...   11    G          f 0Mirrh                       i         _
savor>o D tIfoiO SS                                                       .d % r                                 .MG             Ihdd
N       !iy n  D0OSSo                      Mad\araunfa0wom.r                                    Diff
ni. ADcur                            Na                                    *, 4"-*'k
B   U  R   K  I                     N AG  'd,  't,,   !  N  I G  E  R  I A      F                             .1w,,km o..n ...... ,,. .. }4\ acI
F  A  S                                                                              ",.,a  ekw  Ow \> to~Y , of FM   _-_ a"  W VW _fm
Y                                                                         7r. W Ef A N  It  NW. m   Mar01 4.   NV   w r _*
B    N   I    IV    &UL  fV t,yaN                                                         IaabO






