REDIT NUMBER 1660 NIR
OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS-
Development Credit Agreement
(Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                            , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1660 NIR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   )7    O1 I                 , 1986, between
REPUBLIC OF NIGER (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated
December 30, 1985 from the Borrower describing a program of
objectives, policies and actions designed to achieve structural
adjustment of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the
Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of
the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in
the financing of urgently needed imports and services required
during such execution; and
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Association in
its capacity as Administrator of the Special Facility for
Sub-Saharan Africa, established by its Executive Directors by
Resolution No. IDA 85-1 of May 21, 1985, to provide additional
assistance towards the financing of urgently needed imports and
services required during the execution of the Program and by
an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and
the Association (the African Facility Credit Agreement), the
Association as such Administrator (the Administrator) is agreeing
to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount
equivalent to thirty-six million six hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 36,600,000) (the African Facility Credit);
(C) the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this
Agreement, within each of the two tranches referred to herein, be
disbursed on account of expenditures in respect of the Program
after disbursements of the proceeds of the African Facility
Credit provided for in the African Facility Credit Agreement are
made; provided, however, that non-eligible expenditures under the
African Facility Credit Agreement shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit; and
(D) on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the
Association has decided in support of the Program to provide such
assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit upon the terms
and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a) Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that
may be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant
to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Credit Agreement.",
(b) Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare
and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request,
on the execution of the Program referred to in the Preamble
to the Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and
the Association of their respective obligations under the
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit.";
(c) the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
(d) Section 6.02 (a) (ii) shall be modified to read:
"(ii) under any other development credit agreement
between the Borrower and the Association or under
any African Facility Credit Agreement between the
Borrower and the Association as Administrator of
the African Facility,".
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "BCEAO" means Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de
1'Ouest;


﻿-3-
(b) "CFAF" and "CFA Franc" mean the common currency of the
Borrower and of other members of the West African Monetary Union;
(c) "CNCA" means Caisse Nationale de Cr6dit Agricole of the
Borrower;
(d)  "OPVN" means Office des Produits Vivriers du Niger of
the Borrower;
(e) "SITC" means the United Nations Standard International
Trade Classification, 1974 Revision (SITC, Rev. 2), published in
Commodity Indexes for the Standard International Trade Classi-
fication, Revised, Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 38/Rev.2
(1981);
(f)  "SNC" means Societe Nigerienne de Cimenterie of the
Borrower; and
(g)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
eighteen million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 18,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association.
(b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Program,
open and maintain in CFAF a special account in BCEAO on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1987
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The


﻿-4-
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without re-
strictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15, commencing May 15, 1996 and ending November 15,
2035 each installment to and including the installment payable on
November 15, 2005, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. (a) BCEAO is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
(b) Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing,
the Borrower hereby entrusts BCEAO with responsibility for the
preparation of withdrawal applications under the Credit and
for the collection of the documents and other evidence to be


﻿-5-
furnished to the Association in support of such applications;
such withdrawal applications shall to the extent practicable be
consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts
of not less than CFAF 400,000,000 equivalent.
Section 2.09. The currency of the Republic of France is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall
from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the
actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b) Prior to the exchange of views referred to under
paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association for its review and comment a report on
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail
as the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall
be selected in accordance with the principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 6-
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section, including the
Special Account, for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and the audit thereof as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Asso-
ciation has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account was made, all records (contracts,
orders,   invoices,  bills,   receipts  and   other
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the   Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audits referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the pro-
ceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of such


﻿-7-
expenditures were used for the purposes for which
they were provided.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that an event has occurred which shall make it improbable that
the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date
Section 5.01. The date 120 days after the date of this
Agreement, is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided under Section 2.08 of this
Agreement, the Minister of the Borrower responsible for Planning
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere du Plan
B.P. 862
Niamey
Niger
Cable address:                   Telex:
MINIPLAN                        5463 NI
Niamey


﻿-8-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
By       ~      %&~~4
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By    a/ /0§A<&            t, 7&-4          t2
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required during the execution of the Program
and to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups:
Group     Sub-group          Description of Items
112         -               Alcoholic beverages
121         -               Tobacco, unmanufactured
tobacco refuse
122         -               Tobacco, manufactured
667         -               Pearls, precious and semi-
precious stones, unworked or
worked
688         -               Uranium depleted in U235 and
thorium, and their alloys,
unwrought or wrought, and
articles therefor, n.e.s.;
waste and scrap of uranium
depleted in U235 and of thorium
718        718.7            Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof, n.e.s.
897        897.3            Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)


﻿- 10 -
Group     Sub-group          Description of Items
-          971.0             Gold, non-monetary   (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
(b) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also
that of another country from the territory of which goods or
services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such
goods or services shall be eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit;
(c) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement;
(d) expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $10,000 equivalent;
(e) expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Association shall have financed or agreed to
finance; and
(f) expenditures for goods intended for a military or
para-military purpose or for luxury consumption.
3.   No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to the Borrower or others in respect
of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from
the Credit Account and the total amount of such commitments shall
have reached the equivalent of ten million dollars ($10,000,000),
unless the Association shall be satisfied, after the exchange of
views as described in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement: (a)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of
the Program, and (b) that the actions described in Schedule 3 to
this Agreement have been taken.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
1.   Except as provided in paragraph 2 of this Schedule, con-
tracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $4,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to
the following modifications:
(a) Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done
by advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a
bidder's invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or
to bid; such advertisements should be placed in at least one
newspaper of general circulation in the Borrower's country
and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i) a notice in the United Nations publication,
Development Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii) an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international circula-
tion; or
(iii) a notice to local representatives of countries and
territories referred to in the Guidelines, that
are potential suppliers of the goods required."
(b) The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may
require the bidder to state the bid price in a single
currency widely used in international trade and specified in
the bidding documents."


﻿- 12 -
(c) Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less
than $4,000,000 each shall be awarded on the basis of the normal
procurement procedures of the purchaser of such goods.
3.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
prior to the submission to the Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for
award, a description of the advertising and tendering procedures
followed and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request.
4.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
prior to the submission to the Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
thereof, such documentation and information as the Association
may reasonably request to support withdrawal applications in
respect of such contract.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 4 of this
Schedule, where payments under a contract are to be made out of
the proceeds of the Special Account, the copies of such contract
or the documentation and the information to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3 or para-
graph 4 of this Schedule, as the case may be, shall be furnished
to the Association as part of the evidence required under para-
graph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
6.   The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Conditions of Second Tranche Release
List of actions referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement:
1.   The Borrower shall have approved a budget acceptable to the
Association for 1986/87.
2.   The Borrower shall have approved a public investment program
acceptable to the Association for the period 1986/87 to 1988/89.
3.   The Borrower shall have reduced the number of products whose
prices are subject to price control (taux de marque).
4.   OPVN shall have made progress satisfactory to the Associa-
tion in the implementation of grain marketing and storage
reforms.
5.   The Borrower shall have completed an audit of CNCA's opera-
tions and shall have begun implementation of a program to improve
debt collection.
6.   The Borrower shall have completed the following studies upon
terms of reference acceptable to the Association:
a.   The first phase of the study of the civil service
system.
b.   A  study   of  the  formulation  of   the  multisectoral
development program for the Irhazer.
c.   A study of the possible extension of the cost recovery
system.
d.   A study of SNC and interim report of the study of rural
financial markets.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
during the execution of the Program and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(b)  the  term   "Authorized  Allocation"  means   an  amount
equivalent to CFAF 1,200,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. Each such deposit shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit Account in the respective equivalent
amounts as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting
the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.


﻿- 15 -
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by
the Borrower from the Credit Account in accor-
dance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit, minus
the amount of any outstanding qualified agreement
to reimburse made by the Association and of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Program,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as
of the date of such notice have been or will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence fur-
nished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such


﻿- 16 -
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  i2         day of       ,
198    .
FOR SECRETARY


