                      Document of
                    The World Bank




                                               Report No: T7602




                 TECHNICAL    ANNEX

              FOR A PROPOSED CREDIT

                 IN THE AMOUNT    OF

                  SDR 15.7 MILLION

            (US$22 MILLION  EQUIVALENT)

                        TO THE

   TRANSITIONAL   ISLAMIC  STATE OF AFGHANISTAN


                        FOR AN

EMERGENCY   COMMUNICATIONS      DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT




                   September 5,2003

                      CURRENCY        EQUIVALENT
             (Exchange rate Effective as of July 31,2003

                Currency Unit                  Afghani
               AFA 1                   =-      US$O.O224
                US$l                   -       44.567 AFA

                   GOVERNMENT            FISCAL    YEAR
                          March 21 - March 20

               ABBREVIATIONS            AND ACRONYMS

AACA           Afghanistan     Assistance Coordination      Authority
ARTF           Afghanistan     Reconstruction    Trust Fund
AWCC           Afghan    Wireless Communications         Company
CFAA            Country   Financial  Accountability     Assessment
CPFA            Country   Profile of Financial   Accountability
DAB            Da Afghanistan      Bank
ES              Satellite Earth Station
FMR            Financial   Monitoring     Reports
GCN            Government      Communications      Network
GSM             Global Standard for Mobile
ICT            Information    and Communication        Technologies
IDA            International    Development    Association
ITU            International    Telecommunications       Union
MIS            Management       Information   System
MOC            Ministry    of Communication
MOF            Ministry    of Finance
O&M            Operation    and Maintenance
PC             Procurement      Consultant
PMS            Project Management        Specialist
PPIAF          Public Private Infrastructure     Advisory    Facility
TDF            Telecommunications        Development     Fund
TISA           Transitional    Islamic State of Afghanistan
TRAA           Telecommunications        Regulatory    Authority   of Afghanistan
TSS            Transitional    Support Strategy
               United Nations
UNDP           United Nations      Development     Program
UPU            Universal    Postal Union
USAID          United    States Agency    for International  Development
VSAT           Very Small Aperture       Terminal
WLL            Wireless Local Loop


                         Vice President:         Praful Pate1
                       Country   Director:       Alastair  J. McKechnie
                         Sector Manager:         Pierre Guislain
  Afghanistan Reconstruction    Manager:         Philippe  Dongier
                           Team Leader:          Charles Kenny

                       TRANSITIONAL             ISLAMIC           STATE OF AFGHANISTAN

                EMERGENCY           COMMUNICATIONS                        DEVELOPMENT                    PROJECT

                                               TECHNICAL               ANNEX


                                                    Table of Contents

I. Background and Recent Developments .................................................................
         A. Country Status ..........................................................................................
         B. Features of the Existing Communications System ...................................
         C. TISA Objectives ........................................................................................

II. International Development Association (IDA) Assistance Strategy ....................
         A. The Transitional Support Strategy ............................................................
         B. Rationale for IDA Involvement in the Communications Sector.. .............
         C. Lessons Learned........................................................................................

III. The Proposed Project ...........................................................................................      8
         A. Objectives .................................................................................................   8
         B. Project Description ....................................................................................       8
         C. Sustainability .............................................................................................  11


IV. Institutional Arrangements And Implementation ................................................                        12
         A . Institutional Arrangements .......................................................................           12
         B . Procurement ..............................................................................................   13
         C. Disbursement and Financial Management                       ................................................  13
         D . Environment and Social Safeguard ..........................................................                  14
         E. Monitoring and Evaluation .......................................................................             15


Appendix I:       Project Description ............................................................................        16
Appendix II:      Procurement Arrangements ...............................................................                23
Appendix III: Financial Management,
                  Disbursement and Audit Arrangements ............................................                        28
Appendix IV: Monitoring .........................................................................................         32


                1. BACKGROUND          AND RECENT     DEVELOPMENTS

A. Country Status

1       Afghanistan is one of the poorest and longest-suffering countries among the
members of the World Bank.        An estimated seven million people remain vulnerable to
hunger and very large numbers are dependent on a massive inflow               of food aid.
Afghanistan's infrastructure has been destroyed or degraded; its human resource base
severely depleted; and its social capital eroded.      State institutions are largely non-
functional, and the economy and society have become increasingly fragmented.

2       The Afghanistan     Interim   Administration and its successor, the Transitional
Islamic State of Afghanistan (TISA) have moved quickly to restore basic government
functions and re-establish international relations.    However, expectations among the
population for a "peace dividend" are high, and if TISA does not deliver results relatively
quickly, the prospects for further progress and the peace process will dim.

3       Despite being hampered by very limited        capacity and the difficult   security
situation in many parts of the country, the TISA has made considerable progress and has
gained widespread international recognition.      A budget has been passed by the TISA
Cabinet laying out an ambitious agendaof reconstruction, reform and growth for the next
two years.

B. Features of the Existing Communications        Sector

4.      Afghanistan has a barely functioning, very limited communications sector. Prior
to the recent bombing campaign, Afghanistan's telecommunications network operated
approximately 57,000 lines in five major cities (two thirds of these lines were in Kabul).
These appear to have largely survived the bombing.

5       The Ministry    of Communications (MOC) operates a digital service mainly in
Kabul, Herat and Mazar where recent national and international satellite links have now
been established. Kabul has recently installed a 12,000 fixed line digital switch with
7,000 active lines. Herat includes a 7,500 fixed line digital system, most of which are
active and Mazar has a capacity of 4,000 lines, most of which are also active. The MOC
also operates an analogue network mainly in Kabul with an estimated 8,000 active lines
although the switch does have a capacity of 15,000 lines. Instanet is currently completing
the installation of five Very Small Aperture Terminals (VSATs) in the five main cities of
Afghanistan on behalf of the MO.           These will  give the MOC      limited backbone
transmission to connect its digital lines.

6       Afghan Wireless Communications Company (AWCC), which is a joint venture
with the MOC, currently operatesa digital wired service in Kabul connecting some of the
Ministries   and a score of public telephone booths to its international satellite switch.
There are similar operations in Herat and Mazar with lower numbers whilst Kandahar is
estimated to have 750 active lines. AWCC has recently launched a Global Standard for
Mobile (GSM) service in Kabul with plans to offer service in the five major cities within



                                          1

two months. A new mobile operator is currently testing its services for full release in the
near future. The operator was selected through a process of competitive bidding earlier
this year.

7       However, country teledensity remains on the order of two telephones per 1,000
people compared to 24 per thousand in Pakistan, 35 in Tajikistan, 68 in Uzbekistan, and
83 in Turkmenistan.      The fixed analogue, fixed digital and wireless digital networks
present in Kabul are not interconnected.

8.      At present, the Government's abilities to coordinate its own operations are
severely limited by inadequate communications capacity between Ministries in Kabul -
in the majority of cases, inter-Ministry  communications requires either physical transfer
of information or meetings. This constraint extends to the capacity to communicate with
other actors in Kabul and internationally, with very few telephone lines and even less
Internet capacity (the majority of Ministries have no effective access to the Internet at
all).  Most Ministries also have no capacity to communicate with the provinces.           Da
Afghanistan Bank (DAB)        has limited  satellite-based connectivity with its provincial
Banks, and it is likely that the Ministry of Finance (MOF), at least in the short term, will
be able to share that capacity. Given the scale of demand and the limited nature of the
DAB network, however, the rest of the Kabul Government has effectively no access to
their regional counterparts. Furthermore, the design of the DAB network is unsuitable
for more intensive use.

9       Postal services are also recovering from years of conflict. There is a post office in
every district, and the potential for the postal network to function as not only a delivery
vehicle for letter and parcels, but also government services, other communications
technologies and (potentially) financial services. However, at present, many post offices
are dilapidated and lack even such basic equipment as scales and franking machines.
Even the central post office      in Kabul    lacks basic mail handling and processing
equipment.

C. TISA Objectives

10      The overriding objective of the TISA's       national communications policy is to
achieve modernization     and rapid expansion of telecommunications            networks and
services, and to aim for universal accessto telecommunications across Afghanistan. The
TISA recognizes that in order to achieve this, it is important to create the right conditions
for open competition and private sector investment by ensuring a stable and transparent
policy, legal and regulatory environment.

11.     Policy will also evolve toward a technologically neutral, open and convergent
status. Certain distinctions may remain for purposes of licensing and regulation, for
example for those services depending upon scarce resources and to support accessgoals.
The primary objective, however, is to lessen artificial technology and service barriers,
and to   encourage the forces of convergence and market innovation               to promote
widespread accessto a range of affordable communications services.

12       A Telecommunications     Act is being finalized and the government is presently
working    to set up an independent Telecommunications            Regulatory  Authority   of
Afghanistan (TRAA).      Afghanistan will ensure that the TRAA is completely independent
of any operator or service provider in the ICT sector. For the coming months, with
support from the Public Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility       (PPIAF), an interim
Telecommunications      Review Board has been established in the MOC to prepare the
ground for the establishment of the TRAA by the end of 1382.

13.      During the 5-year period covered by the existing policy,         the TISA's   clear
intention is the corporatization of the Ministry's fixed telecommunications operations.
The corporatization process (supported under the proposed project) will commence as a
priority in the last three months of 2003, with the creation of the new corporation planned
for 2004. The Ministry is planning to invite a strategic partner to manage Afghan Tel
post-corporatization.      Plans for eventual privatization    will  be augmented by an
institutional   strengthening   exercise   to   ensure    administration   procedures   and
accountability to meet all international quality and performance expectations. Although
foreign investors are invited     and encouraged to demonstrate their commitment         by
forming joint ventures with local partners, there is no minimum requirement for local
equity partners.

14       The cellular market has two privately run national licensed operators. For long
distance and international telephony, the government has invested in some capacity with
the assistance of the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF), but all mobile and
fixed licensees also have the right to operate long distance and international services
independently of the MOC-controlled operator. International (facilities) licenses are also
available for Internet usage - subject to separate VSAT        licensing, where appropriate
(presently only on a temporary basis).

15       A Telecommunications     Development Fund (TDF) will be established to help
support the rapid development of universal access in areas that may be perceived as
uneconomic by the market. This Fund will be administered by the TRAA, and will be
separately identified under the Commission's operating budget. Where feasible, funds
will be employed to facilitate investment in market-oriented, sustainable operations,
which will not require further subsidy following initial start-up funding. Notwithstanding
this requirement, the Fund will be utilized to support the most beneficial investments and
services in locations most in need of communications infrastructure.       Use of the Fund
will also be coordinated with other public service projects, such as educational and health
facilities.

16       As part of the National Development Budget and as a centerpiece of the draft
Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) Policy, the MOC has laid out as a
major priority for communications development over the next year the expansion and
improved functioning of the government's own communications system.              The MOC
expects to be the lead agency in rolling out this system as a matter of urgency, in order to
improve the ability of the TISA to govern.       The TISA recognizes the vital need for
improved     government communications      to allow more efficient     governance, greater
transparency, and greater interaction with the provinces.



                                         3

17      The TISA is keen to see the rehabilitation of the postal network both to allow the
delivery of parcels and letters, but also to expand the use of post offices as a point of
interaction between government and citizen and, potentially, a location for voice and data
communications access and financial service delivery.       The administration has already
undertaken some innovative         public-private   ventures to improve    service delivery,
including an arrangement whereby a private company provides stamps to the postal
system for no charge in return for the right to issue stamps to collectors worldwide.




  II. INTERNATIONAL           DEVELOPMENT          ASSOCIATION       (IDA) ASSISTANCE
                                          STRATEGY

A. The Transitional     Support Strategy

18      The Transitional Support Strategy (TSS), presented to the Executive Directors of
IDA    in March     2003, is predicated on the need for well-coordinated          efforts by
Afghanistan's development partners to realize Afghanistan's emergency reconstruction
and development priorities. The key objectives of IDA's        assistance are: (i) improving
livelihoods; (ii) fiscal strategy, institutions and management; (iii) governance and public
administration reform; and (iv) enabling private sector development. This project will in
particular support the third and fourth goals.       By allowing far more straightforward
government     communications       within    Kabul  and to    the  provinces,   government
administrative   capacity will   be significantly   enhanced.    By supporting policy    and
regulatory development for the sector as a whole, the project will enable expanded
provision of private, competitive telecommunications services.

B. Rationale for IDA Involvement in the Communications           Sector

19      Modern communications         systems are vital to the successful development of
Afghanistan. A dependable information system is essential for efficient management and
operation of the public and private sectors.          This includes areas such as internal
government information, citizen's services, trade, banking, and international relations.
Across the world, access to telecommunications has been linked to increased incomes,
improved delivery of services, the development of enterprises and economic growth.

20      ICT is a sector in which the private sector can take the lead role.       Already in
Afghanistan, for example, two private operators are leading the way in rolling out access
to telecommunications.     However, there remain important roles for government oversight
and investment.      Governments must develop and enforce policies and the regulatory
environment required to promote private provision of services. Governments should play
a role in extending access beyond that which the market would provide alone, and
governments have an important part to play in ensuring that their own operations benefit
from access to and use of ICTs to improve governance and government operations. The
TISA has recognized these imperatives, and has promulgated policies that support such a
role.   The TISA has also made specific requests for donor support in the field of
communications to help it play that role.



                                            4

21      Donors have begun to respond, including the World Bank. To date, World Bank
related support for communications in Afghanistan has been largely provided through
trust fund resources. Some support has been given through Analytical           and Advisory
Services (AAA)    to develop draft licensing documents for the MOC, as well as limited
support through the First Emergency Public Administration Project for legal assistanceto
the Ministry. The larger, trust-funded components, are discussed below:

22      As administrator of the ARTF, IDA has appraised and is supervising a $3 million
ARTF investment operation in support of the Ministry        of Communications operational
arm (the future Afghan Tel) with three components:

                Rehabilitation of Satellite Earth Station (ES): The rehabilitation of ES is
                required to eliminate     existing bottlenecks in transmission       capacity
                between Kabul and the outside world.       In addition, the capacity of this
                link will also be offered to other service providers to increase usage and
                thereby raise revenues for Afghan Tel. Rehabilitation of ES provides for
                replacement of the dish antenna, upgrading of power supply and other
                equipment needed to make the ES fully functional.       In order to minimize
                cost of rehabilitation, the use of the existing infrastructure such as the
                motorized antenna baseand adjacent building will be fully exploited.

            l   Expand and improve transmission links to neighboring states: The re-
                establishment of this link will provide much neededtransmission capacity
                between Kabul and the Eastern provinces of Jalalabad, Nuristan, Kunar,
                Laghman, terminating in Peshawer (Pakistan).          These microwave links
                will   provide immediate    voice and data connectivity       for the above
                Provinces and also Peshawer as well          as national and international
                broadcasting traffic.

            0   Billing System: In order to be able to generate and administer customer
                bills, the MOC requires an efficient billing system. Such a billing system
                together with appropriate processesand procedures shall help the MOC to
                increase the revenue generation and collection.         The project supports
                initial capacity development in this area.

23     In addition, PPIAF resources totaling US$481,000 are being used to provide
consulting services over the course of the year June 2003 to February 2004 in order to:

            l  Support     the   initial creation  of   minimal,     transparent   regulatory
                institutions and a regulatory unit within the Ministry, including design of
               regulatory     frameworks,     regulations,   institutional   structures   and
               procedures as well as capacity building        and support for stakeholder
               participation.

            l  Support the creation and functioning      of the regulatory unit.   The focus
               will again be on creating a minimal unit carrying out only those functions
               necessaryto ensure a competitive environment; and

            a   Map a process of further development of the regulatory body from a
                minimal unit within the MOC to an independent regulator with significant



                                         5

                institutional strength and capacity, outlining options for scope including
                convergence and/or multi-sectoral regulation.

24     Other donors are also involved in the sector. Proposed and ongoing activities
indlude:

                International   Telecommunications    Union (ITU):      The ITU has offered
                support    in  the  areas of    telecommunications       law  and  spectrum
                management and monitoring.        In cooperation with the United Nations
                Development Program (UNDP) and Universal Postal Union (UPU), the
                ITU has launched a pilot project to provide connectivity to a number of
                post offices around Kabul.

                Government of the United States of America (US): The US government is
                providing short-term support in the form of a Chief Technical Officer
                who will assist in the resolution of engineering-related issues for the
                Ministry    of   Communications.        Through     different agencies and
                consultancies, the US Government is also supporting or has promised
                some support in the areas of utilities law, regulation and reform, short
                term assistance in corporatization       strategy and Internet policy,  and
                support for a feasibility study of a national fiber-optic backbone.

                The Asian Development Bank (ADB)            (through an infrastructure loan
                administered by the MOF)        has provided investment support for the
                expansion of the digital switch and Wireless Local Loop (WLL) networks
                in Kabul and a number of provinces, to be operated by Afghan Tel/MOC.

                UNDP: The UNDP has provided support in cooperation with the ITU and
                UPU (see above). It has also provided assistance in the drafting of an
                ICT policy, helped set up a Cisco Learning Academy and provided
                limited connectivity to selected ministries.

                Iran: Iran has provided support to the MOC to rehabilitate the ICT
                Institute.

25     Existing World Bank-managed support, in concert with support provided by other
donors, has played a role in the considerable progress that has occurred in the sector over
the past year - not least the licensing of two mobile operators, the development of a
spectrum management plan and movement towards the creation of telecommunications
laws, regulations and a regulatory body. This project will have to be closely coordinated
with these other activities through the Afghanistan Donor Consultative Group for Energy,
Mining and Telecommunications.

26.    Nonetheless, there remains a significant        need for support to provide both
investment and technical assistance resources to the MOC.            Other donors have not
suggestedthey will provide this support, offering a strong rationale for IDA involvement:

           0    As noted, communications capacity within          Kabul between Ministries
                remains very weak, as does capacity to communicate outside Kabul. This
                is particularly true of communications with provincial capitals. There is
                an urgent need to meet these government communications needs through



                                         6

                the development of a government communications network including an
                Intranet, as well as voice connectivity. Given that the establishment of a
                national backbone is currently only in the stage of a feasibility study, and
                with no funding for the project confirmed, rolling out this government
                communications network is a very timely stop-gap measure.

            l   In order to foster the growth of a private-sector-led, competitive market
                for telecommunication services, a number of stepsneed to be undertaken:
                (i) the regulatory unit of the MOC, supported for its first year under
                PPIAF, needs to be further strengthened and separatedfrom the MOC to
                guarantee independence; (ii)       the MOC    requires re-engineering and
                investment to operate as a policy making body as opposed to policy
                maker-operator-regulator;     (iii)  the  nascent    Afghan     Tel   requires
                corporatization and preparation for eventual privatization.

            0   The postal sector requires significant     investment support as well as
                corporatization to improve its ability to deliver basic postal services as a
                first step toward a potential expansion of its role into government,
                communications and financial services provision.          As initial  steps to
                ensure the long-term viability of the postal network and to maximize its
                contribution to national reconstruction, it will be necessary to define a
                sound postal sector policy and development plan.

27      Elements of this agenda will be undertaken with the support of other donors
indluding ITU, UNDP, USAID         and the UPU in conjunction with the German postal
administration.  However, given the limited internal resources of the MOC and the TISA,
combined with the urgent need for progress, there remains a significant agenda of support
to be met by IDA and other donors.

C. Lessons Learned

28      Experience from post-conflict    environments suggests the great importance of
wireless communications     as the primary telecommunications         infrastructure, and the
rapidity with which competitive private wireless provision can roll out (even in poor and
war-tom environments) under the correct regulatory and policy conditions. This suggests
the   urgency    of   creating  regulatory    and    legal  institutions   that   can   foster
telecommunications rollout, particularly in the wireless segment.

29      The limited (one year) experience of projects in post-conflict Afghanistan as well
as `longer experience in other post-conflict environments suggests the importance of
intensive project supervision to project success, as well as flexible implementation of
project components in a rapidly changing environment.         The experience of one year
suggests that capacity in line ministries to implement projects remains somewhat limited
(although the Ministry of Communications is relatively strong in this regard), and support
for training and project management capacity has been included in this project to help
ameliorate this situation.

                                III. THE PROPOSED PROJECT

A. Objective
30       The objective of the proposed Emergency Communications Development Project
is to support activities designed to improve delivery of communications services to the
Government and to the people of Afghanistan. This will be achieved by: (i) carrying out
urgent expansion of the government communications                     network      to restore critical
communications between ministries and provinces; (ii) providing urgently needed policy
advice and capacity building to the MOC to promote sustainable communications sector
performance and increased private sector participation; and (iii) improving the delivery of
postal services.      The outcomes of the Project are expected to be improvements in
communications facilities and delivery, while laying the foundations for sector reforms
and institution      building     which    would    lead to    sustainable development           of  the
communications sector. Monitoring indicators are given in Appendix IV.


B. Project Description

31       The credit has three components, covering: (a) Expanding and integrating the
existing Emergency Government Communications                    Network,     (b) MOC       Institutional
Capacity Building, and (c) Postal Sector Reform. Details of the project components are
provided in Appendix 1 and summarized below:

Component 1: Emergency              Government Communications           Network      (US$M
million):

32       The component supports: (a) the supply, installation, and commissioning of a
communications network that will integrate an existing network constructed by the World
Bank and the UNDP, as well as improve and extend coverage to Ministries and other key
Government organizations in Kabul as well as Provincial Capitals and selected other
sites, and (b) Operations and maintenance and training of Afghan Tel staff. The turnkey
service component will support the rollout of a network for government communications
utilizing tried and tested technologies in a robust configuration that can be rapidly rolled
out in the current Afghan environment.

33       The MOC        of TISA     presently provides telecommunications             services to the
following ministries and entities:


              l    Ministry of Communications
              l    Ministry of Reconstruction
              l    Ministry of Finance
              l    The Central Bank
              l    The Office of the President
              l    The Ministry of Higher Education*
              l    Ministry of Foreign Affairs*


* NB Ministries of Foreign Affairs and Higher Education - microwave link installed and ready for use.



                                              8

            l   The Afghanistan Assistance Coordination Authority (AACA)

34      In phase one of the Government Communications Network component, the MOC
will expand the existing Government Communications Network (GCN) to include an
additional 12 ministries which are located in Kabul.    These ministries will be connected
by fiber or microwave or other suitable communication technology to a central location
and connect to a VSAT which will serve as the satellite gateway earth station of the
network. In addition to the expansion of the GCN to the 12 ministries, there will also be
a requirement to expand the network to 14 priority provincial capitals. In phase two of
the project, the remaining ministries, provincial capitals and selected other sites will be
connected.

35      The operation and maintenance (O&M) contract will run for the remaining life of
the project or until such time that both the MOC and the World Bank are satisfied that
capacity exists within the corporatized Afghan Tel to transfer operating responsibility and
ownership to Afghan Tel. This project component will also pay for sufficient training of
Afghan   Tel staff to provide them with        the capacity to operate the Government
Communications     network.    From that point onwards, the communications        network
operator will be under standard regulatory oversight and act as part of a commercial
(government owned) corporation. It is expected that, in the medium term (three years),
this company will be privatized, and operate as a standard telecommunications services
provider.

36      The component will also cover training. MOC staff lack sufficient opportunities
to *develop the skills necessary to operate and maintain the various equipment to be
deployed in the GCN. Therefore a significant component of this project is the provision
of formal training for a team of MOC staff in order that they can develop the ability to
maintain the GCN independently and efficiently.

37     It will be required that the bidder selected to expand the network, and provide
O&M    services, also provide these training services. Penalties will be built into the
contract for failure to deliver training within the agreed timeframe without justifiable
reasons.

Component 2: MOC Institutional      Capacity Building (US$7.44 million)

38      The following   sub-components would provide support to (a) separate MOC's
policy, regulation, operational and ownership functions, (b) strengthen the MOC's policy
and project management capacity, (c) further establish and "bed down" independent
regulatory capacity, (d) establish the monitoring        equipment required to properly
administer the MOC's spectrum plan, and (e) establish Afghan Tel as an efficient State-
owned corporation:

            0   Consulting services (US$2.3 million)     for MOC restructuring, Financial
                and   Management      Information   Systems    (MIS)    and  Afghan     Tel
                Corporatization to include: (i) support for management and organizational
                restructuring, and for implementation of a new organizational structure



                                        9

               reflecting the MOC's      role as policy maker; (ii) examination of real
                staffing needs of MOC, and skills matching; (iii) MIS development; and
               (vi) corporatization of AghanTel (inter alia: creation of corporate entity
               and strategy for implementation of allocation of assets, liabilities     and
               staff; inventory of assets, liabilities  and personnel; asset and liability
               allocation; creation of Opening Financial Statements; examining options
               for labor force; and cost-basedtariff study).

               Consulting services (US$l.3 million) to allow for the development of a
               strong, independent regulator to include, inter alia: (i) assistance for
               implementation of the transition from MOC unit to independent, stand-
               alone regulator;    (ii)  technical  standardization processes, spectrum
               management, pricing       and monitoring    quality  of   service standards,
               monitoring of compliance by operators with the law and license terms,
               disclosure/publicity   of regulatory processes, and other "as needed"
               support including potential development of a pro-competitive license for
               Afghan Tel and other service providers; (iii) development of performance
               criteria for Afghan Tel; (iv) professional development and training; and
               (v) MIS development.

           0   Support for project management capacity including hiring of a Project
               Management Specialist to assist in the management of various financial
               and implementation arrangements during the life of the project (US$O.6
               million).

           l   Procurement of spectrum monitoring         equipment including       (US$2.0
               million):    (i)  establishment     of   one   mobile     and    one   fixed
               spectrum/frequency monitoring kit, and associated training; and (ii) office
               equipment and vehicles including hardware and software to facilitate
               regulatory functioning.

           0   Other elements (US$l.24 million), including but not limited to equipment
               (including  office equipment), training, technical advisory services to
               Afghan Tel, studies covering a potential universal access strategy and on
               an `as needed' basis, and other consulting services.


Component 3: Postal Sector Reform (US$O.56 million)

39.   The following sub-components would support the separation of the MOC's policy
and operational functions in the postal sector and help develop the sector.

           l   Consulting services to include (US$O.3 million):       (i) articulation of a
               postal sector policy and development strategy; (ii) support for the MOC
               in developing a regulatory framework and sufficient regulatory capacity
               to achieve: definition of attainable universal service levels and funding
               mechanisms, introduction and management of competition within the
               sector, management of pricing for regulated services, and an appropriate
               level of separation between the TISA/Government and the public operator
               through increased management autonomy and institutional capacity; (iii)


                                        10

                support for the restructuring and reconstruction of the postal network to
                meet existing and future postal needs; including definition of a corporate
                Business Plan for the public           operator covering     subjects such as
                organization, staffing, and the potential development of new services
                including   e-services and financial services; and (iv) other consulting
                services.

            0   Equipment including modernization of basic postal equipment/offices
                (US$O.26 million).

40     The estimated project cost is US$22 million.        IDA will fund all project costs. The
summary break down of the proiect cost bv components is provided in the table below.

                   Project  cost table and financing   plan (in US$ million)
                                     (100%   IDA  financed)




                    A. Emergency     Government   Communications
                       Network

                    B. MOC Institutional    Capacity Building
                            -   Consultancies  and training
                            -   Spectrum Monitoring    Equipment
                            -   Other Equipment

                    C. Postal Sector Reform
                            -   Restructuring
                            -   Postal Equipment




C. Sustainability

41.    Given the security situation and the fragile status of the economy and TISA,
sustainability is of serious concern.       Within the limited   area of sustainability issues
amenable to amelioration through project design, however, a number of steps will be
taken to enhance sustainability.

            0   The government communications network is designed to be financially
                self sustaining over the medium term through internal charging for
                services (the MOC will charge other Ministries and government users for
                their  use    of   the   network).        The   intention   to   privatize  the
                telecommunication      provider    should enhance the likelihood        of this
                sustainability.

            0   Technical sustainability will be enhanced through training and the ability
                to pay technicians competitive         salaries through corporatization    and



                                           11

                 private sector involvement.       Further, during the life of the project
                 (four years), the service contractor will    stay in place as operator and
                 maintainer of the network until such time that the Bank and the MOC are
                 comfortable that the network can be sustained by Afghan Tel.

             a   Support for policy and regulatory reform is expected to have a sustained
                 impact. Given that a number of private operators are already active in the
                 telecommunications field, it appears that there is considerable likelihood
                 that private, competitive     service provision    will prove a success in
                 Afghanistan as it has worldwide, generating revenues through license fees
                 and payments significant       enough to sustain the required regulatory
                 capacity to overseethat provision.

42       Support for postal reform and investment will have a sustainable impact if the
postal sector develops a sound sector policy          and development strategy along with
improved     capacity to operate efficiently     and generate revenues.      Improved basic
equipment, corporatization, an understanding of existing and future postal market
demand, and support for improved management are first steps in achieving improved
network performance and revenue generation. Given the relatively small investments in
this  sub-sector envisaged in the project,         and the imrnediate need for a basic
communications      infrastructure, the impact      of these investments    should also be
sustainable through delivering and collecting chargesfor improved service.

43      The project is potentially at risk from the general security position in Afghanistan.
This particularly relates to the government communications network component, which
will involve activities in all 32 provinces.      Security issues will be taken into account
during the design and operation of the project.          However, like most of the current
reconstruction and development efforts, the long term sustainability of the project is
likely to be tied to the general security situation in the country.


IV. INSTITUTIONAL          ARRANGEMENTS            AND PROJECT        IMPLEMENTATION

A. Institutional   Arrangements

44      The project would be implemented over a period of three and a half years. Project
completion date would be March 20, 2007, and the Credit closing date would be
September 30, 2007. This comparatively long time period for an emergency project is to
help ensure sustainability.      In particular, the government communications        network
component is urgently required to improve governance capacity, however, the MOC
lacks the technical and financial resources required to operate the network at the current
time.   This emergency project will allow for rapid rollout of the network, while an
extended project lifetime    will ensure network operation can be supported under the
project until such time that there is the local capacity to operate the network in a self-
sustaining manner.

45      The Executing agency for the project would be the Ministry of Communications,
with  assistance to be provided on matters involving             financial management and


                                          12

procurement     by the Afghanistan      Assistance Coordination    Authority  Procurement
Consultant. The MOC will be responsible for procurement of goods, works and services
estimated to cost up to US$25,000 per contract, following the provisions of the Credit
Agreement. Beyond this limit, procurement will be carried out with the assistanceof the
Procurement Consultant at the AACA, with technical inputs from the MOC.


B. Procurement

46      The IDA Emergency Public Administration        Project is funding the services of a
Procurement Consultant to support the AACA and various ministries.       The Procurement
Consultant will be responsible for assisting with the procurement of all goods and
consultancy services for the Emergency Communications Project. Procurement capacity
in MOC is being strengthened with suitable training.         To ensure that procurement
capacity is built up, Procurement Consultant will provide training to MOC staff, as well
as other staff as deemed necessary to ensure that they develop capacity to eventually
carryout procurement on their own. MOC will appoint a Project Management Specialist
to oversee the implementation of the proposed project.       Until funds under the project
become available Emergency Infrastructure Reconstruction Project funds will fund the
specialist. MOC will also provide an implementation plan outlining unit and personnel
responsibilities for selection and management of consultants as well as procurement and
operation of goods.

47.     Goods and consulting services financed under the Project shall be procured in
accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines and Guidelines for Selection and
Employment of Consultants, and using the Bank's standard bidding documents. Each
contract for goods estimated to be equivalent of US$300,000 or more and the first three
contracts for goods procured under international or national shopping, shall be subject to
prior review by IDA. Each contract for employment of consulting firms estimated to cost
more than US$lOO,OOOand more than US$50,000 in case of individual consultants, shall
be subject to prior review by IDA.   All other contracts will be subject to the post award
review.   Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) would be the preferred method for
most of the consultancies. However, selection based on Consultants' Qualifications (CQ)
and Individual Consultants (IC) may be adopted for other consultancy services. Detailed
procurement arrangements are provided in Appendix III.

C. Disbursement And Financial Management

48      Since there is no Country Profile of Financial Accountability (CPFA) or Country
Financial   Accountability   Assessment (CFAA)      for Afghanistan, there is inadequate
knowledge     of  country   issues and related strengths and weaknesses.         Financial
management capacity in the country is not fully functional and appropriate mitigation
measures have been implemented through the engagement of the Financial Management
Agent.   The Financial Management Agent will be responsible for assisting the MOF to
maintain the accounts for all Government expenditures, including the proposed MOC
project, in addition to building capacity within TISA. Standard quarterly progress reports



                                         13

will be prepared. The Project Management Specialist (PMS) in the MOC will support the
financial and implementation       arrangements of this project.     There may need to be
additional capacity in the Financial Management Agent (FMA)            to accommodate this
project due to the increasing number of projects.

49       Funds Flow: Funds flow under the project will use the existing government
system as much as possible. As is the practice for government expenditure, all project
payments will    be routed through the Ministry      of Finance (MOF).         The Financial
Management Agent will support the MOF in executing and recording project payments.

50       Treasury officials at the MOF will be the authorized persons to operate the USD
Special Account of the project at Da Afghanistan Bank; IDA funds will be deposited into
the Special Account.      When a project payment is required to be made, implementing
agencies (line ministries and other government departments) will           submit a standard
payment request to the MOF-Treasury.       Treasury officials, after verifying the documents
and checking the availability of funds in the Special Account and budget will, (a) for
payments in Afghanis issue a check in Afghanis for encashment at DAB, and (b) in case
of a payment in foreign currency, instruct DAB to execute the payment.

51       All withdrawal applications to the IDA, including replenishment, reimbursement
and direct payment applications, will be prepared and submitted by the MOF.

52       Audit Arrangements: The accounts of the Project will be audited by the Auditor
General (AG) with the support of the Audit Agent with terms of reference satisfactory to
the Association. The annual Project financial statement to the Association would include
a summary of funds received (showing funds received from all sources), and a summary
of expenditures shown under the main Project components/activities              and by main
categories of expenditures.

53       Disbursement Method: Disbursements from the IDA Credit would be transaction-
based (replenishment, reimbursement, direct payment, and payments under Special
Commitments)      with   full documentation or against statements of expenditures as
appropriate.

54       Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs): Disbursements will be made on the
basis of SOEs for: (a) consultants and training for contracts not exceeding US$lOO,OOO
for firms and US$50,000 for individuals; and (b) goods for contracts not exceeding
us$300,000.

D.  Environment   And   Social Safeguard

55       The reconstruction and investment interventions envisaged under the proposed
project are not expected to generate significant negative environmental effects.         No
activities will be supported that require involuntary land acquisition or the acquisition of
land.    Consequently, no Resettlement Action Plan will be required for the proposed
project.



                                         14

56.     Network and spectrum monitoring equipment will be housed in existing buildings
and will not involve building construction.      The government communications service
operator is expected to use VSAT and other wireless technologies to deploy services. As
a result of this choice of technology, there is no need to build accessroads, new buildings
or large power-supply installations.     Moreover, the installation of compact, modular
VSAT equipment will not adversely affect the aesthetics of rural areas. It should be
noted, however, that it is possible under an alternative configuration that in Kabul the
service provider may utilize      spurs off an existing fiber optic system to provide
connectivity to some ministries.    If that does occur, minimal ducting may be required.
The service contract will specify that such ducting will traverse only public rights of way
and involve no major construction work.

57      Gender: The last twenty years of social upheaval has greatly affected the overall
gender situation in Afghanistan, resulting in very restrictive policies vis-a-vis women's
participation in public life, accessto education and other services as well as employment
opportunities.   During the Taliban regime, women and girls were effectively excluded
from any participation in public life. With the replacement of the Taliban regime, women
have regained the right to education, employment opportunities and services, but the
prevailing social norms are still very conservative and restrictive regarding women's
participation in the national development effort.     There are huge differences between
Kabul and the much smaller secondary cities, and the rural areas. In addition, there are
considerable regional differences with the south and southeastern areas of the country
being more restrictive and conservative than the western and northern areas. These
variations to some extent coincide with ethnic differences. To this should be added the
great difference in outlook of returning refugees (whether repatriating from the West or
from the neighboring countries) and those who remained in Afghanistan.

58.     ICT is a major sector in which gender imbalances can be addressed, through
increased employment opportunities for women.            In addition, by allowing   for the
increased flow of information to and from Kabul and the provinces, as well as allowing
for the more efficient     operation of government in general, the project will      act to
strengthen the ability of the Authority to carry out its polices designed to decreasethe
inequality of opportunity between women and men.

E. Monitoring     And Evaluation

59      Monitoring    arrangements include plans for intensive supervision by IDA        to
ensurethat any implementation difficulties are dealt with promptly. At a minimum, a full
supervision mission is needed each four months, with specialists visiting Afghanistan
more frequently, if needed, during Project implementation.      A quarterly progress report
will be prepared and submitted to IDA, which consolidates all components including
progress towards meeting implementation and development objectives, as further detailed
in the Project's procurement plan and detailed monitoring indicators. Responsibility for
this reporting rests with the AACA, with each implementing agency agreeing to provide
requisite input. Appendix IV provides additional details on monitoring indicators for the
Project.



                                         15

                                                                                  Appendix I

                                PROJECT       DESCRIPTION


Project Objectives

1        The objective of the proposed Emergency Communications Development Project
is to support activities laid out in the Development Budget approved by the Cabinet
designed to improve delivery of communications services to the government and to the
people of Afghanistan. This will be achieved by: (i) carrying out urgent expansion of the
government communications          network to restore critical     communications    between
ministries and provinces; (ii) providing urgently needed policy advice and capacity
building to the MOC to promote sustainable communications sector performance and
increased private sector participation; and (iii) improving       the postal sector and the
delivery of postal services. The outcomes of the Project are expected to be improvements
in communications facilities and delivery, while laying the foundations for sector reforms
and institution    building   which   would     lead to sustainable development       of  the
communications sector. Monitoring indicators are given in Appendix IV.

Project Components

Component 1: Emergency Government Communications                 Network

2        The component will pay for the turnkey procurement, installation, operational and
acceptance testing and maintenance of a communications network that will integrate the
existing World Bank and UNDP funded network equipment as well as improving and
extending coverage to all Ministries, the Central Bank and the Presidential Palace in
Kabul as well as Provincial Capitals. The component is envisaged to construct a network
for government communications         utilizing  tried and tested technologies in a robust
configuration that can be rapidly rolled out in the current Afghan environment.

3.       The component will also provide funding for operating costs for both the existing
network and that to be built under the contract. The contract will run for the remaining
life of the project or until such time that both the MOC and the World Bank are satisfied
that capacity    exists within     the corporatized     Afghan   Tel  to   transfer operating
responsibility and ownership to Afghan Tel.         This project component will also pay for
sufficient training of Afghan Tel staff to provide them with the capacity to operate the
Government Communications Network.            From that point onwards, the communications
network operator will      be under standard regulatory oversight and act as par of a
commercial (government owned) corporation.           It is expected that, in the medium term
(three   years), this   company      will   be   privatized,  and   operate as a     standard
telecommunications services provider.

4.       The emergency government communication             network will    be designed and
operated principally as a network for government communications.            After government
requirements for communications have been met at the provincial level, sparecapacity in



                                           16

  the provincial network may be made available to operators of public telecommunications
  networks. It is noteworthy that it is currently estimated that this sparecapacity is likely to
  be limited and would not change the need to establish a normal national backbone system
  with sufficient national capacity. This would be on a non-discriminatory basis as part of
  an open and competitive regime in the international and long distance segments.

  5       The MOC        of TISA      presently provides telecommunications             services to the
  following ministries and entities:

                1. Ministry of Communications
                2. Ministry of Reconstruction
                3. Ministry of Finance
                4. The Central Bank
                5. The Office of the President
                6. The Ministry of Higher Education*
                7. Ministry of Foreign Affairs*
                8. The Afghanistan Assistance Coordination Authority

  6.      In phase one of the Government Communications Network component, the MOC
B will expand the existing GCN to include an additional 12 ministries which are located in
  Kabul. These ministries will be connected by fiber or microwave radios or other suitable
  communication technology to a central location and connect to a Very Small Aperture
  Antenna which will        serve as the satellite gateway earth station of the network.                In
  addition to the expansion of the GCN to the 12 ministries, there will                        also be a
  requirement to expand the network to 14 priority provincial capitals and selected other
  sites.  In phase two of the project, the remaining ministries and provinces will be
  connected.

  7.      The     component will        also cover training.         MOC      staff   lacked sufficient
  opportunities to develop the skills           necessary to operate and maintain the various
  equipments to be deployed in the GCN.               Therefore, a significant component of this
 project is the provision of formal training for a team of MOC staff in order that they can
  develop the ability to maintain the GCN independently and efficiently.

  8       It will be required that the bidder selected to expand the network, and provide
  d&M     services, also provide these training services.           Penalties will be built into the
  contract for failure to deliver training within the agreed timeframe without justifiable
 reasons.

  9       A brief description of the proposed services to be provided under the project
  includes:


          l    Central hub in Kabul.         The central service centre in the MOC will require
               expansion so that it has capacity to meet the planned expansion, and further
               expansion that may occur in the future. It is proposed that the function of the

  * NB: Ministries of Foreign Affairs and Higher Education - microwave link installed and ready for use.



                                                17

                  main hub will be shifted from the AACA office where it is currently located to
                  the MOC building in Jan Khan Watt in Kabul, where a Multiplex receiver will
                  be installed. The MOC equipment will be installed in parallel with the AACA
                  system, and the central hub function will be transferred to it from AACA once
                  the equipment is installed. The AACA link will remain part of the network.
                  Minor work will be required to redirect the existing organisations to this new
                  location. This will be planned in line with the expansion to 12 new Ministries.

           l      Ministries      in Kabul (priority I and 2). The service will offer all Ministries
                  the opportunity to link to the central network. Ministries will be able to link
                  to the existing satellite network.                        The project will provide Ministries with
                  hardware including additional computers and IT facilities so that the benefits
                  of the ICT services can be properly realised.                                     Of the total of 41 central
                  Government            organisations that receive Government                                  (operating budget)
                  funding, this proposal allows for the inclusion of around 34 (including those
                  already connected). This is based on the assumption that some Ministries
                  such as Defense and the Supreme Court will wish to install separate secure                                                 `!
                  systems.

           l      Provinces.        The services to be provided to provinces, in particular provincial
                  capitals, include connection for the Governor's office, the Da Afghanistan
                  Bank, Mustoufiates, Customs, the local Police department, the MOC, and
                  other important Government departments.                                   Once connected, there will be
                  significant      capacity for further expansion of these services as needed.
                  Tier 1 cities, video conferencing capabilities'.A
                  Services to provinces will include email, Internet, voice connectivity and in


              - "Tier       1". All Tier 1 provincial capitals (except Kunduz) already have 4.5 m
                  satellite dishes installed.              This project will support further rollout of services.

              - "Tier       2".   The MOC is presently awaiting approval of the Government of
                  India for funding of satellite links and digital switching for Tier 2 cities. If
                  this approval occurs, then there will not be a requirement for satellite dishes
                  from the World Bank project. However, Tier 2 cities will require bandwidths
                  to be assigned as part of the current project, and it is also proposed that they
                  receive approximately the same level of ICT equipment as the Tier 1 cities
                  from the current project.

              - All others (priority 2). Remaining connectivity points in provincial capitals
                  or other provincial              areas may also need, on a selective basis,                                   satellite
                  connection        (VSAT)          and bandwidth                   assignment.            The      equipment and
                  installation       needs         may       vary         depending          on       the     activities     of       other
                  telecommunications projects mentioned previously.                                    This project will need to
                  addressthese needs flexibly, and integrate this potential expansion with other
                  work occurring in the sector and potentially cover other sites.




' The project will provide the capability for "Tier 1" cities to install relatively low-cost point-to-point videoconferencing facilities.
Individual provinces can install more expensive systemsif they require them.



                                                              18

Priority One locations are the following:

     Ministries
      1.   Ministry of Commerce                                           2.  Ministry of Interior
      3.   Ministry of Education                                          4.  Ministry of Mining and Industry

      5.   Ministry of Agriculture                                        6.  Ministry of Information  and Culture
      7.   Central Statistics Office                                      8.  Ministry of Civil Aviation
      9.   Ministry of Public Health                                      10. Ministry of Public Works
      11. Ministry of Transport                                           12. Ministry of Energy and Power

     Kabul hub expansion
      13. Kabul - Ministry of Communications
      "Tier 1" capitals
      14. Ball& province (Mazar-e-Sharif)                                 15. Herat province (Herat)
      16. Kandahar province (Kandahar)                                    17. Kunduz province (Kunduz)
      18. Nangarhar province (Jalalabad)2
      "Tier 2" capitals
      19. Badakshan province (Faiz Abad)                                  20. Baghlan province (Baghlan)
     21. Bamiyan province (Bamiyan)                                       22. Farah province (Farah)
     23. Faryab province (Faryab)                                         24. Ghazni province (Ghazni)
     25. HiMOCand province (Lashkar Gar)                                  26. Jowzjan province (Shebergan)
     27. Paktia (Gardez)                                                  28. Parwan province (Charikar)
     29. Takhar province (Taloqan)
Priority Two locations are the following:
     Provinces
     30. Badgis province (Qaleh-y-Now)                                        Ghoor province (Chaghcharan)
      32. Kapisa province (Mahmud-e-Raqi)                                     Khost province (Khost)
     34. Konarah province (Asad Abad)                                         Laghman province (Mehtar Lam)
     36. Logar province (Baraki)                                              Nimrooz province (Zarang)
     38. Noorstan province (Nuristan)                                         Oruzgan province (Tarin Kowt)
     40. Paktika province (Sharan)                                            Samangan province (Aibak)
     42. Sar-i-PO1province (And Khoi)                                         Wardak province (Maidan Wardak)
     44. Zabul province (Qalat)
     Ministries
     45. Civil Service Commission                                             Attorney General
     47. Ministry of Food and Light Industry                                  Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs
     49. Ministry of Irrigation, Water & Env't                                Ministry of Information  and Culture
     51. Ministry of Planning                                                 Ministry of Martyrs and Disabled
     53. Ministry of Religious Instruction & Hajj                             Ministry of Borders
     55. Ministry of Women's' Affairs                                         Ministry of Rural Rehabilitation & Devt
     57. National Olympics Committee                                          Narcotics Commission
     59. Supreme Court


2It is planned that Jalalabad will be linked to Kalhman and Kunur via microwave.



                                                           19

Component 2: MOC Institutional          Capacity Building

10       The following activities to strengthen the MOC's policy and project capacity will
be`supported:
    t    Support for management and organizational restructuring, including consultant
         studies and support for implementation        of a new organizational      structure
        reflecting the MOC's role as policy maker. Examination of real staffing needs of
        MOC, and skills matching.

    l    Consultant studies covering a potential universal access strategy, design of a
        program, and institutional      development for implementation.     This consulting
        program will evaluate the success of projects to date and discuss lessons learned
        for a wider accessstrategy.
        Consultant studies on an `as needed' basis, covering areas such as convergence,
        market structure and competition.

    l   Equipment required within the Ministry in Kabul.        Support will be provided to
        procure hardware and software, including computers and office equipment, so that
        the MOC in Kabul can better perform its functions.

    l   Training.   This will     include inter alia the following:  technical cooperation
        arrangements with relevant policy agencies in other countries, information sharing
        and formal and informal contacts, and advice; seminars and courses offered by
        private firms, universities and associations; study tours and training for senior
        policy officials; and the organization of seminars/workshops in Afghanistan.

    l   Support for project management capacity. Support will be provided to MOC for
        consultancy services to strengthen MOC's capacity to manage and implement the
        project.   This will    include procuring support from a Project Implementation
        Specialist to assist in the management of various implementation arrangements
        during the life of the project.

    l   Establish and implement an improved financial management and MIS for the
        MOC.     There is a clear need for financial management and MIS to improve
        information      available  for  management, and for     provision   of transparent
        information     to MOF and Government.        This will allow greater control and
        transparency for      all  payments and improved      workflow   management and
        information reporting for staff.

11      The following      activities will support the separation of MOC's       policy  and
operational and ownership functions and help establish Afghan Tel as an efficient State-
owned corporation. The creation of a State-owned operating company will leave MOC
free to focus on policy.


    l   Creation of corporate entity and strategy for implementation        of allocation of
        assets,liabilities and staff.

   l    Asset/Liability    Allocation:  Afghan  Tel's  potential assets and liabilities   are
        currently reflected as government property. In order for Afghan Tel to act as an
        independent company, it will need title to its assets and to develop depreciation



                                          20

       and capital expenditure programs to support them. In addition to developing an
       inventory and valuation of fixed assets, this task will also include negotiation of
       land and building ownership/use between Afghan Tel and TISA.            Appropriate
       levels of debt to fund the assetsto be transferred may also need to be determined.

   l   Creation of Opening Financial Statements: A financial audit will both identify
       Afghan Tel's opening position and create the initial financial statements that the
       corporatized Afghan Tel will be required to maintain.      The financial audit will
       also provide valuable information      about financial information   systems to be
       created for Afghan Tel.

   l   Examining Options for Labor Force. Afghan Tel will have limited staff needs at
       its outset, given a small network.       As part of the restructuring process, an
       investigation should be made into the proposed new organizational plan and the
       real staffing needs of the new corporation along with a restructuring plan for
       staffing.

   l   Cost-Based Tariff Study: Afghan Tel has little if any ability to charge for services
       at present. From the beginning, the company should implement a cost-basedtariff
       structure, building on a benchmarking tariff study. This study would provide: (a)
       a tariff proposal by comparing Afghan Tel to other operators in comparable
       markets that run their businessesefficiently.  This will also provide the regulatory
       unit with the required analysis to support implementation of cost-basedpricing for
       unbundled network elements.

   l   Development of Performance Criteria for Afghan Tel to be incorporated in its
       license in order to ensure that restructuring to create Afghan Tel delivers strong
       performance.

   l   Other potential technical advisory support for Afghan Tel.

12     The following     activities will support the separation of MOC's policy        and
regulatory functions, and allow for the development of a strong, independent regulator:


   l   Consultant Assistance for implementation of the transition from MOC unit to
       independent, stand-alone regulator.

   l   Consultant Assistance in the areas of technical         standardization processes,
       spectrum management, pricing and monitoring quality of service standards, and
       other `as needed' support including potential development of a pro-competitive
       license for Afghan Tel and other service providers.

   l   Establishment of one mobile and one fixed spectrum/frequency monitoring kit,
       and associated training.    Currently there are many users of radio frequency and
       there is interference among different networks. As competition is introduced for
       mobile   radio services (such as GSM and Code Division             Multiple Access
       (CDMA),     WLL),   it is essential to manage spectrum usage and interference.
       Further, for national security reasons,the Government needsto be able to monitor
       usage of radio communications spectrum.

   l   Professional development and training        including, inter alia the following:
       technical cooperation arrangements with        relevant policy  agencies in other
       countries, information    sharing and formal and informal     contacts, and advice;
       seminars and courses offered by private firms, universities and associations; study



                                        21

         tours and training      for senior regulatory officials;     and the organization of
         seminars/workshops in Afghanistan.

     l   Office equipment and vehicles including hardware and software to facilitate
         regulatory functioning.

 Component 3: Postal Sector Support

 13      The following     activities  will support the separation of MOC's policy         and
 operational functions in the postal sector and help establish the post office as an efficient
 State-owned corporation:

         0   Consulting support for the MOC to create a sector policy and development
             strategy along with the necessaryregulatory framework and capacity to
             optimize the performance of the Afghan postal network and other support
             including potential support for corporatization.

         0   Examining Options for Labor Force. The post office will have limited staff
             needsat its outset, given a small network. As part of the restructuring
             process, an investigation should be made into the proposed new
             organizational plan and the real staffing needs of the new corporation.

         0   Development of a Business Plan. The post office will require a business plan
             to guide its initial operations and increase its ability to meet existing and
             potential demand in the postal market. This would include evaluation of the
             potential for expanding current operations to include new offering such as e-
             services and financial services.

         0   Rehabilitation of facilities and modernization of basic postal equipment. This
             includes the replacement, refurbishment and rehabilitation of equipment
             including vehicles, scales, scooters, information systems, cancellers,
             culling/facing machines, sorting systems, private boxes, collection boxes,
             inventory and operations and maintenance.



                         Project   Costs by Expenditure Category     (%)

   Expenditure    Category           Amount US$ million               Financing Percentage
 Goods                                        14.58                            100
1Consultant Services             I            4.38               I             100            I
 Training                                     0.31                             100
 Unallocated                                  2.73

 Total Project Costs                          22.00




                                           22

                                                                            Appendix II


                        PROCUREMENT          ARRANGEMENTS


A. Institutional  Capacity

 1      The project will be implemented over a period of three years. Project completion
date is March 20, 2007, and the Credit closing date is September 30, 2007.           The
executing agency for the project will be the Ministry of Communications, with assistance
to be provided on matters involving      financial management and procurement by the
Afghanistan Assistance Coordination Agency (AACA)         Procurement Consultant.    The
MOC will be responsible for procurement of goods and services estimated to cost up to
US$25,000 per contract, following the provisions of the Credit Agreement. Beyond this
limit, procurement will be carried out by the AACA procurement unit with support from
the Procurement Consultant, with technical inputs from the MOC.


2       In view of the post-conflict environment in the country, the procurement risk is
considered high, despite the use of procurement expertise of the specialized firm
(Procurement Consultant) in the AACA.       Project supervision will include procurement
expertise in most missions over the life of the IDA credit. Threshold limits described
below have been set in consideration of these risks.    The following  arrangements will
cover the relationship between AACA and its procurement Consultant and the MOC:


l   Where the estimated value of the Goods or Services is less than US$25,000:

        The MOC prepares the designs, drawings, specifications, or Terms of Reference,
        which are a pre-requisite for preparation of Bid Documents or Request for
        Proposals/Quotations.
        The MOC prepares the Bid Documents, issues them, receives bids/quotations,
        evaluates them, and signs the respective contracts. This activity should be fully
        consistent with procurement arrangements described in the Credit Agreement.
        The MOC      may, if it so desires, avail itself of advisory services from the
        Procurement Consultant (PC).
        The MOC will be responsible for initial and subsequent payments under the
        respective procurements.


l   Where the estimated value of Goods or Services is more than US$25,000:

    a) The MOC prepares the designs, drawings, specifications or Terms of Reference
        which are a pre-requisite for preparation of Bid Documents or Request for
        Proposals and delivers these to the PC.
    b) In consultation with the MOC, the PC prepares the Bid Documents, issues them,
        receives bids/quotations, evaluates them, and delivers them to the MOC who
        signs the respective contracts.     The MOC     must participate in evaluations,




                                        23

        providing technical expertise as needed. This activity should be fully consistent
        with procurement arrangements described in the Credit Agreement.
    c) The MOC is responsible for the initial and all further payments. For the initial
        payment the PC will provide assistance,which may also be required exceptionally
        for further payments.

B. Procurement Methods

3       The procurement arrangements and the estimated costs for the project components
to be funded by IDA are shown in Table A. Procurement under the IDA credit would be
carried out in accordance with the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and
Credits"    (January 1995, revised     subsequently, last revision  January 1999) and
"Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers"
(January 1997, revised subsequently, last revision May 2002). For the procurement of
goods, IDA shall suggest appropriate bidding documents/contract formats be used.

4       A General Procurement Notice        for this Project was published in the UN
Development Business (UNDB) online on July 29, 2003, and paper version edition No.
612 dated August 16,2003.

BI: Procurement of Goods (US$l6.85 million)

5       The procurement of goods consists of the turnkey contract for the provision,
maintenance and training related to the government communications network; office
equipment for MOC and Regulatory Unit Offices; spectrum monitoring equipment and
postal equipment.     International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and National/International
Shopping (IS/NS) will be used.

ICB (US$16.0 million):     This will be used for the government communications network  **
and spectrum monitoring equipment.

International/National    Shopping (US$O.SS million):    This  will be used for goods
estimated to cost less than or equal to US$70,000 equivalent per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of US$850,000.            Under shopping
procedures, the Procurement Consultant will use simplified documents and procedures
for soliciting, receiving and evaluating competitive quotations from usually at least three
suppliers (in International Shopping from two different countries). The shopping method
to be used will be based on IDA's memorandum of June 8,2000, Guidance Procurement
Notes on handling procurement under Shopping Method.

B2: Consulting Services and Training (US$5. I5 million).

6       Consultancy services will be contracted following procedures in accordance with
the Bank's Procurement Guidelines mentioned above. Consultant services estimated to
cost more than US$200,000 per contract must be advertised in the national newspapers




                                        24

 and in "Development Business" before establishing the shortlist. IDA's clearance of the
 terms of reference will be mandatory irrespective of the value of the assignment.

 Quality and cost-based selection @CBS) (US$3.9 million):                                                        It is envisaged that most of
 the consultant services will be procured through QCBS.

 Consultant qualifications                            (CQ) and Individual                  Consultants (IC) (US$. 1.25 million):
 Training for the MOC, regulatory and postal staff, the project management specialist, and
 other consulting estimated at US$l.25M                                          will follow the CQ or IC methods. A Project
 Management Specialist will be hired as soon as possible using Emergency Infrastructure
 Reconstruction Project funds in the period until project effectiveness for this project, after
 which funds will be provided under this project. The hiring of all individual consultants
 will follow the selection of IC process in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.

 C. Procurement Planning

 7              The AACA                   Procurement Consultant has furnished to IDA                                       for its review a
procurement plan and will update this plan every quarter after project effectiveness. This
 procurement plan will allow monitoring of compliance with prior review requirements set
I                                                                                                            A                      . A
 out below combined with active proi ecysupervision.
                                                                *        J       A.




                                                                     Procurement Plan




 GOVERNMENT COMMUNICATIONS              NETWORK
 1.l Government Communications Network (GCN) and Operation a               gl   ICB           14,000,000     8/25/2003                     12/27/2004

 Sub-Total                                                                                    14,000,000

 IMPROVE TELECOMMUNICATION            SECTOR PERFORMANCE
 2.1 Restructuring (Moe, MIS, AfganTel Corporatization)                         QCBS          2,300,OOO      9/l 92003      l/23/2004      5/I 912006
 2.2 Regulatory Toolkit (Universal Access, Cost-Based Tariff Study,             QCBS           1,300,000   1O/20/2003       2/20/2004      4/22/2005
 2.3 Office Equipment (MoC, Regulatory)                                         NS/IS            590,000     IO/l/2003      12/g/2003      12/30/2003
 2.4 Training (MoC, Regulatory, Postal)                                                          350,000     1I /3/2003     12/5/2003      3/24/2006
 2.5 Project Management Specialist                                              Individual       600,000     8/25/2003      1o/9/2003      1O/5/2006
 2.6 Spectrum Monitoring Equipment and Facilities                               ICB           2,000,000      8/25/2003       l/6/2004      1O/l 2/2004
 2.7 Other Consultancy Services                                                 QCBS/CQ/IC       300,000     4/29/2004       9/l 12004     7/20/2005

 Sub-Total

 IMPROVE POSTAL SECTOR PERFORMANCE
 3.1 Restructuring (Postal Policy, Regulation & Corporatization Strat      c5   QCBS            300,000       51312004      9/l 612004      3/l/2005
 3.2 Postal Equipment                                                      94   NSAS            260,000    1l/l 3/2003       1/g/2004      12/23/2005

 Sub-Total                                                                                      560,000


 Total
                                                                                                        I




                                                                             25

D. Prior and Post Review.

8      All goods contracts in excess of US$300,000 each, and the first three contracts for
goods, procured under international or national shopping, and consulting services
contracts above US$lOO,OOOfor firms and above US$50,000 for individual consultants,
will be subject to prior review by IDA.     All other contracts would be subject to post-
review on a random basis during supervision missions and audits.

E. Procurement Information

9      MOC     with the assistance of AACA        Procurement Consultant will       prepare
procurement information which will be collected and recorded as follows:

    (a)    prompt   reporting   of   contract   award  information     for  the   respective
           components; and
    (b)    comprehensive quarterly reports prepared by AACA indicating:
       0   revised cost estimates for individual contracts and total cost;

        l  revised timings   of procurement actions including         advertising, bidding,
           contract award and completion time for individual contracts; and
       0   compliance report by AACA within three months of the Credit signing date.

F. Proposed Procurement Arrangements          and Frequency of Supervision

10     The project elements, their estimated costs and proposed methods of procurement
are summarized in Table A. Thresholds are given in Table B.




                                        26

                 Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements

                                       (US$ million equivalent)

     Expenditure                                Procurement Method (1)                                         Total
      Category                     ICB                 NCB            Others (2)             NBF                 cost
           Goods                   16.00                                   0.85                                 16.85
                                  (16.00)                                (0.85)                               (16.85)
           Services                                                        4.80                                  4.80
                                                                         (4.80)                                (4.80)
           Training                                                        0.35                                  0.35
                                                                         (0.35)                               (0.35)



            Total                  16.00                                   6.00                                22.00
                                  (16.00)                                (6.00)                               (22.00)

           (1) Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by IDA.        All costs include contingencies
           (2) Includes  goods to be procured       through  international/national    shopping    (three quotations) and
               services (consulting services, training,  technical assistance, etc .)


          Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review

Expenditure               Contract Value                   Procurement                       Contracts Subject to
Category                  Threshold                        Method                            Prior Review
1. Goods                  Above US$300,000                 ICB/Shopping                      US$l6 million
                          and first three
                          contracts of goods,
                          procured following
                          international /
                          national shopping
2. Services                                                                                  US$4.8 million
including Training:
a) Firms                  Above US$lOO,OOO Bank guidelines as
b) Individuals            Above US$50,000                  per para B above


Overall Procurement Risk Assessment: High

11      Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: Once every 6 months
(includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audits).




                                                 27

                                                                          Appendix III


          FINANCIAL      MANAGEMENT,         DISBURSEMENT         AND AUDIT
                                   ARRANGEMENTS


Country Issues

1.      Since there is no Country Profile of Financial Accountability (CPFA) or Country
Financial Accountability   Assessment (CFAA)      for Afghanistan, there is inadequate
knowledge    of  country  issues and related strengths and weaknesses.          Financial
management capacity in the country is not fully functional and appropriate mitigation
measures have been suggested through the engagement of the Financial Management
                                       V        vu                                U
Agent.


Strengths and Weaknesses

2      Strength: The Financial Management Agent, along with the TISA's commitment
to transparent and accountable financial management, are the primary strengths of the
Project financial management. The Project Management Specialist (PMS) will support
the MOC in financial and implementation arrangements of this project.


Staffing and Training

3       The Financial Management Agent will support the MOF and the MOC to perform
the necessary financial management functions.       One of the critical functions of the
Financial Management Agent will be to provide hands-on support to MOC staff to
enhance their financial management capacity.        The PMS will support the MOC in
financial and implementation arrangements of this project.


Accounting Policies and Procedures

4      The project will    follow   standard TISA   financial  management policies and
procedures, including using the TISA Chart of Accounts to record Project expenditures.
The use of these procedures will allow for adequate recording and reporting of Project
expenditures.

5      Accounts    will  be consolidated centrally    in  the MOF    (by the Financial
Management Agent) for all implementing entities and consolidated Project financial
statements will be prepared for all sourcesand uses of Project funds.




                                        28

 Audit Arrangements

 6.        The accounts of the project will be audited by the Auditor General with the
 support of the Audit Agent with terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.    The
 annual Project financial statements to the Association would include a summary of funds
 received (showing funds received from all sources), and a summary of expenditures
 shown under the main project components/activities          and by main     categories of
 expenditures. The format for the annual Project financial statements will be similar to the
 Financial Monitoring    Reports (FMRs).    The audit of the project accounts would also
 include an assessment of: (a) the adequacy of the accounting and internal control
 systems; (b) the ability to maintain adequate documentation for transactions; and (c) the
 eligibility  of incurred expenditures for Association financing.     The annual Project
 financial statements audited by the Auditor General would be submitted within 6 months
 of the close of TISA's fiscal year. The audit reports will be monitored in the Audit
 Reports Compliance System (ARCS):

 Responsible Agency              Audit                         Auditors
 MOF                             SOE, Project Accounts and     Auditors General
                                 Special Account

 The Auditor General will audit the accounts of all the implementing entities. However, a
 consolidated audit report (with consolidated financial statements) will be issued for the
 project.

 Reporting and Monitoring

 7.        Quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports will be produced showing: (i) sourcesand
 uses of funds by disbursement category and project component; (ii) physical progress;
 and (iii) status of procurement activities.  These will be submitted to the Association
 within 45 days of the end of the quarter.

 Disbursement Arrangements

                               Allocation of Credit Proceeds

    Expenditure    Category         Amount US$ million           Financing Percentage
 Goods                                      14.58                          100
1Consultant Services           I            4.69              I            100              I
 Training                                   0.31                           100
 Unallocated                                2.73

 Total Project Costs                        22.00




                                         29

8       Financing Percentage.     Since collection of tax revenue has just begun and is
sporadic, disbursement percentages have been set at 100/o with the understanding,
however, that MOF will submit withdrawal applications on a net-of-tax basis.

9       Disbursement Method: Disbursements from the IDA credit would be transaction-
based (replenishment, reimbursement, direct payment and payments under Special
Commitments)     with  full  documentation or against statements of expenditures as
appropriate.

10      Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs): Disbursements will be made on the
basis of SOEs for: (a) consultants and training for contracts not exceeding US$lOO,OOO
for firms and US$SO,OOOfor individuals;       and (b) goods for contracts not exceeding
us$300,000.

11      Special Account:    A Special Account would be opened and maintained in a bank
acceptable to the Association; and would be operated by MOF in accordance with the
Association's operational policies.    The Authorized Allocation of the Special Account
would be US$l.3     million  which represents the estimated amount of expenditures to
course through the Special Account in a 3-month period. Given the short disbursement
period and the immediate need for special account funds, the full            amount of the
Authorized   Allocation    of the Special Account      will  be available to MOF      upon
effectiveness.

12      Minimum application size. Applications for replenishment to the Special Account
will be submitted (a) monthly, or (b) when the Special Account balance is reduced by 40
percent, whichever    comes first.     The minimum       application   size for withdrawal
applications  for  reimbursement,    direct payment,     or for   applications  for Special
Commitments is 20 percent of the Authorized Allocation of the Special Account.       In the
event that banking facilities are not fully functional at Grant effectiveness, IDA may, on
an exceptional basis, waive minimum          application   size requirements in order to
accommodate urgent needs.

13.     Authority to withdraw Grant funds: MOF will retain the right to sign and submit
withdrawal applications to the Association.

Supervision Plan

14.     From a financial     management perspective, the Project will        need intensive
supervision.    The focus during the supervision will         be on the internal control
arrangements for the Project and functioning       of accounting, financial reporting and
auditing.




                                         30

                  Disbursement timetable  (World Bank fiscal year)

                                Amount        Total for period     Cumulative
                               US$ million          (4OO          disbursements
                                                                       (0OO
      FY04                         1.9                  9                  9

      FY05                         8.2                 37                46

      FY06                         7.0                 32                78

      FY07                         4.9                 22               100




Overall Financial Risk Assessment: High




                                     31

                                                                                Appendix IV
                                       MONITORING

Component                        Monitoring      Indicators      Goals
Government                       Connectivity of ministries      Improve government
Communications Network           and provinces as laid out in    communications, reduce
                                 the project description.        implementation time for
                                 Usage levels of                 decisions taken.
                                 communications network
                                 Revenues from users
                                 meeting running costs.
Communications Ministry          Coporatization of Afghan        Increased investment in
Institutional Development        Tel                             telecommunications sector.
                                 Creation of independent         Increased rollout of
                                 regulatory body.                telecommunications
                                 MOC taking on role as           services.
                                policy-making body.              Fiscal returns to
                                                                 government.
Postal Sector Support            Installation of equipment.      Greater flow of mail.
                                 Improved management of          Increased financial
                                post office.                     sustainability of post office.
                                 Establish regulatory            Increased accessto postal
                                 framework.                      services

                                   Performance Indicators

Component         Monitoring     Indicators                  2003   2004      -2005


Government        -  Number    of Ministries/Government                                     30
Communications       Departments     connected.
Network
                  -  Number    of Provinces connected                            32         32

                  -  Total of telephone    lines under                          6550      6550
                     Government     network

Communications    -  Establish of Afghan     Tel. As SOE
Ministry
Institutional     -  Creation  of an independent
Development          regulatory   body.

                  -  Number    of fixed and mobile phone
                     providers.

                  -  Number    if ISPs.

Postal Sector     Announcement     of postal sector policy.
sumort




                                           32



