Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3825 
–
AF 
 
Development Credit Agreement
 
(Emergency Communication Development Project) 
 
between 
 
TRANSITIONAL ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Page  2
Dated November 8, 2003 
 
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 3825 
–
AF 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated November 8, 2003, between TRANSITIONAL ISLAMIC 
STATE OF AFGHANISTAN (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia,
 of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“AACA” means the Afghanistan Assistance Coordination Authority, an 
authority established pursuant to a Decree of the Borrower, dated March 30, 2002, as the 
same may be amended from time to time; 
 
(b) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(c) 
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year, commencing on 
March 21 of each calendar year and ending on March 20 of the following calendar year; 
 
(d) 
“MOC” means the Ministry of Communication of the Borrower and any 
successor thereto; and  
 
Page  4
-
2
-
(e) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to fifteen million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 15,700,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in its central bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.  
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2007, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
Page  5
-
3
-
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
June 15 and December 15 commencing December 15, 2013 and ending June 15, 2043.  
Each installment to and including the installment payable on June 15, 2023 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
 
(b) Wheneve
r: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of 
five (5) years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
Page  6
-
4
-
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project through MOC with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate technical, administrative, financial, engineering and telecommunications 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan for the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
 
Page  7
-
5
-
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards, acceptable to the Association, adequate to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
commencing with the Fiscal Year in which the Effective Date 
falls, to and including the Fiscal Year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account is made, have financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for each 
Fiscal Year or other period agreed to by the Association, audited, 
in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each Fiscal Year or 
such other period agreed to by the Association, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such Fiscal Year, or such other period agreed to 
by the Association, as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to 
the Association; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Association has 
received the audit report for, or covering, the Fiscal Year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
Page  8
-
6
-
(iii) 
ensure that such statement of expenditures are included in the 
audit for each Fiscal Year or other period agreed to by the 
Association referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
 
Section
 
4.02. 
(a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph B (ii) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower 
shall prepare and furnish to the Association a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the first calendar semester 
after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first 
expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar semester; thereafter, 
each Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Association not later than 
forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover such 
calendar semester. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Termination 
 
Section 5.01. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Page  9
-
7
-
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Kabul 
 
Transitional Islamic State of Afghanistan 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
Telex:   
 
Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  10
-
8
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Kabul, Afghanistan, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
TRANSITIONAL ISLAMIC STATE OF 
AFGHANISTAN
 
By /s/  Ashraf 
Ghani 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
/s/ 
Praful C. Patel 
Regional Vice President 
South Asia Region  
Page  11
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Goods 
10,400,000 
 
100% 
 
(2) 
Consultants’ services,  
3,350,000 
 
100% 
 
training and audit costs  
 
(3) Unallocated 
1,950,000
TOTAL 15,700,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.  
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR1,000,000 may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (2) on account of payments 
made for expenditures before that date but after September 1, 2003. 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods under contracts not 
exceeding $300,000 equivalent each; (ii) consultants’ services under contracts not 
exceeding $100,000 equivalent for consulting firms; (iii) consultants’ services under 
contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent for individual consultants; (iv) training; and 
(v) audit costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower. 
Page  12
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to contribute to the recovery of the Borrower’s 
communication sector by: (i) restoring and expanding a communication network to 
support the Borrower’s government and provincial communications; (ii) strengthening 
the policy, institutional and regulatory frameworks of MOC; and (iii) improving the 
delivery of postal services. 
 
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Emergency Government Communication
Provision of goods required to integrate the existing network for inter-
government communications, improve and extend the communications coverage to 
ministries and government buildings in Kabul and provinces, including the provision of 
training and consultants’ services required for the operation and maintenance thereof. 
 
Part B
:
Strengthening the Policy Function of MOC
1. 
Provision of consultants’ services to MOC to: (i) carry out a program for 
management and organizational restructuring with a view to emphasizing the role of 
MOC as a sector policy-making body; (ii) examine options to rationalize MOC’s labor 
force; (iii) develop a suitable universal access strategy; (iv) carry out technical studies 
covering such areas as convergence, market structure and competition; and (v) develop 
suitable financial management and management information systems.  
 
2. 
Provision of hardware, software, computers and office equipment to assist MOC 
in the establishment of a local area network. 
 
3. 
Carrying out, through the provision of consultants’ services, of a professional 
development program supported through technical cooperation arrangements with policy 
agencies in different countries, information sharing and contacts, seminars, training and 
study tours. 
 
4. 
Provision of project management services. 
 
5. 
Provision of technical advisory services and training to strengthen the capacity of 
MOC to carry out and manage Parts B.1, B.2, B.3 and B.4 of the Project. 
 
Page  13
-
11
-
Part C
:
Restructuring of AfghanTel
1. 
Provision of consultants’ services to review the legal framework of the Borrower 
governing the communications sector and, where appropriate prepare amendments 
thereto, together with suitable legal instruments required to restructure AfghanTel as an 
independent corporate entity. 
2. 
Provision of consultants’ services to carry out an allocation of AfghanTel’s assets 
and liabilities, develop an inventory of its fixed assets, value said assets, negotiate land 
and building ownership and use, and determine appropriate levels of debt-to-fund ratio 
for assets to be transferred to AfghanTel. 
3. 
Provision of consultants’ services to carry out a financial audit to identify 
AfghanTel’s opening position and prepare the initial financial statements for the 
restructured AfghanTel. 
4. 
Provision of consultants’ services to examine options to rationalize AfghanTel’s 
labor force, prepare a cost-based tariff study, develop a business plan, performance 
criteria to be incorporated in AfghanTel’s license, and technical advisory services. 
Part D
:
Establishment of Regulatory Unit
1. 
Provision of consultants’ services to MOC to: (i) establish an independent 
regulatory unit; (ii) establish technical standardization processes and a spectrum 
management function; (iii) develop and implement tariff and pricing regimes, quality of 
service standards for all licensed operators and carrier monitoring process and 
procedures; (iv) develop a pro-competitive model for licensing new operators; and 
(v) provide other technical advisory services. 
 
2. 
Provision of goods and consultants’ services to establish spectrum monitoring 
equipment. 
 
3. 
Carrying out of a professional development program supported through technical 
cooperation arrangements with regulatory agencies in different countries, information 
sharing and organization of seminars and study tours, as well as on the job, in-country 
and external training programs. 
 
4. 
Provision of office equipment and vehicles, including computer hardware and 
software to assist in the carrying out of regulatory functions. 
 
5. 
Provision of consultants’ services to develop financial and management 
information systems.  
 
Page  14
-
12
-
Part E
:
Postal Sector Reform
1. 
Provision of consultants’ services to: (a) evaluate options for labor force 
rationalization, and to develop a business plan for the postal sector; (b) develop and 
implement a pricing regime and expand postal services
;
(c)
 develop a universal service 
policy, and introduce and manage competition in the postal sector; and (d) render other 
advisory services, including advice on corporatization. 
 
2. 
Provision of goods to modernize basic postal equipment. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by March 20, 2007. 
Page  15
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits”, published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 
(a) 
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each. 
 
(b) 
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraph 2.54 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall 
apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
(c) Notification 
and 
Advertising
The invitation to pre-qualify or bid for each contract estimated to cost $500,000 
equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
International and National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $70,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $850,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
Page  16
-
14
-
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures, respectively, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods estimated to cost more than 
$300,000 equivalent, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
For the first three (3) contracts for goods to be awarded under 
international or national shopping procedures, the following procedures shall apply: 
 
(i) 
prior to requesting quotations for goods under international or 
national shopping procedures, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association, for its review, the draft documents requesting such 
quotations; 
 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Association a report on the 
comparison of price quotations received; and 
 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Page  17
-
15
-
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers”, published by the Association in January 1997 
and revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines); 
and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for the Project, estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Training services under Parts A, B.3, B.5 and D.3 of the Project, estimated to 
cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$350,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Page  18
-
16
-
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  19
-
17
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Implementation Program 
 
A. 
Overall Project Implementation and Coordination
1. 
The Borrower shall vest responsibility for the implementation of the Project in 
MOC.  The Borrower shall cause MOC, with AACA’s assistance, to: (i) carry out the 
procurement process under the Project; (ii) prepare reports on the progress achieved in 
implementing the Project; and (iii) submit said reports to the Association in satisfaction 
of the Borrower’s obligations under paragraphs B (ii) (a) and B (ii) (b) of this Schedule.  
 
B. 
Progress Reports and Mid-Term Review
The Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
acceptable to the Association, the carrying out of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(ii) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association: (a) on a quarterly basis, 
commencing not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of 
the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, a report on the 
progress achieved in the implementation of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof; and (b) on or about 
April 30, 2005, a report, to constitute the basis upon which the 
mid-term review shall take place, integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (i) of this Section and consolidating the results of the 
reports referred to under sub-paragraph (ii) (a) of this Section, on 
the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during 
the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(iii) 
review with the Association, by June 30, 2005, or such later date 
as the Association shall request, the report referred to in 
subparagraph (ii) (b) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on 
the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Association’s views on the matter. 
Page  20
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
Page  21
-
19
-
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Page  22
-
20
-
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower
 has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
