                                Updated Project Information Document (PID)
                                                                                               Report No: AB181


Project Name                     AFGHANISTAN-Emergency Communications Project
Region                           South Asia Regional Office
Sector                           Telecommunications (60%); Postal services (15%); Information technology
                                 (15%); General information and communications sector (10%)
Theme                            Administrative and civil service reform (P); Infrastructure services for private
                                 sector development (S); Legal institutions for a market economy (S)
Project                          P083720
Borrower(s)                      TRANSITIONAL ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTA
Implementing Agency(ies)         TRANSITIONAL ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN
                                 Ministry of Communications
                                 Address: Mohammed Jan Khan Watt, Kabul, Afghanistan
                                 Contact Person:
                                 Tel: 93 (0) 70 288 917      Fax:         Email:
Environment Category             C (Not Required)

Date PID Prepared                August 13, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date              August 7, 2003
Bank Approval Date               October 7, 2003


1. Country and Sector Background
Afghanistan is one of the poorest and longest-suffering countries among the members of the
World Bank. An estimated seven million people remain vulnerable to hunger and very large
numbers are dependent on a massive inflow of food aid. Afghanistan's infrastructure has been
destroyed or degraded; its human resource base severely depleted; and its social capital eroded.
State institutions are largely non-functional, and the economy and society have become
increasingly fragmented.

The Afghanistan Interim Administration (AIA) and its successor, the Afghan Transitional Islamic
Authority (ATA) have moved quickly to restore basic government functions and re-establish
international relations. However, expectations among the population for a "peace dividend" are
high, and if the ATA does not deliver results relatively quickly, the prospects for further progress
and the peace process will dim.

Despite being hampered by very limited capacity and the difficult security situation in many parts
of the country, the ATA has made considerable progress and has gained widespread international
recognition. A Development Budget was passed by the ATA Cabinet laying out an ambitious
agenda of reconstruction, reform and growth for the next two years.

Afghanistan has a barely functioning, very limited telecommunications sector. Prior to the recent
bombing campaign, Afghanistan's telecommunications network operated approximately 57,000
lines in five major cities (two thirds of these lines were in Kabul). These appear to have largely
survived the bombing.

The Ministry of Communications (MoC) operates a digital service mainly in Kabul, Herat and
Mazar where recent national and international satellite links have now been established. Kabul

                                                   2
                                                                                                     PID



has a recently installed 12,000 fixed line digital switch with 7,000 active lines. Herat includes a
7,500 fixed line digital system, most of which are active and Mazar has a capacity of 4,000 lines,
most of which are also active. The MoC also operates an analogue network mainly in Kabul with
an estimated 8,000 active lines although the switch does have a capacity of 15,000 lines. Instanet
is currently completing the installation of 5 V-Sats in the 5 main cities of Afghanistan on behalf
of the MOC. These will give the MOC the backbone transmission to connect its digital lines.

Afghan Wireless Communications Company (AWCC), which is a joint venture with the MoC,
currently operates a digital wired service in Kabul connecting some of the Ministries and a score
of public telephone booths to its international satellite switch, in total 250 active lines. There are
similar operations in Herat and Mazar with lower numbers whilst Kandahar is estimated to have
750 active lines. AWCC has recently launched a GSM service in Kabul with plans to offer
service in the 5 major cities within 2 months. A new mobile operator intends to begin offering
services in July.

However, country teledensity remains on the order of 2 telephones per 1,000 people compared to
24 per thousand in Pakistan, 83 in Turkmenistan, 35 in Tajikistan and 68 in Uzbekistan. The
fixed analogue, fixed digital and wireless digital networks present in Kabul are not
interconnected.

At present, the government's abilities to coordinate its own operations are severely limited by
inadequate communications capacity between Ministries in Kabul ­in the majority of cases,
inter-Ministry communications requires either physical transfer of information or meetings. This
constraint extends to the capacity to communicate with other actors in Kabul and internationally,
with very few telephone lines and even less Internet capacity. Most Ministries also have no
capacity to communicate with the provinces. DAB has a limited satellite-based connectivity with
its provincial Banks, and it is likely that the Finance Ministry, at least in the short term, will be
able to share that capacity. Given the scale of demand and the limited nature of the DAB
network, however, the rest of the Kabul government has effectively no access to their regional
counterparts.

Postal services are also recovering from years of conflict. There is a post office in every district,
and the potential for the postal network to function as not only a delivery vehicle for letter and
parcels, but also government services, other communications technologies and (potentially)
financial services. However, at present, many post offices are dilapidated and lack even such
basic equipment as scales and franking machines.


2. Objectives
The overriding objective of the ATA's national telecommunications policy is to achieve
modernization and rapid expansion of telecommunications networks and services. The ATA
recognizes that in order to achieve this, it is important to create the right conditions for open
competition and private sector investment by ensuring a stable and transparent policy, legal and
regulatory environment.

The ATA's Policy will also evolve toward a technologically neutral, open and convergent status.

                                                    3
                                                                                                   PID



Certain distinctions may remain for purposes of licensing and regulation policy, for example for
those services depending upon scarce resources. The primary objective however, is to lessen
artificial technology and service barriers, and to encourage the forces of convergence and market
innovation.

In the medium term, the government intends to set up an independent Regulatory Commission
(RC) and a Telecommunications Act will be formulated to reflect the underlying policies and
objectives. Afghanistan will conform to the regulatory principles of the ITU by ensuring that the
RC is completely independent of any operator or service provider in the ICT sector. With support
from the Public Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility (PPIAF), an interim arrangement will be
put in place through a way of a regulatory unit within the Ministry of Communications.

During the 5 year period covered by the existing policy, the ATA's clear intention is the
corporatization of the Ministry's fixed telecommunications operations. Plans for eventual
privatization will be augmented by an institutional strengthening exercise to ensure
administration procedures and accountability meet all international quality and performance
expectations. Although foreign investors are invited and encouraged to demonstrate their
commitment by forming joint ventures with local partners, there is no minimum requirement for
local equity partners.

The cellular market has 2 privately run national licensed operators. For long distance and
international telephony, the government has invested in some capacity with the assistance of the
Afghan Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF), but all mobile and fixed licensees also have the right
to operate long distance and international services independently of the MoC-controlled operator.
International (facilities) licenses are also be available for Internet usage - subject to separate
VSAT licensing, where appropriate.

A Telecommunications Development Fund (TDF) will be established to help support the rapid
development of universal access in areas that may be perceived as uneconomic by the market.
This Fund will be administered by the RC, and will be separately identified under the
Commission's operating budget. Where feasible, funds will be employed to facilitate investment
in market-oriented, sustainable operations, which will not require further subsidy following
initial start-up funding. Notwithstanding this requirement, the Fund will be utilized to support the
most beneficial investments and services in locations most in need of communications
infrastructure. Use of the Fund will also be coordinated with other public service projects, such
as educational and health facilities.

As part of the National Development Budget and as a centerpiece of the draft ICT Policy, the
MoC has laid out as a major priority for communications development over the next year the
expansion and improved functioning of the government's own communications system. The
MoC expects to be the lead agency in rolling out this system as a matter of urgency, in order to
improve the ability of the Authority to govern. The ATA recognizes the vital need for improved
government communications to allow more efficient governance, greater transparency, and
greater interaction with the provinces.

The ATA is keen to see the rehabilitation of the postal network both to allow the delivery of

                                                   4
                                                                                                   PID



parcels and letters, but also to expand the use of post offices as a point of interaction between
government and citizen and, potentially, a location for Internet access and financial service
delivery. The administration has already undertaken some innovative public-private ventures to
improve service delivery including an arrangement whereby a private company provides stamps
to the postal system for free in return for the right to issue stamps to collectors worldwide.

3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
IDA's Transitional Support Strategy (TSS), which was presented to the Board last year, is
predicated on the need for well-coordinated efforts by Afghanistan's development partners to
realize Afghanistan's reconstruction and development priorities. The key objectives of IDA's
assistance are to assist the authorities in establishing capacity in areas essential to facilitate the
reconstruction program; and to support high-priority reconstruction activities that can also help
jump-start economic activity.

Modern communications systems are vital to the successful development of Afghanistan. A
dependable information system is essential for efficient management and operation of the public
and private sectors. This includes areas such as internal government information, citizen's
services, trade, banking, and international relations.             Across the World, access to
telecommunications has been linked to increased incomes, improved delivery of services, the
development of enterprises and economic growth.

ICT is a sector in which the private sector can take the lead role. Already in Afghanistan, for
example, two private operators are leading the way in rolling out access to telecommunications.
However, there remain important roles for government oversight and investment. Governments
must develop and enforce policies and the regulatory environment required to promote private
provision of services. Governments should play a role in extending access beyond that which the
market would provide a role, and governments have an important part to play in ensuring that
their own operations benefit from access to and use of ICTs to improve governance and
government operations.       The Transitional Authority of Afghanistan has recognized these
imperatives, and has promulgated policies that support such a role. The Transitional Authority
has also made specific requests for donor support in the field of communications to help it play
that role.

Donors have begun to respond, including the World Bank. To date, World Bank related support
for communications in Afghanistan has been largely provided through trust fund resources.
Some support has been given through AAA to develop draft licensing documents for the MoC, as
well as limited support through the First Emergency Public Administration Project for legal
assistance to the Ministry. The larger, trust-funded components, are discussed below:

The ARTF agreed to support a $3 million investment operation in May 2003 with three
components:

·       Rehabilitation of Satellite Earth Station: The rehabilitation required replacement of the
dish, upgrading of power supply and other equipment while the existing infrastructure such as the
motorised base and adjacent building are utilised as much as possible. to eliminate existing

                                                  5
                                                                                                   PID



bottlenecks in transmission capacity between Kabul and the outside world. The capacity of this
link will also be offered to other service providers to increase usage and thereby revenues.
·       Expand and improve transmission links to neighbouring states: The re-establishment of
this link will provide much needed transmission capacity between Kabul, Jalalabad, Nuristan,
Kunar, Laghman and Peshawer. These microwave links will provide immediate voice and data
connectivity for the above Provinces and also Peshawer as well as national and international
broadcasting traffic.
·       Billing System: In order to be able to generate and administer customer bills, the MoC
required an efficient billing system. Sucha billing system together with appropriate processes
and procedures shall help the MoC to increase the revenue generation and collection. The
project supported initial capacity development in this area.

In addition, PPIAF resources totaling $481,000 are being used to provide consulting services
over the course of the year June 2003 to June 2004 in order:

·       To support the initial creation of minimal, transparent regulatory institutions and a
regulatory unit within the Ministry, including design of regulatory frameworks, regulations,
institutional structures and procedures as well as capacity building and support for stakeholder
participation.
·       Support for the creation and functioning of the regulatory unit. The focus will again be
on creating a minimal unit carrying out only those functions necessary to ensure a competitive
environment; and
·       Mapping a process of further development of the regulatory body from a minimal unit
within the Ministry of Communication to an independent regulator with significant institutional
strength and capacity, outlining options for scope including convergence and/or multi-sectoral
regulation.

Other donors are also involved in the sector. Proposed and ongoing activities include:

·       ITU: The ITU has offered support in the areas of telecommunications law and spectrum
management and monitoring. In cooperation with the UNDP and UPU, the ITU has launched a
pilot project to provide connectivity to a number of post offices around Kabul.
·       US Government: The US government is providing short-term support in the form of a
Chief Technical Officer who will assist in the resolution of engineering-related issues for the
Ministry of Communications. Through different agencies and consultancies, the US Government
has also promised some support in the area of utilities law, regulation and reform, short term
assistance in corporatization strategy and Internet policy and support for a feasibility study of a
national fiber-optic backbone.
·       ADB: The Asian Development Bank has provided investment support for the rollout of
27,000 digital switched fixed lines in Kabul to be operated by AfghanTel/MoC.
·       UNDP: The UNDP has provided sport in cooperation with the ITU and UNDP (see
above). It has also provided assistance in the drafting of an ICT policy, helped set up a Cisco
Learning Academy and provided connectivity to X Ministries and Y...
·       Iran: Iran has provided support to the MoC to set up a training center.

                                                   6
                                                                                                   PID



Existing World Bank-managed support as well as support provided by other donors has played a
part in considerable progress to occur in the sector over the past year ­not least the licensing of
two mobile operators, the development of a spectrum monitoring plan and movement towards the
creation of telecoms laws, regulations and a regulatory body. Ongoing support will allow for
further progress, and this project will have to be closely coordinated with these other activities.

Nonetheless, there remains a significant need for IDA support to provide both investment and
technical assistance resources to the MoC:

·        As noted, communications capacity within Kabul between Ministries remains very weak,
as does capacity to communicate outside Kabul. This is particularly true of communications with
provincial capitals. There is an urgent need to meet these government communications needs
through the development of a government intranet.
·        In order to foster the growth of a private-sector led, competitive market for
telecommunication services, a number of steps need to be undertaken: (i) the regulatory unit of
the MoC, supported for its first year under PPIAF, needs to be further strengthened and separated
from the MoC to guarantee independence; (ii) the MoC requires re-engineering and investment to
operate as a policy making body as opposed to policy maker-operator-regulator; (iii) the nascent
AfghanTel requires corporatization and preparation for eventual privatization.
·        The post office requires significant investment support as well as corporatization to
improve its ability to deliver basic postal services as a first step toward a potential expansion of
its role into government, communications and financial services provision.

Elements of this agenda will be undertaken with the support of other donors including ITU,
UNDP, USAID and the UPU. However, given the limited internal resources of the MoC and the
ATA, combined with the urgent need for progress, there remains a significant agenda of support
to be met by IDA.

4. Description
The credit as currently envisaged would have three components, covering Government
Communications, MoC Institutional Capacity Building and Postal Sector Support. Project
components will be in support of objectives already laid out in the Development Budget
approved by the Cabinet. Brief details of these three proposed components as they are currently
envisaged are presented below.

Government Communications Component: The component will pay for the turnkey
procurement, installation, operational and acceptance testing and maintenance of a
communications network (Network) that will integrate the Existing Network, as well as improve
and extend coverage to Ministries, the Central Bank and the Presidential Palace in Kabul as well
as Provincial Capitals, where access will be provided for MoF, DAB, and one central site for
other Ministries' communications needs (Expanded Network). The component will also provide
funding for operating costs, including IntelSat fees, for the Expanded Network. It is expected
that this services contract will run for 36 months. During the second half of that period, a phased
handover of equipment to Afghan Tel will be undertaken, so that at the end of the 36 month
period, full operation and maintenance rests with Afghan Tel. Phased handover will occur on

                                                     7
                                                                                                      PID



condition that both the MoC and the World Bank are satisfied that capacity exists within the
corporatized AfghanTel to transfer operating responsibility and ownership to AfghanTel. This
project component will also pay for sufficient training of AfghanTel staff to provide them with
the capacity to operate the Expanded Network. From that point onwards, the communications
network operator (Afghan Tel) will be under standard regulatory oversight as a commercial
(government owned) corporation. From early in the process, the MoC will endeavour to ensure
cost-recovery from users of the network to ensure sustainability. MoC will adopt a flexible
approach in terms of opening Afghan Tel to private sector participation both at the national and
regional level over the life of the project ­an approach which may include early use of
management contracts and later part or full privatization.

MoC Institutional Capacity Building Component: The following activities to strengthen the
MoC's policy and project capacity may be supported:

·       Consulting and turnkey services including: (i) support for management and organizational
restructuring, and for implementation of a new organizational structure reflecting the MoC's role
as policy maker; (ii) examination of real staffing needs of MoC, and skills matching; (iii) studies
covering a potential universal access strategy and on an `as needed' basis, covering areas such as
convergence, market structure and competition; (iv) training; (v) financial management and
management information systems development and (vi) Support for project management capacity
including procuring Project Management Consultant services to assist in the management of
various implementation arrangements during the life of the project.
·       Equipment including basic office equipment.

The following activities may support the separation of MoC's policy and operational and
ownership functions and help establish AfghanTel as an efficient State-owned corporation:

·       Consulting services including: (i) creation of corporate entity and strategy for
implementation of allocation of assets, liabilities and staff (ii) inventory of assets, liabilities and
personnel, (iii) asset and liability allocation; (iv) creation of Opening Financial Statements; (v)
examining options for labor force (vi) cost-based tariff study.

The following activities may support the separation of MoC's policy and regulatory functions,
and allow for the development of a strong, independent regulator:

·       Consulting and turnkey services including: (i) assistance for implementation of the
transition from MoC unit to independent, stand-alone regulator; (ii) technical standardization
processes, spectrum management, pricing and monitoring quality of service standards,
monitoring of compliance by operators with the law and license terms, disclosure/publicity of
regulatory processes, and other as "needed" support including potentially development of a
pro-competitive license for AfghanTel and other service providers (iii) development of a
Business Plan (iv) development of performance criteria for AfghanTel (v) professional
development and training (vi) management information systems.
·       Equipment including: (i) establishment of one mobile and one fixed spectrum/frequency
monitoring kit, and associated training; and (ii) office equipment and vehicles including

                                                  8
                                                                                                  PID



hardware and software to facilitate regulatory functioning.

Postal Sector Component: The following activities may support the separation of MoC's policy
and operational functions in the postal sector and help to develop the sector:

·       Consulting services including: (i) articulation of a postal strategy and competition
framework, (ii) examining options for labor force, (iii) development of a business plan; (iv)
support for the Ministry including setting attainable universal service policy, levels, introduction
and management of competition in the sector, level of separation from ATA/Government of
Afghanistan; (vi) support for the Post Office including pricing policies, studies and support
covering expansion of services delivered (including e-services and financial operations), and
other support as may be required.
·       Equipment including modernization of basic postal equipment/offices.


5. Financing
Source (Total ( US$m))
BORROWER ($0.00)
IDA ($22.00)
Total Project Cost: $22.00

6. Implementation
The project would be implemented over a period of three years. Project completion date would
be December 31, 2006, and Credit closing date would be June 30, 2007. The Executing agency
for the project would be the Ministry of Communications, with matters involving procurement
under the responsibility of the Afghan Aid Coordination Agency. Procurement Agent will assist
MOC in carrying out procurement. MOC would provide the technical inputs. To ensure that
procurement capacity is built up, the Procurement Agent will provide training to MOC staff, as
well as other staff as deemed necessary to ensure that they develop capacity to eventually
carryout procurement on their own.

The Financial Management Agent will support the MoF and the MoC to perform the necessary
financial management functions. One of the critical functions of the Financial Management
Agent will be to provide hands-on support to MoC staff to enhance their financial management
capacity.

The project will follow standard TISA financial management policies and procedures, including
using the TISA Chart of Accounts to record Project expenditures. The use of these procedures
will allow for adequate recording and reporting of Project expenditures.

Accounts will be consolidated centrally in the MoF (by the Financial Management Agent) for all
implementing entities and consolidated Project financial statements will be prepared for all
sources and uses of Project funds.

                                                    9
                                                                                                   PID



7. Sustainability
Given the fragile status of the economy and government of Afghanistan, sustainability is of
serious concern. Within the limited area of issues amenable to amelioration through project
design, however, a number of steps will be taken to ensure sustainability.

·        The government communications network is designed to be financially self sustaining
from close to inception through charging for services. The intention to privatize the
communication provider should enhance the likelihood of this sustainability. Technical
sustainability will be enhanced through training and the ability to pay technicians competitive
salaries through coporatization and private sector involvement. Further, during the life of the
project, the service contractor will stay in place until such time that the Bank and the MoC are
comfortable that the network can be sustained by AfghanTel.
·        Support for policy and regulatory reform will be sustainable if it is successful. Given that
two private operators are already active in the telecommunications field, soon to be joined by a
third, it appears that there is considerable likelihood that private, competitive service provision
will prove a success in Afghanistan as it has worldwide, also generating revenues through license
fees and payments significant enough to sustain the required regulatory capacity to oversee that
provision.
Support for postal reform an investment will be sustainable if the post office sees improved
capacity to operate and generate revenues. Corporatization and support for improved
management are clearly a first step in allowing improved operation and revenue generation.
Given the relatively small investments envisaged in the project, and their potentially significant
impact in terms of being able to deliver and charge for services, the impact of these investments
should also be robustly sustainable.

8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Experience from post-conflict environments suggests the great importance of wireless
communications as the primary telecommunications infrastructure, and the rapidity with which
competitive private wireless provision can roll out (even in poor and war-torn environments)
under the correct regulatory and policy conditions. This suggests the urgency of creating
regulatory and legal institutions that can foster telecommunications rollout, particularly in the
wireless segment.

The limited (one year) experience of projects in post-conflict Afghanistan as well as longer
experience in other post-conflict environments suggests the importance of active project
supervision to project success, as well as flexible implementation of project components in a
rapidly changing environment.



9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
     Issues : The reconstruction and investment interventions envisaged under the proposed
project are not expected to generate significant negative environmental effects. No activities will
be supported that require involuntary land acquisition, the acquisition of land, or new
construction.

10. List of factual technical documents:

                                                  10
                                                                                            PID




11. Contact Point:

     Task Manager
     Charles J. Kenny
     The World Bank
     1818 H Street, NW
    Washington D.C. 20433
     Telephone: 202-473-3540
     Fax: 202-522-3001

12. For information on other project related documents contact:
       The InfoShop
       The World Bank
       1818 H Street, NW
       Washington, D.C. 20433
       Telephone: (202) 458-5454
       Fax:     (202) 522-1500
       Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop


Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily
included in the final project.

