                            Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)

                                                                                            Report No: AC159
Section I - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 07/18/2003
A. Basic Project Data (from PDS)
I.A.1. Project Statistics
Country: AFGHANISTAN                                      Project ID: P083720
Project: Emergency Communications Project                 Task Team Leader: Charles J. Kenny
Authorized to Appraise Date: July 28, 2003                IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: October 7, 2003                            IDA Amount ($m): 22.00
Managing Unit: CITST                                      Sector: Telecommunications (60%); Postal services
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        (15%); Information technology (15%); General
Status: Lending                                           information and communications sector (10%)
                                                          Theme: Administrative and civil service reform (P);
                                                          Infrastructure services for private sector development
                                                          (S); Legal institutions for a market economy (S)


I.A.2. Project Objectives (From PDS):
The overriding objective of the ATA's national telecommunications policy is to achieve
modernization and rapid expansion of telecommunications networks and services. The ATA
recognizes that in order to achieve this, it is important to create the right conditions for open
competition and private sector investment by ensuring a stable and transparent policy, legal and
regulatory environment.

The ATA's Policy will also evolve toward a technologically neutral, open and convergent status.
Certain distinctions may remain for purposes of licensing and regulation policy, for example for
those services depending upon scarce resources. The primary objective however, is to lessen
artificial technology and service barriers, and to encourage the forces of convergence and market
innovation.

In the medium term, the government intends to set up an independent Regulatory Commission
(RC) and a Telecommunications Act will be formulated to reflect the underlying policies and
objectives. Afghanistan will conform to the regulatory principles of the ITU by ensuring that the
RC is completely independent of any operator or service provider in the ICT sector. With support
from the Public Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility (PPIAF), an interim arrangement will be
put in place through a way of a regulatory unit within the Ministry of Communications.

During the 5 year period covered by the existing policy, the ATA's clear intention is the
corporatization of the Ministry's fixed telecommunications operations. Plans for eventual
privatization will be augmented by an institutional strengthening exercise to ensure
administration procedures and accountability meet all international quality and performance
expectations. Although foreign investors are invited and encouraged to demonstrate their
commitment by forming joint ventures with local partners, there is no minimum requirement for
local equity partners.

The cellular market has 2 privately run national licensed operators. For long distance and
international telephony, the government has invested in some capacity with the assistance of the

                                                    2
                                                                                                   ISDS



Afghan Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF), but all mobile and fixed licensees also have the right
to operate long distance and international services independently of the MoC-controlled operator.
International (facilities) licenses are also be available for Internet usage - subject to separate
VSAT licensing, where appropriate.

A Telecommunications Development Fund (TDF) will be established to help support the rapid
development of universal access in areas that may be perceived as uneconomic by the market.
This Fund will be administered by the RC, and will be separately identified under the
Commission's operating budget. Where feasible, funds will be employed to facilitate investment
in market-oriented, sustainable operations, which will not require further subsidy following
initial start-up funding. Notwithstanding this requirement, the Fund will be utilized to support the
most beneficial investments and services in locations most in need of communications
infrastructure. Use of the Fund will also be coordinated with other public service projects, such
as educational and health facilities.

As part of the National Development Budget and as a centerpiece of the draft ICT Policy, the
MoC has laid out as a major priority for communications development over the next year the
expansion and improved functioning of the government's own communications system. The
MoC expects to be the lead agency in rolling out this system as a matter of urgency, in order to
improve the ability of the Authority to govern. The ATA recognizes the vital need for improved
government communications to allow more efficient governance, greater transparency, and
greater interaction with the provinces.

The ATA is keen to see the rehabilitation of the postal network both to allow the delivery of
parcels and letters, but also to expand the use of post offices as a point of interaction between
government and citizen and, potentially, a location for Internet access and financial service
delivery. The administration has already undertaken some innovative public-private ventures to
improve service delivery including an arrangement whereby a private company provides stamps
to the postal system for free in return for the right to issue stamps to collectors worldwide.

I.A.3. Project Description (From PDS):
The credit as currently envisaged would have three components, covering Government
Communications, MoC Institutional Capacity Building and Postal Sector Support. Project
components will be in support of objectives already laid out in the Development Budget
approved by the Cabinet. Brief details of these three proposed components as they are currently
envisaged are presented below.

Government Communications Component: The component will pay for the turnkey
procurement, installation, operational and acceptance testing and maintenance of a
communications network (Network) that will integrate the Existing Network, as well as improve
and extend coverage to Ministries, the Central Bank and the Presidential Palace in Kabul as well
as Provincial Capitals, where access will be provided for MoF, DAB, and one central site for
other Ministries' communications needs (Expanded Network). The component will also provide
funding for operating costs, including IntelSat fees, for the Expanded Network. It is expected
that this services contract will run for 36 months. During the second half of that period, a phased

                                                     3
                                                                                                     ISDS



handover of equipment to Afghan Tel will be undertaken, so that at the end of the 36 month
period, full operation and maintenance rests with Afghan Tel. Phased handover will occur on
condition that both the MoC and the World Bank are satisfied that capacity exists within the
corporatized AfghanTel to transfer operating responsibility and ownership to AfghanTel. This
project component will also pay for sufficient training of AfghanTel staff to provide them with
the capacity to operate the Expanded Network. From that point onwards, the communications
network operator (Afghan Tel) will be under standard regulatory oversight as a commercial
(government owned) corporation. From early in the process, the MoC will endeavour to ensure
cost-recovery from users of the network to ensure sustainability. MoC will adopt a flexible
approach in terms of opening Afghan Tel to private sector participation both at the national and
regional level over the life of the project ­an approach which may include early use of
management contracts and later part or full privatization.

MoC Institutional Capacity Building Component: The following activities to strengthen the
MoC's policy and project capacity may be supported:

·       Consulting and turnkey services including: (i) support for management and organizational
restructuring, and for implementation of a new organizational structure reflecting the MoC's role
as policy maker; (ii) examination of real staffing needs of MoC, and skills matching; (iii) studies
covering a potential universal access strategy and on an `as needed' basis, covering areas such as
convergence, market structure and competition; (iv) training; (v) financial management and
management information systems development and (vi) Support for project management capacity
including procuring Project Management Consultant services to assist in the management of
various implementation arrangements during the life of the project.

·       Equipment including basic office equipment.

The following activities may support the separation of MoC's policy and operational and
ownership functions and help establish AfghanTel as an efficient State-owned corporation:

·       Consulting services including: (i) creation of corporate entity and strategy for
implementation of allocation of assets, liabilities and staff (ii) inventory of assets, liabilities and
personnel, (iii) asset and liability allocation; (iv) creation of Opening Financial Statements; (v)
examining options for labor force (vi) cost-based tariff study.

The following activities may support the separation of MoC's policy and regulatory functions,
and allow for the development of a strong, independent regulator:

·       Consulting and turnkey services including: (i) assistance for implementation of the
transition from MoC unit to independent, stand-alone regulator; (ii) technical standardization
processes, spectrum management, pricing and monitoring quality of service standards,
monitoring of compliance by operators with the law and license terms, disclosure/publicity of
regulatory processes, and other as "needed" support including potentially development of a
pro-competitive license for AfghanTel and other service providers (iii) development of a
Business Plan (iv) development of performance criteria for AfghanTel (v) professional

                                                        4
                                                                                                        ISDS



development and training (vi) management information systems.
·        Equipment including: (i) establishment of one mobile and one fixed spectrum/frequency
monitoring kit, and associated training; and (ii) office equipment and vehicles including
hardware and software to facilitate regulatory functioning.

Postal Sector Component: The following activities may support the separation of MoC's policy
and operational functions in the postal sector and help to develop the sector:

·        Consulting services including: (i) articulation of a postal strategy and competition
framework, (ii) creation of corporate entity and strategy for implementation of allocation of
assets, liabilities and staff (iii) asset and liability Allocation; (iv) creation of Opening Financial
Statements; (v) examining options for labor force , (vi) development of a business plan; (vii)
support for the Ministry including development of a performance contract and setting attainable
universal service policy, levels, introduction and management of competition in the sector,
regulation of pricing, level of separation from ATA/Government of Afghanistan; (viii) support
for the Post Office including pricing policies, studies and support covering expansion of services
delivered (including e-services and financial operations) , and other support as may be required.
    Equipment including modernization of basic postal equipment/offices.

I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project covers all of Afghanistan's telecommunications sector and does not have any social or
environmental impacts.


B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)

Comments: Environment category is rated "C" since no safeguard policies are triggered under this project.
The reconstruction and investment interventions envisaged under the proposed project are not
expected to generate significant negative environmental effects. No activities will be supported that
require involuntary land acquisition, the acquisition of land, or new construction.


C. Safeguard Policies Triggered (from PDS)
(click on    for a detailed desciption or click on the policy number for a brief description)
                                     Policy                                           Triggered

    Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                           Yes    No     TBD

    Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                                   Yes    No     TBD

    Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                                    Yes    No     TBD

    Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                      Yes    No     TBD

    Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                                  Yes    No     TBD

    Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                                   Yes    No     TBD

    Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                          Yes    No     TBD

    Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                              Yes    No     TBD

    Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)                   Yes    No     TBD

    Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*                        Yes    No     TBD

                                                      5
                                                                                                        ISDS




Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.

II.D.1a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
None - Small scale rehabilitation only

II.D.1b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
None

II.D.1c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
None

II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
N/A

II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
N/A


II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
N/A

E. Safeguards Classification (select in SAP). Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy.
Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is
triggered the provisions of that policy apply.


[ ] S1. ­ Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
          in management of one or more safeguard areas
[ ] S2. ­ One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
          technically and institutionally manageable
[X] S3. ­ No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. ­ Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
          similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
          safeguard issues.

F. Disclosure Requirements

Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:                          Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the Executive
Directors (For category A projects)

Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                                         Expected       Actual

                                                     6
                                                                                                  ISDS



Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop

Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:                          Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop

Pest Management Plan:                                                   Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop

Dam Safety Management Plan:                                             Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop

If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.

Signed and submitted by              Name                                               Date
Task Team Leader:                    Charles J. Kenny                                   06/12/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:


Approved by:                         Name                                               Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: L. Panneer Selvam                                      07/18/2003
Sector Manager/Director              Pierre A. Guislain                                 07/18/2003

