                                   Document of 

                                  The Bank World 





                                                             Report No: ICR00001326




            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT 

                             (IDA-38250) 





                                        ONA 


                                      CREDIT 


                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 15.7 MILLION 

                        (US$ 22.00 MILLION EQUIVALENT) 


                                      TO THE 


         GOVERNMENT OF THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN 


                                       FORA 


          EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT 





                                   March 30,2010 





Policy Unit, Global Information and Communication Technologies Department

South Asia Regional Office
             (Exchange Rate Effective February 15, 2010) 

                   Currency Unit = Afghanis (Afs) 

                          1.00 =US$ 0.021 

                       US$ 1.00 = Afs 47.45 


                           FISCAL YEAR

               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ANDS      Afghanistan National Development Strategy
ARTF      Afghan Reconstruction Trust Fund
ATRA      Afghanistan Telecom Regulatory Authority
AWCC      Afghan Wireless Communication Company
CITPO     Global Information and Communication Technologies Policy Division
COMA      Code Division Multiple Access
DCA       Development Credit Agreement
DCN       District Communications Network
ECDP      Emergency Communication Development Project
EERDP     Emergency Education Rehabilitation and Development Project
EPAP      Emergency Public Administration Project
GCN       Government Communications Network
GOP       Gross Domestic Product
GOA       Government of Afghanistan
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
ICT       Information and Communication Technologies
IDA       International Development Association
ISN       Interim Strategy Note
ISP       Internet Service Provider
MCIT      Ministry of Communication and Information Technologies
MCP       Management Capacity Program
MOC       Ministry of Communications (now MCIT)
MTR       Mid-Term Review
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
O&M       Operations and Maintenance
PDO       Project Development Objectives
PMS       Project Management Specialist
PMU       Project Management Unit
PPIAF     Public Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
QAG       Quality Assurance Group
QEA       Quality-At-Entry Assessment
QSA       Quality of Supervision Assessment
TDF       Telecommunications Development Fund
TRB       Telecommunication Regulatory Board
USAID     United States Agency for International Development
XDRlSDR   Special Drawing Rights

                Vice President: Isabel M. Guerrero, SARVP
              Country Director: Nicholas J. Krafft, SACO 1 

               Sector Manager: Philippe Dongier, CITPO 

          Project Team Leader: Tenzin Dolma Norbhu, CITPO 

            ICR Team Leader: Tenzin Dolma Norbhu, CITPO
                                                 AFGHANISTAN 

                        Emergency Communications Development Project 




                                                     CONTENTS 




Data Sheet
      A. Basic Information
       B. Key Dates 

       C Ratings Summary 

       D. Sector and Theme Codes
       E. Bank Staff 

       F Results Framework Analysis 

       G. Ratings ofProject Performance in ISRs 

       H Restructuring 

       1. Disbursement Graph

       1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design .. .............................. ...... 1 

       2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .. .. ........... .............. ....... . 5 

       3; Assessment of Outcomes ... ........ ................... ............. ........................... ......... 10 

       4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............. ........ .. ........................ 13 

       5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................. ... .. ....... .. ............. 13 

       6. Lessons Learned ...................... .......................... .. ............ ............ ..... ............. 16 

       7. Comments on Issues Raised by BorrowerlImplementing AgencieslPartners ... 16 

       Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .. ................. ...................... .. ............ ......... 18 

       Annex 2. Outputs by Component .............................. .... ............. ........ ... ..... ........ 19 

       Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ............... ............. .............. ... .. .... .... 22 

       Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ..... 23 

       Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ................................................................. 25 

       Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ................................. .. ...... 26 

       Annex 7. Summary of Borrowers ICR (unedited) ......... ..................................... 27 

       Annex 8.Comments of Co fmanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ............... 39 

       Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...... .. .................................................... 40 

       MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                                  Emergency
'Country:              ,Afghanistan                     .
                                                    IProject N arne:              Communications
                                                    I                             Development Project
:Project ID:           :P083720                         LlcrrF Number(s):         IDA-382S0
ICR Date:                ;03/3112010                    fCR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                                  TRANSITIONAL
Lending Instrument:      ERL                            Borrower:                 ISLAMIC STATE OF
                                                                                  AFGHANISTA - - j
!Original Total
                         XDR IS.7M                  Disbursed Amount:             XDR IS.6M
:Commitment:
               --
'Revised Amount:         XDR IS.6M
텲nvironmental Category: C
r-                  _ .

Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Communications and Information Technology
 Afghanistan Telecommunications Regulatory Authority
 Afghan Post
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                        Revised I Actnal
      Process              Date                  Process               Original Date
                                                                                            Date(s)
 Concept Review:       07/3112003       IEffectiveness:                 1211 012003        12/1012003
 Appraisal:                              Restructuring(s):
 Approval:_ _          1010712003        Mid-term Review:               12112/200S         12112/200S
                                         Closing:                       09/3012007         09/30/2009


C. Rati!lgs Summary
C.I Performance Rating by ICR
 Outcomes:                                          'Highly Satisfactory
                                                    I
 Risk to Development Outcome:                       :Low or Negligible
[ Bank Performance:                                 iSatisfactory
 Borrower Performance:                                  Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank                 Ratings             Borrower                                 Ratings
Quality at Entry:        Hig~~X   Satisfactory          G~y'ernme~~               Satisfactory
                                                    IImplementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                                              Satisfactory
                                                    AgencxlAgel!ci~~:
Overall Bank             Satisfactory               Overall Borrower              Satisfactory
Performance:                                          Performance:

fC~3 Quality at ~ntry ~d Implementation Performance Indicators
     implementation
      Performance
                                    Indicators           QAG Assessments
                                                            (ifanyl 
                       Rating       -----J
  Potential Problem Project!N                         Quality at Entry 

                                                                                 Highly Satisfactory
.at any time (YeslNo):        0                       (Q~A):
r Problem Project at any                               Quality of
                               No                     ,                          None
                                                                                 I
time (YeslNo):                                        jSupervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                               Satisfactory
ClosinglInactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes

Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
                                                                       Original
                                                                                      --'      Actual


 Central government administration                                         23                    18
 Information technology                                          f         10                    10
 Postal services
 Telecommunications                                        __L              2
                                                                           65           I        70
                                                                                                     2




Theme Code (as % of total        Ban~ financing)
                                                                 I                      r
 Administrative and civil service reform
 Infrastructure services for   pri~te   sector development
                                                                           25
                                                                           24
                                                                                  -              15
                                                                                                 25
 Legal institutions for a market economy                                    13                   10
 Other public sector governance                                            25                    25
 Regulation and competition policy                                          13                   25

E. Bank Staff
         Position                             AtleR                      ___ At Approval
 Vice President:               Isabel M. Guerrero                    Praful C. Patel
 Country Director:             Nicholas J. Krafft                    Alastair J. McKechnie
 Sector Manager:               'Philippe Dongier             _ _----IIPierre A. Guislain
 Project Team Leader:          Tenzin Dolma Norbhu                   lCharies 1. Kenn)::
 ICR Team Leader:              Tenzin Dolma Norbhu
 ICR Primary Author:           Siddhartha Raja




                                                    11
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To support activities designed to improve delivery of communications services to the
Government and to the people of Afghanistan. This will be achieved by: (i) carrying out
urgent expansion of the government communications network to restore critical
communications between ministries and provinces; (ii) providing urgently needed policy
advice and capacity building to the MOe to promote sustainable communications sector
performance and increased private sector participation; and (iii) improving the postal
sector and the delivery of postal services. The outcomes of the project are expected to be
improvements in communications facilities and delivery, while laying the foundations for
sector reforms and institution building that would lead to sustainable development of the
communications sector.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The Development Objective was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original TSI'get    FormaUy        Actual Value
                                              Values (from       Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                               approval           Target      Completion or
                                              documents)          Value        Target Years
                  Improve government communication capacity in Kabul from 8 ministries and
Indicator 1 :
                  departments connected to 30 ministries and departments connected
Value
quantitative or   8                       30                               40
Qualitative)
Date achieved     10/01/2003                ;09/30/2008                     0913012009
Comments          All ministries and major Government departments in Kabul have been connected
(incl. %          to the Government Communications Network (GCN). As new offices were
achievement)      establishe~they were also connected to the GCN. 133% target~ chievem~~t.
                  Improve government communications capacity with provinces from 4 to 32
Indicator 2 :
                  provinces
Value
quantitative or   4                       '32                              34
           )
Qualitative_ _
                                                      -
Date achieved   1010 I12003                :09/30/2008                     0913012009
Comments        Offices of the Ministry of Communications1 Afghan Telecom in all 34 provinces
(incl. %        of Afghanistan were connected to the GCN. Further, the offices of Governors in
achievement)    23 provinces were also connected to !he GCN. Over 100% target achievement.
                Increase Government communications capacity through expansion of telephone
Indicator 3 :
               ~cess from 225 telephone lines to 6550 telephone lines
Value
quantitative or 225                         6550                           70,000
QualitativeL
Date achieved 10/0112003                    09/30/2007                     09/30/2009
Comments        With the expansion of the fixed and mobile (CDMA) network, approximately


                                                111
(incl. %         70,000 governmentGovernment subscribers are cormected to the Afghan
achievement)     Telecom network. The network also services private subscribers. Over 100%
                 target achievement.
-
 Indicator 4 :  Internet service providers to increase from 5 to 20
 Value
 quantitative or 5                         20                                   Over 20
.Qualitative)
 Date achieved 10/0112003                  ,09/30/2007                          1213112005
         -
Comments
                 While over 20 ISPs have been licensed, 7 ISPs are operational. Target fully
:(incl. %
                 achieved.
 achievement)
                                                                -
 Indicator 5 : Increased investments in the Telecommunications Sector,
 Value
                                                         -    --
                 Estimated at less than
 quantitative or USD 50 million            iUSD 950 million                     USD 1.24 billion
 Qualitati~e )
 Date achieved 1010 1/2003                  09/30/2008                          09/30/2009
 Comments        Significant investments have been made in the telecommunications sector. The
 (inc I. %       Ministry of Communications and IT, reported total investments in the sector of
 achievement)  USD 1.236 billion at the end of June 2009. Fully achieved.
                 Increased access to telecommunication services measured in teledensity (lines
 Indicator 6 :
                 per 100 people).
 Value
 quantitative or 0.2                        35                                  49
 Qualitative) 

 Date achieved 10/0112003                   09/30/2009                          12/31/2009

            -
 Comments        Teledensity increased significantly over the project period, largely led by mobile
 (inel. %        telephony growth. This growth resulted from the introduction of competition in
 achievement) the sector. Fully achieved.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                               Fonnal1y
                                              Values (from                          Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                          Revised
                                                app."oval                          Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                               documents)                          Target Years
Indicator 1:      Operators licensed to provide telecommunication services
Value
(quantitative     3                                                            7
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     10/01/2003               ,09/30/2007                         0913012009
Comments
                  Afghanistan has 4 prviate mobile (GSM) operators, one state owned basic service
(incl. %
                  provider, and 2 private local fixed service providers. Fully achieved.
achievement)




                                                 IV
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                       Actual
                                                                IP                 Disbursemen ts
                                                                                   (USD millions)
                                                                                     -        0.00   1
                                                                                              2~
                                                                              - - - 2.02
                                                                                    2.02
                                                                                   11.48
   6                                                                               13.85
I_~l                                                                               16.11
  8                                                                                16.11
, 9 I                                                                              19.24
                                                                        ----'-----
,-10    I                                                                          20.36
                                                                                   21.96
                                                                                   22.18
                                                                                   23.21 

                                                                                                -
  14                                                                               23.21 




H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile
                                   -   Original ---- Formally Revised - - Actual
        25-.--------------------------------------------------~
                                                                                        ---------
        20


  ...   15
  c
 :S
 :i 10
 ~
 VI
 :=
            5


            0
                ~
                t:1
                      '=t
                      t:1
                            ~
                            t:1
                                       .,.
                                       t:1
                                               ~
                                               t:1
                ~     ~     LJ'\       LJ'\    ~
                Q     Q     Q          Q       Q
                Q     Q     Q          Q       Q
                ~     ~     ~          ~       ~




                                                     v
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

In 2003, Afghanistanjust emerged from over two decades of severe internal conflict. A series of
domestic conflicts since 1978 had left its state institutions non-functional, devastated the
economic infrastructure, severely depleted the human resource base, and fragmented society into
factions defmed by ethnicity, religion, or ideology. The country was one of the poorest members
of the World Ban1e

Before 2002, Afghanistan had a barely functioning, very limited telecommunications sector. The
overall network and legal infrastructure of the sector was weak. The Government, through its
telecommunications department in the Ministry of Communications, operated approximately
57,000 lines in five major cities with two thirds of these lines in Kabul. Teledensity - the number
of telephone subscribers per 100 inhabitants - was only 0.2, much lower than Pakistan (2.4),
Turkmenistan (8.3), Tajikistan (3.5), or Uzbekistan (6.8). Second, the Government's abilities to
coordinate its own operations were severely limited by inadequate communications capacity, both
between Ministries in Kabul, as well as nationally and internationally. Third, the many post
offices were dilapidated and lacked basic equipment such as scales and franking machines,
required for daily operations.

In the immediate years after the fall of the Taliban regime in 2001 the Government through the
then Ministry of Communications (MoC) began deploying new infrastructure with the assistance
of the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF). This included digital telephone service in
Kabul, Heart, and Mazar-e-Sharif, and national and international satellite links . Private
telecommunications firm A WCC launched a mobile telephone service in Kabul, and a second
mobile telephone company (Roshan) was making plans to deploy its network.

The legal infrastructure was also just beginning to develop. The Transitional Islamic State of
Afghanistan (TISA) developed a national communications policy to modernize and expand
telecommunications networks and services, and roll out universal telecommunications access.
The Government recognized the importance of open competition and private sector investment
supported by a stable and transparent policy, legal, and regulatory environment to achieve this.
The Government set out to establish a sector regulator and develop the Telecommunications Act,
with support from the Public Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility (PPIAF).

Consequently, IDA support provided investment and technical assistance resources to the MoC
(now known as the Ministry of Communications and Information Technology, MCIT) to: (1)
develop the Government Communications Network; (2) strengthen the policy function ofMoC;
(3) restructure state-owned Afghan Telecom; (4) establish the regulatory unit; and (5) reform the
postal sector.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The objective of the Emergency Communications Development Project is to support activities
designed to improve delivery of communications services to the Government and to the people of
Afghanistan. This will be achieved by: (i) carrying out urgent expansion of the government
communications network to restore critical communications between ministries and provinces;
(ii) providing urgently needed policy advice and capacity building to the MOC to promote
sustainable communications sector performance and increased private sector participation; and
(iii) improving the postal sector and the delivery of postal services. The outcomes of the project
are expected to be improvements in communications facilities and delivery, while laying the
foundations for sector reforms and institution building that would lead to sustainable development
of the communications sector.

The project was expected to bring about positive changes in terms of increasing the relevant
institutions' capacity to reform and govern the sector, develop a competitive market, and enable
the private sector to provide services in Afghanistan. The expected benefits were increased access
to various telecommunication services in the country, improved sector governance, and access to
basic telecommunications services in Afghanistan.

Table 1.0 summarizes the key performance indicators of the project.

                            Table 1.0: Key Performance Indicators

Com20nent                        Monitoring Indicators
Government Communications         30 Ministries/ Government Departments connected to the
Network                            Government Communications Network (GCN) by 2006
                                  32 Provinces connected to the GCN by 2006
                                  6550 Telephone lines under Government network by 2006
Communications Ministry             Afghan Telecom established as a State Owned Enterprise by
Institutional Development            2005
                                    An independent telecommunications regulatory body
                                     established by 2004
                                    4 fixed and mobile phone providers licensed by 2006
                                    20 ISPs licensed by 2003
Postal Sector Reform                Postal sector policy announced by 2005




                                                2

 1.3 Revised PD~ (as approved               original   " ..uen"." ..   authority) and Key Indicators, and
 reasons/justification

 The       was not revised. During project preparation, key indicators      to track project
 progress and achievement                development objective was very        to the project
              and activities.          activities, especially the area improving government
 communications were implemented, most indicators were met or                      extension of
 the        closing                indicators were added, with a
 performance especially in    areas of access and
                  to improving the          policy


 Value                                        2003                     2006            2009 actual

 Improve Government
 communication capacity
                                               departments
                                               connected
                                               4 provinces


                                                                                         70,000
                                                                                        telephone lines

                                                                        20
                                                                   I US$950 million
                                                                   !    (by

                                                                        2008)
                                               0.2

             in teledensity or
  100 people
  indicator)
. Operators licensed to provide                3
 telecommunication

 1.4 Main Beneficiaries

                             the project include the Government, and Afghan citizens
                                            from     development of the communications system
 (GCN) that enabled inter-governmental                       among             and
            This         supports                              operation of the public and
 sectors. This includes areas                               information,
               international"_,,"'LHJU.:l




 The ".dllL'-'LlO)                                                  improved access and
 of telecommunications services.           policy and regulatory reforms supported by    project
          attract pri vate '-""Hl~'ll', created      and     to an          of telephone



                                                         3
across the country. Over 70 percent of the population is now covered by at least one mobile
telephone network, and market penetration of telephony is equivalent to 49 percent of the
population. Tariffs have also fallen by 95 percent since 2002, while over 60,000 jobs have been
created---directly or indirectly-by increased investment and activity in the telecommunications
industry.

In the postal sector, services have been expanded across Afghanistan and new services such as
Express Mail Service with online tracking have been introduced. Further, the Postal Commission
has been instituted and the Postal Law was drafted.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project as approved included five components:

Emergency Government Communication: This included the provision of goods required to
integrate the existing network for inter-government communications, improve and extend the
communications coverage to ministries and Government buildings in Kabul and provinces,
including the provision of training and consultants' services required for the operation and
maintenance thereof.

Strengthening the Policy Function ofMaC: This included:
  Provision of consultants' services to MoC to: (i) carry out a program for management and
    organizational restructuring with a view to emphasizing the role of MoC as a sector policy
    making body; (ii) examine options to rationalize MoC's labor force; (iii) develop a suitable
    universal access strategy; (iv) carry out technical studies covering such areas as convergence,
    market structure and competition; and (v) develop suitable financial management and
    management information systems.
  Provision of hardware, software, computers, and office equipment to assist MoC in the
    establishment of a local area network.
  Carrying out, through the provision of consultants' services, of a professional development
    program supported through technical cooperation arrangements with policy agencies in
    different countries, information sharing and contacts, seminars, training and study tours.
  Provision of project management services and technical advisory services and training to
    strengthen the capacity of MoC to carry out and manage the project.

Restructuring ofAfghan Telecom: This included:
  Provision of consultants' services to review the legal framework of the Borrower governing
    the communications sector and, where appropriate prepare amendments thereto, together with
    suitable legal instruments required to restructure Afghan Telecom as an independent
    corporate entity.
  Provision of consultants' services to carry out an allocation of Afghan Telecom's assets and
    liabilities, develop an inventory of its fixed assets, value said assets, negotiate land and
    building ownership and use, and determine appropriate levels of debt-to-fund ratio for assets
    to be transferred to Afghan Telecom.
  Provision of consultants' services to carry out a financial audit to identify Afghan Telecom's
    opening position and prepare the initial financial statements for the restructured Afghan
    Telecom.
  Provision of consultants' services to examine options to rationalize Afghan Telecom's labor
    force, prepare a cost-based tariff study, develop a business plan, performance criteria to be
    incorporated in Afghan Telecom's license, and technical advisory services.



                                                 4
Establishment ofRegulatory Unit: This included:
  Provision of consultants' services to MoC to: (i) establish an independent regulatory unit; (ii)
    establish technical standardization processes and a spectrum management function; (iii)
    develop and implement tariff and pricing regimes, quality of service standards for all licensed
    operators and carrier monitoring process and procedures; (iv) develop a pro-competitive
    model for licensing new operators; and (v) provide other technical advisory services.
  Provision of goods and consultants' services to establish spectrum-monitoring equipment.
  Carrying out of a professional development program supported through technical cooperation
    arrangements with regulatory agencies in different countries, information sharing and
    organization of seminars and study tours, as well as on the job, in-country, and external
    training programs.
  Provision of office equipment and vehicles, including computer hardware and software to
    assist in the carrying out of regulatory functions.
  Provision of consultants' services to develop financial and management information systems.

Postal Sector Reform: This included:
  Provision of consultants' services to: (a) evaluate options for labor force rationalization, and
    to develop a business plan for the postal sector; (b) develop and implement a pricing regime
    and expand postal services; (c) develop a universal service policy, and introduce and manage
   competition in the postal sector; and (d) render other advisory services, including advice on
    corporatization.
  Provision of goods to modernize basic postal equipment.

1.6 Revised Components

There were no revisions to the components.

1.7 Other significant changes

There were no significant changes in project design during implementation

The project closing date was extended twice, to September 30, 2008, and subsequently to
September 30,2009. The extensions to closing date were requested by the Government and
approved by Bank management. The reasons for extension were to accommodate the 2-year
operation and maintenance (O&M) phase of the Government Communications Network (GCN)
contract, as originally intended in the project design, due to delays in the initiation of work on the
GCN.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Background analysis to support the preparation of ECDP was sound, based on a one-year
engagement with the MoC and other donors in the telecommunications sector. QAG's Quality
At-Entry Assessment (QEA7) rated the quality at entry of this project as Highly Satisfactory
overall.




                                                  5
The project and its components were designed to respond to specific priority investment needs to
restore and expand the government communication network and long-term policy objectives of
the Government to create the right conditions for open competition and private sector investment,
and a stable and transparent policy, legal and regulatory, environment.

The project also built on the experiences of telecommunications components and activities in
post-conflict Afghanistan such as the EPAP and EERDP, and the ARTF and PPIAF-funded
telecommunications programs. It also drew on experiences from post-conflict environments that
suggested the great importance of wireless communications as the primary telecommunications
infrastructure, and the rapidity with which competitive private wireless provision can roll out
(even in poor and war-tom environments) under the appropriate regulatory and policy conditions.
This suggested the urgency of creating regulatory and legal institutions that can foster
telecommunications roll out, particularly in the wireless segment.

The experience in Afghanistan and in other post-conflict environments was used to inform the
design of the project. First, the project implementation was kept flexible to adapt to a rapidly
changing environment. Second, it took steps to ensure sustainability in project design. Third, it
was designed to achieve a relatively simple and attainable set of objectives. Finally, it sought to
reduce security related risks in the immediate post-conflict environment while creating the
foundations for broader development of the system in later years.

The QEA7 panel rated the project's quality at entry of this as Highly Satisfactory (1) overall. The
assessment comprised Highly Satisfactory (1) ratings for:
      Strategic Relevance and Approach (improving Government ability to communicate was
       an overriding political and economic priority);
      Policy and Institutional Aspects (political backing, commitment, and incentives were all
       strong);
      Implementation Arrangements (the project was well prepared, kept simple, and was ready
       to launch); and for
      Bank Inputs and Processes (Bank management gave the project the strongest backing).

All other quality dimensions-Technical, Economic and Financial Aspects, Social,
Environmental, Fiduciary Aspects and Risk Assessment-were rated Satisfactory (2). The QEA 7
review noted that while the rationale for concentrating on the two main components (Government
telecom and policy reform) was well borne out by results thus far, the case for "including a postal
element in the project - with a minimal allocation of project finds - seems less well made." The
review noted that the postal component should either have received more funds or been
postponed and handled later in a separate project.

The overall project design was straightforward and uncomplicated. Strengths included a simple
and clear component structure and standardized implementation arrangements.

The objectives were also described with sufficient clarity. They were also realistic and important
for the country because they were fully aligned with and supported the Government's immediate
objectives. Hence, there was borrower buy-in for the project throughout the design phase, as the
objectives were part of the Government's stated mandate. The objectives remained unchanged
during implementation as the sector priorities ofthe Government remained the same, despite the
changing political and security landscape.

Government's Commitment, Stakeholder Involvement, and Participatory Processes



                                                  6

During project preparation and throughout the implementation process, the Government was
highly committed to the sector. It recognized the importance of telecommunications for the
country's wider socio-economic development agenda. Despite a highly challenging security
environment, the Government implemented reforms in the sector.

Assessment of risks and mitigation measures

The assessment of risks at the time of project appraisal was satisfactory. It considered critical
risks and mitigation measures for every component, and correctly identified implementation
capacity and security as major risks. The establishment of the Project Management Office helped
address implementation capacity risks.

2.2 Implementation

The project implementation period saw rapid positive changes in the local context. Due to the
policy, regulatory, and institutional reforms supported by ECDP, the Afghan telecommunications
sector has experienced almost 100 percent annual growth since 2003. Teledensity has grown from
0.2% in 2002 to about 35% by 2009. From two service providers (Afghan Telecom and AWCC)
in 2002, the sector now includes another five private telecommunications providers and seven
operational Internet service providers (lSPs) . Mobile signal coverage has reached over 70 percent
of the population and tariffs have fallen to about 10 US cents a minute from US$2 per minute in
2002. Private investments were, at the time of closing, over US$1.2 billion. The postal sector has
developed further with the introduction of new services such as Express Mail, and the drafting of
the Postal Law. Services have also been expanded using postal agencies and licensing of courier
service providers.

This success has been due to the high level of commitment to sector reforms on the part of the
implementing agencies. Starting from a point of weak capacity, the MoC (now MCIT) has taken
on the policymaking function and is seen as technically competent and responsive. The regulatory
function has been successfully delegated to ATRA, while Afghan Telecom is now moving slowly
towards sustainability in the long term.

One challenge experienced up front was the lack of project management capacity within the MoC.
This led to some initial delays with procurement and a lag between commitments and
disbursements. However, the Project Management Specialist (PMS) hired under the project
quickly began work and was able to respond effectively. The PMS throughout played a
significant role in procurement, financial management, training, and institution building. As a
result, six months into the implementation, total disbursements reached US$9.5 million, ahead of
appraisal estimates. Further, the team continued intensive supervision through frequent visits,
video conferences, and teleconferences to support the Project Management Team and ensure
quick implementation.

By the time of the Mid Term Review (MTR) in December 2005, the disbursements had reached
US$13.3 million, and the performance ratings were Satisfactory for achievement ofPDO and
implementation progress. Nonetheless, there were significant and important gaps in the capacity
of Afghan Tel, the post office, the regulator TRB, and MoC that required additional and
accelerated training and technical assistance. The MTR mission and Ministry agreed to reallocate
funds to support such an accelerated program of support. Further, in view of the Government of
Afghanistan's interest in using ICT for improving governance and providing a better quality of



                                                7

life to citizens, it was agreed that project funds would also be utilized for technical assistance to
plan and implement priority activities in the eGovernment and Government IT sphere.

It is worth noting that by January 2006 nearly all of agreed End-of-Project perfonnance indicators
included in the ECDP Development Credit Agreement were met or surpassed. There were 40 (as
opposed to the envisaged 30) Government sites in Kabul connected to the GCN and 30,000 (as
opposed to 6,550) telephone lines provided to Government staff, for example.

In addition, the Bank also recognizes the importance of the sustained policy dialogue with the
MoC and TRB (later the MCIT and ATRA) to ensure open and fair competition in the
telecommunications sector. This supported the capacity building activities under the ECDP. The
team consistently emphasized the need for transparency in the regulatory environment through
greater public consultations with industry and other stakeholders.

Two sets of issues remained out of the control of the proj ect team and MoC throughout the
project, although the impact was managed and was negligible in the end. The first set related to
the shifting tax codes and rules that the MoF developed and then imposed. At one point, close to
US$2 million in payments on contracts under ECDP and the ARTF projects became overdue
because of a dispute over whether the goods and services tax (approx. 8 percent and four percent
on international and local procurements respectively) should apply to contracts funded by the
Bank. Another concern related to the MoF was the repeated delays in payments due to slow
response of Control staff deputed from the MoF to MCIT. These issues were discussed with and
addressed by the Government.

The second set of issues related to the volatile and deteriorating security situation in the country .
This has not only slowed down the implementation ofMCIT projects that the ECDP was
indirectly supporting (such as the Afghan Telecom national fiber optic backbone), but also
reduced significantly the number of consultants who were available to travel to and stay in
Afghanistan. Well-qualified consultants were often unwilling or could not--<iue to restrictions by
their national governments or employers-travel to Afghanistan. This was a significant problem
because much of the capacity building activities needed sustained and regular interactions.
Moreover, some international training for Afghan staff and Government employees could not be
organized because of the difficulty in getting travel clearances from the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs.

During project implementation, the Ministry, ATRA, and Afghan Post also had access to
technical assistance financing from other sources such as the United States Government and
USAID; International Telecommunications Union (lTU); Asia Pacific Telecommunity (APT);
and Universal Postal Union (UPU). This was not envisaged during project preparation. As a
result, a portion of funds allocated towards technical assistance and capacity-building activities
were reallocated during project implementation.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The M&E parameters used reflected the focus of the project on Government connectivity and
policy refonn. The parameters were designed to record the improvement of government
communication capacity in Kabul, with provinces, and through expansion of telephone access.

The policy refonn parameters were designed to capture the impact of sound policy and regulatory
decisions, as opposed to simply a 'checking-the-box' approach. Hence, these parameters focused
on the increase in the number of licensed telecommunications service providers and Internet


                                                   8

service providers, in investments in the sector, and in access to telecommunication services.
These parameters were expected to reflect the improvement in the business climate for
competitive telecommunications providers and the easier access to telecommunications for
citizens.

The MCIT and regulator ATRA implemented the M&E system successfully, engaging with the
range of proj ect beneficiaries to coordinate the collection and analysis of data. While government
connectivity data would be easily available because the MeIT was the implementing agency, the
collaboration of service providers in data collection was useful in the M&E for the policy reform
parameters. It helped that these parameters are standard for the telecommunications sector and are
well understood by all stakeholders.

The M&E data, especially the data related to the policy reform components has been widely used
by the MCIT, ATRA, and stakeholders to highlight the pro-competition, investment-friendly
policy and regulatory framework in place in Afghanistan. Key snapshot data is available on the
MeIT Internet homepage and is updated every quarter. Thus, the data becomes a key element of
internal and external communication and helps strengthen the Government's credibility by
highlighting its ability to present information on market opportunities and progress to the private
sector and to maintain buy-in for the reform from Afghan society by demonstrating its ongoing
positive impacts.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguard Compliance is rated satisfactory. No issues were reported regarding compliance with
Bank policy and procedural requirements. The project had minimum environmental implications
because there was no need for supporting roads, significant civil works, or power-supply
installations.

Financial Management: The overall performance of financial management is rated moderately
satisfactory. The project has complied with all fiduciary requirements with some delays in the
submission of annual audit reports. This was due to factors outside of the control of the proj ect.
The project submitted timely Financial Management Reports (FMRs) and no major issues were
raised. Project accounting and internal controls were adequate, and the team provided the needed
supervision in fiduciary matters.

Disbursements: Of the original credit of SDR 15.7 million, a total of SDR 15.6 million was fully
disbursed. The remainder was cancelled after closing.

Procurement: Overall procurement performance is rated Satisfactory.

2.5 Post-completion OperationlNext Phase

MCIT and ATRA recognize the importance to sustain the gains made thus far and build on what
exists. Building on the opportunity presented by the availability of a widespread
telecommunications network, and reflecting the leT strategy developed in the ANDS, the GOA
remains committed to using leT broadly to improve public service delivery, include more
Afghans in the global information and innovation economy, and connect rural and remote
communities. Furthermore, the Government recognizes that it can leverage the widespread
mobile telephone network for public service delivery, to improve M&E of programs and projects,
and to offer citizens access to finance. Responding to the Government's interest, the Bank is



                                                 9

               -to-gtllUan(;e on the development of mobile applications focused on rural


Simultaneously, sector stakeholders realize that as the Afghan market develops, the policy and
                       will have to adapt to new opportunities and
              ""PH/A'-V"                                                              by evolving
                                   Responding to their request,      Bank      been engaged in
                                ATRA providing additional              building             just-in-
                     on                      As            closed, the Bank had begun providing
non-lending technical assistance on tariff regulation and on     development        Internet policy


A         area of       is to                with the             on the future of Afghan
Telecom. The project has            the company in becoming a corporate              that could be
            Unfortunately, one attempt at               in 2009 did not l'rP"p,.<>tp
nUlnDi~r of bids for              Furthermore,         Telecom now has significant human and
technical capacity and is able to         high quality                                 connectivity to
the            market, and has                  retail

The                                      Telecom and the establishment        truly level playing
field require the Government to re-visit the privatization of Afghan            The           and
    ,-'VUH''-'H of an     private                        it     that the                  Afghan
                take     eventually. The            proposed that     Government privatize
                         the context of licensing reforms to maintain a level playing field.
Simultaneously,       Government should ensure that assets such as the            optic      cable
network being developed by Afghan               should be regulated to allow non-discriminatory
access to                    providers                   abuse

                        Bank would be to support follow up work to           key bottlenecks
                         the infrastructure developed to   for         delivery. This could
                                  in the areas                        such as Internet policy,
                                   and                           to            the . . V1HIJ','"U
market to enable the eventual privatization of Afghan Telecom; Oi) continued capacity building
                  and             (iii) support            a reliable                          network
that connects a greater number of provinces across Afghanistan; (iv) investment support
technical            to build on                IT           while promoting mobile
applications, wider Internet use, and eGovernment applications. Follow-on support in            sector
would yield substantial              and               for  country,                      areas of
next generation data networks and                                transformative            for the
poor.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Relevance ofobjectives: The objectives of     project remain relevant to the Afghanistan's
                        the             National                        (ANDS) (2007/8
201213), and the most recent Bank Interim Strategy Note (ISN).

   ANDS notes the strategic vision for the   sector is to "make affordable information and
communication         available every district and         of                     enabling


                                                   10 

market economy." The focus of the ECDP on policy and regulatory reform has helped support the
realization of this vision. Further, the ANDS lCT Sector Strategy has targets of "Transforming
Afghanistan into an information based society by 2013," and increasing "Telecom access to 80%
geographic coverage of populated areas by 2010." The ANDS program thus builds on the work
done through the ECDP, specifically creating a policy and regulatory environment to promote
access to affordable telecommunications services across Afghanistan. The ECDP also supported
improved Government communications and the development of Government IT infrastructure
that will help the implementation of e-Government and other lCT applications enabling Afghans
to enjoy the information age.

The objectives of the project are relevant to the three pillars of the FY09-11 lSN for Afghanistan.
First, the development of the foundation for e-Government systems and public service delivery
mechanisms helps build the capacity of the state and its accountability to its citizens. Second, the
expansion of telecommunications promotes economic growth generally. This will help, as these
networks go even deeper into rural Afghanistan, build up the rural economy. Finally, creation of a
positive and pro-competition policy and regulatory framework has supported the growth of the
private sector.

The project design is relevant, reflecting proper diagnosis of development priorities and
alignment with project's development objectives.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The project has achieved its development objective and surpassed almost all of its stated targets
as discussed in Section 1.3 above.

Indicators related to the improvements in the capacity of the government communication network
were all met. The GCN is fully functional (voice, data, and video) and connects all 34 provincial
capitals and 40 line ministries/agencies in Kabul. The operation of this network has been fully
transferred to Afghan Telecom and it serves as the backbone for the CDMA network. The target
for telephone connectivity of Government has been surpassed. Over 70 thousand lines are being
used by Government-ten times over the target of 6550 lines.

Proj ect outcomes related to the development of the telecommunications sector have surpassed
targets. Investments in the sector have crossed US$1 billion and are 30 percent over the target of
US$950 million. The teledensity nationally has crossed 35 as of late 2009, with the total number
of subscriptions at about 11 million. Over 20 lSPs were licensed, and seven of these are
operational.

The number of operators licensed to provide telecommunication services reached seven. The
market has experienced spectacular growth since 2002. As of September 2009, Afghanistan'S
mobile teledensity, for example, was on par with India (41), Tanzania (42), and Cambodia (37).

3.3 Efficiency

The project had provided a credit ofUS$24 million equivalent to the Government. This has had a
significant multiplier effect on the economy, had a positive social impact, and contributed
significant revenues to the Treasury in the form of taxes and fees.

Economic impact. Recent research suggests that every 10 percentage-point increase in mobile
telephony penetration in developing countries leads to an acceleration of GDP growth by 0.75


                                                 11 

percentage point. Even with this conservative estimate for Afghanistan, the overall effect on GDP
due to mobile telephony is about US$309 million since December 2004. In itself, this
conservative estimate suggests that the ECDP credit had a mUltiplier effect often times on GDP.

Further, tariffs dropped from US$2 per minute of talk-time to about 10 US cents per minute over
the period of the project. This represents a drop from one minute of talk-time being equivalent to
0.92% of per-capita GDP to 0.02%, representing a significant increase in the affordability of
telephone services.

Social impact. There has also been significant social development impact. The growth of the
telecommunications sector has created 60,000 jobs directly or indirectly. One mobile telephone
company has begun pilots of a mobile money transfer service that will, over time, include more
Afghans in the formal banking system and provide them with access to finance. This widespread
mobile telephone network creates platform that can be used for public service delivery and
improved access to information.

The development of the GCN also lays the foundation for Government IT and e-Government
services that will help improve both internal government management and external government
to-business and government-to-citizen services.

Fiscal impact. Finally, the project led to policy and regulatory reforms and further liberalization
of the telecommunications sector that brought in significant revenues to the Government. One
time revenues included the license fees paid by the third and fourth telecommunications licensees
(MTN in September 2005 and Etisalat in May 2006), which totaled US$80 million.

Recurring revenues include the significant inputs to the Treasury from the various taxes being
levied on the telecommunications service providers. In 2009, the estimated taxes contributed by
the telecommunications operators was US$75 million, about 10 percent of the total domestic
Government revenues.

3.4 Justification of Overa]] Outcome Rating

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The project outcomes are rated as highly satisfactory because all the project outcome targets have
been met or surpassed; the efficiency of the project is very high in terms of economic, social, and
fiscal impact compared with the size of the IDA credit. In terms of access and private investment,
the outcomes have surpassed all expectations thus justifying the rating of Highly Satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Access to quality communications services is an important component of the overall poverty
reduction strategy for most developing countries. The expansion of the telecommunications
industry has created new economic activities. It also represents an improved investment climate.
Now, as ATRA implements the Telecommunication Development Fund (TDF) and begins
supporting the expansion of telecommunications services in rural and remote areas, the
telecommunications sector will reach more Afghans and move towards universal access. The use
of the GCN and mobile telephone network for better public service delivery and program



                                                12 

management will also serve to improve the Government's ability to coordinate its poverty
reduction efforts.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Through capacity building initiatives, the project has supported significant institutional
restructuring, capacity building, and reforms. The key transformations are described below.

The Ministry of Communications (MoC) evolved into the Ministry of Communications and IT
(MCIT), responsible for policymaking and implementation of the ICT development agenda. The
ICT policy and law have been developed.

The Afghanistan Telecommunications Regulatory Authority (ATRA) was also established and
the TDF has begun operations. The first round of bids for rural telecommunications infrastructure
was completed in 2009.

The department in charge of telecommunications operations was corporatized into Afghan
Telecom. Afghan Telecom is now a licensed operator, providing CDMA wireless and fixed voice
services, and Internet access.

Finally, postal services have been expanded in Afghanistan. New services such as Express mail
service have been introduced. Further, the Postal Commission has been instituted and the Postal
Law has been drafted.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Not applicable

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

The risk to development outcomes is Low.

The reforms undertaken in the sector are irreversible. Today Afghanistan's telecommunication
sector and its mobile segment are dynamic with investment, iIU1ovation, and competition. This
trend is likely to continue because of the basic reforms funded under the project (legal and
regulatory reform, and creation of an institutional framework). The QEA Sustainability rating was
Likely (2). That assessment noted that given the nature of the project deliverables - physical
infrastructure and institutional and policy reforms - it is highly unlikely that these would ever be
reversed.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance




                                                13
(a) Bank Performance                         Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating:                 Satisfactory

The seventh Quality at Entry Assessment (QEA 7)                           the        at entry       project as
Highly             (1)

     QEA notes that the                    effectively to an            to restore    expand
gO'/enament communication network, connecting the                Government administration in Kabul
with all provinces.     QEA        noted           rationale for the      service component was
not equally       but given the numerous and highly commendable aspects the                 the
      did not believe this should lead to a lower overall

(b) Quality            Supervision

          Satisfactory

Bank's supervision was led            TTLs and supported by adequate budget. A        level
engagement through supervision was seen as essential to ensure successful project
                                             Team         frequent       to
                                           MeIT through teleconferences
                                           quickly.      Bank team had
                                                      UULLYi"Y


                                                    and unpredictable environment. Throughout
                                                  supervision focus on      project's


Candor       quality ofpelformance             The team was
reporting. The         of performance reporting has
document were clear and concise,          on
              support was sought as necessary to communicate
U1U,UUJo;'-'"HvlU




Supervision offiduciary and                                                     of                 was
and proactive,       there were no major


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

                                  at entry and quality of supervision ratings, overall          performance is rated


     Borrower Performance

(a) Government              p"',..t...."",<IJ


Rating:   >J ...... ""'.<lv<Vl




The                                              can be rated "satisfactory" due to     high
                             nec:am;e       outcomes were achieved in a difficult political and security
                                                  large     to the        participation of the           officials of
the MCIT who were champions        sector       and continued          for the
     the MOF.     risks, including     underlying         risks, were handled realistically and
honestly,      need                       support to the                       agency (the
MCIT) was recognized

                        that the presence                       and             senior officials in
       throughout the project was a strong factor in the Government's ability to maintain a
quality candid                   policy            with the Bank in which            could be
discussed      the reform momentum sustained.            support     commitment to sector reforms
is evident from       willingness to create a truly enabling              for competition
corporatizing and attempting to            the state-owned operator Afghan Telecom.

    Government also made au,""!""",, an$~enlents to put in          empower competent
within the      Management Office (PMO).                 of the PMO in tralllllrlg
                       to financial management and nrn,(,lll-pm   should be
                      implementation of the project.

                    there is room for more progress is building the technical             of the
                                 agency      been able to maintain          and support the
                     in telephony, but       the capacity needed to        with a                set
of service providers that are looking to introduce newer technologies and expand their networks.
Further, ATRA has now                                               programs        the
Telecommunications Development Fund                which has now collected over US$
           creates a        resource to support rural         development and the ",.",,,,,,,,
applications in sectors such as health,            and                   that
national development           Specific                                   to
to manage this important resource.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance



The                                                        Ministry of Communications (MoC),
                                                            Information Technologies (MClT).

                           was an                       MClT was led by committed                competent
                          positions who mana~~ed implementation and built capacity
      ' u.... H..""vu of high-level officials      the Management Capacity v .."' ......,.....
                   a strong PMO helped in            implementation




Under the dynamic                     Project                         the PMO and
maintained sound records and documentation. There were some difficulties in retaining staff later
      project                  competition     Afghan          However, the PMO maintained
          continuity and efficiency in handling different project components.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance



                                                        15 

Rating: Satisfactory

Given the high level of commitment to the project and to achieving its outcomes, and the
perfonnance of the Government and the Implementing Agencies, the Overall Borrower
Perfonnance is rated as Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

First, in conflict-affected andfragile states, projects that are focused on results, which use simple
design to create the foundations for future growth, and leverage competent and committed
leadership might work better. This project was focused on attaining well-defined, well
understood, and broadly supported objectives. It focused most on two components that were to be
implemented based on international experience and were in line with national development
strategies. Moreover, the project was designed to be flexible to allow adaptation to a rapidly
changing environment while seeking sustainability through the development of simple systems
that could grow subsequently.

Second, in low-capacity environments, continuity ofstaffwith a dedicated project implementation
unit and sufficient Bank resources for supervision are important ingredients for successful
processing and implementation. The team had the resources and built long-standing relationships
with the officials in the implementing agency. This allowed close supervision, rapid response to
concerns or challenges, and the creation of a candid and results-focused work environment.

Third, projects can be successfully implemented when there is a strong stakeholder commitment
to reform, and when there is strong political and administrative commitment to monitor progress
and make flexible changes as required. Clear leadership, willingness to implement refonns at a
senior level, and a broad consensus on priorities facilitated project implementation during much
of the project period. Specifically, the project was designed to support Government priorities and
fit well with its strategies and development plans. The backing of the Bank management for this
project was also critical in ensuring the highest quality at entry and in maintaining involved
supervision. This lesson is noteworthy as the project was implemented against a backdrop of
conflict and insecurity.

Finally, even in a conflict-affected andpoor state such as Afghanistan, the liberalization ofthe
telecommunications industry led to massive private investment, rapid expansion ofnetworks and
subscription, and significant job creation. The focus of the Government on creating an enabling
environment for pri vate sector investment was thus rewarded, and has a powerful demonstrati ve
effect for other sectors in Afghanistan, as well as other states with similar political or economic
conditions.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/lmplementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

Not applicable

(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable



                                                 16
(c) Other partners and stakeholders

Not applicable




                                      17
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in     usn Million equivalent)
                                                           Actual/Latest
         Components                 Appraisal Estimate     Estimate (USD        Percentage of
                                     (USn millions)           millions)          Appraisal
 COMPONENT 1:
EMERGENCY GOVERNMENT
                                            14.00                    17.043        121.73%
COMMUNICATIONS
NETWORK
 COMPONENT 2: MOC
INSTITUTION AL CAPACITY                      7.44                     6.163         82.8%
BUILDING
 COMPONENT 3: POSTAL
                                             0.56                     0.184          33%
SECTOR REFORM


              Total Baseline Cost           22.00                    23.39          106%
Physical Contingencies                       0.00                     0.00           0.00
Price Contingencies                          0.00                     0.00           0.00
             Total Project Costs             0.00                    23 .39
Front-end fee PPF                            0.00                     0.00           0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                           0.00                     0.00           0.00
       Total Financing Required             22.00                    23.39




(b) Financing
                                                         Appraisal     ActuallLatest
                                          Type of        Estimate         Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                        Cofrnancing        (USn             (USD      Appraisal
                                                         millions)        millions)
Borrower                                              0.00             0.00          100%
International Development
                                                      22.00            23.39       106%
Association (IDA)




                                               18 

Annex 2. Outputs by Component


 Component!         Project Activities          Target Outputl             Achievement/            Outcome/Impact
Subcomponent/                                                         I    Actual Output
  Ob'ective
Government       Establishment of              30 Government              40 Ministries and
Communications   Government                    Ministries and                         within
                 Communications Network        Agencies and 32            Kabul have been
                          to          the      provinces connected        connected to the
                                      inter-   to the GCN                 GCN.AII34
                 government                                                            of          Government
                 communications, improve                                  Afghanistan are          agencies within
                 and extend the                                           connected to the         Kabul have access
                 communications coverage                                  GCN. In addition,        to voice and data
                 to ministries and                                        the offices of           services.
                 Government             In                                provincial governors
                 Kabul and nrr""'n""<                                     in 23              are
                                                                          connected to the
                                                                          GCN and have
                                                                          access to video
                                                                          conferencing
                                                                          facilities.


                                               A total of at least        70,000 Government
                                               6550 telephone lines       subscribers
                                               under the                  connected.
                                               Government
                                               network

                 Training and                  Cost recovery of           Afghan Telecom is                Telecom
                 building for the operation    GCN                        able to operate the      operates and
                 and maintenance of the                                   GCN on a cost            manages the
                 GCN                                                      recovery basis.          network




                                                   19 

Communications   Development of legal            Corporatization of   Afghan Telecom         Afghan Telecom,
Ministry         instruments to restructure      Afghan Telecom.      es tab Iished as a     operating as a
Institutional    Afghan Telecom as an                                 corporation in 2005    corporate entity
Development      independent corporate                                                       under a license ITom
                 entity.                                                                     ATRA.

                 Consultants' services to (i)                                                Regulator fully
                 conduct valuation of                                                        functional and
                 Afghan Telecom's assets                                                     responsible for all
                 and liabilities; (ii) develop                                               regulatory functions.
                 an inventory of its fixed
                 assets, and strategy for                                                    MCIT leads the
                 asset transfer to Afghan                                                    sector's policy
                 Telecom; (iii) develop a                                                    function in
                 balance sheet for Afghan                                                    Government and
                 Telecom; (iv) rationalize                                                   serves as secretariat
                 Afghan Telecom's labor                                                      to the National ICT
                 force; (v) develop business                                                 Council.
                 plan; (vi) prepare a cost-                                                  All sectors of the
                 based tari ff study; (vii)                                                  market have been
                 develop performance                                                         liberalized leading
                 criteria to be incorporated                                                 to reduced tariffs for
                 in Afghan Telecom's                                                         local, long distance
                 license; (viii) technical                                                   and international
                 advisory services; and (ix)                                                 long distance calls.
                 capacity building of
                 Afghan Telecom staff.

                 Spectrum management and         Creation of          Independent            Growth in access -
                 monitoring system and           independent          Telecommunication      ITom 0.2 lines per
                 drive test systems installed    regulatory body.     s Regulator, A TRA     100 inhabitants at
                 and operational                                      established fuHy       project appraisal to
                 Consultants' services to: (i)                        functional.            49 at closing.
                 establish an independent
                 regulatory unit; (ii)
                 establish technical
                 standardization processes
                 and a spectrum
                 management function; (iii)
                 develop and implement
                 tariff and pricing regimes,
                 quality of service standards
                 for all licensed operators
                 and carrier monitoring
                 process and procedure; (iv)
                 develop a pro-competitive
                 model for licensing new
                 operators; (v) other
                 technical advisory services;
                 and (vi) capacity building
                 of ATRA staff.

                 Management and                  MOC taking on role   MOC reinstituted as
                 organizational restructuring    as policy-making     the Ministry of
                 with a view to emphasize        body.                Communications
                 the role ofMOC as a sector                           and Information
                 policy-making body.                                  Technology
                                                                      (MCIT), fully
                 Capacity building ofMOC                              responsible for
                 and related agency staff                             policy making in the
                                                                      sector.
                 Project management
                 services


                                                     2U
Postal Sector   Consultants' services to: (i)   Installation of        Equipment to           Improved postal
Support         evaluate options for labor      equipment.             improve postal         services in
                force rationalization, and to                          services installed,    Afghanistan.
                develop a business plan for                            including scales,
                the postal sector; (ii)                                franking and x-ray
                develop and implementing                               machines, date         New services such
                a pricing and expand postal                            stamps, mailbags,      as express mail
                services; (iii) develop a                              motor cycles,          being provided by
                universal service policy ,                             bicycles, computer     Afghan Post.
                and introduce and manage                               and office
                competition in the postal                              automation
                sector; (iv) render other                              equipment.             New private courier
                advisory services,                                                            service providers
                including advice on             Improved               Universal service      licensed.
                corporatization; and (v)        management of post     policy was adopted
                develop capacity of staff.      office.                and competitive
                                                                       environment was
                                                                       created to attract
                                                                       private sector
                                                                       participation in the
                                                                       postal sector.

                                                Establish regulatory   Postal Corrunission
                                                framework.             instituted to
                                                                       implement the
                                                                       Postal Policy and
                                                                       Law and regulate
                                                                       the sector.




                                                    21 

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

As the project was prepared as an emergency credit, an economic andfinancial analysis was not
conducted during preparation.




                                             22 

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                        Responsibility/
          Names                         Title                   Unit
                                                                          Specialty
Lending
Charles Kenny             Task Team Leader                     CITPO   Operations
Raj esh Pradhan           Advisor                              CITPO   Operations
Kashmira Daruwalla        Procurement Specialist               CITPO   Procurement
Axel E. N. Baeumler       Senior Economist                     EASIN   Operations
David Satola              Senior Counsel                       LEGPS   Legal

SupervisionJICR
Kareem A. Aziz            ICT Policy Specialist                CITTM   Operations
Kashmira Daruwalla        Senior Procurement Specialist        CITPO   Procurement
Charles J. Kenny          Senior Economist                     FEUSE   Operations
Nargis Mohammad Yousaf    Financial Management Analyst         SARFM   FM
Asha Narayan              Financial Management Analyst         SARFM   FM
Tenzin Dolma Norbhu       Senior ICT Policy Specialist         CITPO   Operations
Kenneth O. Okpara         Sr Financial Management Specialist   SARFM   FM
Siddhartha Raja           E T Consultant                       CITPO   Operations
Rajendra Singh            Senior Regulatory Specialist         CITPO   Operations
Randeep Sudan             Lead ICT Policy Specialist           CITPO   Operations
Mark D. J. Williams       Senior Economist                     CITPO   Operations

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                      USD Thousands (including
                                     No. of staff weeks
                                                           travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY03                                        7                           27.71
  FY04                                       11                           97.61
  FY05                                                                     0.00
  FY06                                                                     0.00
  FY07                                                                     0.00
  FY08                                                                     0.00

                          Total:             18                          125.32
SupervisionJICR
  FY03                                                                     1.29
  FY04                                       18                          107.59
  FY05                                       29                          135.97
  FY06                                       21                           99 .81
  FY07                                        9                           68.71
  FY08                                       22                          108.98



                                          23 

FY09               18     0.00

       Total:     117   522.35




                24 

Annex 5.   DCJ!lCIICllU   Survey Results

Not Applicable
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not Applicable




                                        26 

 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR

 1.

 Ser.    Category of    Component of the category
 No:     the fund

        , Goods
 G-l




. G-2                                                                                 973,961.04




                         Postal            for            postal facilities ofMCIT.   184,865.64
                        Note: out of items (g4), equipment worth 250,000 USD
                       i was issued to support postal department. Thus, total

                                procured for        departments were worth
                                  USD
 G-4                    Other office automation items [all other project related     2,256,328.62
                         goods and office automation items to support all the
                       i offices                           Telecom and postal
                         de artments];
 T-1     Total-l         Total of goods category[total of all the 04 components as    20,459,150.55
                          iven above under oods cate 0 ]




                                                                                      1,01 11.50
                                                                                       148,250.00
                                                                                       309,000.00
                                                                                      423,020.00
                                                                          to c-5 as   2,671,008.70
2. Performance Indicators of ECDP:

Monitoring Indicators (MI) as agreed upon in a meeting between IDA and TISA Representatives, as held
on 13-14 Aug. 2003 were:

Component         Monitoring Indicators    MI      MI      MI      MI      Achievements at project
                                           2003    2004    2005    2006    closing
Government        i) No. of                8       15      30      30      Project completed-project
Communications    Ministries/Gov't.                                        objectives achieved> 100 %.
                   Departments                                             40 Ministries and Major
                  connected                                                Government Departments
                                                                           have been connected for
                                                                           Voice and Internet facilities
                                                                           at Kabul. In addition, 34
                                                                           MOC Offices (One in each
                                                                           Province), 34 Afghan
                                                                           Telecom Offices (One in
                                                                           each Province) have been
                                                                           provided with Voice, Fax
                                                                           and Internet facilities.
                                                                           Offices of the Excellency
                                                                           Governors in 23 Provinces
                                                                           have also been provided
                                                                           with Voice, Internet and
                                                                           Video Conferencing
                                                                           facilities through this
                                                                           Network Media.
                  ii) No. of Provinces     4       15      32      32      Project completed-project
                   connected                                               objectives achieved> I 00 %.
                                                                           All the 34 Provinces of
                                                                           Afghanistan have been
                                                                           Connected.
                                                                           Voice, Internet and Video
                                                                           facilities have been provided
                                                                           to all the 34 Provincial
                                                                           Offices ofMCIT/Afghan
                                                                           Telecom.
                  iii) Total of            225     3075    6550    6550    Project completed-project
                  Telephone Lines                                          objectives achieved> 100 %.
                  Under Gov't.                                             -Total Telephone and
                  Network                                                  Internet Subscribers
                                                                           already on Gov't Network
                                                                           are more than
                                                                            120,000 (Digital Fixed
                                                                           Lines=50,OOO+
                                                                           CDMA Mobi1es=70,000+
                                                                           Internet=5,000); Out of
                                                                           these Subscribers,
                                                                           Government Subscribers are
                                                                           70,000.
                                                                           -Maximum Capacity of
                                                                           Connectablel Sellable
                                                                           Telephone Lines created are



                                                  28 

                                                                               578,200[Fixed
                                                                               Lines=I77,200 + CDMA
                                                                               Mobiles=40 I ,000).
Communications            i)  Establishment                   By               Project completed-project
Ministry                          of                          2005             objectives achieved=IOO %.
Institutional        Afghan telecom as                                         -Afghan Telecom raised
Development          State owned                                                on 13 Sep 2005. The
                     Enterprise                                                Company is fully
                                                                               operational and providing
                                                                               Communications in
                                                                               34 Provinces and 300
                                                                               DistrictsNillages.
                      ii) Creation of an              By                       Project completed-project
                     Independent                      2004                     objectives achieved= I 00 %.
                     Regulatory Body                                           TRB(now named ATRA)
                                                                               made fully
                                                                               Functional.


3.     Degree to which the project Achieved its Development Objectives and Outputs as set out in
       Schedule-2 of the Credit Agreement:

Ser.     Description of Objectives as given in      Achievements                            Remarks
No:      DCA:
I        The Objective of the project was set to
         contribute to the recovery of the
         Borrower's communication sector by:
i        Restoring and expanding a                  All the 34 Provincial Communication     The created
         Communication Network to support the       Centers of the Ministry of              Networks in all
         Borrower's Government and Provincial       Communications & IT (MCIT-earlier       the 34
         communications.                            called MOC) have been linked by         Provinces and
                                                    Satellite and Microwave Media           40 Ministries
                                                    Networks. In addition, 40 Ministries    are fully
                                                    including some major Ministerial        functional in
                                                    Offices at Kabul have been linked by    active
                                                    OFC and Microwave Media, with a         operational
                                                    view to provide Voice and Internet      state at present
                                                    facilities. An integrated Network has   and are
                                                    been evolved to connect 40              generating
                                                    Ministerial Offices at Kabul with 34    Revenue for
                                                    Provincial capital Cities.              MCIT/Afghan
                                                                                            Telecom
                                                                                            averaging to
                                                                                            One Million
                                                                                            USD per
                                                                                            month.
II        Strengthening the policy, institutional   Telecom Law and ICT Policies have       -Afghan
         and regulatory frameworks ofMOC.           been published. MCIT is focusing on     Telecom and
                                                    the Policy Implementation, leaving      ATRA are fully
                                                    routine Telecom Operations to           functional.
                                                    Afghan Telecom. Afghan Telecom is       -Laws and
                                                    fully operational as a Company.         Policies have
                                                    ATRA has been raised and is             been framed.
                                                    currently regulating the Telecom of
                                                    the whole Country.



                                                     29 

1Il   Improving the           of postal           Lot of
      services.                                   to Postal
                                                  improve upon the delivery of Postal          has been
                                                  services in the           Consultancy        carried out;
                                                  ''''>Y'''rT and        as provided           Postal
                                                  under ECDP has improved the                  Commission
                                                  Service Quality. Postal Commission           has framed the
                                                  has also been instituted.                    Postal Law.
      PART-WISE OBJECTIVES OF ECDP:
2


      Provision           required to integrate   In 2003,        04 Provinces out of34        All the Goods
      the existing network for inter              had Satellite                 and very       commissioned
                   communications, improve        limited communication facilities were        under the
      and extend the communications                       to these 04 Provinces. 30            project are in
      coverage to ministries and Government       Provinces were without any                   operational
      buildings in Kabul and provinces,           communication facilities. 10                 state at present
      including the           of training and     Ministries had limited                       and all the
      consultants' services          for the      communication capabilities at Kabul.         Networks are
      operation and maintenance thereof.          Under ECDP, all the 34 Provinces
                                                  have been provided with Voice, Fax,          Revenue. All
                                                  Internet and Video conferencing
                                                  facilities. In            40 Ministries at
                                                  Kabul have been networked under
                                                  ECDP. 27 Provinces have been
                                                  linked            Satellite Networks
                                                  and 07 have been linked through
                                                  Microwave Media. 25 Ministries at
                                                  Kabul have been linked              OFC
                                                  Media and 15 have been linked
                                                  through Microwave Media.
                                                                           has been


                                                  operating and
                                                  commissioned Networks at resent.



                                                  Consultants were hired under ECDP
                                                  who suggested organizational
                                                                and the main Role of
                                                                     that of a Policy
                                                  makin o bod
II     Examine          to rationalize MOC's      MCIT's labor force has been 

      labor forces. 
                             rationalized.
III   Develop a suitable universal access         Universal Access Strategy has been           ATRA is
                                                  framed and is        followed at the         implementing
                                                  moment.                                      this        at
                                                                                               the moment.
             out technical studies covering       Technical studies have been carried
      such areas as convergence, market           out and recommendations made in
      structure and competition.                  these studies have been implemented
                                                  b MClT.



                                                   30 

v         Develop suitable financial management       Financial Management chain has
          and management infonnation systems.         been strengthened. Lot of work has
                                                      already been carried out to develop
                                                      suitable MIS for MCIT and Systems
                                                      Analysis and Designs are on-going
                                                      functions of the ICT department of
                                                      MCIT.
VI        Provision of hardware, software,            LANs of MCIT, Afghan Telecom,            All the
          computers, office equipment to assist       ATRA, and Posts have been                Hardware,
          MOC in the establishment of a local area    commissioned. All the required           Software, and
          network.                                    Hardware, Software, and all other        the Office
                                                      Office Automation Items as required      Automation
                                                      by different Departments have been       Items as
                                                      procured.                                procured under
                                                      Limited LANs have been                   ECDP Fund are
                                                      commissioned in all the 40 Ministries    fully
                                                      as well. In addition, in each            operational at
                                                      Provincial Office of MCIT/Afghan         present.
                                                      Telecom, LAN has been
                                                      commissioned.
Vll       Carrying out, through the provision of      Many professional Consultants were
          consultants' services, of a professional    hired to impart knowledge to MCIT
          development program supported through       on Telecom, ICT, Postal, and
          technical cooperation arrangements with     Regulatory Policies. Many Staff
          policy agencies in different countries,     Members attended professional
          infonnation sharing and contacts,           development programs, seminars, and
          seminars, training and study tours.         training in developing and developed
                                                      Countries.
                                                      Through Non-lending assistance, the
                                                      World Bank Missions conducted
                                                      training and discussion sessions on
                                                      all the Policy matters concerning
                                                      MCIT and A TRA at Kabul.
    ...
Vlll      Provision of project management             Project Management Specialist (M I       There was
          services.                                   Bhat) was hired under this Project       continuity in
                                                      who continued to carry out Project       rendering
                                                      Management functions until closing       Project
                                                      date of the Fund (i.e. until 30 th Sep   Management
                                                      2009).                                   Services.
ix        Provision of technical advisory services    Experts were hired as Consultants        Capacity
          and training to strengthening capacity of   under the project that provided          building
          MOC to carry out and manage Parts 8.1,      Technical Advisory Services and          objective has
          B.2, B.3, and B.4 of the project.           Training to the Staff ofMCIT, ICT,       been very well
                                                      A TRA, Postal, and Afghan Telecom        achieved under
                                                      Departments.                             this project.
4         Part C: Restructuring of Afghan
          Telecom
i         Provision of Consultants' services to       Consultants were hired to review the     MCIT is
          review the legal framework of the           legal frameworks governing the           making efforts
          Borrowers governing the                     communications sector. Afghan            to receive a
          communications sector and, where            Telecom was raised in 2005, under        suitable
          appropriate amendments thereof,             President's Decree. Byelaws were         Proposal to
          together with suitable legal instruments    framed for Afghan Telecom as a           privatize
          required to restructure Afghan Telecom      Corporation, 100 % owned by the          Afghan
          as an independent corporation entity.       Government. Board of Directors was       Telecom.
                                                      constituted to run Afghan Telecom.


                                                       31 

                                                      In 2008, International        Bid was
                                                     issued to            Afghan Telecom.
                                                     80 % Stake was offered to be sold to
                                                     Private Management. Seven
                                                                            to receive the
                                                                           out of 07 carried
                                                                         of Afghan
                                                     Telecom.         01 Company
                                                     submitted the Bid in lun 2008.
                                                     a        Bid, this process was
                                                     terminated by the Government.
II    Provision of consultants' services to                   were hired to assist MCIT in          Entries of
      carry out an allocation                        allocation of Assets. A Committee              Assets
      Telecom's assets and liabilities,              was also formed to transfer the                Transfers have
      an inventory of its fixed assets, value                 Assets to Afghan Telecom.
      said assets,            land and U"llUlllJ;:   An Inventory has been prepared for
                   and use, and determine            all the Fixed                and               Software
                    levels of debt-to-fund ratio                                                    used by
      for assets to be transferred to Afghan                                                        Telecom. Share
      Telecom.                                                                                      Certificate has
                                                                                                    also been
                                                                                                              In
                                                                                                    AISA at Kabul.
111   Provision of consultants' services to                    Audit
                                                     ,-<".o.lanou               has carried         External Audit
      carry out a financial Audit to identify        out External Audit of Afghan                   Reports are
               Telecom's            position and     Telecom Accounts. CFO and many                 held
      prepare the initial financial statements       other Financial Experts were hired             Telecom.
      for the restructured Afghan Telecom.           for        Telecom under the Fund.             Internal Audit
                                                     Internal Audit of the ECDP Fund has                    of
                                                     also been carried out by the same              ECDP Fund is
                                                     Audit Company.                                 held in the
                                                                                                    Finance
                                                                                                    Documents of
                                                                                                    the PMO as
                                                                                                    established for
                                                                                                    ECDP.
iv    Provision of consultants' services to          A total of 28                were hired
      examine options to rationalize Afghan          under ECDP Fund to support
      Telecom's labor          prepare a cost        Telecom. Details of these .... "'fJ""'"
      based tariff study, develop a business         given in Annex-2 as enclosed. In
      plan,               criteria to be             addition, Staff of                Telecom      Company,
      incorporated in Afghan Telecom's                                Training to cover all these   working ina
      license, and technical            services.                   as given under this             competitive
                                                     Objective.                                     environment
                                                      Afghan Telecom's labor force has              where it is
                                                     been                     tariffs have been                 with
                                                     revised to compete in the market;
                                                              business plans have been
                                                     fJ""fJ<4J'''''' with annual budgeting
                                                     exercises and technical platforms
                                                     have been modernized.




                                                      32 

                                                whole Country. In addition, Afghan
                                                Telecom offers Internet on CDMA
                                                Mobile Phones, Fixed Line based
                                                Digital Telephones, Dial-up Internet
                                                on Digital Phone Circuits and OFC
                                                Media Connectivity.
5    Part D: Establishment of Regulatory
     Unit

i    Provision of goods and consultants'        Afghanistan Telecommunications
     services to MOC to: (i) establish an       Regulatory Authority (ATRA) has
     independent regulatory unit; (ii)          been constituted as an independent
     establish technical standardization        regulatory authority. ATRA has 05
     processes and a spectrum management        Board Members to regulate the
     function; (iii) develop and implement      Telecom of the Country.
     tariff and pricing regimes, quality of      Technical Standardization guidelines
     service standards for all licensed         have been issued for all the
     operators and carrier monitoring process   Networks.
     and procedure; (iv) develop a pro-          Spectrum Management is being
     competitive model for licensing new        carried out and the Spectrum is being
     operators; and (v) provide other           effectively monitored by using
     technical advisory services.               Mobile Spectrum Monitoring
                                                Equipment as procured under ECDP.
                                                Spectrum assignment functions have
                                                been automated.
                                                 Tariffs offered by all Telecom
                                                Operators and ISPs have been
                                                rationalized and are being
                                                regulated/monitored. Quality of
                                                Services offered is kept under
                                                continuous check and those
                                                Operators who don't meet Quality
                                                Standards are being penalized by
                                                ATRA.
                                                 A very competitive but healthy
                                                licensing model has been evolved for
                                                all the Operators and ISPs.
                                                 Experts were hired to provide
                                                Technical Advisory Services to
                                                MClT and ATRA. Senior Staff of all
                                                the Departments interacted with the
                                                Senior Communications and
                                                Regulatory Staff of many developing
                                                and developed Countries to take
                                                advice on all Technical, Management
                                                and Regulatory matters.

11   Provision of goods and consultants'        Mobile Spectrum Monitoring facility
     services to establish spectrum             was procured at a cost of973,961
     monitoring equipment.                      USD. Training was given to ATRA
                                                Staff on Spectrum Monitoring
                                                functions.
                                                 Dive Test Equipment was also
                                                procured for ATRA and training was
                                                imparted to the Staff on utilization of
                                                this Tool.


                                                 33 

...
III   Carry out of a professional development      ATRA's Board and other Senior Staff
      program supported through technical          attended many professional
      cooperation arrangements with                development programs in TRAI-India
      regulatory agencies in different countries   and in Regulatory Headquarters of
      , information sharing and organization of    many other Countries. Technical
      seminars and study tours, as well as on      cooperation arrangements were made
      the job, in-country and external             with many Telecom regulators of the
      programs.                                    World for information sharing
                                                   through discussions, seminars and
                                                   study tours.
IV    Provision of office equipment and             All the minimum essential
      vehicles, including computer hardware        Equipment (Hardware and Software)
      and software to assist in the carrying out   as required by ATRA was procured
      ofre~latory functions.                       under ECDP fund.
v     Provision of consultants' services to        Minimum essential Consultants and
      develop financial management.                Experts were hired under ECDP Fund
                                                   who also assisted ATRA Staff to
                                                   carry out Financial Management
                                                   Functions.
6     Part E: Postal Sector Reform

i     Provision of consultants' services to: (a)   Experts were hired under this project
      evaluate options for labor force             to support the Postal Sector.
      rationalization, and to develop a             Recommendations were made to
      business plan for the postal sector; (b)     rationalize the labor force and
      develop and implementing a pricing and       business plans were prepared for
      expand postal services; (c) develop a        postal services.
      universal service policy, and introduce       Pricing models were evolved for
      and manage competition in the postal         expansion of postal services in the
      sector; and (d) render other advisory        country.
      services, including advice on                 Universal service policy was adopted
      corporatization.                             and competitive environment was
                                                   created to attract the Private Sector.
                                                    Approach papers were written to
                                                   privatize the Postal Sector and case
                                                   was put up to Corporatize Postal
                                                   Department. Postal Commission has
                                                   also been instituted to look after
                                                   Postal Law, Regulatory Functions
                                                   and Postal Policies and Procedures.
                                                   Postal Commissioner has been
                                                   funded under this project.
11    Provision of goods to modernize basic        Postal Equipment like franking
      postal equipment.                            machines, x-ray machines, postal
                                                   scales, date stamps, mail bags,
                                                   bicycles, motor cycles, computers,
                                                   copiers and printers were procured
                                                   under ECDP Fund. Details of the
                                                   Equipment depicting cost as 184,865
                                                   USD are given under C3 of Annex-l
                                                   as enclosed. In addition, Office
                                                   Automation Equipment costing about
                                                   250,000 USD was issued from Serial
                                                   12 of C-4 of Annex-I. Thus, Goods
                                                   worth 434,865 USD have been
                                                   procured to support the Postal Sector.


                                                    34 

4.

By establishing the              with        Province through ECDP, CDMA full mobility
networks could be established by connecting the            Mobility equipment       the Gateways
as provided under      project. This enabled                         FAX, Internet and Video
Conferencing facilities to all   population        Provinces
                                      to the economic ITr\ul1n,             In addition,
                                             tune of one Million US        per month      Afghan


         Connectivity as given                                                                ICT
       PGCN         and CDMA-Internet '-"",~'au.,




                                                                                                            all



5. 


                                                                                                        M

                                                                                 tnl!1l1leelrs since last
                                                                                              Engineers
                                                                                   "'l .... "'VJ.ll




                                                                                  malntalnea by


All project related Goods as procured under the project are            assets
of MCIT, including ATRA, Afghan              and Postal.




 Bank's                                     Missions           100 %        of        1-(f\.rrn.UlC'r   with the
relevant safeguards and   UU;Ull''''''''   policies of the Bank. No
implementation of the

t'el:lOJrm;t!m;e of the Implementation           (Ministry Communications and
Republic of Afghanistan) and           Borrower (Ministry of Finance-Islamic Republic of
Afghanistan)         been quite satlst<lctc:>rv
7.     Information on Economic, Technical, Financial, Social, Institutional and
Environmental Conditions in which the project was implemented and on Implementation
and Operational Results:

 Economic: When the project was conceptualized in 2003, MCIT had very limited National and
International Connectivity, only with 04 Provinces of the Country. Provisioning of National and
International connectivity to 40 Ministries at Kabul and to 34 Provincial Offices provided a basis
for economic growth of the Country. Population of the Country has access to Voice and Internet
facilities that are key factors for the improvements in the economic conditions of the citizens of
the nation.

 Technical: High Quality TDMA Mesh Network was established to connect all the Provincial
Capital Cities of the Country. State-of-art Technology was commissioned at all the Network
Nodes. Conununications Hub has been established at Kabul, where the most modem Network
Management System has been installed to monitor the health of the Networks. Soft Switch in the
HUB integrates all the Satellite, Microwave, Fixed Line, and OFC Networks. 25 Ministries at
Kabul have been connected to the HUB through OFC Network and 25 have been connected
through Microwave Media.

 Financial: In 2003, there was an average of 50,000 USD per month revenue for MCIT from the
limited conununication Networks as existing at that time. After commissioning of the Networks
under ECDP, which also enabled integration of all MCIT's Networks in the Country, MCIT's
revenue averages to one Million USD per month.

Social: Social sector perceived a positive trend of growth due to growing conununication
facilities. Life styles of the citizens tended to change. Employment opportunities enhanced and
Teleconununications Engineering is being seen as a preferred field of Engineering in the Society
now.

Institutional: MCIT has been recognized as an institution contributing well towards the growth of
the Society. Information and Conununications Technology (lCT) became the focal point in all
high-level discussions in the Social sectors.

Environment: In 2003, having a Telephone was treated as a matter of pride. Very few Phones
were in place. Now, 80 % of the Population is covered by the conununication facilities. Whole
environment has seen a sea change.

8.     Feedback on the Quality of Bank's Contribution from Project Identification to
Supervision:

The Bank looked after the project in the most proficient manner. Bank's Team identified all the
Components of the project and conducted lot many Training Sessions for MCIT's Staff on
effective Implementation of the project. The Bank's Missions visited MCIT at Kabul once in
every 06 months and carried out regular Supervision Missions wherein Training was also given to
the Implementation Staff of MCIT.

The Bank conducted Training Workshops at Kabul on the Procurement Procedures to be adopted
for the project.

The Bank's Missions conducted regular Training Courses at Kabul on Regulatory Procedures to
be adopted by ATRA.


                                                36
                    lVU""HJU" trained           Staff on   Financial HU<U"'F;vJ,Uv:lH
         the Project Identification Stage to the Project Implementation,
 rl111I'1(,,'1'1 to be                this project by MCIT     MOF
Afghanistan.




                                                                    of ECDP were very


                       Components of the       under               were well          and
spending         each Component very well monitored     the Implementing Agency {Ministry
of Communications and IT (MCIT)}      MOF Authorities. The Networks that came up under the
project   been very well designed to encompass    state art Technology and the


                              were implemented on time. However, MCIT
                     rU11",,,,,,',.,T,,
                           HUll"'"F; Fund to carry out Capacity Building

longer          Due to      reason, the        Closing
stands fully trained now. MCIT'
this project and as a result of
       Network              by til"H!"'''!
Afghanistan.

10.
of the proi ecl:

                        Capacity was built to effectively
                ",,,.oJ,,,,,,",",,,,,                               the       All the
Monitoring                     achieved 100 %.                of MCIT in implementing this
           been exemplary. Very effective project and Financial Management functions have
been        out right     evolution to Completion         for both the               also
all the Components of ECDP.

Security Issues in the Country tended to delay     project Implementation. However, due to
                 Management          of        these delays were minimized and
processes were evolved      timely implementation         project.



(i)      High        and          skilled labor should be         though at      cost.
         labor should not be lost to other          Companies who       to pay them more.
(ii)                                             Networks should be         on time, to cater for



12.
Implementation of the project, with Special Emphasis on Lessons Learnt:




                                                       37
 Performance of the Bank in this project has been excellent. Project was evolved with clearly
defined Objectives and Monitoring Indicators, which were simple and achievable. Procurement
Plans were very well drawn and monitored by the Bank. For such complicated projects with
induction of high level Engineering Technology, Training ofMCIT's Staff has been main key to
success. Bank focused on the Capacity building aspects ofMCIT, ATRA, Postal, and Afghan
Telecom that resulted into efficient implementation of ECDP.

13.    Proposed Arrangements for Future Operation of the project and Performance
Indicators to be used to monitor future Operation and Development Impact

 All the project Assets created under ECDP funding have been handed over to their respective
Departments ofMCIT, ATRA, Postal and Afghan Telecom. Drive Test System and Spectrum
Monitoring Equipment is being operated and maintained by ATRA. All the Networks as created
are being operated and maintained by Afghan Telecom. Office Automation Items and
Networking Equipment as issued to the Ministries and to other Departments of MCIT, ATRA,
and Postal Services are being operated and maintained by the concerned Departments themselves
as these assets have become their life line for day-to-day operations, being necessary for availing
Voice and data facilities from Afghan Telecom. All the Goods procured under ECDP are
contributing to generation of Revenues and thus, the accruing Revenues are in a position to
maintain the Assets. Growth of Afghan Telecom's Revenue through these Assets as
commissioned under ECDP will be a good Performance Indicator for monitoring the futuristic
operational and development impact.




                                                38 

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not Applicable




                                         39 

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


Afghanistan - World Bank Approach Paper - 2001
Project Appraisal Document - 2003
Project Credit Agreement - 2003
Project Aide-Memoires - 2003-2009
Project ISRs - 2003-2009




                                           40
                                                                                                                    65캞

                                                                                                                       ", .. ..., ..........UZBEKISTAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AFGHANISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NATIONAL CAPITAL




                                                                                                      if., ') 7
                 .........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ~ RIVERS



               <.... '-... ~~ .''.:,                                                         I                                                                                                      J
               '. . . . ,",. :.,:'.;.;",:,;, ,_:' I
      30' N
                                                                                                                                  I                \.                                                                 -       Iv\AIN ROADS
z
  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                            30' N     -       RAILROADS
~                      
                                  ......
                                            . .......                                        _.             '        ._.
                                                                                                                             _       Thi. mop wo. produc.d by /he Mop Design Unit of The w"'*"
                                                                                                                                       TheboundorieJ,colon,denomino6on.ondonyo/herinformotion
                                                                                                                                                                                                  8ool.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ---     PROVINCE BOUNDARIES 
        0:;
~
g;:
                     \ {                                ...... _   _   _   _      ,-             ~ _                             shown on   "'i.
                                                                                                                                                    mop 00 not imply. on rho porl of The World Bonk                                                        ;;0
                             .                               PAKiSTAN .......                         ::                                                                                                                      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES 

                             ~                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ~
                                                                                                                                       G-oup, onyj<Jdgrnen'onrholegol-'.o!ony,.rrilory.orony                          _.-                                  0
'"
81     6O' E
                                                                                                  ,    {,

                                                                                                      . .
                                                                                                                0                      ondor_,     or ocreplOnal of web boundon...
                                                                                                                                                                                                          70'                                             W
".
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ~-------------~~
