                                                                                                             94615
Afghanistan: Better Communications for a Better Future                                                  September 29, 2009




                                                                   Links:
                                                                   - What is IDA?
                                                                   - Our Work in Afghanistan


                                                                   More on Afghanistan:
                                                                   - Borrowing History
                                                                   - Data & Statistics
                                                                   - Research
                                                                   - Contact Us




  Emerging from three decades of conflict and instability in 2002, Afghanistan barely had a
  functioning communications network. Services were available to less than one percent of the
  country’s population. The Ministry of Communications operated services in just five major cities,
  with more than 60 percent of the 57,000 functioning lines in a single city, the capital Kabul.
  Moreover, the country had little or no access to the Internet. Given the state of communications
  infrastructure, the Government’s ability to govern was severely limited.




  The IDA-financed Emergency Communications Development Project was launched in 2003 to
  improve delivery of communications services to the Government and people of Afghanistan. It
  aimed to: expand the government communications network, restore critical communications
  between ministries and provinces, and provide urgently needed policy advice to the Ministry of
  Communications.




  Unprecedented progress revitalized the country’s communications. Telephone access
  increased from less than 1 percent to 32 percent of the population. The number of fixed
  and mobile telecommunication subscribers increased from 57,000 in 2002 to almost 10
  million in 2009, while costs have plummeted by 95 percent—from $2/min to $0.10/min.


  Highlights:
  - Government communications expanded. All provinces were connected on the Government
  Communications Network, enabling voice and data transfer, and videoconferencing between
  Kabul and the provincial capitals.


  - Sector revenue and employment grew exponentially. The telecommunications sector now
  contributes an estimated $75 million to government revenues and directly or indirectly employs
  more than 60,000 people.


  - Infrastructure built. An Earth Satellite Station at Mahtab-Qala was installed on the outskirts of
  Kabul. A new radio spectrum monitoring system became operational.
- Competition blossomed. From a single operator in 2002, Afghanistan’s competitive
telecommunications market grew to encompass five private mobile operators, a unified service
provider, and six operational Internet service providers.


- Prices became accessible for the typical Afghan. Prices for mobile telephony have dropped
considerably, making services more affordable for more Afghan people. In 2002, it cost about
US$400 to purchase a mobile phone and US$2 for every minute of talk time. Today, an Afghan
can purchase a mobile phone for less than US$50 and spends less than 10 cents per minute of
talk time. Moreover, an agreement with Pakistan to route calls overland has lowered costs and
increased traffic, and


- Reform advanced. Afghan Telecom has been corporatized and a separate regulatory agency
established.




The total project cost was financed by a US$22 million IDA credit. An additional US$6.1 million
came from the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund. IDA support was catalytic in establishing
a sound policy, legal, and regulatory framework for a sector that is experiencing considerable
private-sector investment—up to $1 billion by some measures. IDA leveraged the World Bank
Group’s experience in scaling up private wireless operators in post-conflict environments.




The telecommunications sector is dynamic and growing in Afghanistan, and benefits from the
cooperation of the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund and more than 30 international
partners.




Despite impressive developments, gaps remain. There has been explosive growth in telephony
services, but much work remains to be done to develop Internet services. Similarly, while the
country has developed considerable urban connectivity, much work is required to extend these
gains further into rural and remote areas.




Emergency Communications Development Project
Project documents




                                                    Last updated: 2009-09-29
