Document of               FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFMICIAL USE ONLY
R.pKt No. P-2422-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
November 30, 1978
I This dotume  ba a ebid dhiboim and my be wed by recilafts edy im dw pwhmue .
Idh elEdal4s. ft  smts may _st erwwie be diadese widmmu WiI  Bk  = ZL I



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Bangladesh Taka is pegged to the Pound Sterling and the rate
has been refixed on occasion, most recently at Tk 29.525 on September 18, 1978.
Since, in addition, the Pound is floating relative to the US Dollar, the
Taka-US dollar rate is subject to change. The rate below has been used
throughout this report except where otherwise stated.
US$1         =  Tk 15.0
Tk 1            US$0.067
Tk 1 million =  US$67,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 acre (ac)             =  0.405 hectare (ha)
1 mile (mi)             =  1.509 kilometers (km)
1 square mile (sq mi)  =  640 ac (259 ha)
1 foot (ft)             =  30.5 centimeters (cm)
1 maund (md)            =  82.27 lbs (37.3 kg)
1 metric ton (ton)      =  26.8 md
1 md/ac                 -   0.037 tons/ac
1 cubic foot per
second (cusec)        =   0.0283 cu meters per second
M                       =   million
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BADC  -  Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BARI  =  Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute
BRRI  =  Bangladesh Rice Research Institute
DOAEM =  Directorate of Agriculture (Extension and Management)
EARP  -  Extension and Research Project
GOB   =  Government of Bangladesh
HYV   -  High Yielding Varieties
MOA   =  Ministry of Agriculture
T&V   -  Training and Visit
UNDP  =  United Nations Development Program
WDB   =  Water Development Board



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY
Agricultural Terms
Aman    -   Paddy planted before or during the monsoon (which begins in
June) and harvested in November or December (B. aman is
broadcast, T. aman is transplanted).
Aus     -   Paddy planted during March and April and harvested during July
and August (B. aus is broadcast, T. aus is transplanted).
Boro    -   Paddy planted in winter and harvested during April to June.
Kharif  -   Summer season.
Rabi    -   Dry season.
Paddy   -   Unhulled rice.
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






BANGLADESH
DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Development Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:           People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount:             US$19 Million equivalent
Terms:              Standard
Purpose:            The project provides flood control and drainage to three
sub-project areas: Chenchuri Beel (CCB), Kolabashakhali
(KBK) and the Brahmaputra Right Embankment (BRE). It
will protect a total of about 270,000 ac of cultivated
land from annual flood inundation and will also improve
agricultural services by providing for the implementation
of the "Training and Visit" (T&V) system in the project
areas. It will provide buildings for agricultural exten-
sion classes and staff quarters for extension agents. In
addition, the project provides access roads, godowns, work-
shops, equipment and vehicles in all sub-project areas and
training for the project staff. About 36 man-months of
consultants' time will be included for engineering and
agriculture. It is estimated that the project will in-
crease net farm incomes by 40-100% in the 3 project areas,
which are among the poorest areas in Bangladesh; the pro-
ject will increase the annual production of foodgrain by
52,000 tons and, thus, will also result in a net saving of
US$12 million in foreign exchange. The economic rate of
return is estimated to be 34%. The project faces signi-
ficant risks of delays in execution and inadequacy of
maintenance after construction. However the technical
simplicity of the project, the small number of agencies
involved and the recent improvement in performance of WDB
in executing other water sector projects tend to reduce
the risk of delays, also the proposed credit provisions
concerning preparation of and adherence to detailed main-
tenance programs are intended to avoid the risk of a
reduced project life due to inadequate maintenance.
Physical (US$5.2 million) and price (US$8.55 million)
contingencies have been included in the cost estimates.
Physical contingencies have been estimated at 20% for
civil works, since detailed surveys have yet to be zom-
pleted. Price contingencies are based on an annual rate
of inflation of 9% for both local and foreign costs based
on expected price fluctuation in Bangladesh. All costs



- 11 -
have been adjusted to mid-1978 prices; the estimates
include about US$1.6 million for taxes and duties, which
would not be financed.
% of
Estimated Costs: /a                                Local   Foreign  Total   Total
-----US$ million------
1.  Chenchuri Beel (CCB)
Land Acquisition              0.81       -        0.81      3
Civil Works                   2.57      6.33      2.90    10
Equipment & Vehicles          0.18      0.15      0.33      1
Technical Assistance          0.03      0.14      0.17      1
Engineering & Admin.          0.53      0.02      0.55      2
Base Cost                   4.12      0.64      4.76    17
Physical Cont.                0.83      0.13      0.96      3
Price Cont.                   1.48      0.20      1.68      6
Total Cost                  6.43      0.97      7.40    26
2.  Kolabashakhali (KBK)
Land Acquisition              0.45       -        0.45      2
Civil Works                   2.16      0.40      2.56      9
Equipment & Vehicles          0.18      0.15      0.33      1
Technical Assistance          0.03      0.14      0.17      1
Engineering & Admin.          0.47      0.02      0.49      2
Base Cost                   3.29      0.71      4.00    15
Physical Cont.                0.66      0.14      0.80      3
Price Cont.                   1.19      0.21      1.40      5
Total Cost                  5.13      1.07      6.20    23
3.  Brahmaputra Right
Bank (BRE)
Land Acquisition              1.28       -        1.28      5
Civil Works                   5.95      0.45      6.40    23
Equipment & Vehicles          0.18      0.18      0.36      1
Technical Assistance          0.02      0.10      0.12      -
Engineering & Admin.          0.83       -        0.83      3
Base Cost                   8.26      0.73      8.99    32
Physical Cont.                1.65      0.15      1.80      6
Price Cont.                   3.33      0.28      3.61    13
Total Cost                 13.24      1.16    14.40    51
Grand Total                24.80      3.20    28.00/b 100
/a Small discrepancies due to rounding.
/b Includes US$1.6 M equivalent in taxes and duties.



- iii -
Financing Plan:                  Bangladesh
Government      IDA      Total
-----US$ million--------
9.0         19.0     28.0
Estimated
Disbursements:                 IDA FY  FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83  FY84
------------US$ million---------------
Annual                1.5    3.5    6.0    5.5   2.5
Cumulative            1.5    5.0   11.0   16.5  19.0
Retroactive
Financing:        Up to US$660,000 to cover civil works contracts let after
March 1, 1978 in respect of emergency works undertaken in
preparation for the May/June 1978 floods.
Rate of Return:    The rates of return for drainage and flood control would be:
CCB        KBK       BRE
28%        37%       38%
Appraisal Report:  Bangladesh - Drainage and Flood Control Project,
November 30, 1978, Report No. 2072-BD.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for the equivalent of US$19.0
million, on standard IDA terms, to help finance a drainage and flood control
project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Basic Economic Report on Bangladesh, entitled "Bangladesh:
Development in a Rural Economy" (Report No. 455-BD, of September 15, 1974)
was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 1, 1974. An economic
mission visited the country in June 1978 and its report entitled
"Bangladesh: Current Trends and Development Issues" (Report No. 2245-BD)
is expected to be circulated in early December 1978.
Background
3.        When Bangladesh became independent seven years ago, the newly formed
Government inherited a shattered economy: the country had lost a large number
of its academic and business elite, while much of the physical infrastructure
had been demolished. Agricultural and industrial production and trade had
come to a standstill. Attempts to revive the economy and put it on a growth
path were complicated by the necessity to fashion a national government out of
a provincial administration; to establish development institutions serving
agriculture, industry, trade, and banking; and to reorient agriculture and
industry after the loss of the West Pakistan market.
4.        Despite the destruction and disorientation prevailing immediately
after independence, some economic improvements have occurred. GDP has in-
creased annually by an average of 5.7% between FY73 and FY78 and since annual
population growth is about 2.8%, this represents an annual growth of per
capita GDP of nearly 3%. The output of foodgrains has shown an annual aver-
age increase of 4.6% during this period, but has nevertheless necessitated
an average of 1.8 million tons of foodgrain imports per year. The growth of
output of jute - Bangladesh's major export -- has been disappointing, however:
this has declined by an annual average of 4.4%. Hence, despite a rapid growth
of non-traditional exports in recent years, export earnings have increased by
about 8% annually, while imports have risen by an annual average of 7.7%,
resulting in an average external resource gap amounting to 8% of GDP during
FY74-78 and 7% in FY78.



- 2 -
5.        While the GDP growth rate over these five years has been relatively
high, a comparison of key indicators shows that what has happened is that the
economy has recovered from its post-independence low point, but that it has
yet to reach fully the levels of FY70 - the last normal year before indepen-
dence. Per capita GDP was then higher in real terms than in FY78. The ratio
of savings to GDP, which stood at 7.1%, averaged 2.0% during FY74-78 and had
recovered to about 3.0% in FY78. The investment ratio returned in FY78 to
about 13.0%, around the FY70 level, after lower figures in intervening years.
The volume of output of jute manufactures as well as a number of industrial
products and the volume of exports of jute and jute goods has only recently
reached preindependence levels. Thus, the encouraging trends of recent years
should be viewed as having only laid the basis for development. The dimen-
sions of the problems remaining are clearly seen at the social level. Many
Bangladeshis continue to have inadequate food, clothing, and shelter. Levels
of nutrition have declined and the number of landless and unemployed has
increased. Even primary education is still the luxury of a few. Many have
little or no access to safe drinking water and preventive or curative medicine.
The life expectancy at birth is estimated to be only 45 years.
6.        As a first effort to begin to build on the foundation laid in the
last five years, the Government has clarified its priorities -- the control
of the rapid growth of population and a substantial increase in the output
of foodgrain. In 1975, the Government initiated a stabilization program in
conjunction with the IMF which helped reduce drastically the rate of infla-
tion, improve the competitiveness of exports, and increase revenues. Con-
cern with monetary stability is a continuing -- and encouraging -- feature
of government policy. In recent years, steps have been taken to improve the
operational efficiency of the jute manufacturing sector. For the first time,
in FY78, steps have been taken to provide an incentive price for foodgrains
through appropriate procurement policies. Action has been taken over the last
few years to reduce the levels of producer and consumer subsidies and to im-
prove the working of public sector corporations. The beneficial results of
these reforms are not always readily apparent, and in a number of cases will
take considerable time to show. However, the Government has made a start on
some of the issues that hamper the growth of savings and investment. The
Government has drafted a Two Year Plan (FY79-80) feeling the need for a more
fundamental reorientation of policies, and has put off the implementation of
a new five-year plan by two years. The Two-Year Plan is meant to clear the
decks for future action by completing as many ongoing projects as possible,
abandoning those that are uneconomic and creating time for thought about the
long-term direction of development. The TYP itself is, of course, unlikely to
change the course of development, since its period is too short and most of
the development budget during these two years (83%) is pre-empted by ongoing
projects. The TYP's targets in such fundamental areas as employment creation
and population control are unrealistic. A further weakness is that it does
not clearly indicate which uneconomic projects have been weeded out nor what
criteria will have to be used to make decisions about abandoning such projects
during the remainder of the TYP period.
7.        Nevertheless, the TYP period should be an extremely useful occasion
for defining policies relating to fundamental development issues. The TYP



- 3 -
document lists five important areas where the policy makers must make criti-
cal choices: the respective roles of the public and private sectors; the
organization of agricultural producers; the gDals of the national education
policy; the role of subsidies in agricultural prices; and the respective
roles of foreign aid and domestic savings in development financing. While
outlining alternative solutions for these major problem areas, tne clocument
does not present a full analysis of the options. Moreover, it seems to
skirt the question of the creation of non-farm employment for those who can
no longer be absorbed by agriculture; this problem is assuming increasing
importance and requires concentrated Government attention. The Two Year Plan
offers the Government a good starting point for introducing economic reforms.
Specifically, key issues which should be addressed during the plan period
include pricing policy, improvement in levels of domestic savings, expansion
of export earnings, and greater efficiency in project preparation and imple-
mentation. The scope of private sector participation in the economy should
be clarified, and the management of the public sector improved.
Current Economic Situation
8.        Economic growth in Bangladesh in FY78 was influenced to a large
extent by good performance in agriculture and industry. Aided by good prices
in the previous season, favorable weather, and the expectation of a further
strengthening of demand in FY78, farmers responded by increasing the acreage
sown to jute and rice, and demonstrated a willingness to invest in modern
agricultural inputs. Foodgrain output reached 13.4 million tons, the highest
level since independence. Jute production, although somewhat less than fore-
seen, due to untimely rainfall, was 11.5% higher than in FY77.
9.        A strong upturn in industrial output has occurred because of a
revival in consumer demand, an improvement in investment, and more liberal
availability of imported raw materials. Capacity utilization in industry
is being stimulated by an increase in demand for jute goods and cotton tex-
tiles, and an intensification of construction activity.
10.       The volume of exports has continued to show improvement as a result
of better market conditions for raw jute and jute goods. However, because
stocks were run down to uncomfortably low levels in FY77, the quantity of
jute effectively available for domestic and export use rose less than produ-
tion. However, since there was a concurrent world shortage of jute, due to
poor crops in other producing areas, Bangladesh benefited from higher export
prices. The performance of minor and non-traditional exports has been modest
as compared with the previous year, due to competition from other exporters
and slower growth in output.
11.       The Government has endeavored to adhere to prudent monetary and fis-
cal policies. Planned monetary expansion in FY78 was initially linked to the
prospective rate of economic growth and the budget, when presented, made no
provision for deficit financing. However, during the year, some umforeseen
expenditure was undertaken: the Government thought it was necessary to
purchase 296,000 tons of foodgrain in order to ensure adequate supplies early
in the year, at a cost of $53 million. There were other unexpected increases,



- 4 -
such as a rise in the fertilizer subsidy caused by sales which exceeded fore-
casts. Thus, a budget deficit of about Tk 1,100 million (9% of current revenue)
materialized, even though revenue collections, which were sluggish at the
beginning of the year, exceeded the level estimated in the budget.
12.       Imports rose by 50% in FY78, reflecting the increased tempo of
economic activity. The volume of imports of foodgrains, raw cotton, fertil-
izer and cement rose substantially. Imports of edible oil and minor consumer
products have also expanded. The biggest single factor (about 20% of the
total) was the increase in the volume of foodgrain imports. These imports
were required -- despite the record foodgrain crop -- to enable the Government
to begin moving towards the official foodgrain stock target of one million
tons. This is desired both for maintaining food security and for facilitating
open market operations to sustain the market price of foodgrain within a
desired price range.
13.       In sum, the overall rate of economic growth for FY78 was about 7.8%;
this derives from an estimated growth rate of over 7.4% in agriculture, 10.4%
in industry and about 8.3% in other sectors. Although the improved supply
position for foodgrains, combined with an increase in the volume of imports,
helped to contain inflationary pressure, the overall budget deficit suggests
a rate of inflation of about 12% as compared to 1% in FY77.
Major Developments and Policy Issues
14.       Foodgrain.  The improved harvest in FY78 was the result of a combi-
nation of good weather and improved production policies. Incentives for ex-
panding the output of rice consisted both of a higher procurement volume and
price. For the first time these were announced to the farmers well in advance
of the planting season. To facilitate procurement, many new purchasing centers
were opened, staff cadres strengthened, the number of grain dealers expanded,
quality requirements made more flexible, and the number of bank branches and
payment points enlarged. At the production level, input packages consisting
of fertilizer kits and an expanded credit program of Tk 1,000 million (of
which about Tk 400 million was actually disbursed), were introduced as an
experiment. While these latter supporting measures for increasing foodgrain
output were generally in the right direction, attention needs to be paid to
the longer term impact of some parts of the program. Repayment of agricul-
tural loans under the expanded credit program has been very slow and irregular.
Failure to ensure credit discipline could in the long run jeopardize the
Government's plans for channeling credit to agriculture and fostering the
application of inputs in the desired mix. There is evidence that the expanded
credit program has also led to some disruption of extension activities which
are indispensable for providing the foundation for sustained agricultural
growth.
15.       Further steps were taken in FY78 to reform the ration system and to
achieve a reduction in ration offtakes. The prices of rationed rice and wheat
were increased by 11% and 14% respectively; those enjoying a monthly income of
Tk 1,600 a month are to be shifted from the ration shops to "Essential Supply
Shops" where the price would be between the ration and the market prices; and



the number of ration cards is to be reduced to a maximum of 6 per household.
The composition of the ration was also changed so that 2 units of the more
nutritious but cheaper wheat are now distributed for every 1 unit of rice to
some categories of consumers. The Government has indicated that its ultimate
objective is to restrict access to the ration to vulnerable groups in urban
and rural areas As now structured, however, the ration system stilL bypasses
a large segment of the poor and landless and more intensified efforts to reach
these are, therefore, in order.
16.       Jute.  Responding to last year's favorable jute-rice price ratio
and the early announcement of a higher procurement price, the area sown to
jute increased by 13% to 1.8 million acres in FY78 and, despite bad weather,
output rose from 4.8 million bales in FY77 to 5.4 million bales. An impor-
tant factor was the increase in the area under the Intensive Jute Cultivation
Scheme to 500,000 acres. Meanwhile, the effect of the decrease in the area
available for rice production during the aus season was compensated by an
increase in productivity. Demand for raw jute -- both for export and supply
to domestic jute mills -- was buoyant. As a result of the very low level
of stocks carried over from the previous year, demand could not be met, and
prices rose throughout the marketing season by over 40%. The improvement
in price helped to raise farm incomes substantially, especially during the
months immediately following the harvest season, when prices traditionally
are depressed. The acreage sown to jute, and output, are expected to rise
further in FY79. The improved supply position should also help to maintain
the international price of jute goods at competitive levels. The Government
intends to increase jute output over the next few years -- relying to an
increasing extent on the Intensive Jute Cultivation Scheme. Since the current
world shortage is likely to persist for some time, Bangladesh should benefit
from these efforts to expand output over the short run.
17.       The jute goods sector still requires further rehabilitation.  The
sector benefited from the improvement in international demand in FY78 which
led to a 25% increase in export value. A reduction in the wastage rate from
11% to 7.5% in FY78 was a major achievement. Despite this and the improvement
in price, however, the industry's losses are expected to be about Tk 605 mil-
lion (Tk 525 million in FY77) which is largely explained by factors beyond the
control of the jute industry, namely the substantial increase in the price of
raw jute, though in incremental terms, most of the mills appear to be economic-
ally efficient. These losses are now being financed by a differential scale
of subsidies applied to categories of jute exports, based on the f.o.b. export
value. The weighted subsidy, which amounts to about 15% of the value of
exports, is intended to help improve the overall liquidity of the industry,
but does not fully compensate ailing jute mills whose unit losses exceed this
percentage. This new method of paying the subsidy could be of help to the
Government in separating the better performing mills from those that are not,
although once the BMR programs currently under preparation are completed
further criteria of performance can be ;added. Even with improvements in
efficiency, and investments in rehabilitation, some mills will continue to be
a financial liability. The need is to determine how to produce in the most



efficient manner the quantity of jute goods that the market will absorb at
remunerative prices, and then to restructure the industry accordingly.
18.       Public Enterprises.  The general upturn in economic activity in
FY78 has led to a substantial increase in capacity utilization in public
enterprises, particularly in cotton textiles, newsprint, paper, jute and
steel. The combined losses of public enterprises are expected to decline --
both because of the effect of higher capacity utilization and the decision
to price cotton textiles at a level that reflects the enhanced cost of raw
cotton. The basic problems which afflict the working of public enterprises,
however, continue; they relate primarily to the excessive centralization and
control exercised by ministries over the day-to-day commercial operations
of enterprises. Some progress has been made in alleviating the most diffi-
cult problems. However, any marked improvement in the performance of public
enterprises must be predicated on greater functional autonomy particularly in
the determination of input and output prices and the incentives offered to
personnel. A number of supplementary measures, including a decision to sell
off any enterprises that have continually been incurring losses, may also be
necessary although it may be difficult to find purchasers.
19.       Resource Mobilization.  Inadequate mobilization of domestic re-
sources remains one of Bangladesh's key problems. As pointed out, domes-
tic savings finance only a small proportion of total investment and unless
savings, particularly those of the public sector, are raised, it will be
difficult to step up the pace of development in Bangladesh. Under present
conditions, the revenue gap tends to widen as development expenditures rise.
Budget performance in FY78 provides an illustration. Preliminary estimates
of the balance for the year indicate that both revenue and current expendi-
tures increased sharply leaving a current surplus of Tk 2.1 billion (Tk 1.7
billion in FY77), which is roughly 20% below the budgeted amount. Develop-
ment expenditures, however, increased by much more and despite an increase
in aid disbursements, which amounted to 75% of development expenditures, an
uncovered gap of about Tk 1.23 billion emerged, the equivalent of 10% of
current revenue and about 10% of the money supply.
20.       More stringent action than undertaken so far is clearly needed
to put public finance on a sound footing. On the revenue side, measures to
lessen tax evasion, improve tax administration and reduce exemptions and
loopholes offer most scope for increasing resources in the short run. On
the expenditure side, an examination is urgently required of the cost effec-
tiveness of production and consumption subsidies. Further efforts are also
needed to reduce the losses of public enterprises, a major cause of which
is the failure to allow input price increases to be passed on to consumers.
There is no doubt that a combination of such revenue and expenditure meas--
ures, in spite of Bangladesh's poverty, could lead to substantial improve-
ment in domestic resource mobilization. Some modest steps have already been
taken -- improvement in the administration of the income tax, improvements in
the pricing policy of the textile industry (although here the benefits have
been eroded by changes in the price structure), and the recent increase of the
ration price for foodgrains -- and further measures are under active consider-
ation by the Government. Of course it will be difficult to implement these



- 7 -
measures unless the Government is at the same time successful in carrying
out its development programs. Consumption levels in Bangladesh are extremely
low and an increase of incomes arising from accelerated GDP growth is a
necessary condition for the implementation of any set of policies designed
to raise the rate of savings.
21.       Project Implementation.  A number of steps to improve the Govern-
ment's capacity to implement projects were taken during 1977. The Project
Implementation Bureau's staff was strengthened, and its ability to monitor
progress improved. Project entities were assigned much greater functional
autonomy -- especially with respect to the authorization of expenditures.
For FY78 the complex procedures for the allocation of funds to projects
were simplified, and the Government is trying to speed up the approval of
projects in the pipeline, and to weed out existing projects that do not
promise early completion. These measures are welcome. At the same time,
it is important to focus on other major problems which have slowed down
project implementation in the past. Greater fungibility in the use of funds
appropriated for development should be introduced, so that fast moving proj-
ects can employ the funds of those that have stalled. Delays resulting from
breakdowns in machinery, shortages of supplies, absenteeism, and bad planning
of sequences of activity, must be avoided. Donors could help by ensuring that
project resources are supplemented by the provision of a higher proportion of
local currency cost in external assistance in order to ensure that the imple-
mentation of projects is sustained in the face of acute stringency of local
resources.
22.       External Capital Requirements.  Even with significant improvement
in its domestic resource mobilization, Bangladesh will continue to need sub-
stantial external assistance to support its development efforts. In the short
run, such support is even becoming more important in view of the fact that
the pace of development expenditures has begun to accelerate. Roughly it
is estimated that aid disbursements, which amounted to $797 million in FY78,
should rise to $1,095 million in FY79. These would comprise $250 million of
food, $520 million of commodities and $325 million of project aid. Since
Bangladesh would commence the year with a pipeline of aid amounting to $1,912
million, it should be possible to disburse about $625 million from that pipe-
line. Hence, about $470 million of disbursements from new aid would be nec-
essary. To yield disbursements at this level in FY79 and to build up the
pipeline for FY80, it is estimated that commitments in FY79 will need to
be approximately $1,600 million. If current projections materialize, the aid
pipeline at the end of FY80 will be about $2,700 million. It is important
to stress the widening gap in external resources which must be met by exter-
nal assistance at least for the time being, if economic growth and execution
of the development plan are not to be slowed down for lack of financial re-
sources. At the same time, the Government must strive to increase exports
and be prudent in the use of foreign exchange, as well as make efforts to
increase domestic resource mobilization.



- 8 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
23.       Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in August 1972.
Initially, Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactiva-
tion of uncompleted projects financed under credits made originally to
Pakistan, before 1971. Eleven such credits, amounting to US$148.6 million
(including US$44.1 million for the repayment of amounts disbursed under the
corresponding previous credits to Pakistan, and net of cancellations) were
made to Bangladesh. In addition, as of September 30, 1978, 30 new credits,
excluding the consolidation credit of US$31 million referred to in para-
graph 24, have been made, totalling US$912.9 million. Of these, US$425 mil-
lion have been for six program credits. The project credits have emphasized
agricultural development, but also included amounts for population, telecom-
munications, transport and industry. On June 18, 1976 Bangladesh became the
105th member of the IFC, but no IFC investments have been approved as yet.
24.       Agreement has been reached between Bangladesh and most of the bi-
lateral and multilateral donors concerning the assumption by Bangladesh of
portions of the debt contracted by Pakistan, before Bangladesh became inde-
pendent. This will lead to some increase in debt service and, while the debt
service ratio is not expected to exceed 20% over the next ten years, it may
do so by the mid-1980s, unless careful debt management policies are pursued,
and aid is provided on appropriately concessional terms.   With respect to the
Bank Group, Bangladesh agreed to accept liability for portions of IDA credits
extended for projects visibly located in Bangladesh and completed before inde-
pendence. Based on this agreement, a consolidation loan of US$54.9 million
and a consolidation credit of US$31.0 million were signed on February 14,
1975. The Bank Group's share of Bangladesh's outstanding external debt is
not expected to rise significantly above the present level of about 22% over
the next few years.
25.       Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and the Bank
loan made to Bangladesh as of September 30, 1978, and notes on the execution
of ongoing projects. While disbursement of the program credits has proceeded
satisfactorily, project credit disbursements have lagged behind expectations,
owing inter alia to delays in the release of local funds, clearance of con-
tracts, employment of consultants, and appointment of staff. The Government
has taken some steps to eliminate bottlenecks and the results are beginning
to be reflected in improvements in project implementation and disbursement
performance. However, serious implementation constraints remain because of
shortage of qualified staff, over-centralized bureaucratic procedures and
organizational deficiencies. Progress is being made on these issues. For
example, at the Government's request, IDA is providing assistance to improve
organization and procedures, especially in the ministries and agencies deal-
ing with agriculture and water resources. Further, the Government has taken
actions including improved procedures for recruitment of civil servants and
increased emphasis on training - which are important not only as steps towards
gradually improving the quality of public administration, but also as evidence
of its awareness of the problem and concern to do something about it. On the



- 9 -
organizational side, the Government is in the process of establishing planning
cells in the main ministries and agencies and in strengthening the PLanning
Division which has been transferred to the Ministry of Finance. In this con-
nection, IDA is providing assistance both under specific projects and under
the Technical Assistance Credits (409-BD and 622-BD).
26.       Of the 24 new project credits totalling US$367.7 million, 12 credits
totalling US$216.5 million have been directed towards agriculture and rural
development (excluding subprojects of the Technical Assistance credits devoted
to this sector). Their basic objective is to support the delivery of inputs,
including assured water, through quick yielding projects with low capital
intensity. While the pace of implementation has been disappointing so far,
the fundamental importance of improving agricultural productivity means that
projects geared to the rural sector should remain the cornerstone of future
IDA lending. However, in the shorter term, the rate of planned lending for
agriculture will be a function of progress in improving the currently limited
absorptive capacity of the project executing agencies. At the same time,
greater efforts in institution building are being made through closer super-
vision and technical assistance where necessary. Some progress has already
been made in correcting problems in ongoing projects. During the latter part
of FY79 projects for drainage and flood control and fisheries are expected to
be ready for consideration.
27.       Industry has been the major beneficiary of the six program credits
to date. For the reasons given in paragraphs 33-38 below, program lending
to Bangladesh will continue to be required while efforts are made to correct
basic structural weaknesses in the economy. The industrial sector has also
benefitted from DFC and small industry projects and a fertilizer proiduction
project. IFC is currently in the process of identifying suitable investment
opportunities.
28.       The enormity of Bangladesh's population problem gives this sector
an extremely high priority, limited only by its absorptive capacity. The
first IDA-supported population project is now making progress, and a second
population project was appraised in April/May 1978. Improved availability of
trained manpower is also crucial. Past lending in this field has emphasized
agricultural and technical training and future operations, while maintaining
a similar basic emphasis, are expected to include assistance for vocational
and management education as well.
29.       Given Bangladesh's immense needs, specific efforts to identify
projects in agriculture, transport, industry, energy and power, and telecom-
munications are now under way. In this connection, particular emphasis will
be placed upon possible projects which provide infrastructure for the rural
sector, which process or provide outlets for its products, or which reduce the
strain on Bangladesh's foreign exchange resources. Such projects could make
a significant contribution towards supporting Bangladesh's development efforts.
In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position, IDA credits should
cover all foreign exchange costs. However, all external lenders are inhibited
from achieving the levels of resource transfers appropriate to Bangladesh's



- 10 -
economic circumstances by difficulties in the preparation and implementation
of development projects.  The Government's capacity to carry out projects is
constrained, inter-alia, by a low domestic savings rate. In these circum-
stances, and in order to direct IDA lending to those sectors - such as agri-
cultural and rural development - where the percentage of foreign exchange
costs is relatively low, the financing of local currency expenditures is
also justified.
30.        In addition to lending, economic and sector work provides the basis
for continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government on develop-
ment strategy, and for the coordination of external assistance within the
framework of the Bangladesh Aid Group. Recent activities in this area have
concentrated on food policy, industrial investment strategy, and increased
domestic resource mobilization.
31.       The scope and complexity of Bangladesh's development problems will
continue to strain the physical, human, and financial resources of an already
overburdened development administration. Since substantial improvements will
take many years, external assistance agencies, including the Bank Group, will
have to tailor their requirements in terms of project design, preparation
and implementation to the administrative realities. They will also have to
contemplate higher amounts of technical assistance and supervision than is
the case in many other countries. Nevertheless, there are opportunities
for making significant progress in improving economic conditions for the
people of Bangladesh. While progress is bound to be slow and will require
painstaking efforts, they are nonetheless worth making.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
The Role of Agriculture in the Economy
32.       The agricultural sector dominates the Bangladesh economy.  It
accounts for over half of GDP, 75% of employment and over 80% of the country's
export earnings. In addition, much of manufacturing, transportation and trade
involves the processing, handling and distribution of agricultural commodities.
The Government looks to agriculture to feed the people, to provide employment
to the rapidly expanding rural population, and to earn foreign exchange
through exports of raw jute, jute products, and tea.
Agriculture's Performance
33.       Although since independence, the Government of Bangladesh (GOB)
has given much attention to agriculture, the overall performance of the
sector has been disappointing. Some significant progress, however, appears
to have occurred over the last three years. The production of foodgrains,
which occupies about 85% of cropped land, sharply declined after independence,
but showed an average increase of 4.5% from FY73 to FY78. Output reached a
record level of 13.4 million tons in 1978, 14% above the FY70 pre-independence
high, as a result of a combination of favorable weather, improved distribution



- 11 -
of agricultural inputs, and incentive pricing practices. GOB has found it
necessary, however, to continue to import substantial amounts of foodgrains.
Over the past six years (FY73-FY78), such imports have averaged 15% of con-
sumption or 1.8 million long tons per year. In terms of cost they amounted
to 25% of total imports. In spite of this level of imports, given a popula-
tion increasing at about 2.8% annually, per capita foodgrain availability is
still 10 percent below pre-independence levels. Crop yields are low due to
the slow rate of adoption of high yielding varieties, and despite recent
progress, much more could be done to increase foodgrain production through
increased irrigation, improved distribution of farm inputs, and strengthened
credit and extension services.
34.       The experience with jute, the principal foreign exchange earner, has
been disappointing (see paragraph 17). The area used for jute plus other fiber
crops averaged about 1.7 M ac or 5.5% of the cropped area over the past five
years, varying from 2.2 M ac in FY73 to 1.3 M ac in FY76. Despite price in-
creases in recent years, the value of raw jute and jute goods exports has
decreased in both real and nominal terms. This is due to a fall in jute pro-
duction averaging 5% per year, and due to an unfavorable jute/paddy price
relationship in the early years, with recovery hindered by poor weather in
recent years. Although jute production in FY78 (5.5 million bales) increased
by 17% over the previous year, it was still below the FY70 peak of 7.2 million
bales. Similarly, the production of grain, pulses, oilseeds and sugar cane
are only 75-80% of pre-independence levels, while potatoes, tea and tobacco
have not increased above FY70 levels.
Constraints to Increased Agricultural Production
35.       The constraints to increased agricultural production in Bangladesh
fall into four main categories: physical, economic, institutional and orga-
nizational. The physical constraints include: the lack of incremental land
for food crop development; the annual floods that occur over 70% of the
country which limit the months during which land can be used for crop pro-
duction; and the lack of rainfall during the dry winter months, which limits
productive activity during that season. Economic constraints include the
general lack of an adequate price incentive policy for agriculture and in
particular the Government's failure until recently to maintain guaranteed
minimum procurement prices, particularly in some bumper crop years.
36.       Furthermore, average land holdings are small (about 2 acres split
into several plots). This constitutes an obstacle to efficient farm manage-
ment and makes the organization of cooperative irrigation systems difficult.
An additional constraint is the agricultural tenancy arrangements, under which
about 30% of Bangladesh farmers operate. Because of the customary rental
arrangements, the tenant is normally expected to provide all of the inputs,
but receives only half of the crop and has no right of occupancy. Under such
an arrangement there is reduced incentive to develop lands for irrigation, or
to adopt improved farming practices.



- 12 -
37.       A number of organizational deficiencies have also adversely affected
growth. Generally, the farmers in Bangladesh are receptive to proven innova-
tions. Their efforts, however, have been handicapped by the inadequate and
unreliable distribution system for farm inputs, such as HYV seeds, fertilizers
and pesticides, and the absence of an effective extension system. Adequate
marketing, processing and storage facilities, as well as a rational and effi-
cient credit policy have also been lacking.  Finally, implementation of
existing programs and developing projects has been impeded by overly bureau-
cratic procedures and scarcity of adequately trained administrators and
technicians.
38.       GOB has recently taken several steps to deal with these problems.
The incentive pricing policies announced for the FY78 season is believed to have
accounted partly for the increased foodgrain production this year. Improve-
ments in the availability of agricultural inputs and agricultural credit also
led to an estimated increase in fertilizer use of over 40%. The Government
has also taken steps to strengthen the staff of the Project Implementation
Bureau and simplify procedures for allocating development funds and hiring
of project staff. In addition, the Government has requested IDA's assistance
in reviewing organizational arrangements and administrative procedures in
several key sectors including agricultural. Recognizing the importance of an
effective extension service, GOB has appointed new Thana Extension Officers
to supervise extension activities, undertaken progressive in-service training
of extension agents at different levels, and, beginning with the Extension
and Research Project (Credit 729-BD), introduced the "Training and Visit"
(T&V) system on a national basis. 1/ This system, which relies on regular
visits to farmers by field extension agents and includes close supervision
and control at all levels, has already been implemented successfully in
several other countries.
Development Strategy for Water Resources
39.       Successive Governments have been engaged in programs to provide
flood protection, drainage and irrigation, and to increase the intensity of
land use. Since 1947, these programs have resulted in the construction of
about 2,300 miles of embankments to protect 3.3 M ac of lands from the annual
floods, and the installation of about 10,000 tubewells and about 40,000 low-
lift pumps (LLPs) to irrigate 1.5 M ac of land during the dry season. During
the early 1960s, much of the development effort was focused on large scale
gravity irrigation and flood control projects, such as the Ganges-Kobadak and
Coastal Embankment Projects. Although these projects now provide irrigation
to about 0.1 M ac and flood protection to about 3.3 M ac, their overall impact,
especially in view of the massive investments involved, has been disappointing.
Most of these projects have suffered from large cost overruns and long imple-
mentation delays, and benefits to date have generally been much smaller than
projected. Part of the reason for the disappointing results has been the
pervasive weakness in implementation capacity already noted. However, in
retrospect, it would appear that inadequate technical and economic evaluations
are also partly responsible for the poor results.
1/   A detailed description of this system can be found in the Bank document
"Agricultural Extension: The Training and Visit System" (June 1977).



- 13 -
40.       Significant results have been achieved through relatively low-cost
and quick-yielding small irrigation schemes, utilizing LLPs and tubewells.
LLPs are small capacity (1-2 cusecs) diesel powered centrifugal pumps used to
raise irrigation water from perennial streams and ponds. Introduced in the
late 1950s, the program has now expanded to some 40,000 pumps, irrigating an
estimated 1.3 M ac. Despite problems of underutilization and inadequate main-
tenance, the program has proved economically attractive, the major constraint
to further expansion being the availability of surface water during the dry
season. It is estimated that installation of some 10,000 additional pumps
would exhaust the current potential. Further expansion of the program would
have to be in conjunction with improvement of natural channels and building
of control structures and regulators as proposed under one of the projects
currently under preparation.
41.       Tubewells to exploit groundwater offer a better prospect for quick-
yielding, high return expansion of irrigated areas. Conservative estimates
based on preliminary investigations indicate that some 4 M ac could be irri-
gated by tubewells. Tubewell irrigation, although somewhat more costly than
irrigation by LLPs, has the advantage that it allows extension of irrigation
to many areas where surface water resources have already been exhausted
(e.g. the Northwest region). Two kinds of tubewells are used in Bangladesh--
deep tubewells (DTWs-typically using 20 hp diesel engines and yielding about
two to three cusecs) and shallow tubewells (STWs-typically equipped with 5
to 6 hp diesel engines yielding less than one cusec). Hand pumps capable of
irrigating 1/3 acre are now being installed and are currently irrigating
approximately 20,000 acres.
42.       Until recently, much of the emphasis in groundwater development was
placed on DTWs, and it is expected that by 1979, 9,000 DTWs will be in opera-
tion covering an area of at least 0.3 million ac. Problems have occurred,
however, in organizing farmers' groups large enough to use the DTWs at full
capacity. STWs require much smaller groups of farmers for optimal utilization,
and are less expensive and simpler to install and maintain. As a result, the
Government has rightly shifted its priority to STWs. Although so far only
about 7,000 STWs have been installed, proposals have been approved or are
under consideration for installing an additional 35,000 STWs over the next
4-5 years. By the early 1980s' these 35,000 STWs are expected to irrigate
about 0.4 million ac. Ultimately, Bangladesh should be able to absorb about
100,000 STWs irrigating over one million acres.
43.       Prior to the independence of Bangladesh, two IDA-financed water
control projects were completed, and some pumps and engines were financed
under IDA agricultural credit projects. The IDA Rural Development Project
(Credit 631-BD, 1976) also financed 2,500 STWs. The proposed project would
be the seventh IDA-financed project in Bangladesh to be specifically devoted
to irrigation and/or flood control. The previous projects have been: the
Chandpur II Irrigation Project (Credit 340-BD, 1972, US$13.0 M), providing
flood protection for about 140,000 ac and irrigation for about 75,000 ac; the
Northwest Tubewells Project (Credit 341-BD, 1972, US$14.0 M), providing irri-
gation from groundwater for about 180,000 ac; the Barisal Irrigation Project
(Credit 542-BD, 1975, US$27.0 M), supplying irrigation for about 140,000 ac
by low-lift pumping; the Karnafuli Irrigation Project (Credit 605-BD, 1976,



- 14 -
US$21.0 M), providing irrigation, flood control and drainage to 46,000 ac;
the Shallow Tubewells Project (Credit 724-BD, 1977, US$16.0 M), supplying
irrigation from groundwater for about 150,000 ac; and the Muhuri Irrigation
Project (Credit 725-BD, 1977, US$21.0 M), providing irrigation to about
35,000 ac and improved drainage to about 50,000 ac. The implementation of
these projects started with some problems but in the later stages, they have
proceeded reasonably well. Reasons for slippages in implementation schedules
included difficulties in: hiring of consultants; land procurement: appoint-
ment of project staff; timely release of budgetary allocations; approval of
contracts and coordination among the various implementing agencies. As noted
earlier (paragraph 39), the Government has already taken a number of steps to
remedy the most serious bottlenecks. IDA and the Government have also given
increased emphasis to regular monitoring and supervision of the various pro-
jects in order to identify and resolve potential problems at an early stage.
These steps have produced noticeable improvements in the rate of project
implementation and it is hoped that these efforts will result in continued
improvement in Bangladesh's project implementation capacity.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
44.       The sub-projects included in the proposal were first identified in
the Bank's Hardcore Program Report of 1973 and prepared by the Water Develop-
ment Board (WDB) with the assistance of consultants financed from the 1st
Technical Assistance Credit 409-BD. They were appraised in January/February
1978 by a mission consisting of Messrs. H. J. Tennent, B. Kanchanalak (Bank),
Hpu and J. K. Lee (Consultants). Attached to this report as Annex III is a
Supplementary Project Data Sheet. Four project maps are also attached. The
Staff Appraisal Report is being circulated separately to the Executive
Directors.
Project Formulation
45.       The project covers three areas.  Chenchuri Beel and Kolabashakhali
are contiguous and located in the southwestern part of the country, in Jessore
and Khulna districts. The Brahmaputra Right Embankment is located in the
northwest, in the Rangpur, Bogra and Pabna districts. Severe malnutrition has
become a way of life in these three areas as a result of crop losses due to
intermittent droughts in dry seasons and frequent floods during the monsoon.
The rural population in the project areas, in particular in Chenchuri Beel and
Kolabashakhali, are among the poorest in Bangladesh. The Chenchuri Beel (CCB)
and Kolabashakhali (KBK) projects were identified because they would eliminate
salinity and reduce the incidence of flooding, thus resulting in an increase
in crop yields and improved cropping patterns. The Brahmaputra Right Embank-
ment (BRE) rehabilitation and improvement sub-project was selected because the
existing embankment had achieved a degree of flood control permitting a shift
from low yielding broadcast aman to transplanted aman and greater use of inputs,
resulting in higher yields. The existing BRE (originally financed by Credit
39-PAK, US$5.0 M, 1963) has deteriorated due to river meandering and lack of
maintenance to the point where breaches occur annually. The benefits from the
original project are in danger of being lost unless remedial action is taken.



- 15 -
Project Description
46.        The proposed project (see attached maps) would provide flood control
and drainage to the three separate sub-project areas. In CCB, it would pro-
vide flood control and improved drainage to 46,000 ac; in KBK, it would protect
42,000 ac, 7,000 of which would be reclaimed; and it would extend and rehabil-
itate the existing BRE, which protects 180,000 ac. The drainage systems in
CCB and KBK would be designed for a quick draw-down of interior flood waters
from mid-October through November to allow planting of crops in November/
December. The system is also designed to conserve the useful rainfall within
the area.
47.        In addition, the project includes improved agricultural extension
services, providing in CCB and KBK the investments required for the implement-
ation of the "Training and Visit" (T&V) system as described in the Development
Credit Agreement for the Extension and Research Project (Credit 729-BD). The
project would provide access roads and buildings, equipment, and vehicles
for the agricultural extension service in CCB and KBK 1/. In addition, the
project would include living quarters, godowns, workshops, and equipment and
vehicles for construction in all sub-project areas. About 36 man-months of
consultants' time would be provided; this would include agricultural consult-
ants in the CCB and KBK areas, and engineering consultants for the design and
maintenance of the civil works. Training for the project staff would also be
provided.
48.        The objectives of the project are to increase production of essen-
tial agricultural crops, thereby reducing imports and improving the balance of
payments, as well as to increase employment opportunities in agriculture. It
is expected that after the completion of the project paddy would continue to
dominate the cropping patterns in all three areas. Drainage, protection from
early flooding and salt water intrusion, and reduction in flood depths and
flood periods would increase the area under crops, reduce risks of crop fail-
ures and increase the cropping intensities. In addition, because of the
security against river floods, use of irrigation (LLPs & STWs) and of HYVs
and agricultural inputs would increase.
Project Components
49.        The project works would include:
Chenchuri Beel
(a) 60 mi of embankments with a drainage network including four
new drainage regulators, covering a net cultivated area of
46,000 ac 2/;
1/   Similar support is already being provided in BRE under EARP
(Credit 729-BD).
2/   One regulator has already been constructed in CCB.



- 16 -
(b) 25 mi of access roads;
(c) construction of five gatekeepers' quarters, two godowns, two
staff barracks and one workshop for WDB;
(d) construction of a training center and about 45 staff quarters
for agricultural extension; and
(e) equipment and vehicles for the construction program and for
the agricultural extension service.
Kolabashakhali
(a) 53 mi of embankments with a drainage network including 13
drainage regulators, covering a net cultivated area of
42,000 ac;
(b) 20 mi of access roads;
(c) construction of 15 gatekeepers' quarters, two godowns, two
staff barracks and one workshop for WDB;
(d) construction of a training center and about 45 staff quarters
for agricultural extension; and
(e) equipment and vehicles for the construction program and for
the agricultural extension service.
Brahmaputra Right Embankment
(a) rehabilitation and improvement of 106 mi of embankments and
construction of 36 mi of retired embankments covering a net
cultivated area of 180,000 ac;
(b) drainage channel improvements including eight drainage
regulators;
(c) construction of 78 cross embankments for the protection
of the main embankment;
(d) construction of one gatekeepers' quarters, one godown, one
staff barrack and one workshop for WDB; and
(e) equipment and vehicles for the construction program.
50.       About three years of consultants' services would be included under
the project for assisting in the designs and maintenance program for the
embankments, and in the implementation of the agricultural extension service.
Provision would also be made for short overseas study tours by selected
agricultural extension staff for observing the implementation of the T&V
extension system in other developing countries.



- 17 -
Project Execution
51.       Organization.  The WDB would be responsible for planning, design
and construction of civil works, except for agricultural staff quarters and
training centers and for related procurement. The Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA) would be esponsible for the agricultural aspects of the project with
the Department of Agriculture, Extension and Management (DOAEM) handling the
introduction of the T&V extension system (paragraph 39). DOAEM would also
arrange construction of extension staff quarters and training centers, and
procure equipment and vehicles for agricultural extension. The Bangladesh
Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC) would be responsible for the
supply and distribution of agricultural inputs (seeds, fertilizers and pest-
icides) and would rent low-lift pumps and sell shallow tubewells under their
ongoing programs in these areas. The Bangladesh Rice Research Institute
(BRRI) and the Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute (BARI) would provide
training to Crop Production Specialists (CPSs) and research support to the
project. Assurances have been obtained that by January 1, 1980, the T&V
system of extension will be employed in all the project areas in accordance
with a program acceptable to IDA, and that this extension program would be
maintained under arrangements satisfactory to IDA (Section 4.04 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement and Credit 729-BD Extension and Research Project).
52.       Since the civil works are of a simple nature, WDB would supervise
the construction itself with no outside assistance. Assurances have been
obtained that WDB would use design standards and construction specifications
including compaction satisfactory to the Association in constructing the
embankments under the project (Section 3.03 of the draft DCA). Although
implementation of previous IDA projects by WDB has been slow, there has been
significant improvement over the last year, and WDB has adopted some changes
in procedures (including increased delegation of responsibilities to Project
Engineers) allowing projects to proceed more expeditiously. In addition, the
Government has invited IDA to participate in a joint review of WDB's invest-
ment strategy, priorities, organizational arrangements and procedures; this
review appears to be making adequate progress.
53.       WDB would carry out the project work through normal channels:  plan-
ning and design being undertaken in Dacca under the Chief Engineer (CE), Plan-
ning and CE, Design and Construction and detailed financial control being
through the respective regional CEs, Superintending Engineers (SEs) and
Executive Engineers (EEs).  Overall responsibility for project administration
and supervision would rest with the Member, Implementation (WDB). To assist
the Member, Implementation in monitoring project progress, co-ordinating the
work of various WDB units, liaising with DOAEM, and in sorting out implement-
ation problems, a small Project Cell headed by a Project Coordinator would be
attached to his office. The Project Coordinator would also be responsible for
corresponding with IDA on project related matters including annual work pro-
grams and periodic progress reports. The Project Coordinator would be at least
of SE rank with extensive experience in management and implementation of large
projects. Assurances have been obtained that the WDB would employ a Project
Coordinator with experience and qualifications satisfactory to IDA (Section
3.04 of the draft DCA). Appointment of the Project Coordinator would be a
condition of credit effectiveness.



- 18 -
54.       At the field level, WDB staff would need to maintain close contact
with the respective staff of other agricultural agencies such as BADC, IRDP
and DOAEM. This would be particularly important in the later stages of the
project when the project works would enable introduction of substantial
changes in prevailing cropping patterns and cultivation practices. Accord-
ingly, in each sub-project, a Project Coordination Committee would be estab-
lished. The committees for CCB and KBK would be chaired by the Superintending
Engineer, Khulna and that for BRE by the Chief Engineer, Northern Zone and
would include appropriate level officials from the concerned agricultural
agencies. The committees would meet quarterly or more often, if necessary.
Establishment of the three Coordination Committees with membership and terms
of reference satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of credit effectiveness
(Section 6.01(b) of the draft DCA).
55.       Training and Consultants.  To improve the experience of the WDB and
MOA staff engaged in implementing the project, a training program would be
included and about 20 staff members would be selected and sent overseas for
periods of one to two months. Local training would also be given by the
agencies in their own institutions. It has been agreed that GOB would submit
to IDA for approval the program for overseas training and the qualifications
and experience of candidates proposed for such training (Section 3.05 of the
draft DCA).
56.       As engineering works under the project are technically simple, full-
time consultants would not be required for the project. Short-term consultants
would be employed, as and when necessary, for assistance in design work and
in establishing appropriate procedures and organizational set-ups for proper
operation and maintenance (O&M) of the project facilities, particularly for
BRE. A total of 24 man-months of engineering consultants is included. Provi-
sion has also been made for about 12 man-months of consulting services for
assistance in establishing the T&V system of agricultural extension in CCB
and KBK. Under EARP, GOB has already agreed to obtain technical assistance
for the strenthening of agricultural extension in the NW region. This would
include the services of two expatriate consultants (18 months of an extension
specialist and 12 months of an applied research specialist). If possible, the
contracts for these consultants would be extended about six months each and
the scope of their work would be amended to include CCB and KBK. Assurances
have been obtained that WDB and DOAEM would employ consultants whose quali-
fications, experience and terms and conditions of employment would be satis-
factory to IDA (Section 3.02 of the draft DCA).
57.       Facilities and Equipment.  For efficient operation of the T&V system,
improved facilities would be provided in the CCB and KBK project areas in the
form of housing, transport and equipment. (Similar facilities are already
being financed in the BRE area as part of the Extension and Research Project,
Credit 729-BD). Assurances have been obtained that the bicycles and motor-
cycles provided under the project would be made available to DOAEM extension
agents under arrangements similar to those under Credit 729-BD Extension and
Research Project (Section 3.06 of the draft DCA). Budgetary provisions for
extension agents' travel and daily allowance have often been insufficient in
the past, with the result that their payment was discontinued when the budget



- 19 -
allocation was exhausted. Assurances have been given by GOB that a sufficient
agricultural budget for the project would be provided (Section 4.02 of the
draft DCA).
Operation and Maintenance (O&M) of Civil Works and Equipment
58.       WDB would be responsible for the O&M of the project works except
agricultural buildings, the responsibility for which would rest with DOAEM.
WDB's normal staff of EEs and their assistants would undertake the work.
In the past attention given to O&M has often been grossly inadequate and
as a result many works and facilities in Bangladesh have tended to lose
their usefulness prematurely. This has been due partly to the lack of
well-formulated procedures and partly to inadequate budgetary allocations.
Consequently, provision has been made for short-term consultants to aid in
preparing an O&M program. It will also be essential to ensure that sufficient
funds are allocated to cover maintenance, particularly in the case of BRE,
which has a high O&M cost component, involving an assumed embankment retire-
ment rate of 6 mi per year out of a total length of 170 mi due to the meander-
ing of the Brahmaputra River. As a result assurances have been obtained that
civil works will be maintained in accordance with sound engineering practices
and that adequate and timely funds, facilities and staff will be allocated
for O&M of the project. In particular, GOTR has agreed to submit by December 31,
1979, its program for inspection and maintenance of the three embankments
financed under the project and to carry out such inspection and maintenance
in accordance with a program satisfactory to IDA (Section 4.02(b) of the draft
DCA).
Monitoring and Evaluation
59.       Monitoring of project progress would be through quarterly and
annual progress reports prepared by the staff of WDB and DOAEM. The reports
would include all relevant data on the physical and financial progress of the
project together with reasons for deviations, if any, from the targets set
under the annual work programs. Following review and consolidation by the
Project Coordinator the quarterly and annual reports would be sent promptly
to IDA for review by the latter.
60.       The main objectives of the evaluation studies which are provided
for under the project would be to estimate the direct and indirect benefits
resulting from the project, as well as the socio-economic characteristics of
the project beneficiaries. The data for evaluation would be obtained through
a few selected in-depth interviews in the project area as well as through
canvassing representative samples of project beneficiaries. A benchmark sur-
vey would be conducted about one year before project completion to establish
the pre-project situation. Two follow-up surveys would be conducted after
completion of the project works -- the first after one year and the second
after four years. The surveys would include information on cropping patterns,
yields, cultivation practices, production and employment levels as well as
income levels for the various classes of project beneficiaries. The evalua-
tion studies and surveys would be undertaken by well qualified local consulting
firms or research institutions selected in consultation with IDA. Assurances



- 20 -
have been obtained that before January 1, 1980, WDB would prepare and submit
to IDA for concurrence a detailed proposal for evaluation of the project
impact. The progress reports and the data from evaluation studies and sur-
veys would form, in part, the basis for preparation of the Project Completion
Report by WDB (Section 4.03 of the draft DCA).
Annual Work Programs
61.       Before each construction season, WDB and DOAEM would prepare
annual programs detailing activities and works to be undertaken during the
forthcoming year. Such programs would include appropriate maps, charts and
drawings, staffing and material requirements as well as cost estimates. The
Project Coordinator would be responsible for collating and consolidating
these programs for submission to IDA. Assurances have been obtained that by
August 31 of each year, IDA would receive, for review and comments, work
programs for the forthcoming construction year (Section 3.08 of the draft DCA).
Land Acquisition
62.       Construction of project facilities would require acquisition of
substantial amounts of privately owned land: about 1,800 ac in CCB, 700 ac
in KBK and 2,000 ac in BRE. Due to land scarcity in Bangladesh and a lack
of alternative means of livelihood, many landowners in Bangladesh are often
reluctant to part with their holdings. Inadequate and delayed financial
compensation, has also often obstructed timely land acquisition. Delays in
land acquisition have, in turn, often contributed to long and costly delays
in implementation of various projects. During negotiations, measures for
streamlining and expediting the land acquisition procedures were discussed.
Assurances were obtained that the Government would make adequate and
prompt payments for land acquisition under the project and that the Govern-
ment would, inter alia, discuss with IDA the effects of land acquisition
on landowners, including steps to be taken to relocate displaced persons
and the implementation of a program, as necessary, for such purposes
(Section 3.09 of the draft DCA).
Implementation Schedule
63.       Project implementation would take five years, extending from late
1978 until the onset of the rainy season in May 1983. Field surveys and
investigations would be completed by May 1980 and detailed designs and con-
tract documents by November 1980. Construction of the major works would
start after the 1979 rainy season and would be completed in four seasons.
Tender documents for the construction equipment and vehicles are currently
under preparation and procurement would be completed by November 1979. Also,
by that time extension services in CCB and KBK would be reorganized and fully
staffed and equipped. A detailed program of activities for the first year of
project implementation was agreed at negotiations.
Cost Estimates
64.       The total project costs are estimated at US$28 million equivalent,
including the foreign exchange component of US$3.2 million or about 11% of



- 21 -
project costs. The costs include US$19 million for civil works, US$0.7 mil-
lion for equipment and vehicles, both for civil works and agricultural exten-
sion, US$0.7 million for technical assistance and training and a balance of
US$7.6 million made up of engineering and overhead, consultants and train-
ing, land acquisition, incremental operating costs during implementation for
agricultural extension, and 0&M during construction. The cost estimates for
imported vehicles and equipment are based on unit prices in recent contract
awards and on international prices. Costs of civil works, including embank-
ments, drains and buildings are based on recent costs in Bangladesh for
similar works. Costs for consulting services, estimated at an average of
about US$9,800 per man-month, are based on recent experience in Bangaldesh,
adjusted for proportionately higher overheads due to short-term assignments.
Physical (US$5.2 million) and price (US$8.55 million) contingencies have been
included in the cost estimates. Physical contingencies have been estimated at
20% for civil works, since detailed surveys have yet to be completed. Price
contingencies are based on an annual rate of inflation of 9% for both local
and foreign costs. All costs have been adjusted to mid-1978 prices; the
estimates include about US$1.6 million for taxes and duties, which would not
be financed.
Financing
65.       The proposed IDA credit of US$19 million would finance 72% of the
total project costs, excluding duties and taxes. This would cover 100% of
foreign exchange costs and about 68% of local costs. GOB would finance the
balance of the project cost, US$9 million (Tk 135 million equivalent, includ-
ing duties and taxes), through annual budget appropriations.
Procurement
66.       Because the construction of the civil works comprises a number of
small and simple engineering works -- embankments, drainage sluices, buildings --
scattered over a wide area and restricted to seasonal construction with labor-
intensive construction methods, they would not be suitable for international
competitive bidding (ICB) and would be carried out by local contractors
selected through local competitive bidding in accordance with procedures satis-
factory to IDA. To prevent an excessive number of small contracts being let,
assurances have been obtained that contracts would not be smaller than
US$5,000. Most construction materials would be expected to be procured by
the contractors and included in their bid price. However, if due to shortages
which may arise, it becomes necessary for the Government to import materials
directly for the project, these would be procured through ICB. Equipment,
vehicles and spare parts (US$0.7 million) 1/ would be procured after ICB in
accordance with IDA Procurement Guidelines. A preference limited to 15% of
cif price or the prevailing custom duty would be extended to local manufac-
turers in the evaluation of bids. Off-the-shelf items costing less than
US$20,000 for each contract, which are either urgently needed or are not suit-
able for ICB would be purchased through normal Government channels, using
1/   The amount covers civil works and agricultural equipment and vehicles
and includes contingencies, but excludes taxes and duties.



- 22 -
procedures satisfactory to IDA. Such purchases would, however, be limited to
US$200,000 in total. Documents for all contract:s, whether for civil works,
equipment or vehicles estimated to cost above US$50,000 would be sent to IDA
for review before bids are invited and later before award. Contracts esti-
mated to cost less than US$50,000 would be awarded in accordance with normal
Government procedures, which are satisfactory. It was agreed during negotia-
tions to finance retroactively, an aggregate amount not exceeding US$660,000
to cover civil works contracts let after March 1, 1978 and which were under-
taken as emergency works to prepare for the May/June 1978 floods.
Disbursements
67.       Disbursements from the proposed IDA credit would cover:
(a)  90% of civil works expenditures, including construction
materials supplied by contractors;
(b) 100% of the foreign expenditures for directly imported
equipment, vehicles, spare parts and construction materials;
(c) 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) for locally
manufactured equipment, vehicles, spare parts and con-
struction materials procured under ICB;
(d) 90% of total expenditures for other equipment, vehicles,
spare parts and construction materials procured off-
the-shelf; and
(e) 100% of total expenditures for consultants' services and
overseas training.
It is expected that the Credit would be fully disbursed
by June 30, 1984, i.e., by about one-year after project completion.
Accounts and Audits
68.       Assurances have been obtained (Section 4.01 of DCA) that:
(a) separate accounts would be kept for the project by WDB
and DOAEM;
(b)  these accounts would be audited annually in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to IDA; and
(c) GOB would send IDA copies of the audit reports annually
within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
Recovery of Costs
69.       Assuming that farmers in the project area respond as expected to
the opportunities for more intensive cultivation provided under the project,



- 23 -
they would enjoy a significant increase in net income, providing the basis
in theory for cost recovery. However, recovery of benefits from drainage
and flood control projects is intrinsically more difficult than for irriga-
tion projects. While the average effect on farm income due to drainage im-
provements can be determined, project benefits vary considerably from farm to
farm and from year to year depending on the degree of cultivation risk faced
by flood prone farmers, which in turn is related to the particular location,
land level and soil quality of their blocks of land and climatic factors.
In these circumstances the collection of an annual "betterment charge" to
reflect the increase in production brought about by the project would be ex-
tremely difficult administratively and would probably cost more than would
be collected. Since land values would over time reflect the differences in
productivity brought about by the project, a tax on land values would be a
better method of cost recovery for this type of project. However, in the
absence of any land taxation system in Bangladesh, this alternative is not
available. No charges are currently collected from the farmers on about
3.3 M ha benefitting from similar drainage and flood control projects in
various parts of the country. It should also be noted that flood protection
in Bangladesh (as well as many other countries) has long been considered as a
social service rather than as an economic investment. For the above reasons,
it is not proposed under this project to impose charges on the beneficiaries.
70.       IDA has been working with the Government to assist it in rational-
izing its pricing policies towards the agricultural sector. Of particular
concern have been the charges for irrigation schemes. Beneficiaries of sur-
face irrigation schemes have paid little or nothing. (A small charge was
levied beginning in FY78 but collection has been poor). Irrigation pumps and
deep tubewells have been rented out well below cost, while shallow tubewells
are now being sold at rates approximating full cost. The Government has re-
cently completed preparation of draft water charge legislation for surface
irrigation schemes which will provide for a flat rate charge to recover annual
operation and maintenance costs within three to five years of project comple-
tion and some capital costs thereafter. The Government has also prepared
proposals for rationalizing rental charges for pumps. These proposals will be
reviewed in connection with IDA consideration of a proposed low-lift pump
project. We will continue to work with the Government on these issues both in
connection with specific projects and with our economic and sector work
programs.
Environmental Impact
71.       Projects such as the one under consideration necessarily involve
substantial ecological changes, not all of which can be fully foreseen. The
improved flood protection and drainage should reduce the incidence of malaria
and cholera both of which are endemic to the project areas. The effect on
flood levels outside the project areas is likely to be negligible since the
flood discharges in the affected rivers are vast compared to the increase ex-
pected under the project. The disturbances in the natural drainage patterns,
however, could have some adverse effects on isolated pockets within the project
areas (as evidenced by the occasional breaches made by the farmers in similar



- 24 -
embankments in other areas). Construction of the embankments might also have
some adverse impact on water transport, but, since most cargo is transferred
from small boats (sampans) to larger boats at the confluence of major rivers
and drains, the effect is likely to be small. In addition, some adverse
effect should also be expected on fish production in the project areas, and
there could be some loss in land fertility due to absence of soil deposition
during the annual floods. This loss of fertility, however, could be readily
compensated through the use of chemical fertilizer. The proposed IDA-
assisted Oxbow Fisheries Project currently under preparation, is expected to
include a central hatchery which could supply the affected areas with fish
fry and fingerlings to replace any loss in fish production.
72.       On the whole, then, it is anticipated that the ecological impact
of the project should be positive. Still, there is a need for close monitor-
ing and consequently assurances have been obtained that for five years after
completion of the project the Government would undertake a monitoring program
for assessing the impact, if any, on water transport and fisheries in the
project areas and would undertake remedial actions, if necessary (Section 4.05
of the draft DCA).
Benefits and Economic Justification
73.       It is estimated that the project would increase the annual produc-
tion of foodgrains by 52,000 tons (19,000 tons in CCB and KBK, an additional
19,000 tons in BRE and 14,000 tons which would otherwise be lost without re-
habilitation of BRE) and would result in a net annual saving of US$12 million
in foreign exchange. After allowing 10% for seed, shrinkage and waste, the
increased foodgrain production would be sufficient to meet the annual food-
grain needs of approximately 300,000 people. Gross crop income, based on the
Bank's forecasts of world market prices, would increase by about US$14 million
(about a 40% increase). Net farm incomes without costing family labor in the
areas of the 3 subprojects are estimated to increase on average by over 40%
in CBC and BRE areas and by over 100% in the KBK area.
74.       Due to the low productivity of land in the CCB and KBK areas, in-
come levels in the subproject areas are below those in most other parts of
Bangladesh. It is estimated that 70-80% of the families in the subproject
areas have incomes below subsistence levels. With the project, and taking
account of additional population growth, the proportion of below subsistence
households in 1988 is expected to decline to about 50%. In the BRE area,
due to the protection provided by the existing embankment, current production
levels are somewhat higher with the proportion of below subsistence households
estimated at about 50%. The proposed BRE subproject, by avoiding the reduc-
tion of productivity which would take place with the collapse of the existing
embankment, and by providing for increases in productivity to balance the
expected increase in population, will avoid the increase in the percentage
of below subsistence households, which would have occurred without the project.
75.       Rate of Return and Project Risks.  The estimated economic rates of
return for the project as a whole would be 34% and for each of the three sub-
projects would be: 28% for CCB, 37% for KBK and 38% for BRE. These rates
reflect only the economic benefits of increased agricultural production due



- 25 -
to improved drainage and flood protection. Additional benefits are likely to
occur with the addition of irrigation equipment (low-lift pumps or shallow
tubewells) under on-going or proposed projects being financed by IDA and other
agencies. Additional but unquantified benefits will also include the reduced
transport costs through improved access roads and the reduction in periodic
damage and loss of life due to flooding.
76.       The project faces significant risks of delays in execution and in-
adequacy of maintenance after construction.  While the technical simplicity
of the project, the small number of agencies involved and the recent improve-
ment in performance of WDB in executing other water sector projects tend to
reduce the risk of delays, substantial delays in project execution must still
be considered a distinct possibility. With respect to maintenance, the pro-
visions mentioned in paragraph 59 above for the preparation of and adherence
to detailed maintenance programs are intended to avoid the risk of a reduced
project life due to inadequate maintenance. Nevertheless, sensitivity tests
were taken under a variety of less favorable assumptions including a two year
delay in project completion, a reduction in project life to 10 years, a 20%
increase in project costs and a 20% decrease in project benefits. These tests
indicate that even under a combination of such less favorable assumptions, the
three subprojects would still be economically viable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
77.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's
Republic of Bangladesh and the Association and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
78.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Credit include (a) the appointment of the Project Coordinator (para 54),
(b) the establishment of the three Project Coordinating Committees
(para 55) and (c) approval of the Project Proforma.
79.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
80.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
November 30, 1978



-  26  -                                               Paite 1
TABLE 3A
BANGLADESH - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
BAIGLADESH                                                /a
LAND AREA (THOUSAND S0. EK.)                                                    - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL             144.0                                                     SAME         SAKE     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      101.1                                  MOST RECENT      GEOGRAHIC   INCOME          INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 JD ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP Ld    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    40.0         60.0      90.0            167.4       182.9        432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)          ..          ..       28.0             65.7        88.9        251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TQTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                         53.9         70.8       82.7
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  4.8            6.4       9.2             12.8        15.0         24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       374.0        492.0      574.0             85.2        46.8        4.2.7
PER SQ. EH. AGRICULTURAL LAND    566.0         730.0      818.0            322.6       254.1         95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          44.3         46.4       46.2             44.0        43.6         44.9
15-64 YRS.                          52.3         51.0       51.1             52.9        53.3         52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.2         2.6        2.6              2.9         2.9          3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERQNT)
TOTAL                                2.7         2.8        2.1 /f           2.2         2.4          2.7
URBAN                                 ..         6.2        7.4              4.2         4.0          8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       49.8        50.3       49.5             45.1        44.3         42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       27.2        22.9       28.1             17.3        19.7         12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.5          3.1        ..              3.2         2.9          3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..       345.6      655.1
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED  EN)    ..               ..       4.7             13.7        14.6         14.2
FUOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF POOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)              106.2       100.0       93.7             95.6        96.4        104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     89.0 j      89.0       93.0             91.1        92.3         99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            42.6 a         *       58.5             49.6        50.0         56.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          9.2 L         *        8.0             12.6        13.9         17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         ..           ..        ..               ..          ..          7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    38.7           43.3      45.0             43.1        45.8         53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..           ..     140.0             99.5       102.7         82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OP
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        45.0       56.0             30.0        26.4         31.1
URBAN                                 ..        13.0       22.0             66.3        63.5         68.5
RURAL                                 *-        47.0       61.0             17.2        14.1         18.2
ACCESS TO REXCRETA DISPOSAL (PEICENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         6.0        5.0             15.7        16.1         37.5
URBAN                                 ..          ..       40.0             66.9        65.9         69.5
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..              2.5         3.4         25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           10000.0 /h   7600.O0h 11000.0            8830.8    13432.7        9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSIWC PERSON   110000.0 /h  72030.0/h 56070.0              8479.3      6983.3       2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            11000.0 /i   8120.0 /f 5200.0            1624.5      1157.6        786.5
URAN                                  ..          ..         ..               ..       183.3        278.4
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..               ..      1348.8       1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..           ..         ..               ..       19.5         19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                       ..          ..                     ..        5.2
URBAN                                                                                    4.8
RURAL                                 ...                     ...                        5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 * .
URBAN                                 ...                    ...                         1.8          2.3
RURAL1S                                                                                               23
RURAL                       ~..          ..         .....
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                                                                    25.9        28.3
URBAN                                 .             -        3.0
RURAL                                 ...                     ...                         8.7         10.3



-  2 7 -                                             Page 2
TABLE 3A
BANGLADESH - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
BANGLADESH                                              /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 b      1970 Lb ESTIMATE ab       REGION /c   GROUP Ld    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 47.0        61.0       73.0             59.1       62.9         75.8
PUIALE               26.0         42.0      51.0             38.4        45.9        67.9
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                   8.0        19.0       25.0             19.9       14.4         17.7
FEMALE                 1.0         8.0       11.0             9.9         8.8        12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)  1.0           1.0        ..              1.5        6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              .-        49.0       50.0             38.2       38.5         34.3
SECONDARY                            ..        26.0       24.0            23.5        19.8         23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCECT)        21.6           ..      23.0             35.6       36.7         63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..         0.4        0.4/1            2.2        3.1          7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER TBDOSAND
POPULATION                           ,,         6.0         *-             14.9       31.1         71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..        ..              ..         2.8         14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    ..           ..       5.0              6.4        6.0         16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATrENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..        ..               ..        1.4          1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    19400.0      24500.0   26200.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   15.2        16.5       17.0             21.3       24.2         28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              87.0        86.0       78.0             62.8       60.7         54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  3.3         3.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                36.0        34.6       34.4             35.8       39.8         37.8
MALE                                 58.7         55.8      55.3             52.4       53.3         50.3
FEMALE                               11.4         11.8      12.1             15.6       19.6         20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.3          1.4       1.4              1.3         1.3         1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.3 /k       16.7 L      ..             18.6       20.3         19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.5 /k      42.3 /1      *-             42.8       45.1         48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEROLDS    6.9 /k        7.9 /1     ..              7.3        5.7          5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.9 ak       19.6 /1     ..             19.3       16.8         15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     110.0             80.2       88.5        155.9
RURAL                                ..           ..      90.0             67.2       71.9         97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (LIS$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..               ..      100.8        143.7
RURAL                                ..           ..      29.0             39.8       42.0         87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                                     61.0             50.3       46.0         22.9
RURAL.                               ..           ..      70.0             44.6       48.0         36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    South Asia;  /d  Low Income ($280 or less per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income (S281-550 per capita.
1976);   L         The 1970-75 growth rate is abnormally low due to the effects of the war of independence and
the mass population movement across the borders during that period.  Presently, the average population
growth rate is estimated at 2.8I per annum; /n Av. 1961-65; /h Registered, not all practicing in the
country; /i Govt. establishmenta only; /j 1972; /k 1963-64; /I 1966-67.
September, 1978



- 28 -
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                         Page 3
Note: The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-eighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator end the most
populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the indicators dapends on aveilebility of data and is not uniform.  Due to lack of data,
group uveragen for Capital Surplus Oil Etportera and Indicators of access to water and excreta disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
osnplo population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand  q. ki)                                                                 Population per hospital bed - total. urban, and rural - Population (total,
Total  - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters,                          urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Al&rieulrural -  eost recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                   available in public and privwte general and Specialized hospital and ce-
..r per   -tneely for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                    habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments pertanently staffed by
ho  fallow,                                                         a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t laeas  one pbysician.  Establiahments providing principally custodial
care are not included.  Rural hospitas, however, include health and  .dil-
* NP iER CAPiI5A_05) - INP per capits estimates at current market prices,                      cal centers not permanently Staffed by a physician (but by a medical a-
elculotod by same conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 baais);                   Sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                                 provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admi6sainosper jhospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
EfERGY CiNSU7{PTION PER CAPITA - Annuel consumption of co-mercial energy                       from  hompituls divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geno-
thoral electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                       HOUSING
Average siee of house hold (persona per household) - total. urhan. and rural-
NOIKLAiIDIN AND VITAL STATISITICS                                                             A household consists of a group of individuals who Shera living quarters
Total p2pulorioo, mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                      and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
--rrage of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                              the household for statistical purpoaeu.   Statistical definiti-ns of house-
rba- populrtion  (perccnt of total) - Ratio of urban to rotal popula-                        hold vary.
tic,; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                     Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average nu=-
ot data among countries.                                                                   ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
.ayaiutoon density                                                                           dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings enclude non-permanent structure- and
Per  pj _ko  -Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                       -nocupied parts.
total  rea.                                                                          Access to electricity  (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
or     ekn  agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                      Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
salil                                                                                      of tota1, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
'otu-uon age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(1h-64 vears), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-                 EDUCATION
tour population.                                                                       Adjseted enrollment ratios
Popu].roi- growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound aesual                      Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of oil ages
growth rutes of total and urban mid-year populati.ns for 1950-60,                          at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                      populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjuated for
Crude hirth ruse (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                         different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-pear population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                       cation enrollment may emceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
197G und five-yearacer.age ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,                         bove the official school age.
Crude death rate  (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                      Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary educe-
vear populatio; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                       tics requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
und fice-year ucerage ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,                              ides general vocational, or tescher training instructions for pupils
Jr cv reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                     usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence ceurses are generally
io her cereal reproductive period if  bsh  experiesces prrsent age-                        excluded.
spc.ific f-rtility  uraes; au-ally five-year averages ending in 1960,                   Vocational enrollment (peccnt of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
i979, rod 1975.                                                                            clude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Fanicy planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                           or as departments of secondary institutions.
auceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                   Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
pl-anoog prugrum.                                                                          primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Cuily ,pl,anning - users (percent of m,arried wanes) - Percentage of                         spending levels.
,rrrird women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-contral                  Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
de-i-os to oil married women in same age group,                                            a percentage of total adult population aged 11 years and over.
FOD DAND NUTRITION                                                                        CONSUMPTION
1dos of food production per capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                       Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars conprise =otor cars
capita unnuul production of all food commodities,                                        seating less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supplv of calories (pereent of requirements) - Computed from                    vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita                 Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available Supplies comprise domestic production. imports less                  broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,                 receivers in cu-ntries and in years when registration of radio sets w-a  in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.   Re-                    effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since most countries
quironents were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                   abolished licensing.
-al uctitc  and health considering environmental temperature, body                     TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to genera&
we-ight, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                     public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coon-
ct for waste at household level,                                                         tries and in years when registration of TV sets wan in effect.
Per oupita  supplv of protein (grams ear day) - Protein content of per                    Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita sot nopply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                       tion  of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
ab-ce   Riquiremenrs for all countries established by USDA provide for                     cation devoted primarily to recording general news.   It is considered to
a sminium allowance uf 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                      be "daily" if it appears at least four cines a week.
of a-imal and pulse protein  of which 10 grams should be animal protein.               Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
T-ese ostudards are lower then those of 75 grams of total protein and                      sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cineman and mobile
2- grans of oniu l protein as an average for the world, proposed by                        units.
FAC in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita  protein  supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food              EMPLOYMENT
dorioed from  animals and poises in gra.s per day.                                     Total labor force (thousands) - Econo=ically active persons, including armed
Child  (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                   forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, stude-ts, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 yours, to children in this age group.                                 tices in earlos countries are not comparsble.
Fe=ale (percent) - Female labor force as percentage of total labor fern.
HEALTH                                                                                     Agriculture (percent) - Lab.r force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Ltfe eupeccuocy as birth  (yearu) - Average number of years of life                          as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; uclly five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                     Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, con.truction, =enufacturing and
sod 1975.                                                                                 electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
loProt norcoliry rate (par thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                    Participatien rare (peront) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
0cc Yeer of age per thousand live birhts.                                                 'emale labor force as percentiges of their respective populations
ucuuctsusafewater (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                        These ure TLOes adjered parrtiiputi-n rates reflectimg sue-son
lebcer of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access tn                       rtructore of the population, cd long tine tred.
edfo water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                    Economic dependenct rtio - Ratin  of population under 15 cod 65 and o-er to
uncontemicatod water such Sm  that from protected boreholes, springs,                      the lahor force in age group of 15-64 years.
sod s..it-ary wlls) as percentages of their respective populations.
arn urban area a public fountain or standpost located not more                       INCOMIE DISTRIBL'TION
rhe- 201 netern from a house may be considered as being within te--                    Peroentage of private income (both in numh and kind) receved by richest 5
.ou.blo access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable  -c.es             I would        percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
inpl  that tho hounewife or members of the household dc not have to                      of houe holds.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
wa too needs                                                                          POVERTY TARCET GROUPS
o  'uss to excreta disposal (pecoont of population) - total, urban, and                  Estimated  bshlntne poverty income level (US$ per caPita) - urban and rural -
Irs'    Numbhr of people (total, arise, and rural) served by excreta                         Absolute poverty income level iS that inoome level below which a minimal
us percentagen of their respective populations.   Ecreta                       nacrition.llr adequate diet plus essential  eno-food requirements is set
-pc.   nay include the collection and disposal, with or without                         affordable.
,---r, j --o ua - excrrta and waste-water by water-bhrne systems                   Estinsted relative poverty income level (US$ per -apita) - urban and rural -
Lh   . f pit privics a-d uieilar instullations                                    Relative poverty mnsom  level is that i-o-e level less than one-third
cbyc_n rer i- - Population divided by number of practicing                       per tapits personal inc-oe of the country.
'a- qualified frvm  a medical school at university level.                       Futioted population below  poverty income level (percent) - urban and rural -
-_p_r nrsin  person - Population divided by number of                                  Percent of populution (urbao and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
wti-,g mai  and female grodoate nurses, practical nurses, and                         "relative poor" whichever is greater
Eco-noic and Social Data Division
Economic Analysis and Projections Deportment



-29 -                                                               ANNEX I
RENOI  ] OEDMlNT DATA
(Amonts  n milios of U2.5. dollars)
Actual                         Estimated,         1960-   1965-    1973-               67A7D.51 77/7
AV. 1967-69  1972/73  1974/175   1976/177            1977/78           1965    1970       1978           196-69L1_7/7  1977
NAIl ORDAL ACCOUNTS                                                                                                        __
In Constant 1972-93Pi              Ecag    ae              Acrae Annual Srow-th Rates            As Percent of C3DYI
.s   Do.estic P1rodact             12    5,833    6,514         7,255              7,83 .M.                             6.1            98.5   101.8   101.1
assfrom 'Tem  c   rae(a             9         -      -117        -148                -88                                                1.5    -1.8    -1.1
ros %fe-oLec Income             6,101    5,833    6,397         7,107              7,745             5.6      2.5       5.8          100.0 ~ 100.    100o.0
Imot(inc]. lIES)                  879       747       703         506                791            20.6     6.8        0.7           14.4    11.0    10.2
Exots   ~          import capacity)    598     369       197          243                315           12.3   -14.6       -3.2             9.8      3.1      4.1
Recoursee Gap                         38 ~78              5 06       -263                                                                47.6    y7*     6.1
Consumption Fxpenditures           5,668    5,817    6,404          6,764              7,521             5.7      3.6       5.2           92.9   100.1    97.1.
Invcstment i      (incl. stocks)    714        394        499         660                700           13.3      8.8      12.2            12.9      7.8      9.0
Dosestic Savings                     433         16        -6         343                724            4.3    10.0        72.0            6.8    -0.1        2.9
Natio,nal Savings                     416        32        10         378                279             8.7    20.5      56.3              7.1     0.2       3. h
MEPCIIADISE TIRADE                   -        Annual Data at Carrent Prices                                                               Aks Percent of Total
Tmpcrts
Capital goods                        .        100       135         227                318                       .      22.9              .      16.8    23.5
Tntermnediate goods 4=L.fuels)       .       176       386          270                459                      .       21.9              .      30.4    34. 1
P`iels and related materials
or' which:  Petroleum              .        23       155          141                166              .        .      48.5              .      10.0    123
ConsuTmption goods                   .       428       726          227U               406                              =LA.                     42.8     3u.1
Total Mercb. Imaports tottf)       57         27     1402           865              1,349                              12.2                    100.0   100.0
Exports
Primary products (esel. fuels),      .       145       119          220                203.                      .       7.0                     40.9    40.8
F'uels and related materials
o" which: Petroleum
Manufactured goods                   .        195      239          240                294                                 .591                            92
T,ta' Mere',. Exports  (fob)  78-1    __WO  76-0        497                               ~~~~7.9                 100.0   100.0
Tourism sod Sotrsln Trade
rAo,rchandiise Trade Indicrs                    Average L972-73   1.00
ExotPriCe Index                 61       100       133         118                137              .         .       6.5
ii.port Price Index                 52       100       215         189                180..                      .      12.5
I o--, of Trade Indcx              116       100        62          62                 76..                     .       -5.6
Esiorta,  Teum    ndex             148       100        80         115                107..                      .       1.5
AUDi DEE BY SECTOR,             Acma-aL fats at 1972-7   Price  and ExchaLnge Rates              Avrae   nnual *Srow~th Pts           A.Preto    oa
Agriculture                      3,342    3,401      3,712       4,020              4,318..                      .       4.8             59        59       57
industry and Mining                420       412       466         582                642..                      .       9.2              7         7        8
Ses-sdce                         2,050    1,848    2.146       2j442                2.645              .        ..       7.4            S34        34       35
Total                            6,012    5,663    6,324         7,044              7,6056.                                             100       100      100
PUils': FINANCE                                                                                                                             As Percent of GDP
(Ce,n7tral Government)
Ours-cnt feceipts                  317       280       469         563                665..                      .      34.2           5.3       7.2      8.5
Current Expenditures               365       364       419         464                553..                      .      16.8           6. 1      6.4       7.1
Es-ogen~ary t,astig s              -48       -84        50          99                112                                             -06.8      0.78    1T.4
Ptl0-r Pub.lLc o actor..                       .        .......                                                  .
ElSe  Pester investment  ~421       239       248         516                514              .        ..      1.3            7.0       3'.8      6.6'
us $  ellllon LI
CURRENIT EXPENDI)I'JB~E DETAItS                          Actual                  Estimated       DETAIL ON                            At Av.  1977/78  P and ER
As I~ Total Current Ex-pend.)             1969/70 1972/73 1974/75 1976/77-1977~/78            PUBLIC SECTOR                        Two-yfear Plan   7. of Total
Education                                   ..       5_.5   --ItTr.    11.4        13.0       INVESTMENT PROGRAM                       (1978/79 - 197-9/80)
othvr Social Bervicos                       .        4.5       3.6     4.2          4.9       Social Sectors                               287        13.2
Agiiculture  and                                                                              Agriculture                                  600        27.6
Other Economic Services                   .         5.0    12.5       6.6         7.0        industry and Mining                         380        17.5
AdumialtratiuDn sod Defense                 .        70.4    57.1    61.5          61.2       Power                                       314         14.4
other                                       .         4.6    12.3    15.3          13.9       Transport and communicatilso;                387        17.8
Total Current Expenolitures                         10 0. 0   100.    100- o.0    10 0. 0     Other                                        206         9.5
____________________________________________________________________________ TotalTotal nExpenditures72,174                    100.0
SEIFEOTED INDICATORS                                 1960-      1965-        1973-              FINANCING
(Calculated from 5-year averaged data)               1965       1970         1976
Average !OOP                                            .        t77         08.9-                  Puilic Sector Savings                    557        25.6
Import Elasticity                                       .       1.29         1.11                  Pcg-oga  aid  -suneep-tn                 838        38.6
Matrginal Domestic Savinigs Race                             .        0.22        0.05                   Foreign Project Aid                      605        27.8
Marginal National Savings Rate                          .        0.35        o.os                  OLther (inc. dam. borrowing)              174         8.0
Total Financing                       2,174       100.0
LAEOB, FORCE ANDs                                 Total Labor Forcer                                  Valu~e Added Per Worker (1972- 7_3  Prices & Rxe. Rts
OUTPUT PER WORKEE                  In Mi llions         Is of Total           19 61 - 73        in U.S.Dollars       Percent of Aver:ge          19 70-73
19 60/61    1972/L73 19 60/61   1972/73  Growth Bate           19 69/70   19 72/73    19 69/70   1972/73   Growth Rate
Agriculture                         16.1        20.5      85        78          2.0                .          166         ..76
Industry                             1.0         1.8       5         7          5.0                ..         229         ..105
Service                            -_1.8         3.9      10o       15          6.7                --         484         --         222
Total                               18.9        26 .2    1700o     10           2. ~ 84821-7                             100         10 RE4~.9
not applicable         - nil or negligible
not available         -   ess than half the smallest unit shown
Note:  Figures are en  iscal year basis (July I-Juma OO).Data prier to 1972,73 pertain to erstwhile East Pakistan.
/I    BPan targets..



ANNEXI
- 30 -
bA3ANC0  OF PA54MENTS, E7CTRNAIL ILSSISTANCE AND DEBT
menuot5 in rotilalie of V.S. dollars at cLLrrect prices)
Actual                            Estimated    Projected           Icrs  Aoa  Gru4Ot
1969/70      )     APtu73L1974175        19/15/I    1977/78           1978/79                   1974 - 1979
SUMMARY 8AIJINC1 OF PaDSTS
Eort. (ineo. N9)                              515           369            358          9529            56E             64                        13.7
-639         -747         -1,492          -957          -1,427         _  779
necurcee baeonas (Y-N)                     -124           -378        -1044          -428                                                        7 -1,l04
-tere-t (-ot)                 I
DireLt Tnvatmeet Incoso    t9
Wcrkers' ReMitt nCe           I                              45               7           66             83              9-
CurrLnt Trap4 'ra  (Pet)      I 
Private Direct  ocnSatImOt                                  482            397           229            3de             400                       13.6
Official Capital     asta                       ..          40
Public Mb.7T LPa3                                             76           5277          773            411             695                         5.2
itsb -r.emct-                                                            -25            16             5i             -54
toet Dier ursemente                             . .                                      25V 397       PO                4L                        4.8
Other MeLT Loans
Oisbolrsomooto                               ..            ..             ..            .....
-RDei  eenTLt.
Nst D00b0r--oIntS
Capitol Trenor-tices n.e.i.                     ..         -205            334           -44             16             -33
Choose to   Rn  ...sa  -   sres)                -           -20           -199           -8              24              2SActua  tend Person                                                        cotlntod
CrG-   RenoRt-es (no  p     iod)                -. -id107                  263           293            269             244                             572/73   1974/75   1975/76   1976/77    1977/78
Gross ReseTves (end period)   ..   I                                                  ~~~~~~~DEbT IID  DEB2 SERVICE
Public Debt Out. 4 Dis.lcrsed         28       1,366       1,812      2,065        2,556
!R_A8f AD LOI CMTTI NT
lWisru.l frornts &  ranct-1140                              514            368           338 452 3nte6r2est  on Pblic Debt                                            10 II        1          25          27
RepaYments on Public Debt             -         25          79          17          2
%j-_1c MLT Tracn                                                                                                      Total Public Debt Service             -          35         99          42           78
7307-                                                                             -             -                   tRep Debt Seo-tc  )not)- 
- R-        68            150            50            211           otatl Debt S-roloc (rot).
--ner MpitLLateral              .          ~~      ~      ~~      ~     ~~      ~      ~~~~~11  B7  84  74
Soverpments                                  -.           204            678           200           376         Bardon on -Eprt EsrninEP   )
Suppliers                                    ..            55             17             2             11
Financial lostitutionn                        . .           _              _             5             13          Public Debt Service                   .-39 .              22.4         7.9         13.7
Bonds                                        _*                            _             _ -            -          Tptal  Debt Set-ice                   ..        .
Publie  LuaPS   n.e.i.                        . -                                                       -          TS+Di-reet Tonet. Inc-                ..        *. .. .                  .
Total Public 0M4T 10001                         ..          338            932           341
Average Termd of Public  Debt
Actual Debt o ntmatdiea on J-un  30, 1978                               Ict, as S Pritr Tsar Y   ObD                  2.0          1.5         1.4          1.3
SITERMAL D1H6                                        Disbosed OSir                   percent                            Anort. an 0 Prior Your 2 DO&D         ..       s.O          5.7        0.9          2.5
rI-ld 3..nk                                            ur
DA                                                       554                         21.7                          1000 Debt lOt. & Disbursed
thcT  Maltilucoral                                       64                          2.5                            c         % s 9 Publie Debt 0&D        -       4O           3.0         2.7          2.2
Ocvopr-met1 1,746                                                                    68.4                                no % Public Debt Service           -          -         1.6         7.5         4.4
<m17n orc111                                                           4.3
1 .cccul lnotl;cclccn                                26                          1.9                          7DA Debt Out. & Dioburued
Ionc                                                                      -                                         "  ne 9 5' Public Debt D bt           7. 1     18.7         21.0       22.7         71.7
c.ia  Pbtn  c.c.Debti                                                                    .                           ' as % Public Debt D9-iee               -       2.3         2.D         7.5         4.9
-b'.cc M&LT  Debts
Shbrt-term Debt (dvib. only)
.ct upplic-ble                                                          e  eterf netilte
ot ucui3Ible                                                            -  nil or negligible
cot uvailable separately                                               --  less than half the
but icciuded in total                                                      smallest unit shtov
Nccobor 1978



- 31 -
ANNEX II
BANGLADESH
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
As of October 31, 1978
A.   IDA Credits to Bangladesh
US$ Million Net of
Credit                                                          Exchange Adjustment
Number      Year                  Purpose                       Amount  Undisbursed
(net of
cancellations)
Eight Credits Fully Disbursed                                    329.1        -
339         1972      Cyclone Area Reconstruction (replaces
Credit No. 228-PAK of 1971)               25.0       5.4
340         1972      Chandpur Irrigation II (replaces
Credit No. 184-PAK of 1970)               13.0       1.8
341         1972      Tubewells (replaces Credit No.
208-PAK of 1970)                          14.0       2.0
343         1972      Telecommunications (replaces part
of Credit No. 145-PAK of 1969)             7.3      0.5
367         1973      Chittagong Water Supply (replaces
Credit No. 42-PAK of 1963)                 7.0       0.4
368         1973      Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage
replaces Credit No. 41-PAK of
1963)                                     13.2      0.2
407         1973      Education (replaces Credit Nos.
49-PAK and 87-PAK of 1964 and
1966)                                    21.0       5.6
408         1973      Highways (replaces Credit No. 53-PAK
of 1964)                                  25.0      10.7
409         1973      Technical Assistance                         4.0       0.9
410         1973      Cereal Seeds                                 7.5       5.3
424         1973      Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation    8.7           1.6
487         1974      Second Telecommunications                   20.0      14.3
527         1975      Ashuganj Fertilizer                         33.0      14.2
533         1975      Population                                  15.0      12.5
542         1975      Barisal Irrigation                          27.0      24.2
605         1976      Karnafuli Irrigation                        22.0      16.2



- 32 -
ANNEX II
BANGLADESH
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
As of October 31, 1978
A.   IDA Credits to Bangladesh (CON'D)
US$ Million Net of
Credit                                                       Exchange Adjustment
Number     Year                  Purpose                     Amount  Undisbursed
621         1976     Agricultural and Rural Training          12.0        10.9
622         1976     Technical Assistance II                    7.5        6.5
631         1976     Rural Development                        16.0        15.0
632         1976     Bangladesh Shilpa Bank                   25.0        21.2
676         1977     Imports Program V                        75.0        13.3
724        1977      Shallow Tubewells                        16.0        16.0
725         1977     Muhuri Irrigation                        21.0        20.7
729        1977      Extension and Research                   10.0        10.0
735        1977      Inland Water Transport II                 5.0         5.0
752        1977      Imports Program VI                       75.0        49.6
765         1978     Jute                                     21.0        21.0
787        1978      Foodgrain Storage II                     25.0        25.0
825         1978     Small Scale Industry II                   7.0         7.0
828         1978     Agricultural Research                     6.0         6.0
SUBTOTAL                  913.3       342.9
Principal Repayment                                0.4
Effective Credits held by Association            912.9
B.   IBRD Loans to Bangladesh
1087       1975      Consolidation Loan                       54.9         0
TOTAL                  967.8       342.9



- 33 -
AN`E Ty'
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 339    Cyclone Area Reconstruction Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit
of October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
After a very difficult start, the project is expected to be com-
pleted by end 1978, about three years behind schedule. Parts A, F, and G
(Inland Water Transport, Coastal Fisheries, and Cyclone Warning System)
have been completed for some time. Parts D and E (Primary and Feeder Roads)
have been substantially completed except before the remainder of the road
can be constructed. Work on the completion of Part B and C (Telecommunica-
tions and Cyclone Shelters) appears to be proceeding satisfactorily although
we have had reports that the Project Director did not get as much alLocated
in the budget for the cyclone shelters as he requested.
Cr. No. 340    Chandpur Irrigation II Project:  US$13.0 Million Credit of
October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: February 28, 1979
The project should be completed by May 1979, about two and a half
years behind schedule. Delays have been due to major flooding, labor prob-
lems, shortages of materials, equipment breakdowns and rebuilding the
embankment as a result of rapid river erosion during the construction phase.
While problems remain, substantial progress has been made both in physical
construction and agricultural development. The main regulator is operational
and major agricultural development is about to commence.
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 6, 1972; Effective Date: January 13, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1979
Because of a slow start, project implementation is about 18 months
behind schedule. project completion is expected around April 1979. Nearly
3000 wells have now been drilled, and verticality problems have already
been corrected by the contractors. Pumphouse construction and engine/pump
installation is proceeding satisfactorily. Agricultural development is
about to commence on 2400 wells in the winter 1978/1979. Project audit for
1975/1976 has been received while audit for 1976/1977 is being awaited.
Arrangements for extending consultant's services have been agreed.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Cr. No. 343    Telecommunications Project;  US$7.3 Million Credit of
November 15, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
The Project was originally financed as part of Credit No. 145-PAK
of 1970, and goods valued at US$2.2 million had been received prior to sus-
pension of disbursements. Three of the four microwave systems have been com-
missioned. The fourth microwave system, equipment for which was ordered
together with the microwave systems under Credit 487-BD, is expected to be
commissioned by June 1979, completing the project four years behind schedule.
The Closing Date has been extended from December 31, 1975 to June 30, 1978
and a request for further extension to June 30, 1979 has been approved.
Cr. No. 367    Chittagong Water Supply Project; US$7.0 Million Credit of
April 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 7, 1973
Closing Date: October 31, 1978
The project is now virtually complete. A major setback occurred
in September 1977 when the Battali Hill Reservoir failed under test. The
contractor has since carried out all remedial work following failure and the
reservoir has been retested in June 1978. The Kalurgat treatment plant and
booster pumping station have worked successfully since commissioning in
September 1977. Substantial progress has been achieved in fulfilling Section
4.03(a) of the Credit Agreement pertaining to finances. The Water and Sewer-
age Authority (WASA) has further raised tariffs in November 1977. In addi-
tion, all Government loans have been converted to equity while IDA loans
have been made repayable by WASA in over 30 years at 3. However, WASA has
experienced continuing difficulty in obtaining payment for arrears owed by
the Government and its agencies including arrears on Government's employees
housing. WASA continues to provide a large portion of its water to public
hydrants for which it receives no revenue. WASA has also been in default
of (i) Section 4.01(c) pertaining to audit: requires that WASA furnish IDA
no later than six months after the end of the fiscal year, audited financial
statements and (ii) Section 4.02(c) pertaining to insurance: requires WASA
to take out and maintain, or make adequate provision for, insurance against
such risks and for such amounts as shall be consistent with sound public
utility practice.
Cr. No. 368    Dacca Water and Sewerage Project; US$13.2 Million Credit of
April 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 7, 1973, Closing Date:
October 31, 1978
Work on the Project is now almost complete, with final completion
expected by the Closing Date of October 31, 1978. Though final completion
will be three years behind original target, construction work has been on
schedule as established by the February 1975 supervision mission. The major
pumping station at Narinda has been completed and tested and appears to be
a sound installation. The meter testing stations and laboratory is now
completed, equipped and staffed. All arrangements for delivery of materials



- 35 -
ANNEX II
and spare parts requiring foreign exchange are well in hand. WASA's operat-
ing results have improved during the last two years when an earned surplus
was recorded and forecasts show that it will continue to show a surplus even
after it begins servicing the IDA Credit in FY79.  However, non-revenue
water through public hydrants and illegal connections remain high and
arrears owed by Government agencies have yet to be cleared. WASA is in
default on the covenants relating to (i) audit and (ii) insurance.
Cr. No. 407    Education Project; US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Progress on the Agricultural University component of the project
is about 70% complete but 30 months behind schedule. The academic complex
facilities are now virtually completed. Staff housing is about 70% complete
and should be ready for occupancy by January 1979. Completion of remaining
civil works is expected around mid 1980, six months before the Closing Date.
A number of new programs intended to improve the practical skills of
students and increase their involvement in research and extension have been
introduced. The Technical Education component, although 30 months behind
schedule is practically complete. Procurement of equipment is only 60% com-
plete because of the time-consuming procedures of the Supplies Directorate.
Efforts to revise curricula and improve quality of teaching staff are being
made. However, action has yet to be taken to complete the facilities at
Joydeppur intended to be used for the training of technical teachers.
(Construction of this facility is not part of the project).
Cr. No. 408    Highways Project; US$25.0 Million of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
Several project elements are complete with others due for completion
mid-1979 about 2-1/2 years behind the original schedule. The Sitalakhya
bridge was opened to traffic in December 1977, the Keane bridge repairs were
completed and the bridge opened June 1977, and the improved ferries have been
carrying loaded trucks since July 1977. Progress is now steady on the Feni
bypass and provided no serious problems develop with the paving and stone-
crushing equipment, the bypass should be open to traffic mid-1979. Similarly,
the Roads and Highway Directorate (RHD) building construction progress is
steady with completion also around mid-1979. However, progress on improving
RHD's equipment maintenance repair capacity is slow with no new workshop
construction having taken place. RHD is negotiating with consultants for
the Surna River Crossing Study.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Cr. No. 409    Technical Assistance Project; US$4.0 Million Credit of
June 29, 1973; Effective Date: August 20, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Contracts have been signed with consultants for eighteen sub-
projects utilizing the full credit amount. Completed studies have played
a key role in the preparation of projects for IDA financing. Due to delays
in initial commitment of credit funds, disbursements are 3 years behind
initial estimates.
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project; US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: January 30, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1979
There has been an improving trend in project implementation during
the past two years. Seed sales and quality are good. Contract growers' in-
terest is high. Staff morale has also improved considerably. Civil works
are underway and machinery for seed processing has been ordered. Tenders are
being prepared for equipment list agreed with IDA in July 1978. Staff housing
is about 80% complete. On the other hand, five vacancies still exist in the
staff to supervise contract growers. With ten trainees presently at the
University of Maryland, most of the planned staff training has been completed.
The Seed Certification Agency has received a budget allocation of only Tk 0.5
million out of the FY79 budget request of Tk 5.3 million. Five field officers
have been sent for overseas training in September 1978.
Cr. No. 424    Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation Project; US$8.7 Million
Credit of August 10, 1973, as amended by Amending Agreement
of October 17, 1975; Original Credit Effective Date:
September 27, 1973; Supplementary Credit Effective Date:
March 19, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Procurement of spare parts and equipment under the Original Credit
has been substantially completed. The two lighterage tankers provided under
the Supplementary Credit have been operating since January 1978, transfering
crude oil from the mother tanker, "Banglar Noor", to the ERL refinery at
Chittagong. However, Bangladesh Shipping Corporation (BSC) has experienced
some problems in maintaining the tankers' cargo pumps and manufacturers'
service engineers are now in Chittagong. IDA has agreed to finance under
the credit additional Technical Assistance to improve tanker operation and
maintenance.
Cr. No. 487    Second Telecommunications Project; US$20.0 Million Credit of
June 26, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
After initial delays, action has been taken on the procurement of
all items except the national trunk automatic exchanges (TAXs) and the inter-
national telephone exchange. Technical specifications prepared by the T&T



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Board were found by IDA to be inadequate. At IDA's suggestion, the Board
has now asked UNDP/ITU for the assistance of a consultant to prepare spe-
cifications and bid documents for the TAXs and the international exchange
and assist in tender evaluation and subsequent supervision of their
installation. Delay in procurement of the exchanges is likely to delay
project completion until June 1981, two years behind the original estimate.
Physical progress of other works although behind schedule has begun to
improve. The T&T Board was established in July 1976 but little progress
has been achieved in meeting project institution building goals including
transfer to the Board of responsibility for its accounts (currently main-
tained by Comptroller and Auditor General) and introduction of a commercial
accounting system within the Board. The Rules and Regulations defining the
Boards power have not yet been issued leaving the Board with less autonomy
than the prior Director General of the Telephone and Telegraph Department.
Cr. No. 527    Ashuganj Fertilizer Project; US$33 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975; Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is being cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
and the Governments of Iran, Switzerland, UK and US, providing a total of
US$109 million equivalent in addition to the IDA credit. Site preparation
work including the necessary dredging and filling was completed on schedule.
However, based on the soil analyses undertaken by two specialist consulting
firms, further preparation of the site was undertaken to protect the plant
against earthquake risks.   Currently the project is about two years behind
schedule due primarily to the additional site preparation and initial slow
progress in (a) placing orders for time-critical items and (b) planning for
construction. Process engineering and procurement have progressed substan-
tially and the Project is now entering the construction phase. The soil com-
paction work has been completed and work is progressing on contracting arrange-
ments for the critical compensatory foundation works of the Project. Revised
estimates indicate that due to the need for additional site work, the delays
and the currency fluctuations, costs will be substantially higher than lender
funds currently available. Arrangements are being discussed among the Govern-
ment and the various cofinanciers to raise the additional funds required to
complete the Project. The fertilizer.company has terminated the contract of
the consultants who had been providing management assistance, and has hired
a new firm to provide assistance during the construction phase. The company
is considering several possible firms which have expressed interest in pro-
viding assistance during the operations phase.
Cr. No. 533    Population Project:  US$15 Million Credit of February 11,
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is being cofinanced by six co-lenders providing a total
of US$25 million equivalent in addition to IDA credit. Some progress has
been made in project implementation. Tenders have been received for all



- 38 -
ANNEX II
construction packages except the Family Welfare Visitors' Training School
in Khulna and Faridpur. Scrutiny of bids received for four tenders are
underway. Recruitment of staff training teams is under progress while local
consultants have started working with Project Finance Cell to strengthen
central accounting system. Government is considering implementing manage-
ment study recommendation for strengthening district level organization. Over
60 out of 90 medical doctors deputed from the Health Division of the Ministry
of Health and Family Planning to Population Division and Family Planning
Division (PCFD) have joined. Deputation of another 100 doctors is expected
shortly. On the other hand, proposals to strengthen the Building, Planning
and Design Unit (BPDU) are still pending with the Health Division while pro-
gress on service statistic system has been discouraging.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project; US$27 Million of April 29, 1975;
Effective Date: February 24, 1976; Closing Date: Decem-
ber 31, 1980
The project is making good progress and is expected to be completed
on schedule. Procurement of low lift pumps by BADC may cause some delay.
None of the bids received met tender specifications and a new tender will be
required with revised specifications.
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project; US$22 Million of January 28, 1976;
Effective Date:  February 24, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
The project had been behind schedule due to initial delays in
hiring project consultants. The consultants for the irrigation portion of the
project began work in September 1976, but their effectiveness was limited by
delays in procurement of vehicles and equipment and in the assignment of local
consultants to assist in the design work. After a period of good progress the
project has again slowed down due to shortages of local Taka. If adequate
additional funds are alloted, the project could still be completed on schedule.
Cr. No. 621    Agricultural and Rural Training Project; US$12.0 Million
of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Implementation of civil works is about three months ahead of sched-
ule. All but 8 of the sites have been acquired and the major project items
have been contacted. Completion is about 50% on weighted average. Equip-
ment lists are being revised following 1978 World Bank/FAO guidelines. The
staff development and fellowship program for Agricultural Training Institutes
(ATIs) has been approved by IDA. An expert on "rural institutions" for Bogra
Academy has arrived in September 1978 for a two-year assignment. The Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) is seeking the support of the Ministry of Planning
to assist in resolving the staff shortage problem and the timely replenishment
of the revolving fund. The National Committee on Rural Training (NCRT) has
yet to make selection of experts for the high level consultant committee.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Cr. No. 622    Second Technical Assistance Project; US$7.5 Million of
April 8, 1976; Effective Date April 14, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Twelve subprojects have been approved amounting to about $6 million.
Other subprojects are under consideration.
Cr. No. 631    Rural Development Project; US$16.0 million of June 3, 1976;
Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
The project was designed as a pilot application of the rural devel-
opment approach pioneered at the Comilla Academy in the mid-sixties. It
aims at introducing accelerated agriculture and rural development in seven
thanas in Bogra and Mymensingh Districts. It provides financing inter alia
for rural roads, minor irrigation, buildings, storage, rural credit and
strengthening of rural cooperatives. The project became effective on
August 3, 1976. Initially, despite some teething problems, the project was
progressing satisfactorily. But by June 1977, the following weaknesses
became apparent: (i) lack of cooperation the various ministries and agencies
involved; (ii) lack of effective organization ineffective supervision of
the project by the implementing agency, the Integrated Rural Development
Program (IRDP); (iii) basic deficiencies in the cooperative system (complex
regulations and procedures); (iv) inadequate training of project personnel;
and (v) conflicting government policies in the field of rural credit. In
November/December 1977, IDA, in association with IRDP, undertook a compre-
hensive review of the project, and an Aide Memoire, setting out an action
program to overcome these problems, was presented to the Government in
December 1977.
The Government has made a concerted effort to implement the recom-
mendations of the Aide Memoire prepared in December 1977. A full-time Project
Manager has been appointed who is assisted by three assistants responsible for
credit, cooperatives and training, respectively. International recruitment
is being used to obtain for IRDP technical assistance in project management,
supervision, and monitoring. At the field, two district managers, for Bogra
and Mymensingh, have been appointed to work full time on project activities.
Budgetary and procedural changes have been introduced to enable participating
government agencies to be fully responsible for the implementation of the
projects subcomponents. This, together with a revitalized coordinating com-
mittee of Secretaries of the Ministries concerned has greatly improve coopera-
tion. Implementation of the physical aspects of the project such as rural
works is proceeding satisfactorily but project beneficiaries have, so far,
yet to receive tangible benefits in the form of farm inputs farm equipment.
(A proposal is underway to change the Credit Agreement to finance incremental
fertilizer needs for the project instead of incremental credit for fertilizer.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Cr. No. 632    Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project; US$25.0 Million of May 20,
1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
As of September 1, 1978, Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB) has sub-
mitted 31 subprojects for IDA approval. Of these, 22 have been approved
and nine are being held up pending clarification by BSB of queries raised
during IDA reviews. As of October 31, 1978, disbursements (including QAR's)
were US$10.4 million.
Cr. No. 676    Fifth Imports Program; US$75 Million of January 25, 1977
Effective Date: February 24, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1979
As of October 31, 1978, disbursements were US$69.0 million. The
credits Closing Date has been extended by three months to enable GOB process
reimbursement from IDA under Procedure Case I.
Cr. No. 724    Shallow Tubewells; US$16 Million of July 1, 1977; Effective
Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Bids for engines and pump sets for all 10,000 wells have been re-
ceived and are being reviewed by the Bangladesh Agricultural Development
Corporation's Tender Committee. A consultant for workshop management has
been hired and the preparation of tender documents for workshop tools and
machinery is at an advanced stage. Construction of 3 out of the 5 project
zonal workshops has been completed. Thana irrigation maps are yet to be
reviewed by consultants.
Cr. No. 725    Muhuri Irrigation; US$21.0 Million of July 1, 1977; Effective
Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Delays occurred initially in obtaining Government approval of the
project budget, establishing the project fund, completing arrangements for
hiring the engineering consultants, and signing a contract with the Contractor
who will construct the Feni Regulator. The contractor, with the Bangladesh
Water Development Board (BWDB) approval, has signed in August 1978, a contract
with the Implementation Assistance Team to participate and assist in construc-
tion work. A BWDB engineer has been appointed as Project Manager and has set
up office in Feni township. The Contractor has started construction site
development and assembly of staff.
Cr. No. 729    Extension and Research Project; US$10 Million of July 1, 1977;
Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: April 30, 1981
The project is making good progress since it became effective
January 6, 1978. Pre-qualification of contractors for the construction of
training unit at Bogra and Santahar has been advertised while detailed draw-
ings and cost estimates have been submitted and forwarded to IDA for review.



- 41 -
ANNEX TI
Procurement of essential project vehicles and equipment is progressing
satisfactorily. Suitable salary scales are now approved and DEM has been
requested to pro:eed immediately with filling of posts for crop production
specialists and district training officers. In the case of Project Imple-
mentation Unit/Sub-Unit (PIU/PISI), gazetted officers have been appointed
in late September 1978; selection of senior staff (Class III and IV) hwas
been completed but appointment awaits Government's clearance. On agricul-
tural extension, a consultant has been appointed to review unification of
extension services.  Village Extension Assistants (VEAs) have already been
relieved of extension duties. The Ministry of Agricultural has also re-
quested the Planning Commission to increase the taka allocation of the
project to Taka 65 million.
Cr. No 735      Inland Water Transport II Project; US$5.0 Million Credit of
September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 10, 1978;
Closing Date June 30, 1980
BIWTA and BIWTC have started inviting firm quotations for spare
parts procurement on the basis of the lists approved by IDA during the
November 1977-January 1978. On the appointment of consultants, communications
have been sent to all short listed firms under the technical assistance com-
ponents (except for telecommunications) requesting additional information,
MPSI has received all clarifications and evaluation for final selection is
now underway. Regarding the telecommunications technical assistance compo-
nent which had been omitted by MPSI from the original published invitation
in November 1977, IDA has reviewed the proposed terms of reference and com-
ments have been transmitted to the Government.
Cr. No. 752    Sixth Imports Program; US$75 Million of November 30, 1977;
Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
As of September 30, 1978 disbursements (including QAR's) were
US$45.0 million.
Cr. No. 765    Jute Project; US$21 Million of February 8, 1978; Effective
Date: April 14, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
As of September 30, 1978, disbursements were US$604,000. In addi-
tion, about US$13.5 million of letters of credit are outstanding.
Cr. No. 787    Foodgrain Storage II Project; US$25 Million of April 12,
1978; Effective Date: September 29, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 825    Small Scale Industry II Project; US$7 million of June 16, 1978;
Effective Date: September 15, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1983



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Cr. No. 828    Agricultural Research Project;  US$6 million of June 16, 1978;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1974;  Credit not yet effective
Because of the delays in approval cf the Project Proforma the
effectiveness dealine was extended from September 16, 1978 to November 15,
1978. The Project Proforma has now been approved and only the appointment
of executive engineers for BARC and BARI is awaited.



- 43 -
ANNEX III
BANGLADESH
DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
September 1976 - December 1977
(b) Agency which prepared project:
GOB and consultants NEDECO
(c) Project first presented to IDA:
Feasibility Studies received November - December 1977
(d) First IDA mission to review project:
Project Preparation and Review Mission
November 1977
(e) Departure of appraisal mission:
January 6, 1978
(f) Completion of negotiations:
November 7, 1978
(g) Planned date of effectiveness:
March 20, 1979
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Actions
To prevent delays in the construction phase of the work,
tenders for equipment and vehicles are already being called,
so that the equipment will be ready for shipment by the time
the credit is signed.



- 44 -
ANNEX III
Section III:   Special Conditions
A.        Assurances have been obtained from the Government that:
(a) design standards for the embankments would be satisfactory
to IDA (para 53);
(b) agricultural extension on the T&V system would be instituted
in CCB and KBK in accordance with a program satisfactory to
IDA by January 1, 1980 (para 51);
(c) for five years after completion of the project, WDB would
undertake a monitoring program for assessing the impact, if
any, of the project on water transport and fisheries in the
project areas and would take remedial actions, if necessary
(para 73);
(d)  WDB would employ a Project Coordinator with experience and
qualifications satisfactory to IDA (para 54);
(e) the Government would make adequate and prompt payments for
land acquisition under the project and that the Government
would, inter alia, discuss with IDA the effects of land
acquisition on land owners, including steps to be taken
to relocate displaced persons and the implementation of
program, as necessary, for such purposes (para 63);
(f)  before December 31, 1979, WDB would submit to IDA a detailed
program for inspection and maintenance of the project em-
bankments. Also, adequate and timely funds would be pro-
vided annually for O&M of the project and that project
facilities would be maintained in accordance with sound
engineering practices (para 59);
(g)  WDB would prepare and submit to IDA for concurrence, before
January 1, 1980, a detailed proposal for a Project Monitor-
ing program (para 61).



IBRD 13523
|.!     ;qQ          Wl                 - :                     -       - 
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-f-~ -<0X
D'e i!iryl.+ii;\>J:>rb\                                                          !E. !  !                          f4,     ,,        h:, iy
R.,gp  - >                                                                                                 ;  
ti<ji  Wj-~ B              1 ySU POJCT  Cy'Erzc<,)    
DX i0;igt29tgi0.t CtAi R g if     I  l  EY>*SWUT4EE3GHTEME%NKMEN1  ) g*N S    SX 1 V
AWE~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
M- ,ZUE. lB  g .SESHAN  t        -                                                        \   U       S~~~t -E~ 
-V .                    _zr OJI              6FA* -w rso    p-% Mto                                                           ,. .  ii
M,~~~~~~~~~7
ENSINGMHT   Q-'\ 
At\                                k <S\r1J                        b> 
'Atgl.,                                                                        5~~~~~~~~~~ pM,~~~~~ReEL  L
gr.                                                                                               5R  o   , ,   ,  ' Ki-%nI) I  t 't :n
i;     77g. CrIENCHURI BEE w$w>ffya-Z~  Str  ;    1*:; 
C A ;L:r:;    N,~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                                               I
SRI LAUREN ~ ~ K.ig1                                                     MIL 
9           AT'                           99'~~~~~~~~~~






IBRD 13520R
JULY 1978
)   AGARA                                                                              g~~~~~~~~~~~~~AGR
b ; W : : N 0 R A
DRAINAGE AND    L                                                      -<                                                 8
FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
CHENCHURI BEEL    lX                                   >w                 ;af    tvS/ toefd
4Nt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d not> .        imly on     E teoasot
PROPOSED EMBANKMENT }\/\-_x 7J]\\)
PROPOSED DRAINAGE REGULATOR                                   L I     A      t 
7'. i-SWAMPS(BEEL)                   @                                                              AI 
3=RIVERS AND DRAINS    /
EXISTING PAVED 90ADS                  x%                                g                               A
PROPOSED ACCESS ROADS                                              t                                                tINDIA
THANA BOUNDARIES                                                       =)r                                '< _ 
TRACK                                               ;                                           XB N|A 
,    '    ?    ~3  4    5                                                                                                 ..
KILOMETERS                                                          . /p VVJ/fffss hff.t/5- IVftld  INDI t  t g
World Bonks mn t ff li.latfo, INny
0     t        ~     ~~2  3/                                          thet --nincico,e-eoftfflh. .ws ofPRO ECA   
MILES                             ...... ) d.. ,oitio&.s -.d oldf Athe i S
judgment on the 100 statun of                       )
a ny trritor or onv-endoremt   -        ntOF n
r  op  -f -.  b-drie                          '  L






IBRD 13521R
JULY 1978
INDIA
fi~~~  ~               ~              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ /X<1 
Jt  E   s        sProject Area'..
K AAU  L  I A                                                  0 U R   .        
Thsta  has hasp pryad by th. Word Banks stff sxd,snrely fo rthe  -orhellet
of the edr Ofthe rar to o.,ah ,to ehed. The d-trsrrt,-t ased  nd rh.
-~~~~~~~~                                               aauo~~~~~~~~~~~~~b dsies sha.-  athis Pre  do ts iply, ath.  r al the Worla Bert  -td fts
PERULI                                                                                           aies.ayugtn   nteca  tteo  ryttionh  ryeoosrsr
K v K    H U L    >LBANGLADESH
DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL
KOLABASHUKHAL I
PROPOSED EMBANKMENT
PR OPOSE D DRAIN AGE R EGU LATORS
/ r~~~  ~ ~       DRAINS AND RIVERtS
S WAM PS (BREEL)
PROPOSED ACCESS ROAD
EXISTING ROADS
-I----  RAILWAYS
-    THANA BOUNDARIES
KHULNA                                                            ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-. DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
MILES
\ K H U L N A                               a                                           \ v KILOMETERS






.ANGLA~*SH                  IBRD 13522R
8EP BAgLAWSH fJ/7-                                                                                      JULY 197g
-A-NAGE AND FROOD CONTROL PROJECT
imvs rersrl t%*x - 9 - -RI-- ~~~~Kvi
ormXiq ttWl/o                                                     *_.   -fE  PiUOEeT AREAD
tttycfrft-l t ) \ >,-> - | fF J .L....-.                        RiAQAD              ER.f
. s V 5 % t' ~~~~~~~~~~~-  '>n'T_ e,4A EGFA   R
tiSN; i~~~kugan Y
Kaliganj                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~26-
~~~~I                                           NG
I Ng, D I                                                                  .!-.A .E ..
89MYMENSINGH
I     .                       -               '  h      t      x,
A~~~~~C
.240, ~            1       0      0      40     5
.nMp BANOBPGALE                                           MiH



