CREDIT NUMBER '(q-BD
 Development Credit Agreement
(Drainage and Flood Control Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1978


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      "-bt)       2.          , 1978, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have-the following meanings:
(a) "WDB" means the Water Development Board, established
and operating pursuant to the Bangladesh Water and Power Develop-
ment Boards Order 1972 (P.O. No. 59 of 1972) or any successor
thereto;
(b) "MOA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture,
or any successor thereto; and
(c) "DOAEM" means the Borrower's Directorate of Agriculture
(Extension and Management), or any successor thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to nineteen million dollars ($19,000,000).


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1984, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 1
and December 1 commencing June 1, 1989, and ending December 1,
2028, each installment to and including the installment payable
on December 1, 1998, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through WDB and MOA with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering


﻿-3-
and agricultural practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist WDB and DOAEM in: (a) the
design of the works included in the Project; and (b) the insti-
tution of the agricultural extension program referred to in
Section 4.04 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause WDB to construct
and improve the embankments included in the -Project in accordance
with design standards and construction specifications (including
compaction) satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) In order to ensure efficient coordination
among the various WDB units concerned in the implementation of the
Project and their liaison with DOAEM, the Borrower shall cause WDB
to establish and maintain a Project cell which shall (i) be
responsible, inter alia, for overall Project implementation and
monitoring and reporting on the progress of the Project; and
(ii) be headed by a Project Coordinator whose qualifications
and experience shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association.
(b) In order to ensure efficient cooperation between WDB and.
other agricultural agencies of the Borrower, for the purposes of
Parts A, B and C of the Project, respectively, the Borrower shall
establish and maintain three Project Coordination Committees to
report to the Project Coordinator referred to in paragraph (a) of
VV    this Section. The membership, composition and terms of reference
of these Committees shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall furnish, by July 31, 1979,
to   the Association for approval its -proposed overseas training
programs under the Project, and thereafter, shall forward to the
Association for review the qualificationS and experience of the
candidates proposed for such overseas training.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall make available to DOAEM's
extension agents the motorcycles and bicycles provided under the
Project pursuant to arrangements satisfactory to the Associa-
tion.


﻿Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion in respect of the Project, promptly upon their preparation,
the plans, specifications, reports and contract documents, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the Project Coordinator
referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement to prepare and
furnish to the Association for review, by August 31 of each year
of Project implementation, work and procurement schedules for the
Project with respect to the following year.
(c) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Association all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial


﻿-5-
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and
to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall take or cause to be
taken all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and
when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfac-
tory to the Association that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
(b) With respect to the timely acquisition of land required
for the construction of the embankments, roads and other struc-
tures included in the Project and without any limitation its
obligations under paragraph (a) of this Section and Section 3.01
hereof, the Borrower shall ensure that, at least three months
before land is required for the Project, funds sufficient to
acquire such land are deposited with, and made available to, the
appropriate authorities.
(c) The Borrower shall ensure that, consistent with existing
regulations, adequate and prompt payments are made to landowners
for land acquired for the Project.
(d) The Borrower shall discuss with the Association the
effects of land acquisition under the Project on landowners, shall
consult the Association on the steps to be taken to relocate
displaced persons, and shall thereafter implement, as necessary, a
program for such relocation.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.


﻿-6-
(b) The Borrower shall cause WDB and DOAEM to: (i) estab-
lish separate accounts for the purposes of the Project; (ii)
have such accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (iii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of the said accounts for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iv) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning such accounts of WDB and DOAEM and the audit thereof
as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
the Borrower's obligations under Section 3.01 of this Agreement,
the Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources required for (i) the proper
operation and maintenance of the drainage and flood control
facilities, buildings, vehicles and equipment provided under the
Project, and (ii) agricultural extension services to farmers in
the Project areas.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon the Bor-
rower's obligations under paragraph (a) (i) of this Section, the
Borrower shall (i) furnish to the Association for review, not
later than December 31, 1979 or such later date as shall be agreed
with the Association, an inspection and maintenance program for
the embankments referred to in Parts A (1), B (1) and C (1) of
the Project and (ii) thereafter implement such program, as such
program may be amended by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association.
Section 4.03. Without any limitation or restriction upon the
Borrower's obligations under Section 3.08 (c) of this Agreement,
the Borrower shall cause M0A to undertake a monitoring program
designed to assess the impact of the Project on the agricultural
development of the Project, areas. To this end, MOA shall (a)
complete a benchmark survey about two years prior to Project
completion and two follow-up surveys about one year and four
years, respectively, after Project completion in order to collect
appropriate informat4on on: (i) cropping patterns, yields and the
use of fertilizers and pesticides; (ii) farm employment; (iii)
farm sizes and land tenure and (iv) the various modes of irriga-
tion. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31 of each year,


﻿-7-
furnish to the Association for comments the results of such
monitoring program with respect to the Borrower's preceding
fiscal year; and (b) furnish to the Association for review, not
later than January 1, 1980 or such other date as shall be agreed
with the Association, its proposals for the implementation of such
monitoring program.
Section 4.04. Exce-t as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, not later than
January 1, 1980, or such other date as shall be agreed with the
Association, institute and thereafter maintain work programs
satisfactory to the Association for agricultural extension and
training in the Project areas of the following thanas: Narail,
Lohagara, Kalia (Part A of the Project), Kotwali, Daulatpur and
Terokhada (Part B of the Project).
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall, from 1983 through 1988, (a)
assess, on an annual basis the impact of the Project on water
transport and fisheries in the Project areas; (b) furnish annually
to the Association for comments the findings of such assessments;
and (c) take all such actions as shall be necessary to remedy
any detrimental effects of the Project on water transport or
fisheries.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of WDB or for the suspension or operations of WDB, unless upon
any such dissolution, disestablishment or suspension, arrangements
satisfactory to the Association shall have been made to replace it
by another body which will assume and perform all its functions
in respect of the Project and covenants applicable under this
Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a) the Project Coordinator referred to in Section 3.04 (a)
of this Agreement has been designated by WDB;
(b) the Project Coordination Committees referred to in
Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement have been established; and
(c) the Project Proforma has been approved by the Borrower.
Section 6.02. The date WA, c2od, /17     , is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.02, 4.03 and 4.04 of this Agreement and the provisions of
Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on a date 15 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary or Deputy Secretary of the External Resources Divi-
sion of the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh
Dacca, Bangladesh


﻿-9-
Cable address:
BAHIRSAMPAD
Dacca
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
B   !  r79AK~~     HU-C41f
Authorized Representative
on behalf of the President
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                         w?i
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works,               16,000,000
including con-
struction
materials
(a) civil works                              90%
and construc-
tion materials
procured
through local
shopping
(b) directly import-                         100% of foreign
ed construction                          expenditures
materials
(c) construction                             100% of local
materials locally                        expenditures
manufactured and                         ex-factory
procured through
international
competitive
bidding
(2) Equipment, vehicles            500,000
and spare parts
(a) directly                                 100% of foreign
imported                                 expenditures


﻿- 11 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(b) locally manufac-                          100% of local
tured and pro-                           expenditures
cured through                            ex-factory
international
competitive
bidding
(c) other local                               90%
procurement
(3) Consultants and                 500,000        100%
overseas training
(4) Salaries ot addi-               200,000        100%
tional staff for
agricultural
extension
(5) Unallocated                   1,80Q,000
TOTAL         19,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods )r services supplied from the territory of any country other
than Lhe Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.              .
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Lorrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to


﻿- 12 -
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the A3sociation.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$660,000, may be made in respect of Category (1) on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
March 1, 1978.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Association.may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reason-
able opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to provide flood control and
drainage to three separate areas of the Borrower's territory:
Chenchuri Beel and Kolabashukhali in the southwest and Brahmaputra
Right Embankment in the northwest. The Project consists of the
following parts:
Part A:   Chenchuri Beel (about 46,000 acres)
(1) Construction of about 60 miles of embankments and
a drainage network including about 4 new drainage
regulators;
(2) Construction of about 25 miles of access and inspection
roads;
(3) Construction of about 2 godowns, about 5 gatekeepers'
quarters, one workshop and about 2 staff barracks;
(4) Construction of a training center and about 45 houses
for agricultural extension staff;
(5) Training program for agricultural extension staff;
(6) Provision of agricultural extension services;
(7) Provision of equipment and vehicles; and
(8) Provision of consultants' services.
Part B:   Kolabashukhali (about 42,000 acres)
(1) Construction of about 53 miles of embankments and a
drainage network including about 13 drainage regulators;
(2) Construction of about 20 miles'of access roads;
(3) Construction of about 2 godowns, about 13 gatekeepers'
quarters, one workshop and about 2 staff barracks;
(4) Construction of one training center and about 45 houses
for agricultural extension staff;


﻿- 14 -
(5) Training program for agricultural extension staff;
(6) Provision of agricultural extension services;
(7) Provision of equipment and vehicles; and
(8) Provision of consultants' services.
Part C:   Brahmaputra Right Embankment (about 180,000 acres)
(1) Rehabilitation and improvement of about 106 miles
of embankments and construction of about 36 miles of
retired embankments, including groynes and revetments,
as necessary;
(2) Channel improvements and installation of about 8 drain-
age regulators and about 78 bank protection groynes;
(3) Construction of one godown, one gatekeeper's quarters,
one workshop and one staff barrack;
(4) Provision of equipment and vehicles; and
(5) Provision of consultants' services.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in Part A.3 hereof, equipment, vehicles,
spare parts and construction materials not provided by contractors
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   Contracts for civil works shall be let on the basis of com-
petitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association; provided that the estimated cost of
any such contract shall not be less than $5,000 equivalent.
3.   Items costing less than $20,000 equivalent may be procured
through international or local shopping on the basis of at least
three price quotations, provided that the aggregate of all items
so procured shall not exceed $200,000 equivalent.
4.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event,not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
5.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;


﻿- 16 -
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods,
shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods subject to international competi-
tive bidding under Part A.1 of this Schedule, goods manufactured
in Bangladesh may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Bangladesh if -the bidder shall have established to
the -satisfaction of the Borrower and the Associa-
tion that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Bangladesh equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Bangladesh.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids


﻿-17-
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i): the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   With respect to all contracts for civil works, equipment,
vehicles or spare parts estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have 'been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends
to award the contract and shall furnish to the Association,
in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or-this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determina-
tion.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿- 18 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
197.
FOR SECRETARY


