                                      Document of
                                  The World Bank

                           FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                    Report No: 67358-PA.




                              RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                         ON A

                           PROPOSED RESTRUCTURING

                                        FOR A

      RURAL PRODUCTIVITY AND CONSOLIDATION OF THE ATLANTIC
           MESOAMERICAN BIOLOGICAL CORRIDOR PROJECT

                                        TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF PANAMA


                                     May 10, 2012




Sustainable Development
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.
                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ANAM   National Environment Authority
       (Autoridad Nacional del Ambiente)
IFR    Interim Financial Report
IPP    Indigenous Peoples’ Plan
ISDS   Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet
MEF    Ministry of Economy and Finance
       (Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas)
MTR    Mid-Term Review
OP     Operational Policy
PA     Protected Area
PDO    Project Development Objective
PES    Payment of Environmental Services
PF     Process Framework
PIU    Project Implementing unit
PMP    Pest Management Plan




          Regional Vice President:     Hasan A.Tuluy
                 Country Director:     C. Felipe Jaramillo
         Sector Manager / Director:    Ethel Sennhauser/Ede Ijjasz-Vasquez
                Task Team Leader:      Teresa M. Roncal
                                              REPUBLIC OF PANAMA

        RURAL PRODUCTIVITY AND CONSOLIDATION OF THE ATLANTIC
             MESOAMERICAN BIOLOGICAL CORRIDOR PROJECT
                               P083045
                             CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                    Page
A.    SUMMARY ........................................................................................................................... 1 
B.    PROJECT STATUS .............................................................................................................. 1 
C.    PROPOSED CHANGES ...................................................................................................... 2 
D.                                   .
      APPRAISAL SUMMARY ................................................................................................... 3 
 
Restructuring
Restructuring Type: Level I
Last modified on date : May 10, 2012

1. Basic Information
Project ID & Name                       P083045: PA Rural Productivity and Consolidation of the
                                        Atlantic Mesoamerican Biological Corridor Project
Country                                 Panama
Task Team Leader                        Teresa M. Roncal
Sector Manager/Director                 Ethel Sennhauser
Country Director                        Carlos Felipe Jaramillo
Original Board Approval Date            06/15/2006
Original Closing Date:                  06/28/2013
Current Closing Date                    06/28/2013
Proposed Closing Date [if applicable]
EA Category                             B-Partial Assessment
Revised EA Category                     B-Partial Assessment-Partial Assessment
EA Completion Date                      05/31/2003
Revised EA Completion Date


2. Revised Financing Plan (US$m)
Source                                            Original                        Revised
BORR                                                    1.20                             1.20
COMM                                                    0.90                             0.90
GEFB                                                   10.00                            10.00
GEFU                                                    6.00                             6.00
Total                                                  18.10                            18.10


3. Borrower
         Organization                   Department                          Location
Ministry of Economy and                                         Panama
Finance


4. Implementing Agency
           Organization                 Department                         Location
ANAM                                                           Panama
5. Disbursement Estimates (US$m)
Actual amount disbursed as of 04/12/2012                                                       4.28
         Fiscal Year                            Annual                            Cumulative
2012                                                       1.30                                5.58
2013                                                       0.42                                6.00
2014                                                       0.00                                6.00
                                                       Total                                   6.00


6. Policy Exceptions and Safeguard Policies
Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank policies?                             N


Does the restructured projects trigger any new safeguard policies? If yes, please select           Y
from the checklist below and update ISDS accordingly before submitting the package.

Safeguard Policy                                                         Last Rating        Proposed
Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01)                                            X                X
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04)                                                    X                X
Forestry (OP 4.36)                                                            X                X
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                                      X
Cultural Property (OP 11.03)                                                  X                X
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                                  X                X
Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12)                                            X                X
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37)
Projects in International Waterways (OP 7.50)
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60)




7a. Project Development Objectives/Outcomes
Original/Current Project Development Objectives/Outcomes
The Project Development Objective of the partially-blended Rural Productivity and Sustainable
Development Project is to contribute to increased income and employment of small-scale rural producers in
Panama. The Global Environmental Objective is to conserve biodiversity of global importance and protect
important forest, mountain and marine-coastal ecosystems in Panama.



7b. Revised Project Development Objectives/Outcomes [if applicable]
                                  REPUBLIC OF PANAMA

     RURAL PRODUCTIVITY AND CONSOLIDATION OF THE ATLANTIC
         MESOAMERICAN BIOLOGICAL CORRIDOR PROJECT

                                 RESTRUCTURING PAPER


A. SUMMARY

1.      This Restructuring Paper seeks approval of the Executive Directors to restructure
the Panama Rural Productivity and Consolidation of the Atlantic Mesoamerican
Biological Corridor Project (TF056628) to trigger the Pest Management Operational
Policy (OP 4.09. At appraisal, a Pest Management Plan was not deemed necessary due to
the small quantities of pesticides that were expected to be procured under the
environmental subprojects financed by the Grant, and a negative list in the Operational
Manual was considered sufficient as part of the screening process to approve subprojects.
However, the Project’s Mid-Term Review concluded that, as a preventive measure, the
Pest Management Policy be triggered.

2.       In addition, the Restructuring Paper informs the Board that the Involuntary
Resettlement Policy (OP/BP 4.12) was applied under the project and reflected in the
Grant Agreement, but it was not reflected in the Project Appraisal Document. No
restriction of access to natural resources within protected areas has occurred, and none is
expected to occur. However, in the unlikely event that activities under Component 2 for
the implementation of management plans in protected areas were to restrict access to
natural resources, a Process Framework is in place to address this issue.

B. PROJECT STATUS

3.      The Project was approved by the Board on June 15, 2006 and became effective on
January 18, 2008. The closing date is June 28, 2013. The Project is implemented by the
National Authority of Environment (ANAM). To date, US$4.3 million or 72% of the
total Grant amount has been disbursed.

4.      The Project is currently rated Moderately Satisfactory for Progress towards
achievement of the Project Development Objective (PDO) and Global Environmental
Objective (GEO), and Moderately Unsatisfactory for Overall Implementation Progress.
In the first two years after effectiveness, the project suffered severe delays.1 Since mid-
2010, project performance has been mixed, with strong performance between mid- and
end-2010. The most recent project delay was caused by changes in key leadership within
the implementing agency, National Authority of Environment (ANAM), in early 2011.

1
  In November 2010 the project was put on hold and the contracts of most of project staff were not
renewed. In early 2011, the new Administrator General of ANAM agreed to start a competitive selection
process for the vacant positions in the PIU and to have the MTR on June 15-28, 2011.
                                                -1-
However, Project performance since June 2011 has shown substantial progress, with all
actions met in the action plan agreed with the Bank during the MTR carried out in June
2011. The MTR confirmed that the PDO is still achievable and that only a few
adjustments were necessary. Disbursements reached a record high of US$2.5 million in
2011 compared to the cumulative US$1.8 disbursed over the first three years of
implementation.

5.      Progress in Project implementation includes: (a) 35,349 ha of forests and other
natural ecosystems of global biodiversity significance in buffer zones of Protected Areas
under effective conservation, reaching 80% of the target; (b) 283 environmental
investments or subprojects under execution in 6 departments, 26 municipalities and 2
Comarcas that represent 81% of the target; (c) technical assistance provided to help
communities better commercialize their products; (d) 8 co-management agreements in
Protected Areas negotiated and established; (e) local environmental educational programs
strengthened; (f) specific studies for the establishment of a payment for environmental
services (PES) mechanism resumed; (g) a monitoring system for biodiversity
implemented, and (h) communication strategy implemented.

6.      Further progress is required in Financial Management, Procurement, and
Monitoring and Evaluation. Both, Financial Management and Procurement lacked
qualified staff for 4 months in 2011 as a result of the implementation pause of late 2010.
In addition, the Monitoring and Evaluation system that was in the process of being
procured did not proceed. Consequently, IFRs, progress reports, and the audit report in
2011 were sent late to the Bank. A procurement post review carried out in December
2011 also identified several areas for improvement. An action plan has been agreed upon
and is being closely supervised for the Bank to upgrade the current ratings.

7.      Progress has also been made on overall safeguards compliance, which has been
MU to date due to the lack of a social specialist, and an environmental specialist in the
PIU team. A selection process is under way for the hiring of these specialists. The Pest
Management Plan has been submitted to the Bank, and the Indigenous Peoples Plan and
Process Framework are being updated. The Operational Manual has been revised to
reflect the implementation requirements of these documents. Project ratings will be
reconsidered in next supervision mission

C. PROPOSED CHANGES

8.      The changes consist of triggering the OP 4.09 safeguard policy on Pest
Management to ensure that the Project has the adequate safeguard management
framework to supervise that agricultural pesticides are reaching target organisms, and of
appropriate classification consequently not posing an environmental threat as well as
protecting human health from management and use of pesticides. A small use of
acceptable pesticides was envisaged for the implementation of the subprojects. However,
during the MTR it became evident that 50% of the subprojects involve agroforestry, and
include activities that may require a more intensive use of pesticides than expected.
Therefore the Project team recommended the preparation of a Pest Management Plan that

                                          -2-
would provide a better guidance for integrated pest management including the
procurement and safe use of pesticides in the subprojects.

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

9.      At appraisal, a Pest Management Plan was not deemed necessary due to the small
quantities of pesticides that were expected to be procured under the environmental
subprojects. A list of non eligible pesticides was included in the Operational Manual, and
it was initially considered sufficient to conduct the screening process to approve and
supervise subprojects. After four years of implementation there is no record of negative
impact due to the use of pesticides. This restructuring offers the opportunity to develop
and implement comprehensive management practices and specific measures to control
the use and application of pesticides in the environmental subprojects, particularly in
those agricultural related, thereby, reducing runoff of water ecosystems and marine
environment.

10.    A Pest Management Plan was prepared and incorporated into the Operational
Manual. The Bank has reviewed it, and has determined its conformity with the
requirements of OP 4.09. As required, the Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (ISDS) for
the Project has been updated.

11.    The Pest Management Plan was disclosed in the country on March 8, 2012, and in
the Bank’s website on April 18, 2012.




                                          -3-
