The World Bank                                       O ISMLw                 (202) 473-1000
INTERNATIONAL BAWK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT    i ton, D.C. 20*3     Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DE wELOPMENT ASSOCIATION           D           PI    I         Cable Address: INDEVAS
July 25, 2012
Hi5 Excellency
Frank George De Lima Gercich
Mi ister of Economy and Finance
Mi listry of Economy and Finance
Diiecci6n de Cooperaci6n T6cnica Internacional
ViL Espafia, Calle 52 Este
Edificio OGAWA, 2 Piso
Republic of Panama
Re: Panama: GEF TF056628 (Rural Productivity and
Consolidation of the Atlantic Mesoamerican Biological Project)
First Amendment to the Grant Agreement
Excellency,
We refer to the Grant Agreement between International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (the "Bank") and the Republic of Panama (the "Recipient") dated June 23, 2006
with respect to the above-captioned Project (the "Grant Agreement"). Please note that capitalized
terns used in this letter (the "Amendment Letter") and not defined herein have the meaning
ascribed to them in the Grant Agreeme it.
Pursuant to your letter dated \March 29, 2012 wherein a request is made to amend the
Grant Agreement, we are pleased to inform you that the Bank agrees to amend the Grant
Agreement so as to add reference to relevant documents to ensure applicability of the Bank's
safeguard policies on Pest Management in the carrying out of the Project:
1.     Section I C.4 of Schedule 2 (Project Execution) to the Grant Agreement is hereby
incorporated to read in its entirety as follows:
"4.   "Without limitation lo the provisions of Section 5.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, the Recipient, through ANAM, shall carry out the Project in accordance
with the Safeguards Instruments."
2.     The following definition under Section I of Appendix to the Grant Agreement is hereby
amended to read in its entirety as follows:
"24.   "Operational Manual" or "OM" means the manual for Project implementation
dated April 24, 2006 and revised on March 8, 2012 referred to in Section 1.B.1 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement."
3.     The following definition under Section I of Appendix to the Grant Agreement is
incorporated to read in its entirety as follows:
RCA 24842:1. U WUI 64145 Q FAX (202) 477-6391


﻿-2-
"35.   "Pest Management Plan" or "PMP" means the Recipient's plan, March 1, 2012,
agreed with the Bank and setting out measures to develop and implement integrated pest
management and safe handling of pesticides in the course of Project implementation, as
the PMP may be modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of the
Bank, and such term includes any annexes or schedules to such plan."
Please also note that the approved Restructuring Paper dated July 13, 2012
will be disclosed on the Bank's external website.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendment by signing and dating the
two (2) originals of this Amendment Letter in the space provided below, and return one fully
signed original to us. This Amendment Letter shall become effective as of the date of its
countersignature upon receipt by the Bank of one duly executed original.
All other provisions of the Grant Agreement except as amended through this Amendment
Le11er shall remain in full force and effect.
Sincerely,
INT    XTIONL BANK FOR
RECONS     TUCTIONl       DEVEL       ENT
C. Felipe J a il
Direct r
Central Americ
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
By:
Authori    epresentative
Name:   Omar V. Castill R.
Til e:  Ministro Encargado
Dale:   16 de agosto de 2012


