Document of
The World IB~ank
]F0I1 OFIFEICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1968b-BT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
FOR A
FOURTH ROAD PROJECT
March 29, 1977
This dccumeng Dns a restiricted Ddisaridbuon and may be usetd by reciplents only in the performance of
theair oeciaD duties. Its contents may not othermise be disclosed without World BIank aunthorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =  Pula (P)
US$1.155        =  P 1
US$1000         =  P 0.866
US$1,000        =  P 866
US$1,000,000    =  P 865,800
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)           =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)      =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)  =  2,204 pounds (lb)
1 sq km (km2)         =  0.386 miles (mi2)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CIDA    -    Canadian International Development Agency
CTO     -    Central Transport Organization
EDF     -    European Development Fund
GDP     -    Gross Domestic Product
GNP     -    Gross National Product
MLGL    -    Ministry of Local Government and Lands
MWC     -    Ministry of Works and Communications
NORAD   -    Norwegian Agency for Development
ODM     -    Overseas Development Ministry (United Kingdom)
GOVERNMENT OF BOTSWANA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
FOR A FOURTH ROAD PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Botswana for the equivalent of US$20.0 million to
help finance a fourth road project. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including 4-1/2 years of grace, with interest at 8.2 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report entitled "Development Strategy in a
Mineral-led Economy" (No. 735-BT) was distributed to the Executive Directors
on May 30, 1975. A special mission visited Botswana in September 1976 as
part of a study on regional migration in southern Africa. An updating
economic mission is scheduled for April 1977. Country data are given in
Annex I.
3.        Botswana is a landlocked country located at the center of southern
Africa. Although it is the size of France, the population in 1975 was only
about 700,000, of which about 75 percent was concentrated in the eastern 10
percent of the country. During the early 1970s, GDP grew in real terms at
about 20 percent annually and is currently expanding at 8 percent per annum.
GNP per capita in 1975 was about US$330.
4.        Until the early 1970s, livestock was the country's principal
resource. The tradition of cattle rearing dominates the agriculture sector
which employs about 83 percent of the population. While less than 10 percent
of the land is suitable for crop cultivation, cattle thrive on the savanna
type vegetation covering more than half the country. Crops such as sorghum,
maize, millet, beans and cowpeas are grown mainly for subsistence consumption.
In recent years, minerals have become Botswana's main source of economic
growth. Substantial deposits of diamonds, copper, nickel, coal and brine have
been discovered and two major mines are in operation, one producing diamonds
and the other copper/nickel. In the longer term, it is possible that major
coal and soda-ash mines may also be established.
5.        Botswana has good potential for development.    The main constraints
which the country faces are shortages of: (i) water; (ii) infrastructure,
including international transport because of the country's landlocked posi-
tion; and (iii) technical and professional manpower. Rainfall is highly
erratic, and the country is prone to frequent droughts. In the eastern
region, water comes primarily from boreholes, dams and seasonal rivers, and
supplies could become inadequate to meet needs during the late 1980s. Studies
are currently being carried out on the underground water resources of this
region. The vast Okavango swamp in the northwest, which is separated by large
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



- 2 -
distances from the main population centers in the east, represents a poten-
tial source of future supply. Its complex hydrology and delicate ecology
are being intensively studied as part of the Government's long-term plan for
water development. Unfortunately, the cost of transporting water to the east
appears extremely high, while agriculture potential in the Okavango area is
limited by poor soils.
6.        Infrastructure is at an early stage of development.   With public
utilities generally available in the main urban centers, the Government is
giving prioritiy to extending these facilities to the rural population. Only
about 250 km of the 7,200 km of main, main feeder and secondary roads are
bituminous-surfaced; secondary and rural roads are often little more than
tracks. Investments are being concentrated in upgrading the vital north/south
road axis (about 1050 km) to bituminous standards. Existing airfields cannot
yet accommodate jet aircraft but the main fields are being upgraded to inter-
national standards. The main railway line is owned and operated by Rhodesia
Railways and passes from Rhodesia through eastern Botswana for about 640 km
before connecting with the South African railway system. More generally, the
Government has kept under constant review the constraints implicit in the
country's landlocked position and the potential problem of access to inter-
national transport routes. As the Government does not want to be solely de-
pendent on routes through South Africa and Rhodesia, it has accelerated its
construction program for a road link with Zambia.
7.        Increasingly, the shortage of professional and technical skills is
becoming a major constraint to development. At independence in 1966, general
levels of education and skills were low, with illiteracy estimated at 75 per-
cent of the adult population; in fact, there was no public system of second-
ary education. Government plans call for a rapid expansion in education and
training at all levels, so as to substitute local staff for expatriates as
rapidly as possible in technical and professional positions in both the pri-
vate and public sectors. However, with the expected growth in the economy,
the need for additional skilled manpower will become even more pressing,
necessitating an increased reliance on expatriates and a step-up in the
level of educational investment.
8.        Botswana's development objectives were summarized in 1972 in the
five year National Development Plan (1973-78) as follows: (a) rapid eco-
nomic growth; (b) social justice, defined as achieving a more equitable
distribution of income and providing equal opportunities for all Batswana
in education and employment; (c) greater economic independence, particularly
the diversification of the country's external, economic and trade relations,
and the localization of skilled manpower; and (d) sustained livestock pro-
duction, while conserving the natural environment.
9.        The Plan called for an investment program equivalent to 30 percent
of GDP and public capital expenditures of P 212 million in 1974 prices over
the 1973-78 period. Infrastructure investments were to account for about 60
percent of planned expenditure, while education and social services, particu-
larly in the rural areas, were expected to be progressively expanded and to
receive about 13 percent of planned allocations. Given the size and low
level of infrastructural development, the acute shortage of skilled manpower



- 3 -
and the need to modernize the traditional sector, these allocations of
investments appear to be well directed. So far, the Government has executed
its development program satisfactorily. An accelerated rural development
program was launched in 1973 with international assistance. On the whole,
planning, largely project-oriented, has been effective. The Government's
planning machinery is being further strengthened and reoriented toward long-
term strategies and more comprehensive economic planning. A new plan (1977-
81) is being prepared. It is expected to underscore the basic principles
outlined in the last plan and continue the Government's emphasis on infra-
structure, education and rural development.
10.       The gap between rural and urban incomes has widened in recent
years because of the growing demand for skilled individuals, the result of
rapid urbanization and mineral development. In addition, a 1974/75 survey
indicated a skewed rural income distribution, particularly between incomes of
households with and without livestock. Part of this skewness can be accounted
for by the uncontrolled use of grazing land, and the effective control by a
few of watering points. To counter this, a new land use policy, adopted in
July 1975, is currently being implemented. The policy involves a far-reaching
program of reform of traditional practices of cattle rearing, which is de-
signed to make grazing control, better range management and increased produc-
tivity possible.
11.       Together with Lesotho, South Africa and Swaziland, Botswana belongs
to the Southern Africa Customs Union, established in 1910, which provides
for free movement of goods between member countries. Under this Union, all
customs, excise and sales duties are paid into a common revenue pool and
allocated to members mainly in relation to the value of their imports and
excisable production. The 1969 revision of this agreement has resulted in
a four-fold increase in Botswana Government receipts from the pool over the
last five years. Up to 1975, these countries also comprised the Rand Monetary
Area, but in August 1976 Botswana withdrew after establishing a Central Bank
and introducing its own currency, the Pula.
12.       Starting from a very low level, economic growth began with substan-
tial mining investments towards the end of the 1960s and continued with the
production of diamonds in 1971 and copper/nickel in 1973. The plan targets
for annual growth in GDP and employment of 14 percent and 9 percent respec-
tively are likely to be met despite a shortfall in estimated copper/nickel
production. The growth of the economy since 1971 has been largely export-
propelled. Prior to 1971, the value of minerals in external trade was neglig-
ible; in 1974/75 it represented just over half the value of merchandise ex-
ports. At the same time, the strong demand for beef, both in the Republic
of South Africa and in the United Kingdom, brought an expansion of agricul-
tural output through increased offtake of the national herd. While meat and
meat products have now been overtaken by minerals as the country's main com-
modity, they still represent almost 40 percent of the value of merchandise
exports. The bulk of beef exports traditionally went to the United Kingdom,
but, during 1974 when the European Economic Community imposed a ban on meat
imports, Botswana was able to increase its exports of this commodity to South
Africa. Under a temporary waiver of 90 percent of the Community levy on beef



- 4 -
imports, exports to the United Kingdom have been resumed; however, the Govern-
ment is concerned that the uncertainty over these temporary arrangements could
adversely affect long-term investment in the livestock sector, and is nego-
tiating with the Community for a more permanent agreement on beef exports.
13.       Between 1970/71 and 1975/76 government revenues increased from P 11
million to P 79 million (about 45 percent a year) mainly as a result of in-
creased proceeds from the Customs Union, direct taxation and mining revenues.
Over the same period, government current expenditures expanded from P 15
million to P 50 million, implying an average growth of 27 percent per annum.
From 1968/69 to 1975/76, development expenditures increased from P 9 million
to P 36 million. Over the first half of the 1970s, the Government has thus
been in a position to finance from its revenue surplus an increasing propor-
tion of its development expenditures which hitherto had to be fully financed
from external sources.
14.       The extraordinary growth in government revenues since 1970/71 is now
projected to level off and Botswana will have to demonstrate its ability to
adapt to a relatively less buoyant financial situation. Customs receipts,
which accounted for almost half of government revenues between 1971/72 and
1974/75, decreased by 20 percent during 1975/76 to about 34 percent of gov-
ernment revenues; however, a recent revision of the revenue formula of the
Southern Africa Customs Union Agreement is expected to reverse this downward
trend. Revenues from the mining sector, the main source of the recent econo-
mic growth, have also been declining, partly due to rising costs in diamond
production and partly to the prolonged technical difficulties encountered
in the Shashe copper/nickel project. Revenue from direct taxation, however,
continues on a strong upward trend. The general prospects for a slowdown in
the growth of government revenues appear at a time when the administrative
and political machinery is just geared to a continuing expansion in govern-
ment activities.
15.       The country has been well served so far by multilateral and bi-
lateral agencies with substantial assistance on very soft terms. The Bank
Group has been the main multilateral source. Bilateral assistance has
been well diversified, the main sources being the United Kingdom, Canada,
United States, Germany and the Nordic countries. Disbursements amounted to
an average of US$33 million per annum over the last three years. Total dis-
bursed public debt amounted to US$143.3 million at December 31, 1975. Service
payments on debt during 1975 were US$6.5 million, or about 7.5 percent of
current revenue. Assuming 60 percent of external assistance on Bank terms
and 40 percent on concessionary terms, projected service payments in the
early 1980s would not exceed 10 percent of current revenue. With the estab-
lishment of the Central Bank, Botswana has further strengthened the institu-
tions through which the mobilization of resources could be significantly
improved and, consequently, domestic borrowing should become a more regular
feature of its development financing. However, the country will still need
much external assistance, both technical and capital, including loans on
concessionary terms in view of its relatively low per capita income and its
prospects for slower economic growth.



- 5 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BOTSWANA
16.       Bank Group operations began in Botswana with a road project in
1964. To date there have been ten projects, financed by six IDA credits
amounting to about US$15 million, and four IBRD loans totalling US$57.8
million (net of cancellations) including US$3.5 million on Third Window
terms. The loans and credits have financed three road projects, a water
supply project, a livestock project, engineering studies and the infrastruc-
ture relating to the Shashe mining complex, an urban project, a development
finance company, and an education project. As of December 31, 1975, the
Bank Group's share in Botswana's external public debt (disbursed only) was
32 percent (of which the share of IBRD alone was 23 percent), while its
share in Botswana's debt service payments in 1975 was 40 percent - a rela-
tively high figure reflecting the predominance of soft funds in Botswana's
external debt. Over 90 percent of the debt service payments to the Bank
Group were accounted for by the Shashe infrastructure project which is
guaranteed by the international mining companies concerned. For 1980, the
Bank Group's share in the country's external public debt (disbursed) and
its debt service payments is estimated at about 23 and 28 percent respec-
tively. A summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits to Botswana is
given in Annex II, together with notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
Botswana is not a member of IFC.
17.       Overall, the Botswana Government and its agencies have demonstrated
good performance in the planning and execution of development projects. Of
particular note is the completion on schedule of the major parts of the large
Shashe infrastructure project. The major technical problems that have beset
the related Bamangwato Concessions Limited mining scheme appear to have now
been rectified. However, under present financial arrangements, the large
increase in capital costs of the mining scheme would result in a substan-
tial reduction in the benefits (royalties, taxes and dividends) expected to
be received by the Government. The Government is seeking ways to safeguard
these benefits and with Bank assistance has reviewed various financial and
technical possibilities for improving the project's £inancial prospects. Dis-
cussions between the Government and the private companies have been actively
pursued and a final agreement on the financial issues appears at hand.
18.       We propose to continue our active support for the Government's
development plan. A second livestock project unau will encompass major
changes in land tenure in tribal areas has recently been appraised, and a
second urban project is being prepared that will give some additional help
to the Government for meeting the mushrooming urban problem which the coun-
try faces. We also hope to continue our support for medium-scale industrial
growth through the Botswana Development Corporation.



- 6 -
PART III - TRANSPORT SECTOR
19.       Transport facilities in Botswana are limited.   The country's trans-
port system consists of a sparse network of roads and tracks, a railway line
in the eastern portion of the country, and a considerable number of widely
scattered airports or airstrips. A small ferry operates across the Zambezi
River between Kazungula in Botswana, and Zambia. As a consequence of settle-
ment patterns, transport development has been concentrated in the eastern
region where about 75 percent of the population live.
20.       The main railway system extends about 640 km along eastern Botswana
and links two large trading partners, South Africa and Rhodesia. It is pres-
ently owned, operated and maintained by the Rhodesian Railway Corporation.
Various railway spurs totalling 70 km have been built by Botswana to facili-
tate mineral transport, but these are also maintained and operated by Rhodesian
Railways.
21.       Botswana's arterial road runs north-south between Lobatse and
Kazungula (1050 km) paralleling the railway line for about 640 km of this
distance. Most of the 3,900 km of main and main feeder roads are dry-weather
gravel and earth; approximately 250 km are bituminous-surfaced, and only about
1,200 km are all-weather, gravel-surfaced. This position, however, represents
a substantial improvement since independence in 1966, when there were only
about 430 km of all-weather roads in the country. There is a rural network
of earth and sand tracks estimated at about 11,300 km, only 3,300 km of which
have been inventoried and categorized as secondary roads.
22.       Air transport services have been developed to help integrate
widely scattered settlements into the life of the country. In 1972, Air
Botswana was established as a parastatal corporation to provide domestic
and international services by sub-contracting to private operators. Sche-
duled air services link Botswana with Zambia and the Republic of South Africa.
23.       The Bank Group has helped finance three road projects in Botswana
and an infrastructure project with a road component. First, US$3.6 million
was made available in 1964 (Credit 63-BEC) for: (a) design, construction,
and reconstruction of three roads to gravel standards (570 km); (b) selected
betterment of the North-South road; and (c) improvement and expansion of the
maintenance organization. The project was completed on time in 1968 within
cost estimates. However, the audit report showed that economic benefits
realized from the project in the six-year period following project completion
were somewhat less than those originally expected because a forecast shift
from livestock trekking to trucking did not materialize. This resulted from
livestock quarantine restrictions, which made it more economic to trek cattle.
The economic rate of return estimated at appraisal ranged from 8 to 20 percent
for various project components; the 1973 estimated rate of return for one
component was negative and ranged between 4 to 16 percent for the other com-
ponents. The second was co-financed by an IDA credit (Credit 303-BT) of



- 7 -
US$2 million and a SIDA credit of about US$4 million equivalent in 1972.
This project consisted of: (a) reconstruction and paving of the 84 km Pioneer
Gate-Lobatse-Gaborone-Sebele section of the North-South road; (b) consulting
services for the detailed engineering of the road and construction supervi-
sion; and (c) technical assistance to the Roads Branch of the Public Works
Department. These works were also satisfactorily completed ahead of schedule
and within cost estimates. The audit report reconfirmed the project's econo-
mic justification although the rate of return was estimated at 13 percent, 6
percent lower than the appraisal estimate because the initial traffic level
assumed at the time of appraisal was too high, while the actual traffic growth
rates compare reasonably with appraisal assumptions. The Third Road Project,
assisted by a US$5.8 million loan (Loan 1174-BT) in 1975, consisted of: (a)
construction of the Gaborone-Molepolole road (52 km); (b) consulting services
for detailed engineering of the Mahalapye-Serule road, construction supervi-
sion and a Road Maintenance Study; (c) implementation of a District Roads
Maintenance Pilot Program; and (d) staff training, soils laboratory equip-
ment, loadometers and weighbridges. At present, implementation is about one
year behind schedule, primarily due to delays in preparation of acceptable
tender documents. Lastly, the Bank loan for the Shashe infrastructure proj-
ect (Loan 776-BT) included construction of the 52 km Serule-Selebi-Pikwe road
to gravel standards. The project encountered some problems over construction
defects that were subsequently resolved. Additional funds for bituminizing
the road were included in a supplementary loan which brought the total cost
of road construction to US$3.5 million. Completion of this road is expected
in April 1977.
24.       The Ministry of Works and Communications (MWC) is responsible for
the gazetted road network consisting of main, main feeder and secondary
roads. It is also responsible for air transport, and has a section dealing
with railways. The organization is basically satisfactory. Within the
Ministry, a Planning Unit was established in 1972 to prepare and continuously
update the national transport plan, and to assist the Ministry of Finance and
Development Planning, which is responsible for overall sector planning and
coordination. The Roads Department in the Ministry has four major branches:
Data and Planning, Development, Maintenance, and Rural Roads. Senior posts in
the Department are filled by expatriates provided under bilateral assistance.
Due to a shortage of skilled technical staff, the Maintenance Branch presently
has only enough capacity to carry out minimal road maintenance. While the Bank
Group has provided assistance for road maintenance under the previous road
projects, further strengthening of the Maintenance Branch is required to
enable it to meet the demands imposed by the rapid expansion and upgrading of
the main road network. The Development Branch's design capacity is basically
limited to small-scale projects. Its capacity is unlikely to increase signi-
ficantly until the present shortage of skilled technicians, surveyors, and
soils technicians is rectified.   The Department does not have any capacity
for road construction. It therefore has to contract the work to international
firms since there are presently no Botswana road contractors, again because
of a general lack of trained engineers, technicians and managers. However,
a program assisted by the Swedish International Development Authority (SIDA)
for developing building contractors is underway, and the Government intends to



- 8 -
explore the possibilities of further developing these building contractors
into road contractors. In view of the present constraints of the Roads
Department, an important focus of the proposed project will be to build
upon the assistance provided under the Third Road Project for strengthening
the Department by providing additional equipment for the Department's train-
ing school (para. 32).
25.       The District Councils, under the Ministry of Local Government and
Lands (MLGL), are responsible for the estimated 8,000 km of district roads.
The Councils presently have few or no facilities for road maintenance, and
the condition of these roads, which is poor, continues to deteriorate.
Under an ongoing project with assistance from the Norwegian Agency for
Development (NORAD), about 900 km of the network are to be reconstructed or
improved. Also, the Third Road Project included a pilot maintenance program
for the Central District. This program would be expanded under the proposed
project (para. 32).
26.       The Central Transport Organization (CTO), under the Ministry of
Works and Communications, provides and maintains all road maintenance equip-
ment and vehicles used by ministries and government agencies. The CTO's
inadequate facilities and weak management procedures have resulted in low
vehicle and equipment availability rates (as low as 30 percent for the
Roads Department) and consequent inefficient road maintenance operations.
The Government has recently prepared, with assistance from the Canadian In-
ternational Development Agency (CIDA), a program to improve CTO's organiza-
tion and operations. The program is currently being implemented with CIDA's
assistance and has had some success to date in improving the vehicle avail-
ability rate; efforts are now focusing on equipment availability.
27.       The current national transport plan is an integral part of the
National Development Plan, in which transport development is given high
priority, and provides an adequate basis for development programs. In
October 1977, the Government will undertake the preparation of a long-term,
national transport plan with assistance from the British Overseas Develop-
ment Ministry (ODM). In 1974, the Government enacted legislation concerning
entry into the road transport industry and vehicle licensing, weights and
dimensions. This legislation was timely, because increased mining activity
is beginning to generate heavy vehicle loads. In addition, the Government
introduced in January 1977 a new system of transit vehicle licenses which
foreign registered vehicles are required to purchase for permission to
travel through the country. The annual revenue received by the Govern-
ment from taxes and duties levied in the Customs Union on vehicles, fuel,
lubricants and spare parts, and through license and registration fees is
projected to be more than sufficient to cover the annual costs of maintain-
ing the country's road network over the next decade.



- 9 -
28.       Botswana's present transport policy has two general aims:    to
meet current demands by more efficient use of existing transport resources;
and to expand these resources to meet future demands. Rapid growth in
mineral exploitation, together with new industrial and agricultural devel-
opments, has put pressure on the present road system. The Government recog-
nizes that the railway will continue to play a significant role and hopes
eventually to take over the internal operation of the railway.
29.       The Government's road development plans give high priority to
completing the arterial North-South road to all-weather standards. The
North-South road links up with Zambia in the north and South Africa in the
south, as well as Rhodesia to the east, and connects the two largest centers
in the country, Gaborone in the south and Francistown in the north. The
Government has made a concerted effort to obtain external financing for this
road, and all sections are either improved, under construction, or planned
for construction. Although this seems to be an ambitious undertaking (esti-
mated cost is about US$75 million), the necessary financial assistance has
been forthcoming from a number of agencies.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
30.       A report entitled "Botswana - Appraisal of a Fourth Road Project"
No. 1389b-BT, dated March 23, 1977 is being distributed separately. A loan
and project summary is provided as Annex III.
31.       The proposed project was identified by a Bank mission that visited
Botswana in September/October 1973 to review Botswana's road development
plans and priorities. A specific Government request for Bank Group assist-
ance was received in January 1974 for a Third Road Project. Subsequently,
in view of the substantial differences in time required for the preparation
of the various components proposed, the Government requested that the com-
ponents be allocated to two separate projects. The Third Road Project was
then appraised in January 1975 and included the detailed engineering for a
Fourth Road Project. This project was appraised in the field in September
1976 and negotiations were held in Washington from February 22 to 25, 1977.
The Botswana delegation was led by Mr. 0. K. Matambo, Acting Principal Plan-
ning Officer, Ministry of Finance and Development Planning.
Objectives and Description of the Project
32.       The objectives of the proposed project are to assist the Borrower
in completing the improvement of the arterial North-South road to all-weather
standards; in implementing effective maintenance programs for gazetted (main,
main feeder, and secondary) and district roads; and in strengthening the Roads
Department Training School.



- 10 -
The project will consist of the following:
(a)  Construction of the Mahalapye-Serule road (150 km) to
two-lane bituminous standards. This road is part of
the North-South artery and will be the last section
to be constructed to all-weather standards. It will
replace an existing earth road which is sometimes
closed to traffic during the rainy season. Satis-
factory detailed engineering was carried out under
the Third Road Project.
(b) Consulting services to:
(i) assist the Borrower in bid evaluation and
supervise construction of the Mahalapye-Serule
road; and
(ii) assist the Borrower in the identification and
preparation of a feeder road construction program
which would become part of a larger rural devel-
opment program now in the initial stage of iden-
tification.
(c) Assistance for road maintenance for:
(i) gazetted roads. Under the Third Road Project,
a Road Maintenance Study, scheduled to be completed
in December 1977, is reviewing all aspects of road
maintenance and drawing up a five-year maintenance
program for the gazetted network. In order to
assist Government in carrying out the agreed program,
US$1.15 million has been allocated for this purpose
in the proposed project.
(ii) district roads. Under the Third Road Project,
a District Roads Maintenance Pilot Program is
scheduled to begin in mid-1978 in the Central
District. The Pilot Program will establish
organizational and operational procedures for
the betterment, rehabilitation, and maintenance
of these roads and will be oriented towards
labor-intensive methods. The initial results
of the Pilot Program will be reviewed by the
Government and the Bank, and two more districts
will be selected for inclusion in an extension
of this program. US$1.15 million has been allo-
cated for this purpose in the proposed project.



- 11 -
(d) Provision of training equipment and construction of new
classrooms and office space for the Roads Department
Training School. The school provides training for
surveyors, road section officers, draftsmen, soils
technicians, road foremen, and equipment operators.
Cost Estimates and Financing
33.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$26.3 million
equivalent, excluding taxes and duties amounting to US$1.7 million equiv-
alent. The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$21.6 million, or
82 percent of the total project cost. A detailed breakdown of costs is given
in Annex III. The cost estimate for the road construction is based on recent
bids for the Serule-Francistown road, which is similar to the project road.
Estimates for consulting services are based on similar services provided in
the recent past. The proposed loan of US$20.0 million would finance about
92 percent of the foreign costs, and about 76 percent of total project costs,
net of taxes and duties. The balance of US$6.3 million equivalent, including
US$1.6 million in foreign exchange, would be financed by the Borrower.
Project Execution
34.       The Department of Roads will be responsible for executing road con-
struction, securing consulting services, implementing the recommendations of
the Road Maintenance Study and procuring training equipment. The Ministry of
Local Government and Lands, through the District Councils, will be responsible
for executing the District Roads Maintenance Program.
35.       The road construction contract is expected to be awarded in August
1977 and the work completed by mid-1981. Contracting delays similar to those
experienced under the Third Road Project (para. 23) are not expected in this
project, since the previous delays were due to the Government's decision to
revise its general conditions of contract before soliciting bids. The revi-
sion has been completed and draft tender documents for the Mahalapye-Serule
road have already been prepared. No problems in acquiring land for the
right-of-way are expected. The Road Maintenance Study is expected to be
completed in December 1977. Assurances have been obtained that the Borrower
will review the results and recommendations of the study with the Bank and
subsequently, by July 1, 1978, submit a road maintenance program to the Bank
for its approval (Section 3.07 (a), draft Loan Agreement). Since the District
Roads Maintenance Pilot Program (financed under the Third Road Project) is
scheduled to start in mid-1978 in the Central District, the extension of the
program under the proposed project into two more districts should begin once
the initial results of the Pilot Program are known, about late 1979. Assur-
ances have been obtained that the Borrower will review the results of the
Pilot Program with the Bank and furnish to the Bank for its approval a plan of
action for the extension of the District Roads Maintenance Program to two
additional districts (Section 3.07 (b), draft Loan Agreement). In addition,
assurances have been obtained that the Borrower will discuss with the Bank on
an annual basis its budgetary estimates and expenditures for road maintenance
(Section 4.03 (b), draft Loan Agreement).



- 12 -
36.       As discussed in paragraph 26, the Government has prepared a pro-
gram to improve CTO's organization and operations.   Consequently, the Gov-
ernment has agreed to take all action necessary to strengthen the organiza-
tional and operational efficiency of the CTO to enable it to achieve an
availability rate of vehicles and equipment for use by the Roads Department
of not less than 60 percent (Section 4.06, draft Loan Agreement). The Bank
will not disburse against road maintenance equipment for the Roads Department
until this availability rate has been reached (Schedule 1, draft Loan Agree-
ment).
Procurement and Disbursement
37.       The road construction contract will be awarded and the road main-
tenance equipment procured after international competitive bidding, in accord-
ance with Bank Group procurement guidelines. To permit greater competition
in the bidding, the construction contract will be divided into two parts and
prospective contractors will be allowed to submit tenders on one or both parts
following pre-qualification. A number of independent items, which are not
suitable for bulk procurement, and which comprise mainly vehicles and equip-
ment for the training school, will be procured under standard Government
procurement procedures. These procedures have been reviewed by the Bank
and found to be satisfactory.    The total cost of these items is estimated
to be not more than US$350,000 equivalent. In addition, the Borrower may
construct the new classrooms and office space for the training school, esti-
mated to cost about US$75,000 equivalent, through the use of force account.
The Road Maintenance Study will identify the equipment and technical assist-
ance to be financed by the proposed loan for maintenance of both the gazetted
road network and the district roads. Assurances have been obtained that any
equipment financed by the proposed loan for either the regular roads mainte-
nance program or the District Roads Maintenance Program will be subject to
the approval of the Bank (Schedule 4, draft Loan Agreement). Assurances
have also been obtained that the Borrower will employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of employment are sat-
isfactory to the Bank (Section 3.02, draft Loan Agreement).
38.       The Bank would disburse against 68 percent of the total cost of
civil works, 80 percent of the total cost of consulting services, and 100
percent of the foreign cost of equipment and technical assistance.
Benefits and Risks
39.       When completed in 1981, the Mahalapye-Serule road will be the last
section of the arterial North-South road to be constructed to all-weather
standards. At present the rest of the road, except for the southernmost sec-
tion, Ramathlabama-Lobatse (45 km), has been upgraded or is under construc-
tion. The European Development Fund (EDF) will finance improvement of the
Ramathlabama-Lobatse road with completion expected in 1980. The rapid increase
in traffic due to the mineral development at Orapa and Shashe, the expected
growth in trade with Zambia, the growth of the regional centers in the eastern
corridor, and the potential mineral, industrial and agricultural prospects in
the northeast and northwest make the improvement of the North-South road of
high importance. In addition, should events in southern Africa lead to a
disruption of rail service, this road would become even more vital.



- 13 -
40.       The Mahalapye-Serule road directly serves about 4,000 km    and
100,000 persons, and indirectly serves a population of about 240,000
people. In the immediate influence area of the road, limited agri-
cultural development is taking place through the formation of Farmers'
Brigades and the establishment of experimental farms and training centers.
In addition, new cattle trekking routes and fattening and demonstration
ranches, which are part of the Government's livestock development program,
are being established within the area of influence of the project road.
Also close by is the large Shashe copper-nickel mining complex at Selebi-
Pikwe, and the coal mining colliery at Morupule. While industrial activity
in the immediate influence area is negligible at present, small-scale enter-
prises are being developed by the Youth Brigades, which provide skill train-
ing for primary school leavers, particularly near Serowe where engineering,
electrical, textile, carpenters' and printers' brigades have been formed.
The construction of the road which represents about 82 percent of total
project costs, is expected to yield a 15 percent economic return. The road
has a first-year return of about 9 percent when a 10 percent discount rate
is used. If unquantified benefits are taken into account, such as road user
time savings, first-year benefits would be higher than estimated. Sensitivity
analyses have been carried out, assuming an economic life of 20 years, show-
ing that in the event of unfavorable variations in construction costs, traf-
fic growth or vehicle operating costs, the economic return on the project
road would not fall below 11 percent. As a result of the Bank Group's past
road project experience in Botswana, estimates of the initial traffic levels
on the project road were arrived at after careful and detailed examination
of the available data. The main beneficiaries will be the direct road users.
The benefits of the project's road maintenance and training equipment compo-
nents have not been quantified; however, it is expected that they will be
considerable.
41.       The economic return of the Mahalapye-Serule road could be affected
by the construction of a road, now under consideration by the Government,
from Selebi-Pikwe to the village of Zanzibar on the South African border.
Should this road be constructed, it might divert some traffic away from the
Mahalapye-Serule road, since the distance to South Africa via Zanzibar is
shorter for vehicles coming from north of Serule, or from Serule and Selebi-
Pikwe, than the alternative route through Martin's Drift. Nevertheless, the
construction of the Mahalapye-Serule road would still be expected to yield a
satisfactory 14.5 percent economic return.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
42.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Botswana and the
Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii)
of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of a draft Resolution approving
the proposed loan, are being distributed to the Executive Directors sepa-
rately.



- 14 -
43.       Features of the Loan Agreement of special interest are referred to
in Section III of Annex IV to this report.
44.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
45.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 29, 1977



ANNEX I
rag-F7of Is pages
TABLE 3A
BOTSWANA- SOCIAL INOICATORS DATA SMEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM21                    -
---------------                        ~~~~BOTSWANA                            RkEFERENCE COUNTRIES (19701
TOTAL        600.4                                         MOST RECENT                                     TRINIDADf
AGRIC.       1415.9                        1960       1970    ESTIMATE            MOROCCO         ZAMBIA   AND TOAAOOa
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                         90.0      190.0       330.0               300.0        410.0       1180.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)                0.3        0.6         0.7                14.8          4.3          1.0
POPULATION OENSITY
PERt SQUARE KM.                           1.0        1.0         1.0                33.0          6.0       200.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND            1.0         1.0        2.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)            146.6       46.1       145.6                49.2         49.7         32.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)              28.2       25.4        23.0                 18.5        20.9          1.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOUJ              ..                 126.0/a                  ..                    34.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH IYRS)           35.9       41.0       143.5                50.4         43.5         61.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                    .         2.9         2.9                 3*4          3.3          2.2
POPULATICN GROWTH RATE (3)
TOJTAL                                   2.0         1.9         1.9                 2.4 Ia       2.9          2.1 /a
URtBAN                                     ..       16.9        16.1                 4.0         13.6 /a
URBAN POPULATION OX OF TOTAL)               3.2 /a     7.3        12.3                 32.3        30.0         12.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                          143.           .       46.1 /a              46.4         46.0         41.2
15 TO 64 YEARS                          51.7/41                4a.5 7a              51.1         51.0         54.8
65 YEARS AND OVER                        14.6 7;      .          5.4 7               2.S          3.0          4.0
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                        0.9a          .         .1/a                1.0          1.0         0.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  I1.0'        ..         1.1i 7                            1.8         1.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. TKOU)               ..                   8.3                 68.1           ..          5.4
USERS (2 OF MARRIED WOMEN)                 ...                     .3.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABCR FORCE (THOUSAND)              250.0 /a a     .       310.0                   .             .       350.0 /A
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (Xi             91 0n~ .               83.0...                                       22.0
UNEMPLOYED OX OF LABOR FORCE)                ...                     ..                              O.0,j      12.5
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
X OF PRIVATE INCOME REC4O BY-
HIGHEST    53 OF HOUSEHOLDS                 ..                 28.1/c
HIGHEST 203 OP HOUSEHOLDS                  .                    60.3 7;-
LOWFST   203 OF HOUSEHOLDS                                       L .. 16 7;
LOWEST   403 OF HOUSEHOLDS                 ..         .. 
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
t Ow~NED BY TOP 105 OF OWNERS                 ..
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 103 OWNERS               .           ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                20870.0 /d 114780.0    15060.0  a12650.0                13500.0       2320.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            2380.0 ld   1200.0    1220.0 i                   .      2920.0        360.0 /c
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED              1430.0 7;    370.0         ..660.0;                      310.0        230.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (5 OF REQUIREMENTS)            85.0        87.0        87.0 /d              ".0         88.0         97.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                 64.0        65.0       65.o 7a              64.0         64.0         64.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE              ..        33.0         ..14.0 Ac                       25.0 /c      34.0 /d
DEATH BATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4                  ...                     ..                                .1.8
EDUCATI ON
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATio
PRIMARY SCHOOL                          36.0        66.0        71.0                551.0        70.0        110.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                          1.0        8.0        12.0                 12.0        12.0         40.0
YEARS OF SCHCCLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                12.0        12.0        12.0                12.0         12.0         15.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(2 OF SECONDARY)                         4.0        19.0        19.0                 2.0          3.0          8.0/A
ADULT LITERACY RATE (3)                    20.0O/e       ..                            21.0         17.0        88.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN) I.                                          ..                              2.6 /d
CCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (S                              .          ....                                      88.0         68.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
it CF ALL DWELLINGS)                       ..        9.0          ...                               .         66.0 If
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (3)                         .           ..
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)              6.0        13.0       17.0/a               60.0         18.0       276.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)               2.0/f       3.0        5.0                 15.0         14.0         75.0
ELECTRICITY   (KWH/YR PER CAP)               .            .       82.0/e              126.0       957.0       1173.0
NEwSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                    ...                     .0.2                            0.5          5.5
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4 page.
HOTEl
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any yasr bstagan 1959 and 196, for 1970 betwee      1968 cad 1970, and for Moot Recen t Estimate betwee
1973 and 1975.
a., TruiIdad end Tobago be. bean   rIented as  s objective notry because to tern of population, per capita inose, end feet growth in GD? due to
mrineral re  Bce,Rtovena nay be similar in 1985 to Trinidad and Tobago today.
BOrIWANA               1960    Ic1964,      Lb  Ratio of poplation wider 15 and 65 and over tv total labor aroe ovr the age of 10 pees;.
/t  Econontralty active resident population ovr the age of 10 yeare, .occluding hoaweewve, cubs tetenr      h-ntere
and Satherare;     id  1961;    le   prior to 1965;    If  1963;     /   ftenlding ninads end workre abroad.
1970   Ia1964-7G.
MOST RECENT ESTIHATE;   Ia  1971:     /b  Ratio of pn.sslatiaa wider 15 and 65 and ovr to total labor force,       c   1971-72,
aroneinally active population;       Id  1969-71  wavrge,    Ie   1972.
NCROund                19-70  Ia  Due to eigration, population gesnth rat. L. lower thee rote of natural iocr.a.;          lb  Govaseen bhpitlnal    oaly;
lc 196b-A6.
ZAMBIA                 1970   Ia  1965-69:    lb   Person   eebieg work;     In  1964-66;    Id  Tote1, urban and rurdl.
TRINIDAD AND TOOdOO    1970   Ia  Dwe to owigration, population growtb rten Is l1wr tban rote of naturol incresee;        lb   15-64 yeaco of ego;
kIcInluding     1dui-ne;    ld  1964-66;     Ia  Gove-nt naiastained end aidod schoolo only,        If  1966;
7ja Inoido only. _
R5, Jonuary 13, 1917
DEFINTTIONS O? SOClAL INDICATORS
Leand Area (thou ks2I                                                            Population per osrilg person - Popolarsoc dIi"ded by ousbec of practicing
Total -Total outfac    area oprising lMWancrea end inland water..                  -ole and fobale graduate nurses, "trottd' or     co.rtified" nor....n, od
Asrir.- Moat recent estlace of agrico1ture1 area used temporarily or               aisiliany personnel with traicing or experience.
pernenetry foe crops, pastisre, marker A hitchen gardens or to lie,            Population per h..pita1 bed - Ppoplation divided! by onuber of honpita1 bedo
fallow.                                                                         avilable is public and private gecer.     co ed spec aIieed hospital and
rehabilitation, centers, ectides cu-rsig hones ond establisbo..nts for
GNP per capita (U1$) - GNP per capita outa      es c  crrent earbkr prices,        cuotodio1 and pr-evetive car..
calcultnd b  sana  onverlon eehod a  WorldPac  tles  197-7      Pe,  r capita supply of c lotries. ( of res.irenets) - Cocputed fcon energy
bod)-,1960, 197 end, 1975ia datha      .WrdBa.        el.          -5quivalent of net fsod sspplie.a-ovolehl                in country per .spita Par day.
ovaila1blo so1PPlion uwpipels donestic Productive, depone less enports,
copulation and vital statistics                                                   end obnI in sceh; In       npliesryld         eta    ed    cos     soi
PPopulaion (oid-Yr. eillion) - Au of JulY fLint     if cot ecalabl,                doue       nfo     rcsigad Icsein dictrrbuclon . roqssrewits
overage of two end-year estImates; 1960, 190ed       91daa                        or   sinted by FAO basd on pbysialogicc1.. ceds for nososl av~ivt
and health can1doring e-viroroennts1 ctspraturn, body weights, oge snd
P.p,l.ti- dew                                                  1:,..~~~~~~~~~~~eadiotributions of population, and allowing 10% for .asts at honcebold
Pouaindcity - per snare kon   Mid-year Population per equate kilo-          lee.
ncer (  hIl t ....arn) uf total ace                                         ParEnris ssel of reoceiofgraas P.r def          - Proenccctfpr
ponoltion ooalt - reesuar be ofsCc ad        -Copsted so above for          cspits -e  su.pply of food per day, net supply c   odi      oiida
agrlcolcurol lend only.                                      a~~~~~~bove; r.qulr-esnts for all cutries establiobed by USDA Econossin
ReerhSricspoiefr            iio.c (asco           1 fea      i o   rta
Vital statistics                                                                   prti     pamredy   pcd 21dcrone of annoo      I pusepotin        f whic
Crude bicob ratepp.L..tbowsand avetoar - Annual live20                                        niI an       p.  p~ t   ,     h 
-- -        _______________     Anu.t    iv.birtha Por tbconcnd          10 gnas shontd be asleal protein; theon standards are 1snr tban these
of nid-yoar population;' ins-yea  orilhstnio avecogrs ending in 1I6u cod          of 75 grons, of total protein ond 23 greo  of aoioal protein as .n
19 70, ssd live-.year _cecooendn    in 1975 for onatce-et ea-ne. vrc8o for the wcrld, Proposeed by FAO in the Third World rood Survey.
Crsdn detb rte'e     thosn, ctn          - A"'sscl deaths Per tbusaand  f n,id-   Pee capita protoic sopply iron anial ond ps1se    - Protels supply of food
Year  .1t ppaton,te-ins-pet  rithoetic  vcar    ending -c 1960 and 1970 sand   D.erived iron anilal and polses in itru per day.
five-Ypea  averog   uding on 1975 fur ecut ercen..t sotinate.                  Beeh trat   C/how; aces 1-4 - A-nal deaths per ibon...od in age, grmep
tofast nortli ty rate flthoul - Ans... Idearhe of Isac      nder one, Poor of       0-4 yacro, to childrenI ibn  . sic- group, sogg-sird as an indi-cato   of
co per thousaend live births..nlurto
Lit. n epv nany st bir th (scsi - Averogs nober of years of lifes croining              1ti,o
ct btrth; usuLly five-year av-rSge    esding In 1960, 1970 end 1975 for         Educato
deenior1pPleg'9oontries,.                                                        Adjus ted erclonnt retio - primary sobool - Enro11oeni cf sil sin      a
Cros resodurionrece- Avragenoner of Live deughters a woe      il           percentege ofpr     ry echoc1-ge, population,; includes   hiidr-e aged
bea  inbe    no,altprodutiiv     period if abe e6eioe        reetae                -1l yee   hut adjusted Per different lengths of pr1ocry education;
speific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending lin 1960,             fcc countries with univerno   education, esroll-Le -uyncc--     lil
1971 esd 1975 for developing countries.                                           slu   see  pupllo are belo c- shove the Officiol school oi.
Pcpulccto or_cti ra te     - tc-s1 - Conpond .s.u. I growth rates of cid-         Adluated esrollnI  caa rl- seondary schoul - fonputed Os shove
year popoloti-s for 1950-60, 1960-70 ai,d 1970-75.                                necndary educativ -requires at leas.t four yeers of approved prinary
Populationeot     ae 1       ra     - Ccpsted like greds rats of total              inat_rucion; Provides goneco,   v    ioe    or teacher troiinig
populocio;  dfecs      dfniin      o f urban  reao oay effect cnpar-i.nie                       for Pupil  of 12 c t 7 yers ofae       orePnn
"bil     o   aa   nu   conres                                                       crsns ore gene.rally e..c1uded.
Irbenpopuatio (5  f total)  R-tian  f urban to ctotl populstio;              Yeor of Rchcoling p-ovdod (firs.t cod sooulves           - Total yearo of
different defisitions of rcbsn cress coy    ffeti c-pa-bility of data             ochecling; cc seco.ndary level, voctiona lmer-ction nay he pa-
soog  rsittint.tially or conpletely ...uluded.
Ageorure.L.  ( rco)- Chitldet (0-l4 ynsrs), -kriog-ege (15-64 ycars),            v ocoioa  -sec   1n  t CX of setonderyl - Voation1 institution
en:dd retdired (AS1 ye.ro  nd ovor) cc por-etsgeu of 4id-yea  p.pulation.          include technical, industrial ye other pograa which operat
iedr drcy cacis   Racic- ofPopulation under 15 and 65 and over to             independently or as depertoent. of secondary institotions.
those of ogeu 15 throu-gh 64.'                                                  Adult liter-y rnte (5) - Literate odults (abLe to rend sod write) c
Elno   dependency r-rio - Rctlo of population -nder 15 cod 65 cod over                percetage of Ltota  edolt population aged 15 years and over.
cc the Ilbor force to age group of 15-h4 yeses.
f_sils inis-acposiouaie,.ra)-Co,ite                            obec of             Rnsntn
ac   toptrs ef birfth-coto  deices -nder auspices of national fenily                         corAnegcuber of pesa                        rroni
p,Iosng pgr-ie   si-c isceptics.                                                  ocuidcasntion          dwlig1     nuba     ra,dellssetsd
Paoil clasioc -coorsCX efearne _uce _nl - Percentogec of nanried           na-enaneor;sa       tuctoc         'P"" nocpidPacts.
wenof child-be-arig age (15-44 years) who see birth-control devi-e           Gc-pind dwe llg i    thout pleMae       1      -  ccopied convention.&J
to all carried wisee  in s-ee  ge group.                                          dwellings in urban end rura    ..... stbont inside or   tontude piped
B.pl.yno.t                                                     n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wter fa-llitins se percentage of al Ioncupied dwellings.
Fluploystene                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~Access to el -ciriity Ct of all duellia,e) - C-nvensonal chollisgo
lorsi labor force (thaaoand) - E-onic-lly entice pernan, including                   with ectricIty in living qoartera as percent of total dwsellings In
doned forces csd   nenployed but -culudisg b.ooeie-s,    todents, etc.,            acbhnes  n  olaes
def-iutios in various contries are not conparable,                              Rural wellIngs cossneeted is electricity    )- Coopoted asbkoe for
labor frce in eriuclire l  - Agriculturol labor force (In faninig,              rural dunllige only.
forsty,buting  ed fiubiegi as Pe rcentage of total labor force
Rnnlyd(  of labor force) - Inepleynd ore usalty defined aa persons           Cenmfption
su:hypste  blecud willing to tabs a Job, our of a Job on a gives day,             Radio (re per    eet thon  pay) - All types of recei-era foe radio brosd-
re.namd ost of o Job, and seebin      work for a opecified ninios- ported          casts to gersarl public per tsonasend of populction, enolodna
notfenceedieg are ...ek, nay not he cnparble between contrien doe to               unlcoed receivers in countries cod in yeare when registretion of
differe nt defluiciono of unnplcyed sod sourre of data, e.g., ..play-              radio acre ya. in effeun, dera for recen.t Yeera coy not be    -   -syrble
_n,n Office stt.istics, seople our-ys, vonpulscrY snonPloymnt lusrac.               lu   -at csstnrlas ebolaisbad licee..ing.
Psa....ear care (per tho  000    - Paaoenge.c.vro cupriae cuter ears
nc_suedistri_bution - Poarn..isga of private i',one (both in cash and kind)           ea   Ing  .es  than eigh~t persons;' eucudo  huec, hearses and
received by richest 5X, elbheot 2014, Pootect 20%Z, and poorest 401 of             el,1titary vehicles.e
houc-holds                                                                       Eetiity,h     by per cap) - Annual -os,ptien Af industrial, co--
nercia1, poblir and private etertricity in kilowatt bonr per capita,
luolclhuten of loud -sn rohip - Peeceetoges cf leand nad bly wealthiest             generally based onProduction data, withont alwnefor lease             in
ltad poorest lIt of lsaid ownrs,                                                grids but all1wing far imports and asporta of electricity.
H                                                             ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nseprlit lbs/sr pee nap) -r Per capita annual conas-ptiai in kilogran
Heslth And Nutrri1tio                                                                estimated finss dosestciP p  .roution ple net importa of newsprint.
Phultin erebnlln - PoP-ultion divided by nscber of practicing
physiclan     qualified icon  nedic1 school or university level.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1973/74                                   ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.       %                       1962/63-67/68      1968/69-73/74    1974/751/
GNP at Market Prices          250.3       100.0                          ..                12.0           8.0
Gross Domestic Investment     135.0        53.9                          ..                40.0
Gross National Saving          58.8        23.5
Current Account Balance       -76.2       -30.4
Exports of Goods              100.7        40.2
Imports of Goods              159.6        63.8                                            17.5
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1973/74
Value Added                  Labor Force.V                 V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.      fiMln.                      %x                   MA          Afi
Agriculture                  89.2        34.6               .256       83.2                 348         42
Industry                     73.6        28.6               .014        4.5               5,257        628
Services                     94.8        36.8               .038       12.3               2,495        298
Unallocated                   .           .
Total/Average        257.6       100.0               .308     -1                     8          100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                            Central Government
(      Mln.)       % of GDP                  (Pula Mln.)      =% o' GDP
197          I97        196 -7                1975/76     1975/76  1973/74-75/76
Current Receipts                                                                 72.8       31.0         27.3
Current Expenditure                                                              45.2       19.3         17.3
Current Surplus                                                                  27.6       11.7         10.0
Capital Expenditures                                                             35.8       15.2         15.7
External Assistance (net)                                                        17.6        7.5         10.3
MDNEY, CREDIT and PRICES                 1970         1971        1972        1973        1974        1975
(Million Pula outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                                  .
Bank credit to Public Sector              3.0          1.7         1.9         2.5         3.5         6.0
Bank aredit to Private Sector             9.8         10.5        13.7        21.9        37.4        53.3
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP                                  .           .
General Price Index (1969 - 100)3/      100.9        104.9       113.2       132.6       125.5       141.3
Annual percentage changes int
General Price Index                       ..           4.0         7.9        17.1        ..          12,6
Bank credit to Public Sector              ..         -43.3        11.8        31.6        40.0       I/1''4
Bank credit to Private Sector                          7.1        30.5        59.9        70.8        42.5
NOTEt All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Provisional.
2/ Labor force is defined as persons 10 years and over engaged either in family agriculture or In cash employment.
Migrant workers in South Africa are excluded.
3/ No general price index is available; relates to Index of Food Prices for Gaborone only.   Data from 1974
relates to a new Index with June 1973 - 100.
not available
not applicable
March 15, 1977



ANNEX I
(Pave 4 of 4 Dages)
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FWWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1973-75.
1973     1974      1975                                              US $ Mln    %
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods               92.0    109.4    126.6            Meat and Meat Products             47.0     39.0
Imports of Goods              136.7    182.4    218.9            Diamornds                         40.4      33.5
Trade Balance                 C4W.7    -73.0    -92.3            Copper/Nickel                      14.5     12.0
Noni-factor Services (net)     19.6     19.3     20.9
Investment Income (net)       -37.5    -18.5      7.6
oither Services (net)         -25.4    -24.3    -18.6
Net Transfers                  20.7     11.5     12.8              All other commodities            18.6     15.5
Balance on Current Account    -67.3    _o5.U    =9                      Total                      120.5    100,0
Direct Foreign Investment      53.0     44.6     37.0            EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1975
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements               ..       ..       ..                                                       US $ Ml
Amortization
Subtotal                    36.2     50.3     47.1              Public Debt, incl. guaranteed            143.3
Capital Grants                 ..       ..       ..                Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)           -13.1      2.9     19.5              Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i.             13.0     -0.6    -19.0
Increase in Reserves (+)       21.8     12.2     15.0            DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1975-
Gross Reserves (end year)
Net Reserves   (end year)      ..       ..       .-                Public Debt. incl. guaranteed              5.1
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                         Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                       7.4     19.9     20.8
of which:  Petroleuma
Exports
of which:  Petroleum       -        -        -          IBRD/IDA LENDING, (JANUARY 31, 1977)  (Million US$):
IBRD        IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE    1971    1972   1973   1974   1975  1976
US$1.00 = R        0.715  0.768  0.693   0.679  0.732  0.870    Outstanding & Disbursed             36.2         12.9
R1.00   = US$      1.398  1.302  1.444  1.472   1.366  1.150    Undisbursed                         20.4          1.9
outstanding incl. Undisbursed        56.6        14.8
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods.
not available
not applicable
March 15, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4 Pages
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS IN BOTSWANA
AS AT JANUARY 31, 1977
Amount (less cancellations)
(US$ million)
No.     Year  Borrower       Purpose                     Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
63      1964  Bechuanaland   Road Project                          3.6
172     1970  Botswana       Engineering Design &                  1.6        -
Preliminary Works for
the Shashe Project
233     1971  Botswana       Gaborone-Lobatse                      3.0       0.1
Water Supply Project
776-1   1971  Botswana       Shashe Infrastructure        32.0                -
Project
776-2   1974  Botswana       Shashe Supplementary          5.5               2.6
Loan
303     1972  Botswana       Second Road Project                   2.0        -
325     1972  Botswana       Livestock Development                 1.7       0.5
Project
471     1974  Botswana       Francistown Urban                     3.0       1.3
Development Project
1019    1974  Botswana       Development Finance          4.0                1.7
Development   Company Project
Corporation
1174    1975  Botswana       Third Road Project            5.8               5.6
1274 )
1275T)  1976  Botswana       Education                    10.5              10.5
.Total                                      57.8      14.9
of which has been repaid                  1.2      0.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/          56.6      14.8
Total undisbursed                          20.4       1.9     22.3
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4 Pages
B. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan No. 776         Shashe Infrastructure Project:  US$32.0 million loan
of June 29, 1971: Effectiveness Date: March 7, 1972;
Closing Date: September 30, 1978; US$5.5 million supple-
mental loan of June 7, 1974; Effectiveness Date:
July 17, 1974
Work on the infrastructure project as originally envisaged
was completed on schedule and the project is operational.
A later decision to bituminize the Serule-Selebi-Pikwe road
has delayed project completion. Work on the road is now
nearing completion, and the loan of US$37.5 million is
expected to be fully disbursed around mid-1977.
The technical problems with the surface treatment plant
that have beset the associated Bamangwato Concession
Limited mining project have resulted in serious cost
overruns and loss of production. However, under pres-
ent financial arrangements, the large increase in capi-
tal costs of the mining project could result in a sub-
stantial reduction in the benefits to be received by
the Government (in the form of royalties, taxes and
dividends). Discussions between the Government and
the private companies have been actively pursued and
a final agreement on the financial issues appears at
hand.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4 Pages
Credit No. 325      Livestock Development Project:   US$1.65 million credit
of June 30, 1972; Effectiveness Date: April 10, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Project implementation has been very slow. Ranch devel-
opment was delayed by many difficulties, notably with
borehole siting and fencing; overall management was
poor and financial records inadequate. However, the
Project Manager recently moved to Ghanzi, which is
closer to the ranches than Gaborone, in order to super-
vise more closely development and operations. Borehole
drilling, water distribution and fencing contracts are
now progressing satisfactorily. Tenants have been
selected for about 16 ranches, although no leases or
loan agreements have yet been signed, and these ranch-
ers are forming a company to provide joint services and
assist with management.
The Botswana Livestock Development Corporation (BLDC)
is still operating at a loss, although there has been
some improvement in its cattle marketing activities.
The Government is currently reviewing the company's
future, and a change in its statutes is likely. This
will be reviewed during the next supervision mission.
Credit No. 471       Francistown Urban Development Project:   US$3.0 million
credit of May 9, 1974; Effectiveness Date: October 1,
1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily.
Civil works are completed and handed over to the Francis-
town Town Council. Community facilities and electrical
works are progressing satisfactorily. Most of the residen-
tial plots have been allocated and housing construction is
progressing well. The houses are of much better quality
than usual in site and services areas. Additional works,
using surplus funds created from the devaluation of the
Rand, are being designed and are expected to be completed
by early 1979. Therefore the closing date will have to be
extended from December 1978 to December 1979.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4 Pages
Loan No. 1019       Botswana Development Corporation Project:    US$4.0 million
loan of June 27, 1974; Effectiveness Date: December 9, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30. 1979
About 60 percent of the loan is now committed. However,
it is possible that BDC may not be able to fully commit
the loan by June 30, 1977, the present terminal date for
commitments to be financed by the loan, since some of
the major projects in BDC's pipeline may not materialize.
The commitment period may therefore need to be extended.
After its rapid expansion of the past four years, BDC
is now entering a phase of consolidation.
Loan No. 1174        Third Road Project:  US$5.8 million loan of November 21, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: January 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1978
Satisfactory progress is now being made on all project com-
ponents although implementation is approximately one year
behind schedule, primarily due to delays in finalizing
contract documents. Tenders for the road construction
contract are being analyzed; and orders are being placed
for soils, laboratory equipment, loadometers and weigh-
bridges. The Road Maintenance Study is underway and is
expected to be completed in December 1977.
Loan Nos. 1274       Education Project:  US$10.5 million loan (US$7.0 million IBRD
and 1275-T           and US$3.5 million Third Window) of May 28, 1976; Effectiveness
Date: September 10, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Implementation of the project, which is in the early stage,
is proceeding satisfactorily. Completion of one secondary
school and one university hostel is expected about May 1977.
Contracts have been let on other project components. Good
progress has been made in the preparation of furniture and
equipment lists.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3 Pages
BOTSWANA
Fourth Road Project
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Republic of Botswana
Amount:              US$20.0 million equivalent
Terms:               Repayable in 20 years including 4-1/2 years of
grace, at 8.2 percent interest per annum.
Project              The project will consist of:
Description:
a)   construction of the Mahalapye-Serule road
(150 km) to two-lane bituminous standards;
b)   consulting services to:
i) assist the Borrower in bid evaluation and
supervise construction of the Mahalapye-
Serule road;
ii) assist the Borrower in the identification
and preparation of a rural feeder road
construction program;
c)   assistance for road maintenance for:
i) gazetted roads. The recommendations of the
Road Maintenance Study being carried out under
the Third Road Project will be implemented;
and
ii) district roads. The District Roads Maintenance
Program, initiated under the Third Road Project,
will be extended to two additional districts;
and
d)   provision of training equipment and construction of
new classrooms and office space for the Roads Depart-
ment Training School.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3 Pages
Estimated Cost:                                                              Foreign
US$ Million          as a %
Local     Foreign   Total    of Total
Item
A.   Construction of Mahalapye-Serule Road      4.04       12.13     16.17      75
B.   Consulting Services                        0.24        0.92      1.16      80
C.   Road Maintenance                           0.22        2.08      2.30      90
D.   Strengthening of
Roads Department
Training School                          0.02       0.33      0.35       95
Sub-total                                4.52       15.46    19.98
E.   Contingencies:
Physical                                 0.45        1.55     2.00
Price                                    1.42        4.63     6.05
Sub-total                                1.87        6.18     8.05
Total Project Cost                         6.39       21.64    28.03       77
Total Project Cost
(Net of Taxes)                           4.75      21.64     26.35       82
Financing Plan:
Bank:      US$20.0 million equivalent
Borrower: US$6.3 million equivalent
Estimated Disbursements: US$ million; IBRD Fiscal Year
1978    1979     1980    1981    Total
Annual                4.9       5.5     5.8      3.8    20.0
Cumulative            4.9      10.4    16.2    20.0     20.0
The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed against 68 percent of the total
cost of civil works, 80 percent of the total costs of consulting services
and 100 percent of the foreign costs of equipment and technical assistance.



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3 Pages
Procurement:   Award of the road construction contract and the procurement
of road maintenance equipment will be on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guide-
lines. Relatively minor items, such as vehicles and training
equipment, will be procured under standard Government proce-
dures.
Consultants:    Consultants will be retained by the Ministry of Works and
Communications for assistance to the Ministry in bid evaluation
and for the supervision of construction of the Mahalapye-Serule
road (about 200 man-months). In addition, consultants and/or
technical assistance experts will be retained by the Ministry
to assist in the preparation of a feeder road construction
program (about 40 man-months).
Economic       The construction of the Mahalapye-Serule road, representing
Return:        about 82 percent of total project costs, is estimated to have
an economic return of 15 percent.
Appraisal
Report:         Report No. 1389b-BT, dated March 23, 1977.



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2 Pages
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: Eighteen months.
(b) Preparation by: Government of Botswana with the assistance
of engineering consultants.
(c)  Initial discussions with Bank:    September 1973
(d)  First Bank mission to consider project:    January 1975
(e)  Appraisal mission departure:   September 10, 1976
(f)  Negotiations:   February 22 to 25, 1977
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:   August 1, 1977
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
III. Special Conditions
(a)  The Borrower will take all action necessary to strengthen the
organizational and operational efficiency of the Central Trans-
port Organization to enable it to achieve an availability rate
of vehicles and equipment for use by the Roads Department of
not less than 60 percent. Further, loan proceeds will not be
disbursed for road maintenance equipment until this availability
rate has been reached (para. 36);
(b)  The Borrower will review the results and recommendations of
the road maintenance study with the Bank and submit to the Bank,
by July 1, 1978, a road maintenance program for its approval
(para. 35);
(c)  The Borrower will review the results of the District Roads
Maintenance Pilot Program with the Bank and furnish to the
Bank for its approval a plan of action for the extension
of the program for two additional districts (para. 35);
(d)  The Borrower will discuss with the Bank on an annual basis
its budgetary estimates and expenditures for road maintenance
(para. 35); ard



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2 Pages
(e) Any maintenance equipment procured for either the
five-year maintenance program or the extension of
the District Roads Maintenance Program will be sub-
ject to the approval of the Bank (para. 37).






IBRD 3451R3
ao/ 2Ev                        < 2 i' >~. 25o | ig 28- I  0 6DECE FR 1916
A N G 0 L A       --:                           I Z A M B     A               REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
Mohemb p                / O   9g0° ~ --u  *                     |   |FOURTH  ROAD  PROJECT,
K~~~~~  A                 ,   -m 0         J C HO  E>\\,0 --B EOR                                  OORR:6:RP Odltl -
<  7te Ag7m/  \  g  .      '   s   Tutume  >.,_XlLOMETEiitSI
(S /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0 B      OSO -f-                                                  - dtiloo '
/XISRINO RO_DS
;Z                                                                 /  3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M 1   -   S hd'so/9t
6  =      K   A  V L ~~~~~~~~~~O  A V A  R4-  /.-A ',                                         16.  g  A6000
\  R~ N H 0 D E S I A
NCAMILAN)                                                                      Di.
20'                                                  -.-'                                    OR'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ulwy  0
7N0                                  20  40  60  So  00
N                                          A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES
'4                        eNgoirn                                                    0 0   00609020 I160
!~~ ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ , /PN               9     ' ARR.,Y/                             F   - 
b-N      *OMAISIIACRA  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KLOETR
A    L    A    H   A     R                             I.PYD                             a,. n)  APCR  p,,1,/
21 ~~~~~~Nn  n i                                                             S00 4 ZG.Z _ rc 
E  -IE-- -R ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~   ~    ~    ~   ~   ~    --    -'-
Kmg~~~~~~~~~~SrW                                 -PoIr1-.--,
MCNAIAp~~~~~~~~~~NOL "AA9
"P,IonA MocICLO F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EPLBLI
Tshabo'g                                                              BOTS~~~GAoCRO ~   IIIRR
C:                                                              0            .-~~~~~~~~._ __Cth_ Rst'1.
I                                                 Z16'~~~TS5O~'0 MCth'  AI      R 



