Report No. 1389b-BT
Appraisal of a
Fourth Road Project
Republic of Botswana
March 23, 1977
Regional Projects Department
Eastern Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =  Pula (P)1/
US$1.155        =  P 1
US$1.00         =  P 0.866
US$1,000        =  P 866
US$1,000,000    =  P 865,800
Rand 1.0        =  P 1.0
IEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)           =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)      =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 metric to  (m ton)  =  2,204 pounds (lb) 2
1 sq km (km )         =  0.386 sq miles (mi )
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CIDA     -   Canadian International Development Agency
CTO      -   Central Transport Organization
DANIDA   -   Danish International Development Agency
EDF      -   European Development Fund
GDP      -   Gross Domestic Product
ILO      -   International Labor Office
KfW      -   Kreditanstalt fur Wiedersufbau (Federal. Republic
of Germany)
MFDP     -   Ministry of Finance and Development Planning
MLGL     -   Ministry of Local Government and Lands
MWC      -   Ministry of Works and Communications
NORAD    -   Norwegian Agency for Development
ODM      -   Overseas Development Ministry (United Kingdom)
RSA      -   Republic of South Africa
SIDA     -   Swedish International Development Authority
UNDP     -   United Nations Development Program
USAID    -   United States Agency for International Development
voc      -   vehicle operating costs
vpd      -   vehicles per day
GOVERNMENT OF BOTSWANA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
1/ Botswana changed from the rand to her own national currency,
the pula, in August 1976.



FOR OFFIC'IAL USE CONLY
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH ROAD PROJECT
BOTSWANA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ................................
1.            INTRODUCTION ...........................................
2.            THE TRANSPORT SECTOR.1.................
A.  Economnic Background.1...............
B.  The Transport System ................2
C.    Transport Policy, Planning  and  Coordination .......                                   3
D.     Previous  Bank  Group  Projects  in  the
Transport  Sector ................................                                  4
3.            ROADS ..................................................                                      5
A.    The Network .......................................                                     5
B.    Traffic ...........................................                                     6
C.    Regulations  and Rates .............................                                    6
D.    Administration ....................................                                     7
E.    Planning ..........................................                                     8
F.    Financing .........................................                                   10
G. Engineering .11
H. Construction .11
I. Maintenance .11
J. Training .12
4.            THE PROJECT ...........,.,...................                                                13
A. Objectives .13
B.    Description .......................................                                   13
C.    Status of Engineering .............................                                   15
D.  Cost Estimate ..................                                                        16
E.  Financing ..................                                                             17
F. Implementation .18
G. Procurement .18
H. Disbursements .19
This report was prepared by Melody Mason (Economist), Branko Bjelogrlic
(Engineer), and Marie Garcia-Zamor (Technical Editor).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TAELE CF CONTENTS (continued)
Page No.
5.     ECONO(MIC EVALUATION ....................9.......................   1
A.  Main Benefits and Beneficiaries .19
B.  Area cf Irfluence of the Project Road .20
C. Economic Analysis .20
,6.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION '. ...                         23
ITABL.L: 1 - Length of Gazetted Road Network, 1970-75
2 - Velhicles Registered, 1965-75
3 - Annual Expendittures on Roads, 1970/71-75/76
4 - Design Standards for Mahalapyc-Serule Road
5 - Calculation of Physical and Price Contingencies
6 -- Equipment for the Extension of the District Road Maintenance
Program
7 -- Training School Equipment
8 - Estimated Schedule of Eisbursements
9 - Projected Vehiicles per Day on Project Road
ANNEXES:   I - Economic Costs and Benefits
Table: Economic Costs and Benefits
II - Project Progress Reporting Requirements
Table: Project Monitoring Indices
CHARTS:   1. - Organization of the Roads Department of the Ministry of
Works and Communications
2. - Project Implementation Schedule
MAP:      Botswana - Road System (IBRD 3451R3)



APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH ROAD PROJECT
BOTSWANA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a road project prepared by the Botswana
Government for which a Bank loan of US$20.0 million is proposed. The
Government is committing substantial resources to road development,
primarily to improve the North-South spine in the relatively populous
eastern corridor, and main roads to serve it. This is important in view
of the heavy concentration of economic activity and the current and
projected mineral development projects in the region.
ii.       The Bank Group has had three previous road projects in Botswana
and an infrastructure loan with a 52-km road component. The first two
(Cr. 63-BEC, US$3.6 million, 1964; and Cr. 303-BT, US$2.0 million, 1972)
have been satisfactorily completed. However, according to project audit
reports, the projected economic benefits of the first project were not
fully realized in the period following project completion; the second
project's economic justification was reconfirmed, although the rate of
return was lower than estimated at appraisal. Of the two ongoing projects
(Loan 1174-BT, US$5.8 million, 1975; and Loan 776-BT, the Shashe Infra-
structure Project, with a US$3.5 million road element, 1972) the former
is one year behind schedule but the latter is currently progressing
satisfactorily.
iii.      The major component of this project is construction to bituminous
standards of a 150 km road (Mahalapye-Serule), which will complete the
Government's long-term effort to improve the arterial North-South road to
all-weather standards.
iv.       In support of Government's effort to maintain the improved road
network, the project also includes funds to assist with implementation of
the recommendations of the Road Maintenance Study financed under the Third
Road Project. Further, the District Road Maintenance Pilot Program, also
financed under the Third Project, will be extended to two more districts.
v.        A necessary classroom building will be constructed, and equipment
and vehicles will be provided for the Roads Department Training School to
enable the School to increase the quality and quantity of trainirLg and thus
help overcome the lack of trained Department personnel.
vi.       The Roads Department will be responsible for project implementation,
except for the district program which will be executed by the Ministry of Local
Government and Lands through the two district councils in the areas where the
program will be carried out.



- ii -
vii.      Total project cost is estimated at US$28.0 million (US$26.3
million, excluding taxes and duties). The foreign exchange component is
US$21.6 million, about 77% of total project cost. The project will be
financed by a Bank loan of US$20.0 million, which will cover 71% of total
project cost (76%,net of taxes and duties) and 92% of foreign costs, and
by a Government contribution of US$8.0 million (US$6.3 million, excluding
taxes and duties). The Bank loan will cover about 68% of total road
construction costs (90% of the foreign costs of the works) and the foreign
cost of consultant and technical assistance services, and training equipment.
viii.     The road construction contract will be awarded and maintenance
equipment procured after international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank Group Guidelines for Procurement; Training School vehicles and
equipment will be procured through Government's tender procedures, which
have been reviewed by the Bank and found acceptable. Consultants will be
employed under terms of reference and conditions agreed with the Bank.
Road construction is expected to start in the last quarter of 1977 and be
completed by mid-1981.
ix.       The proposed investment in the Mahalapye-Serule road is economi-
cally sound, yielding a 15% economic return. The three major road sections
will yield returns of 15%, 19% and 14%. The road has a first-year return
of just under 9% when using a 10% discount rate.
x.        The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$20.0 million to the
Republic of Botswana. An appropriate loan term would be 20 years, with a
grace period of 4.5 years, at 8.2 % interest.



APPRA SAL OF A FOURTH ROAD PROJECT
BOTSWANA
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Botswana has applied for assistance in
financing a road project which is in line with its transport develop-
ment strategy of improving the North-South road artery to all-weather
standards, and maintaining the existing and improved road network
including the rural roads.
1.02      The proposed project includes construction of the Mahalapye-
Serule section of the North-South road, the organization and implementation
of main, main feeder and district road maintenance programs; and the pro-
vision of equipment for road maintenance and for training Roads Department
staff, as well as the construction of a classroom building for the
Department's Training School.
1.03      The proposed project was identified during appraisal of the Third
Road Project, which included detailed engineering for the Mahalapye-Serule
road, as well as a Road Maintenance Study and a District Road Maintenance
Pilot Program. Implementation of the Study's recommendations and extension
of the District Program are included in the proposed project. The training
component was identified during appraisal of this project; construction of
the classrooms was proposed by the Government during negotiations and
accepted by the Bank.
1.04      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
comprising Peter Ludwig (Engineer), Branko Bjelogrlic (Engineer) and Melody
Mason (Economist), which visited Botswana in September 1976.
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Economic Background
2.01      Landlocked Botswana is a large (570,000 km2), sparsely populated,
desert country (see Map). Access to the sea is through Durban, Cape Town,
Port Elizabeth, Beira, or Maputo. The country's topography does not present
major obstacles to construction of transport facilities, but the scarcity of
water and other construction materials, caused by widespread desert conditions,
adversely affects road construction and maintenance.
2.02      The population, nearly 700,000, is growing at an annual. rate of
2%. Although 75% of the people live in the eastern 10% of the country,
average density there is only about nine persons per km2. As a consequence
of the settlement pattern, development of the transport system haLs been
concentrated in the eastern corridor.



-2-
2.03      Agriculture (primarily animal husbandry) is the largest economic
activity and contributed 35% of Botswana's GDP in 1974. However, mining is
rapidly overtaking it, having increased from 1% of GDP in 1968 to 21% in
1974. This is primarily the result of mineral development at Orapa
(diamonds), Selebi-Pikwe (copper/nickel), and Morupule (coal). Government
is the third-ranking sector and contributed 10% of GDP in 1974. Based
upon proven mineral deposits, mineral exploitation is almost certain to
be increasingly important to the economy over the long-term and will
require considerable improvement and expansion of transport facilities,
including railway connections. While agriculture is not expected to
develop as rapidly, growth in this sector will also stimulate demand for
improved transport, especially roads. At present, however, low density
freight and passenger flows mean that unit costs are high for further
transport projects.
2.04      Per-capital GDP in 1975 was about US$330.  In the early period
of rapid mineral development, real GDP grew at an annual average rate of
about 20%, but is currently expanding at a much lower rate of 8% p.a.
B. The Transport System
General Description
2.05      Overall, the transport system consists of a thin network of roads
and tracks, with the arterial North-South road running parallel to the rail-
way line in the eastern corridor. A small ferry operates across the Zambezi
River between Kazungula, in Botswana, and Zambia. In addition, there is a
considerable number of widely scattered airports or airstrips. Details on
the railway and air transport systems are given below; Chapter 3 gives
details of the road subsector.
Railway
2.06      A nineteenth century-built railway system extends the 642 km
length of eastern Botswana and links two large trading partners, the
Republic of South Africa (RSA) and Rhodesia. It is owned, operated, and
maintained by Rhodesian Railways, which pays Botswana an annual wayleave
of Lstg. 175,000. Virtually all skilled and semi-skilled railway positions
are held by Rhodesians. However, training programs are now underway to
replace 100 of the 140 Rhodesian personnel with Batswana within two years.
In 1975/76, total railway traffic was 1,241 million ton-kilometers, of
which 80% was transit traffic; rail passengers totalled about 562,000 of
whom 10% were in transit.



- 3 -
2.07      The railway has increased in importance in recent years because
of the traffic generated by mineral developments and the increase in beef
exports. Rail spurs from the main railway line to Selebi-Pikwe (51 km)
and to Morupule (14 km), were financed by the Botswana Government in 1974
under the Shashe Infrastructure Project loan (776-BT) for mineral transport:
and are operated and maintained by Rhodesia Railways.
2.08      The North-South road runs parallel to the main railway line.
However, there is little road-rail competition for freight haulage
because the railway is primarily a link between RSA and Rhodesia, while
the road mainly serves internal traffic. At present the railway is not
well suited to serving internal traffic except for the transport of such
bulk items as coal and petroleum, because the comparatively light traffic
densities and short hauls are more suited to road transport. However,
the possibility of transporting more bulk items by road is now umder
investigation (para. 2.10).
Air Transport
2.09      Government's development strategy emphasizes the need for air
connections to integrate widely scattered settlements into the economic and
social life of the country. Past attempts to establish a national airline
with its own aircraft resulted in heavy losses and required substantial
Government subsidization. In 1972, Air Botswana was established as a
profit-oriented parastatal organization wholly-owned by the Botswana Develop-
ment Corporation; it provides domestic and international services by sub-
contracting to private operators. Scheduled domestic flights serve most
Botswana population centers with Hawker Siddeley 748 and Viscount aircraft.
International scheduled services are provided to RSA and Zambia by Air
Botswana; Zambian Airways and South African Airways also provide air service
to Botswana. Approximately 90,700 passengers were handled on scheduled air
services in Botswana in 1975/76, although this figure includes transit
passengers.
C. Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination
9.10      Botswana's present transport policy has two general aims:  to meet
current demands by utilizing existing transport resources more efficiently
and to expand these resources as demand arises. Rapid growth in mineral
exploitation, together with new industrial and agricultural developments,
has put pressure on the present road system (para. 2.03). While preferring
to decrease dependence on foreign-owned transport facilities, especially
the railway, Government recognizes that the railway will continue to play a
significant role and hopes eventually to take over internal operations from
Rhodesia (para. 2.06).   CIDA is cuirrently undertaking a study or modal split
considerations, partizularly the tr:ansport of cattle, as part of contingency
plans being drawn -up by the Governiment in the evernt that politTcal events in
Rhodesia disrupt the rail service.
2I1L      The current national transport plan is an integral part of the
1973-78 National Development Plan and provides an adequate basis for develop-
ment programs. In October 1977, the Government will undertake, with ODM
assistance, the preparation of a long-term National Transport Plaa through



-4-
consultants. However, in view of the present uncertain political situation
in southern Africa, the implementation of such a plan may be constrained.
2.12      The Ministry of Works and Communications (MWC) is responsible for
roads and air transport and has a section dealing with railways, but since
the latter is controlled from Rhodesia (para. 2.06), the Ministry has little
influence over it. Within MWC, a Planning Unit was established in 1972 to
appraise proposed MOW projects, and prepare and continuously update the
national transport plan. Details of road transport planning are given in
paras. 3.12-.14.
D. Previous Bank Group Projects in the Transport Sector
2.13      The Bank Group has had three previous road projects in Botswana
and an infrastructure project with a road component. The first project,
financed by a US$3.6 million credit (63-BEC) approved in 1964, provided for:
(a) the design, construction, and reconstruction of three roads
totalling 570 km;
(b) selected betterment of the North-South road; and
(c) improvement and expansion of the maintenance organization.
The project was satisfactorily completed on time in 1968, within cost estimates;
however, according to a project audit report, L/ projected economic benefits
were not fully realized in the 6-year period following project completion
because the forecast shift from livestock trekking to trucking did not take
place. This resulted from livestock quarantine restrictions making it more
economic to trek rather than truck cattle. The economic rate of return
estimated at appraisal ranged from 8-20% for various project components; the
1973 estimated rate of return for one component was negative and for the
other components ranged from 4-16%.
2.14      In 1972, a second project was approved, financed by a US$2.0 million
IDA credit (303-BT), a US$4.0 million SIDA credit, and a contribution by
Government; it comprised:
(a) the reconstruction and paving of the 84 km Pioneer Gate-Lobatse-
Gaborone-Sebele section of the North-South road;
(b)  consultant services for detailed engineering and construction
supervision; and
(c)  technical assistance to the Roads Branch of the Public Works
Department.
These works were also satisfactorily completed ahead of schedule and within
cost estimates. The subsequent Project Completion Report2/ reconfirmed the
project's economic justification although the rate of return was estimated
at 13%, 6 percentage points lower than the appraisal estimate. This was
because the initial traffic level assumed at the time of appraisal was too
high, as the actual traffic growth rates compare reasonably with appraisal
assumptions.
1/ Audit of Botswana First Highway Project, 1973.
2/ Project Completion Report, Botswana Second Highway Project, 1976.



2.15      She third p-oject, financed by a US$5.8 million Bank loan
(1174-BT) and a US$2.0 million Government contribution, was approved in
1975, and onsisted of:
(a)  construction of the Gaborone-Molepolole road (52 km);
(b) consultant services for detailed engineering, construction
supervision and a Road Maintenance Study;
(c) implementation of a District Roads Maintenance Pilot E'rogram;
and
(d) staff training, purchase of soils laboratory equipment and
loadometers and weighbridges.
At present, project implementation is one year behind schedule owing to
delays in preparation of acceptable tender documents.
2.16      The 1972 Shashe Infrastructure Project loan (776-BT) initially
included construction of the 52 km Serule-Selebi-Pikwe road to gravel
standards. The project encountered some problems over construction defects
that were subsequently resolved. Additional funds for bituminizing the
road were included in a supplementary loan which brought the total cost of
road construction to US$3.5 million. Completion of the road is expected in
April 1977.
2.17      As a result of the Bank Group's past road project experience in
Botswana, initial traffic levels on the proposed project road have been
arrived at after detailed traffic counts, and procurement procedures have
been discussed in detail and agreed with Government during negotiations.
3. ROADS
A. The Network
3.01      At independence in 1966, Botswana had about 430 km of all-weather
roads, serving the more populated eastern corridor. Since then, with the
assistance of the Bank Group, SIDA, CIDA, USAID, KfW, DANIDA, NORAD and ODM,
the all-weather main road network has been expanded to about 1,450 km to
meet the increase in traffic; the length of bituminous-surfaced roads has
increased from 26 km to 250 km.
3.02      The 7,200 km of inventoried roads, which are classified functionally
as main (2,300 km), main feeder (1,600 km) and secondary roads (3,300 km)
(Table 1), comprise some 250 km of bitumincus-surfaced roads, 1,200 km of
gravel roads and 5,750 km of earth roads. Both main and feeder roads are
built to the same geometric standards. The rural nietwork of earth and sand
roads has been estimated by a District Council Survey at about 11,300 km,
of which only 3,300 km have been inventoried and classified as secondary
roads.



-6-
3.03      While the generally flat terrain is favorable to road construction,
major difficulties and consequent high costs result from lack of suitable
materials for construction and maintenance, including water, in the country
as a whole.
3.04      Recently accelerated main road construction is described in
para. 3.14.
B. Traffic
3.05      During 1965-73, the registered private vehicle fleet increased from
3,900 to 8,100 vehicles (Table 2), a 14/% average annual growth rate; however,
from 1973-75, the number of vehicles rose to 12,800, a 25% annual increase,
reflecting the increase in mining activities. In 1975, the registered fleet
comprised 6,500 freight vehicles (mostly small trucks with less than 3-ton
capacity), 3.600 automobiles, 125 buses, 2,400 tractors and trailers, and
115 other types of vehicles, although not all are still in service.
If these figutres took account of the number of vehicles becoming obsolete and
permanently out-of-service, the vehicle registration growth rate would be
lower and more in line vith the recorded growth of road traffic (para. 5.05).
3.06      The Roads Department has conducted traffic counts on selected
roads during recent years. As some of these counts were not reliable, MVC
transferred responsibility for traffic data collection to a newly-organized
Statistical Unit in the MWC under the direction of the Senior Planning
Officer. The Unit has two professional statisticians seconded from the
Central Statistics Office and a number of statistical assistants. This
arrangement should result in more reliable data collection.
C. Regulations and Rates
3.07      The Road Traffic Act of 1972, and its 1974 amendment, implemented
by the Transport Control Division, is Botswana's first legislation governing
vehicle weights and dimensions and provides adequate legislation to protect
the road system; axle loads are limited to 8-7 tons, as in RSA. This legis-
lation was timely, because increased mining activity is beginning to generate
heavy vehicle axle loads. Weighbridges and loadometers, financed under the
Third Road Project, are being installed and will facilitate enforcement,
especially for internal traffic; weights and dimensions of vehicles entering
Botswana from Rhodesia and RSA are already well-controlled by those countries.



-7 -
3.08      Under the same Act, Government also introduced regulations concerning
entry into the road transport industry and vehicle licensing.  Permits from
the MW7C Iransportation Secretary are necessary for either handling one's own
goods or providing a for-hire service, but applicants need only demonstrate
financial responsibility and nominal demand; consequently, there are numerous
truckers, 60% of whom have only one vehicle and few have more than five. No
control is exercised over freight rates, and considerable competition exists
among carriers. Road improvements have led to substantial freight rate
reductions on those roads which have improved. Bus operators are required
by law to charge one cent per passenger-kilometer and there is substantial
compliance with this requirement. Because this charge is not adequate to
ensure regular service on poorer roads, the Government provides subsidies
for services on some of them. Local road transport is still undeveloped
and has a high failure rate; the Transport Control Division has recently
been given a brief to consider ways of developing this industry.  The road
transport demand generated by the mineral development projects has been
satisfied mostly by foreign operators.
D.   Administration
Roads Department
3.09      The organization of the Roads Department is shown in Chart 1.
In addition to the main and main feeder road network, the Department is
responsible for maintaining airfields and Gaborone's city roads. The
Department is divided into four sections: Data and Planning, Maintenance,
Development, and Rural Roads (each headed by a Roads Engineer); the
organization is adequate. The Maintenance Branch is subdivided into the
Northern, Southern, and Western Maintenance regions, each headed by a
Roads Engineer.
3.10      Senior posts in the Roads Department have been filled with
expatriate experts under bilateral assistance from ODM, SIDA, NORAD,CIDA and
DANIDA. The Department has only one national who is a qualified civil
engineer. Although the Government is committed to a localization program



- 8 -
and ample funds for training abroad are available from bilateral agencies,
the Department has been unable to find enough suitable candidates for
university-level training abroad. Therefore, in the near future there
will continue to be insufficient qualified Botswana professional staff, and
the Goovernment will continue to depend on expatriates. This dependence,
however, results in lack of continuity because expatriates normally serve
for only two years. There is also a shortage of skilled local technical
staff (para. 3.25). However, the National Development Plan provides for
the expansion of both primary and secondary education, and efforts to meet
the country's manpower requirements by the early 1980's are being supported
by a Bank education project (BT-1274/1275T).
District Councils
3.11      The District Councils, under the Ministry of Local Government and
Lands (1L10), are responsible for an estimated 8,000 km of district roads.
However, thie Councils have few or no maintenance facilities and thus the
roads, already in poor condition, continue to deteriorate. Under an ongoing
project, with assistance from NORAD, about 900 km of the network are to be
reconstructed or improved. Also, the Third Road Project included a main-
tenance pilot program at the district level (para. 3.23), which will be
expanded under the present project (para. 4.06).
E. Planning
3.12      The Division of Economic Affairs of the Ministry of Finance and
Development Planning (MFDP) is responsible for overall sector planning
and coordination.  Sectoral planning units have also been established in
other ministries concerned with development. The MWC planning unit selects
and prepares economic evaluations of proposed road projects which, if
approved by the MFDP and National Assembly, are included in the ongoing
National Development Plan. Because of the growing workload and MTFDP's
limited economic and planning expertise, responsibility for transport
planning is being increasingly assumed by the MWC planning unit.
3.13      This unit comprises a Senior Planning Officer and two planning
officers supported by a Statistics Branch; staff from the various ministerial
departments provide the necessary technical assistance. The unit has success-
fully prepared road projects for various financing agencies, although its
capacity is limited by insufficient staff.
3.14      Government's current road development plans include completion of the
all-weather North-South artery, upgrading the remainder of the main road network
and improving rural roads. Altogether, nearly 1,100 km of the North-South road



- 9 -
will be constructed to all-weather gravel or bituminous standards by
mid-1981, at an estimated cost of about US$75 million. Although this
may appear a costly and ambitious undertaking, the necessary external
assistance has been forthcoming. Scheduling and funding for improvement
of the North-South road to all-weather standards is summarized below:
Financing       Completion
Section                                    Agency            Date
Ramathlabama-Lobatse (45 km)                            EDF             1980
Pioneer Gate-Lobatse-Gaborone-Sebele (80 km)          IDA, SIDA         1974
Sebele-Mahalapye (180 km)                               ODM             1976
Mahalapye-Serule (150 km)                               IBRD            1981
Serule-Francistown (83 km)                              KfW             1978
Francistown-Nata (190 km)                             DANIDA,CIDA,      1977
NORAD
Nata-Kazungula (360 km)                                 USAID           1977
All sections are to be improved to bituminous standards, except for the
Nata-Kazungula section which was completed to all-weather gravel standards;
USAID is already being approached for funds to bituminize it.  Three important
roads which feed the North-South road are also to be paved, Serule-Selebi
Pikwe (52 km) and Gaborone-Molepolole (52 km), both with Bank Group assist:ance,
and the Kanye-Lobatse road (45 km) with assistance from the African Develop-
ment Bank. The Government further intends to improve the Francistown-
Ramokgwebana road (70 km) to the Rhodesia border; when this is done, there
will be a bituminous road of good standard from Cape Town through Rhodesia,
Zambia, Tanzania and Kenya to Kampala in Uganda and beyond. Also planned is
improvement to gravel or bitumen standards of the existing track from Selebi-
Pikwe to the village of Zanzibar on the RSA border. (At present, there i's
a 90 km road to the south connecting Martin's Drift, on the RSA border, to
the North-South road.) The justification for the road will depend upon olther
inputs to develop the area (para. 5.09).



- 10 -
F. Financing
3.15      Maintenance budget requests are prepared in the MWC and included
in the General Budget for Cabinet and National Assembly approval. Appro-
priations are made in full to the MWC at the beginning of the fiscal year.
Recurrent expenditure balances may not be carried over from year to year.
In recent years, almost all capital expenditures for roads have been financed
through external grants and loans.
3.16      Road users contribute to Government revenue through taxes and
duties on vehicles, fuel, lubricants, and spare parts, and through license
and registration fees. Only the license and registration fees, which contri-
buted P 339,000 in 1974 (US$500,000 at the then-prevailing exchange rate),
are set by the Botswana government. All customs and sales duties on goods
imported into the common customs area (Swaziland, Botswana, Lesotho, RSA)
are paid into a common revenue pool. No specific data is available on total
revenues collected, but the Government estimates that its share of transport
related common pool revenues amounted to about P .3.6 million in 1974 (US$5.3
million at the 1974 exchange rate); this amount includes a subsidy from the
customs union which is significantly more than the road users actually pay.
Therefore, although revenue substantially exceeded road administration
and maintenance expenditures in 1974 and contributed toward road construction
(Table 3), a significant amount of this revenue was not contributed by road
users. Revenues in 1974 also reflected the increased growth in car registra-
tion (para. 3.05); overall, growth in car registrations is not expected to
continue to increase at such a high rate. Nevertheless, total projected
revenues should still cover the increased costs of maintaining the improved
road network.
3.17      In 1977, a new system of 'F licences' for all transit traffic
will be implemented. Foreign registered vehicles passing through Botswana
will have to purchase a voucher on entering the country. The price of the
voucher will depend on where a vehicle enters and exits from Botswana:
about P 15 per gross ton per trip will be levied on each vehicle travelling
from the very south to the very north or vice versa. The Government hopes
thereby to recover some of the maintenance and amortization costs of the
North-South road, especially as a considerable increase in traffic from
Zambia and RSA is expected once the upgrading of the road has been completed.
3.18      Annual road expenditures, including construction, increased by more
than 500 % between fiscal 1970 and 1976 (Table 3) and represented approxi-
mately 7% of total Government expenditure in the latter year. Over this period,
administration and maintenance expenditures were modest because the road net-
work was so small; however, the substantial improvements underway indicate
that considerable expenditures will be required in future. If current road



- 11 -
development plans are implemented, by mid-1981 Botswana will have about 1,100
km of bitumen roads and about 1,600 km of gravel roads, requiring an esti-
mated annual expenditure of about P 2 million (in 1976 prices) if the roads
are to be properly maintained (para. 3.23).
G. Engineering
3.19      Roads Department design capacity is limited to small-scale projects
and is unlikely to increase significantly until the shortage of skilled
technicians, surveyors and soils technicians is overcome (para. 3.25). The
training program included in the Third Road Project will help alleviate this
problem. For major road projects, the Department will continue, in the
foreseeable future, to depend upon the assistance of foreign consultants to
carry out feasibility studies and detailed engineering.
H. Construction
3.20      Major contracts are unit-price type; contract conditions conforn
to international standards and include provisions covering bid bonds, per-
formance guarantees, price escalation, advance payments, retention money,
arbitration and first-year road maintenance by contractor.
3.21      There are no Botswana road contractors because of a lack of
trained professionals, subprofessionals and managers. Roads are
constructed by foreign contractors. The infant construction industry,
which is involved mostly in house construction, is adequate to meet the
limited demands on it. The Government is considering the possibility of
the industry's expanding into small civil works, particularly to meet
district road needs. The Bank is prepared to offer informal technical
-.sistance to assist the Government with a program to develop civil works
contractors.
3.22      Because of the Roads Department's limited capacity, expatriate
consulting firms supervise major road construction and will supervise
construction of the proposed project road (para. 4.05).
I. Maintenance
3.23      The Roads Department carries out minimal routine and recurrent
maintenance of main and main feeder roads, consisting mostly of grading



- 12 -
and bush-dragging gravel on earth roads; this system has caused many roads
to sink below the level of the adjoining land so that drainage is ineffec-
tive and roads are sometimes impassable during rains. Further, the
upgrading of the main road network in recent and coming years (para.3.14)
will increase maintenance demands, and the Government is anxious to ensure
that the Roads Department is able to meet them. The Government also
recognizes the need to strengthen the District Councils so they can adequately
maintain and improve rural roads (para. 3.11). To assist in these endeavors,
the Third Road Project provided for a Road Maintenance Study and District
Roads Maintenance Pilot Program. In a continuation of this effort, the
proposed project includes assistance for implementing the Study's recommen-
dations and expanding the Pilot Program (para. 4.06). In ad6ition, during
negotiations it was agreed that the Government and the Bank will discuss
annually budget allocations for road maintenance.
3.24      The Central Transport Organization (CTO), under the MWC, provides
and maintains all equipment and vehicles used by ministries and government
agencies. Because inefficient management and a shortage of skilled workers
had resulted in an overall low vehicle and equipment availability rate (as
low as 30% for the Roads Department), the Government prepared, with CIDA
assistance, a program to improve CTO's organization and operations. The
program is now being implemented and should be substantially completed by
the end of 1978. CIDA is providing a General Manager, a Supplies Manager,
a Transportation Manager, a Driver Operator Training Instructor and a Safety
Officer, as well as funds for training aids equipment. To date, the program
has concentrated on improving the vehicle availability rate and has had some
success;, efforts are now focussing on increasing equipment availability.
During negotiations, the Government and the Bank agreed that loan proceeds
will not be disbursed for procurement of maintenance equipment for the Roads
Department until the availability rate of vehicles and equipment for the
Department reaches a minimum of 60%.
J. Training
3.25      To overcome the shortage of skilled local staff in the Roads
Department, Batswana are being trained in the National Center for Vocational
Training which was set up under an ILO/UNDP project in Gaborone; in addition,
surveyors, road section officers, draftsmen, soils technicians, road fore-
men and equipment operators are being trained by the Roads Department; and
mechanics and vehicle operators are being trained by CTO. The Roads Depart-
ment has a very small Training School with two expatriate teachers providinR



- 13 -
instruction. The School is adequately organized, but lacks classroom faci-
lities and training equipment, especially for equipment operators. Under the
project, a classroom building will be constructed and necessary vehicles and
equipment for training operators will be provided (para. 4.07).
4. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
4.01      The objectives of the proposed project are to assist the Govern-
ment in completing the improvement of the North-South arterial road to all-
weather standards; in implementing an effective main, main feeder and
district road maintenance program; and in strengthening the Roads Department
Training School.
B. Description
4.02      The project consists of:
i)   construction of the Mahalapye-Serule road (150 km) to two-lane
bituminous standards;
ii)   consultant services to:
a) assist the borrower in bid evaluation and supervise
construction of (i); and
b) help prepare a feeder road construction program as
part of a larger rural development project;
iii)   assistance with:
a) implementation of the findings of the Road Maintenance
Study financed under the Third Road Project; and
b) extension of the District Roads Maintenance Pilot
Program to two additional districts; and
iv)   construction of a classroom building and procurement of
training equipment for the Roads Department Training School.



- 14 -
(i) Mahalapye-Serule Road Construction
4.03      The project road is part of the North-South artery which links
Botswana with Zambia in the north, RSA in the south and Rhodesia in the
east. Within the country, the North-South road connects Francistown, a
major administrative and commercial center in the north, to the capital,
Gaborone, in the south. The project section of the North-South road will
link three major villages, Mahalapye, Palapye and Serule. Further, it
%ill link several main and secondary roads which serve areas to the west
sn  east.
4.04      The project road will replace an existing earth road which is
sometimes closed to traffic during the rainy season, particularly as it is
generally below ground level and thus acts as a water-course during heavy
rains. The road, which passes through flat terrain, will be built to main
road standards (Table 4). This construction will significantly reduce road
user and maintenance costs (para. 5.04).
(ii) Consultant Services
4.05       (a)  Consultants will be employed to supervise the Mahalapye-
Serule road construction and to assist the Roads Department with bid
evaluation.
(b) In addition, a nominal sum has been included in the proposed
project for consultant services and technical assistance to assist in the
preparation of an as-yet-undefined feeder roads construction program. Such
a program would be part of a larger rural development program which is in
the initial stage of identification.
(iii) Road Maintenance
4.06       (a)  Financed under the Third Road Project, a Road Maintenance
Study,to be completed in December 1977, will consider all aspects of road
maintenance (planning, execution, financing and control) and draw up a
five-year maintenance program for the gazetted network  (para. 3.23).  This
program will be discussed between the Government and the Bank, and the
recommendations to be implemented will be agreed upon.  In order to assist
Government in carrying out the agreed program, a notional sum has been included
in the proposed project.



- 15 -
(b) A District Roads Maintenance Pilot Program for the Central
District, scheduled to begin in mid-1978 under the Third Road Project
(para. 3.23), is to be drawn up as the first part of the Road Maintenance
Study. Organizational and operational procedures will be set up for the
betterment, rehabilitation and maintenance of the District's roads, and
MLGL, through the Central District Council, will implement them. The
initial results of the Pilot Program will be reviewed by the Government
and the Bank, and two more districts will be selected by the MLGL for
inclusion in an agreed extension of this program to be financed under the
proposed project. As under the Third Project, the extended program will
be oriented towards labor-intensive methods (Table 6), if they are found
to be justified.
(iv) Training School
4.07      Previous Bank support of Roads Department training efforts
(para. 2.15) will be continued under this project through provision of
equipment to the Roads Department Training School (Table 7), which should
significantly increase its capacity to train operators (para. 3.25), and
through construction of a building with three classrooms and office space.
C. Status of Engineering
4.08      Detailed engineering to main road standards for the Mahalapye-
Serule Road (Table 4).was prepared by Brian Colquhuon and Partners
(consultants, UK), financed under the Third Road Project, and is satis-
factory.



- 16 -
D. Cost Estimate
4.09      Total project cost (including contingencies) is estimated at
US$28.0 million, or US$26.3 million, excluding taxes and duties. The
foreign exchange component is US$21.6 million, or 77% of total project
cost. The tax component is estimated at about 6% of total cost. Project
cost estimates are given below:
Pula million           US$ million         Foreign
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Component
i) Construction:
Mahalapye-Serule Road
(150 km)                      3.50   10.5    14.00   4.04   12.13   16.17       75
ii) Consultant Services:
a)  Supervision of (i)          0.16    0.64    0.80   0.19    0.74    0.93       80
b)  Preparation of feeder       0.04    0.16    0.20   0.05    0.18    0.23       80
road program
iii) Road Maintenance:
a)  Implementation of the
findings of the study
financed under Roads III   0.10    0.90    1.0    0.11    1.04    1.15        90
b)  Extension of District
Roads Maintenance
Pilot Program               0.10    0.90    1.0    0.11    1.04    1.15       90
iv) Strengthening of Roads
Department:
Training School
equipment, classrooms           0.02    0.28    0.30   0.02    0.33    0.35       95
and office space.
Subtotal (i-iv)        3.92   13.38   17.30   4.52   15.46   l .98
v) Contingencies:l/
a)  Physical: 10%               0.40    1.33    1.73   0.45    1.55    2.00
b) Price:
29% on (i)               1.1Z    J.36    4.50U  1.30    3.90    5.20
23% on (ii)              0.05    0.21    0.26   0.06    0.24    0.30
20% on (iii)             0.04    0.39    0.43   0.05    0.45    0.50
l'/ on (iv)             0.01    0.03    0.04   0.01    0.04    0.05
Subtotal (v)           1.62    5.34    6.96   1.87    6.18    8.05
Total Project Cost              5.54  ;a8.72   24.26   6.39   21.64   28.03       77
Total Project Cost
excluding taxes and duties    4.08   18.72   22.80   4.75   21.64   26.35        82
_/   See Table 5 for calculation of contingencies.



- 17 -
4.10      The base costs are estimated as of February 1977 and have been
derived as follows:
(i) Road Construction: the appraisal cost estimate was based on unit
prices estimated by the consultants who carried out detailed engineering for
the project road. However, bids for the Serule-Francistown road received
after appraisal showed a 9% increase in the construction cost per km; there-
fore, as the road is similar to the project road, costs have been based on
the bids received. Foreign costs are estimated at 75% of total construction
costs.
(ii) Consultant Services: based on 200 man-months at US$5,000 per man-
month, which is similar to rates paid in the recent past for supervision of
construction in Botswana. Also, a notional sum is included for assistance
with the preparation of a feeder road construction program which could form
part of a future rural development project.
(iii) Road Maintenance: a notional sum has been included to assist
Government in implementing the recommendations of the Road Maintenance Study
financed under the Third Road Project. Estimates for extension of the
District Roads Maintenance Pilot Program are based on updated 1975 quotes
from equipment suppliers (Table 6). A technical assistance component has
also been included, as well as additional funds for equipment which may be
necessary following the findings of the Pilot Program.
(iv) Training School: construction and equipment costs are based on
MWC's estimates, which appear reasonable (Table 7).  Local costs cover local
handling and transport.
E. Financing
4.11      The project will be financed by a Bank loan of US$20.0 million
which will cover 92% of the project's foreign costs, and by a Government
contribution of US$8.0 million (US$6.3 million, excluding taxes and duties)
of which US$1.6 million will cover the remaining 8% of the foreign costs of
the project (10% of the foreign costs of construction). The financing plan,,
net of taxes, comprises:
Source
% of    % of           % of    % of
Govern-   Total  Foreign          Total  Foreign
Item                          ment       Cost    Cost    IBRD  Cost    Cost   Total
US$                      US$                     US$
million                  million                 million
Construction                     6.01     28       10    15.60    72      90    21.61
Supervision                      0.18     16        -     1.00    84    100       1.18
Preparation of feeder
road program                   0.03     10        -     0.25    90    100       0.28
Road Maintenance                 0.11      4        -     2.75    96    100       2.86
Training Equipment               0.02      5        -     0.40    95    100       0.42
6.35     25        8    20.00    75      92    26.35



- 18 -
F. Implementation
Responsibility
4.12      The Roads Department will be responsible for the implementation
of all project components except the District Roads Maintenance Program
which will be executed by the MLGL, through the District Councils in the
areas where the program will operate.
Scheduling
4.13      Construction and related supervision of the project road will
take about 4 years, with an estimated 10% of the works to be carried out in
1977, 25% in 1978, 30% in 1979, 30% in 1980 and 5% in 1981. The
District Roads Maintenance Pilot Program (financed under the Third Road
Project) should start in mid-1978 in the Central District; extension of
the program into the two other districts will begin once the inital results
of the Pilot Program are known, in early 1979.    Implementation of the
Road Maintenance Study's recommendations is also expected to begin in early 1979.
The equipment for the Roads Department Training School should be available
by the end of 1978. An implementation schedule, which was agreed with
Government during negotiations, is shown in Chart 2. Also agreed during
negotiations were project implementation reporting requirements and indices
for measuring implementation progress (Annex II).
G. Procurement
Equipment and Civil Works
4.14      The MWC, assisted by its consultants and technical assistants,
will identify the maintenance equipment required for the road maintenance
program and the District Roads Maintenance Program (para. 4.06). The
equipment to be procured under the project will be subject to agreement
with the Bank. In addition, consultants and technical assistance experts
for the Roads Department and the MLGL will be employed under terms of
reference and conditions agreed with the Bank Group.
4.15      The maintenance equipment will be procured and the construction
contract awarded after international competitive bidding, in accordance
with Bank Group Guidelines for Procurement. The construction contract
will be divided into two parts and prospective contractors will be allowed
to submit tenders on one or both parts following prequalification. This
procedure will permit greater competition than if the contract were not
divided. No problems are expected in acquiring land for right-of-way, as
the Government has the right of eminent domain.



- 19 -
4.16      The vehicles and equipment for the Training School (Table 7)
consist of several independent items, each valued at between US$6,500 and
US$60,000. It would be preferable to procure these items through Govern-
ment's tender procedures so that the equipment purchased is the same as
that in current use by the Roads Department. Therefore, procurement for
the Training School will be through local tender procedures which have
been reviewed by the Bank and found acceptable. The construction of the
new school, at an estimated cost of US$75,000,will be done under force
account.
Construction Methods
4.17      Main road construction in Botswana has been equipment-intensive,
principally due to the relatively high wage rate and the difficulty and
cost of organizing a large labor force in a country where the few population
centers are widely separated. Further, labor, which is much in demand by
RSA mining companies, is generally available only on a seasonal basis.
Nevertheless, the construction of culverts, drains and structural excavation
will absorb a substantial labor input. The optimum degree of labor intensive-
ness suitable for the project's maintenance components will be determined in
the course of the Road Maintenance Study (para. 4.06).
H. Disbursements
4.18      Disbursements will be on the basis of 68% of the cost of civil
works (including taxes), which amounts to 90% of the foreign cost of the
civil works, 80% of total costs for consulting services and 100% of the
foreign cost of the maintenance and training equipment and the technical
assistance. A disbursement schedule is shown in Table 8.
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
5.01      The project road, which represents 82% of the total cost of the
project (net of taxes), will be the last section of the arterial North-Sout:h
road (for description, see para. 4.03) to be construtcted to all-weather
standards. The main benefits from project road construction will be savings
in vehicle operating costs (voc) and road maintenance expenditures. The main
beneficiaries will be the direct road users. However, substantial freight



- 20 -
rate reductions have occurred on those roads which have been improved in the
past. The economic return on the road construction is 15%. Unquantified
benefits include time savings and increased comfort for road users. An
economic return on the project's road maintenance component, which accounts
for 11% of project costs, has not been calculated because the program has
not yet been defined. However, the benefits are expected to be substantial.
B. Area of Influence of the Project Road
5.02      The direct area served by the Mahalapye-Serule road is approximately
4,000 km2, with about 100,000 people; the indirect area serves a population
of about 240,000 of whom about 65,000 live in small towns of 5,000 people
or more. The rest of the population in the influence area are principally
small farmers who raise cattle and cultivate crops, mostly sorghum, maize,
millet and beans. Limited agricultural development is taking place in the
area through the formation of Farmers' Brigades and the establishment of
experimental farms and training centers. Furthermore, the Government is
carrying out a livestock development program, including opening up new
cattle trekking routes and setting up fattening and demonstration ranches,
three of which are situated in or near the project area.
5.03      The copper-nickel mining complex at Selebi-Pikwe and the coal-mining
at Morupule, near Palapye, have provided over 1,000 jobs since their opening in
1974 and direct and indirect employment continues to increase. However, further
mining development in the road's influence area is uncertain, owing to
the political situation in southern Africa and its potential effect on the
Rhodesian-owned railway in Botswana. While industrial activity in the
project area is negligible at present, small-scale industries are being
developed gradually by the Government's Youth Brigades, especially around
Serowe where Engineering, Electrical, Textile, Carpenters' and Printers'
Brigades have been formed.
C. Economic Analysis
5.04      The basis for the economic analysis of the project road is an
assessment of expected traffic benefits and costs with and without the
proposed improvement over 20 years, the expected economic life of the
road construction. The investment cost is taken as the net of tax cost of
improving the road, including supervision and physical contingency costs.



- 21 -
The principal quantifiable benefits are savings in vehicle operating costs and
road maintenance expenditures (Annex I, Table 1). The residual value of the
road after 20 years, amounting to 100% of the earthworks and 50% of bridge
construction costs, is also included in the stream of benefits. Other benefits,
whichi have not been quantified, are road user time savings, accident reduction
and increased comfort for road users.  Construction of the road to all-weather
standards will eliminate the loss of time presently incurred when sections
become impassable during parts of the rainy season. Fencing of the road will
contribute to benefits by reducing the number of animals straying onto the
road and will help reduce the severity of accidents.
Traffic on Project Road
5.05      In 1975, traffic on the project road reached 156 vehicles per day (vpd)
on the Mahalapye-Martin Drift's Junction section (Section A, 65 kim), 180 vpd on
the Martin Drift's Junction-Serowe Junction section (Section B, 9.4 km), and
105 vpd on the Serowe Junction-Serule section (Section C, 75.3 km) (Table 9).
In recent years, traffic growth over the whole length of the project road has
equalled the national average of 10% p.a.; for Section A, the growth rate has
been 11%, for Section B, 8%, and Section C, 11%. The Government estimates that
traffic will increase by well over 10% annually in the next 20 years on the whole
length of the North-South road once it is improved to all-weather standards,
because of an increase in traffic from Zambia and eventually Rhodesia.
5.06      Because of limited agricultural development and uncertain mineral
exploitation plans, more conservative traffic growth forecasts have been used in
the economic analysis:
Forecast Traffic Growth Rate
Section                   1976-90                  1991-2000
A                         9%                       8%
B                         8%                       8%
C                        10%                       8%
The evaluation also assumed that the road improvement would initially generate
traffic equivalent to 10% of existing traffic in 1981, the first year after
completion of the road, and that this traffic would grow at the same rate as
normal traffic for each section throughout the life of the improvement (20
years). For purposes of analysis, only 50% of the vehicle operating cost
savings for the generated traffic were included in calculating the economic rate
of return. Although 20% of vehicles using the project road in 1976 were
registered outside of Botswana, it was assumed for analysis purposes that 50%
of the voc savings accruing to these vehicles would remain in Botswana, espe-
cially as most traffic at the present is bound to and from destinations inside
Botswana and is not through traffic.



Costs and Benefits
5.07      Given that the opportunity cost of capital in Botswana is estimated
at between 10-12%, the streams of costs and benefits indicate that the pro-
posed investment in the Mahalapye-Serule road is economically sound (Annex I,
Table 1), yielding a 15% economic return. Section A shows a 15% economic
return, Section B, 19% and Section C, 14%. The road has a first-year return
of just under 9% when using a 10% discount rate. However, if unquantified
benefits (para. 5.04) are taken into account, first-year benefits would be
higher than estimated. Also, political events in Rhodesia could lead to a
disruption of rail service. If this should occur, the North-South road
would become vital to Botswana, especially for the movement of livestock,
the country's most important export, to the abattoire in the south and for
the transport of petroleum to the north and east. Although Section C has
a first-year return of jtust under 8%, only a two-year delay is required to
bring it to 10%. However, the Government has set a high priority on
improving the North-South road to all-weather standards so as to open up
more trade with Zambia and to provide an alternative transport facility if
Rhodesian Railway service is disrupted. Since Section C would be the only
earth section of the entire road after 1980, it is recommended for inclusion
in the project. The possibility of gravelling the road has been ruled out
as all sections have lower rates of return than the bitumen road, mainly due
to the very high maintenance costs of a gravel road because of the level of
projected traffic flows and the dry environment. The first-year return on
each road section is also lower for a gravel road.
Sensitivity Analysis
5.08      Sensitivity tests applied to the economic analysis assumed construc-
tion cost increases (the major risk), traffic growth rate reductions, and
decreased unit vehicle operating cost savings. The assumed variables used in
these tests and the related economic returns are:
Assumptioii                                 Economic Return (%)
Best estimates                                     15
Best estimates except:
15% increase in construction cost               13
Best estimates except:
6% average annual traffic growth                12.5
Best estimates except:
10% decrease in unit voc savings                14
All individual sections of the road maintain a rate of return of 12% or over
when these sensitivity tests are applied, except for Section C which has an
11% rate of return if traffic grows by only an average of 6% annually.



- 23 -
Other Risks
5.09      Included in the 1976-81 Draft National Plan is the construction of
a road from Selebi-Pikwe to Zanzibar or farther south to the RSA border
(para. 3.14). The road would: (a) provide eastern Botswana with an all-
weather link with RSA, as there is only an earth road from Martin's Drift
to the North-South road; and (b) improve communications with the area to
the east of the project road, the area of greatest agricultural potential
in Botswana. The Government plans to begin construction in 1978-79, but no
financing has yet been secured. Further, the economic justification for
the road is doubtful over the next few years because (a) most benefits would
accrue to traffic flowing to and from RSA, and (b) current traffic levels
are low. However, since the road would serve an area of aRricultural
potential, it might be justifiable as part of an overall development pro-
gram for the area. If constructed, this road would divert traffic away
from the project road, as the route through Zanzibar to RSA is shorter for
vehicles coming from north of Serule, Serule and Selebi-Pikwe than the route
through Martin's Drift. An estimated 3% of traffic would be diverted from
Section A, 5% from Section B and 8.5% from Section C, but the rate of
return on the project road would still be a satisfactory 14.5%. Section C
would be affected most: its return would drop to 12.5%.
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, the Government agreed that it would:
(i) discuss annually with the Bank budget allocations for road
maintenance (para. 3.23);
(ii) submit for Bank approval, during project implementation,
maintenance programs for main and main feeder roads and
for district roads (para. 4.06)i and
(iii) employ consultants and technical assistants under the project
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.14).
6.02      Also during negotiations, agreement was reached with novernment on:
(i) project execution timing and reporting requirements, and
indices for monitoring progress (recorded in Agreed Minutes
of Negotiations) (para. 4.13);
(ii)  terms of reference and conditions for consultant services for cons--
truction supervision (recorded in Agreed Minutes of Negotiations)
(para. 4.14).
(iii) procurement procedures (paras. 2.17, 4.14-.16).



- 24 -
6.03       It was also agreed during negotiations that loan proceeds
for procurement of Roads Department maintenance equipment would not
be disbursed until CTO's vehicle and equipment availability rate to
the Department reaches a minimum of 60% (para. 3.24).
6.04       With the agreements indicated above, the project is suitable
for a Bank loan of US$20.0 million, for 20 years with a grace period
of 4.5 years, at 8.2% interest, to the Republic of Botswana.
March 23, 1977



_._3LE 1
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH ROAD PROJECT
BOTSWANA
Length of Gazetted Road Network. 197(r-75
(km)                                         1/
Type of Roads                1970         1971        1972        1973        1974        1975-
Main
Bitumen                      26           26          26        60           146         229
Gravel                      397         522          522       513           506         789
Earth                     2,082       1,941        1,941        16         1,826       1,248
Sub-total        2.505       2.489       2e489    2,489           2.478       2 266
Main Feeder
Bitumen                                  -            -         -             -           22
Gravel                      267         267          297       332           332         322
Earth                     2,080       2,134       2,104    2,069           2,069       1,283
Sub-total        2,347       2,401        2,401    2,401          2,401       1,627
Secondary
Bitumen                                   -           -         -
Gravel                                                -     -                             77
Earth                        -                                                -        3,212
Sub-total           -            -           -         -             -        3,289
District
Gravel                       -                        -                       30          -
Earth                     3,106       3,080       3,080    3               3,050        -
Sub-total        3,106       3,080        3,080    3,080          3,080          -
Total all roads   7,958         7,980       7,980    7,980          7,959       7,182
1/   1975 roads lengths lo not match previous lengths, because the Government
reclassified the whole network.
Source: Roads Department, March 1976.
March 1977



TABLE 2
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH ROAD PROJECT
BOTSWANA
Vehicles Reeistered, 1965-1q75
Year                      Number of Vehicles              Annual Increase
1965                              3,884
1966                              4,302                           11
1967                              4,992                           16
1968                              5,101                            2
1969                              5,681                           11
1970                              6,215                            9
1971                              6,462                            4
1972                              7,663                           19
1973                              8,143                            6
1974                             11,181                           37
1975                             12,809                           15
Note:    Figures do not include 1,992 government-owned vehicles
registered in 1975.
Source: Ministry of Works and Communieations,September 1976.
March 1977



TABLE 3
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH ROAD PROJECT
BOTSWANA
Annual Expenditures on Roads, 1970/71 - 1975/76
Fiscal
Year      Administration      Construction     Maintenance      Total
------------(Pula thousand)-------_______________
1970-71        178                664              1,089         1,931
1971-72        164                991                619         1,774
1972-73        150                575                748         1,473
1973-74        214              3,989                887         5,090
1974-75        274              8,834              1,351        10,459
1975-76        328              8,875              1,369        10,572
Source: Ministry of Works and Communications, September 1976.
March 1977



TABLE 4
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH ROAD PROJECT
BOTSWANA
Design Standards for Mahalapye-Serule Road
Characteristics
Geometric Design Standards
Speed                                          120   km/hr
Minimum horizontal r-adius                     840   m *
Maximum gradient                                 4   %
Maximum superelevation                           7   %
Pavement crossfall                             2.5   %
Shoulder crossfall                             3.5   %
Maximum length of straight                   2,400   m*
Roadway Features
Road widths                                    10.7  m
Bituminous pavement width                       6.7  m
Shoulder width                                  2.0  m
Right-of-way width                             60.0  m**
Bridge width                                   10.7  m
Structural Design Features
Maximum axle load                               8.2 ui/tolis
Pavement design                         Road Research Laboratory
TRRL Reiort RN 31
Bridge loading                                      AASHO-H20-S16
* To be discussed from case to case with Borrower's roads "ena-t-ent.
** 40 m. in urban areas if necessary.
Source: Ministry of Works and Communications, 1975.
March 1977



TABLE 5
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH ROAD PROJECT
BOTSWANA
Calculation of Physical and Price Contingencies
Item                                                                            Costs (US$'000)
1                                                              1977      1978      1979     1980      Total
Construction                          Base Cost Estim,ate            1,617    4,851    6,468    3,234    16,170
Physical Contingency             162       485       647       323     1,617
Total                          1,779    5,336    7,115    3,557    17,787
Expected Price Incrense          160       999    2,346    1,690       5,195
Consulting Services                   Base Cost Estimate                93       279       500       288     1,160
Physical Contingency               9        28        50        29       116
Total                            102       307       550       317     1,276
Expected Price Increase            8        46       136       108       298
Road Maintenance                      Base Cost Estimate                         500    1,500        300     2,300
Physical Contingency                        50       150        30       230
Total                                      550    1,650        330     2,530
Expected Price Increase                     85       333        80       498
Equipment for Training School         Base Cost Estimate                         335                            335
Physical Contingency                        34                             34
Total                                      369                           369
Expected Price Increase                     46                            46
Assumptions:                          Physical contingencies, to cover unforeseen quantity increase,
are equivalent to 10%
Price contingencies, which provide for anticipated cost increases over
the implementation period, are as follows:
Rate of Cost Ir.crease
1977     1978      1979      1980
Construction                                                           12%       12%       12%       10%   1/
Consultant Services                                                    10%        9%        8%        7%   2/
Road MIaintenance Component                                             9%        9%        8%        7%   3/
Equipment for Training School                                           8%        8%        8%        7%   T/
1/  Based on Bank Guidelines,which are applicable to Botswana.
2/ Based on cost trend for consulting services observed in Botswana.
3/ The road maintenance component is composed of equiprment and technical assistance
and/or consultant services and a small construction component (USS75,000).   The
rates of cost increase were calculated by taking the average increase for
equipment procurement and consulting services.
March 1977



TABLE 6
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH ROAD PROJECT
BOTSWANA
Equipment for the Extension of the District Road Maintenance Pro ramk'
No. of                                                            -
Units                Description of Unit        Unit Cost          - o     Cost
- - - - -('-ula)-- - -- - -
Type A
12     Four-wheel drive tractors              10,000                120,000
12     Trailers                                 3,000                36,000
12     Towed Graders                            6,000                72,000
Type B
6     Two-wheel drive tractors                6,000                 36,000
6     Trailers                                3,000                 18,000
General
Miscellaneous hand tools, tents, etc.                        18,000
Total Cost  Pula   300,000
Tntal Cost US$      350,000
* Estimated prices in February 1977.
1/  The type of equipment and exact nunber o' untts may be changed as
a result of the findings of the Pilot Program.
Source: Appraisal Mission updated estimates based on 1975 prices obtained
from the Ministry of Local Government and Lands, January 1975.
I"rceL 1977



TABLE 7
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH ROAD PROJECT
BOTSWANA
Training School Ecuipment
No. of
Units    Description of Unit            Unit Cost-         Total Cost
----------(Pula)-----------
1      Grader (Galion or Cat.)         52,000               52,000
1      Dozer  (D6)                     60,000               609,00
1      Loader (950 Cat.)               53,000               53,000
1      Roller                          30,000               30,000
1      Tractor  (M.F. 163)              6,500                6,500
1      Tipper Truck  (Bedford)          0,0O0                9,000
1      Bus for Students                 8,500                8,500
1      Pick-up for Site Work            6,500                6,500
Miscellaneous tools, spares      n.a.                10,000
235.000
Sub-total                                           235,000
Construction of new school
comprising three class-
rooms and office space                               65,000
Total rost wuia                                     300,000
Total Cost US$                                      346,500
* Estimated prices in February 1977.
Source: Appraisal Mission estimates based on information from the
Ministry of Works and Communications, September 1976.
March 1977



TABLE 8
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH ROAD PROJECT
BOTSWANA
Estimated Shedule of Disbursements
IBRD
Fiscal Year                               Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                                at end of Quarter
(US$ thousand)
1977/78
September 30, 1977
December 31, 1977                            2,000
March 31, 1978                               3,600
June 30, 1978                                4,900
1978/79
September 30, 1978                           5,900
December 31, 1978                            7,000
March 31, 1979                               9,200
June 30, 1979                               10,400
1979/80
September 30, 1979                          11,900
December 31, 1979                           13,500
March 31, 1980                              14,800
June 30, 1980                               16,200
1980/81
September 30, 1980                          17,600
December 31, 1980                           19,000
March 31, 1981                              19,600
June 30, 1981                               20,000
Closing date: December 31, 1981
Source: Mission estimates
March 1977



APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH ROAD PROJECT
BOTSWANA
Projected Vehicles Per Day on Project Road
Section                                    1975     1976      1981      1986     1991      2000
A.   Mahalapye-Martin's Drift Junction (65 kma)          159      172       291      448       683      1,365
B.   Martin's Drift Junction-Serowe Fork (9.4 kin)       185      200       323      475       697     1,394
C.   Serowe Fork-Serule (75.3 km)                        106      116       206      331       525     1,049
Note:  Traffic forecasts based on 9% per growth 1975-1990 and 8% growth   1990-2000 for Section A
87  "                                                       I.t.. "    B
10%      XI  SI               8%               II                 C
Generated traffic commencing at a level of 10% of the normal traffic in 1981 was included,after completion of the
construction works.
Breakdown by Vehicle Type of 1976 Traffic
Vehicle Type                Section A             Section B              Section C
Passenger car                  23                    27                     20
Pick-up/Minibus                69                    74                     45
L_ght Truck                    37                     38                    22
Truck/Bus                      30                     37                    19
Heavy Truck                    13                     20                    10
Total        172                    196                   116
Source:  Ministry of Works and Communications and Sir Alexander Gibb & Partners and F.H. Kocks, Consultants, June 1975,
and appraisal estimates.
H
Mlarc.h 1977



ANNEX I
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH ROAD PROJECT
BOTSWANA
Economic Costs and Benefits
A.   Economic Costs
1.        Economic costs for the construction of the Mahalapye-Serule road
have been derived by taking the estimated financial cost of improvement,
supervision and physical contingencies and reducing this sun by 7%, represent-
ing taxes and duties.
B. Economic Benefits
2.        Quantified benefits are savings in road maintenance expenditures
and voc.  Maintenance cost savings have been calculated on the basis of
annual maintenance costs per kilometer for the existing and improved road.
Voc savings have been derived as follows:
Vehicle ODerating Economic Costs- /by Type of Road
Road Surface
Vehicle Type                Earth           Gravel            Bitumen
(cents per km: 100 cents equal 1 pula)
Passenger car               10.23             7.6               5.64
Pick-up/Minibus             12.65             9.28              7.10
Light Truck                 21.04            13.50              9.58
Truck/Bus                   34.11            20.81             13.98
Heavy Truck                 48.95            29.78             19.48
3.        Traffic projections are shown in Table 9;  traffic composition
during the life of the improvement was assumed to be the same as that in
1976.  Although 20% of vehicles using t'e project road in 1976 were
registered outside of Botswana, it was assumed for analysis purposes that
50% of the voc savings accruing to these vehicles would remain in Botswana,
especially as most traffic at the present is bound to and from destinations
inside Botswana and is not through traffic, Traffic generated after
completion of the road is forecast at 10% of the traffic in 1981, with the
same composition as normal traffic, the same percentage of vehicles registered
outside of Botswana, and the same rate of growt.' as normal traffic throughout
the life of the road. The 155.5 km existing road is mostly earth except for
a few short gravel and bitumen sections (totalling 20 km). The improved



ANNEX I
Page 2
road will be 149.7 km; voc savings were calculated for each of the threE
road sections. takinR kilometerage saved into eccoint,
Length of Road     Length of Road
Length of     Improved from       Improved from        Reduction in
Section   New Section   Earth to Bitumen   Gravel to Bitumen   Kilometerage
-----------------------------(km)-----
A         65.0             63.11!               -               2.&=
B          9.4              4.1                5.3
C         75.3             65.71/              3.0              3.29/
1/ The remaining 1.9 km of road is already bituminized.
2/ Kilometerage saved on existing bitumen surface.
3/ The remaining 6.6 km of road is already bituminized.
4/ Kilometerage saved on existing earth surface.
The streams of costs and benefits are presented in Table 1 of this Annex,
together with the rates of return for each section and for the entire
project road.
March, 1977



APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH ROAD PROJECT
BOTSWANA
ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
(Pula '000)
SECTION A                                            SECTION B                                     SECTION C
(65 km)                                               (9.4 km)                                    (75.3 km)
MAHALAPYE-MARTIN'S DRIFT JUNCTION               MARTIN'S DRIFT JUNCTION-SEROWE FORK                     SEROWE FORK-SERULE                         ENTIRE ROAD
l/  .   -                    -              -    -   If _
VEHICLE 1/                                           VEHICLE -                              2/          VEHICLE-/                                2/            3
CAPITAL OPEKATINC      MAINTENANCE   TOTAL NET-  CAPITAL  OPERATING    MAINTENANCE   TOTAL NET- CAPITAL  OPERATING              MAINTENANCE   TOTAL NET-   TOTAL NET-
YEAR     COSTS  COST SAVINGS  COST SAVINGS  BENEFITS         COSTS   COST SAVINGS COST SAVINGS  BENEFITS   COSTS    COST SAVINGS  COST SAVINGS  BENEFITS              BENEFITS
1977     1,509          -              -        -1,509         -            -              -             -         -            -              -               -           -1,509
1978     4,527          97             -        -4,430         -                   -                     -         -            -              -               -           -4,430
1979     1,055         449             -          -606        649          -               -           -649    4,331            -                         -4,331           -5,586
1980                   576             111         687                    62               18            80    3,018           273             -          -2,745           -1,988
1981       *           659            118           777        -          69               19            88                    525            109            634            1,499
1982       -           718            125          843         -          75               25           100                    577            116            693            1,636
1983       -           783            170          953         -          81               26           107                    635            122            757            1,817
1984       -           853            178        1,031         -          87               28           115                    699            130            829            1,975
1985       -           930             187       1,117         -          94               29           123                    769            136            905            2,145
1986       -         1,013            196        1,209         -         102               30           132                    845            145            990            2,331
1987       -         1,105           -147          958         -         110              -23            87                    930            194          1,124            2,169
1988        -        1,204            219        1,423         -         119               33           152                 1,023            -194            827            2,403
1989       -         1,312            233        1,545         -         128               35           163                 1,125             214          1,339            3,047
1990       -         1,430            247        1,677         -         138               37           175                 1,238             225          1,463            3,315
1991       -         1,545            298        1,843         -         149               44           193                 1,337             238          1,575            3,611
1992       -         1,668            315        1,983         -         161               46           207                 1,444             248          1,692            3,882
1993       -         1,801            330        2,131         -         174               48           222                 1,560             259          1,819            4,172
1994       -         1,945              10       1,955         -         188               -5           183                 1,684             272          1,956            4,094
1995       -         2,101            361        2,462         -         203              51            254                 1,819             -76          1,743           4,459
1996       -         2,269            377        2,646         -         219               54           273                 1,964             337          2,301           .5,220
1997       -         2,451             393       2,844         -         237               61           298                 2,122             346          2,468            5,610
1998       -         2,647            444        3,091         -         256              62            318                 2,291             358          2,649            6,058
1999       -         2,858            13694/     4,227         -         276              1084/         384                 2,475             370          2,845            7,456
2000        -     -            -             -                 -                           -             -                  2,673           1,2934/        3,966            3,966
Economic Return                          15%                                                 19%                                                14%              15%
1/  Calculated on the basis of (a) vpd, (b) 365 days, (c) unit savings in voc per km. on existing and improved road.
2/ Total benefits, reflecting savings in voc, savings in maintenance costs, and capital costs.
3/ Sum of total benefits for the three road sections.
4/ Iiicludes residual value.
March 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH ROAD PROJECT
BOTSSWANA
Project Progress Reporting Requirements
1.        Progress Reports should be submitted quarterly in triplicate,
no later than one calendar month after the end of the quarter. The first
Report should cover the quarter ending December 31, 1977.
2.        The information that the Report should contain is described
below.
(i) General information: this section should refer to Project
Monitoring Indices (Table 1 of this Annex) in reporting the following:
(a) the physical progress accomplished to date of report
and during the reporting peried;
(b) actual or expected deviations from the project imple-
mentation schedule;
(c) actual or expected difficulties or delays and their
effects on the implementation schedule, and the steps
planned or taken to overcome the difficulties and avoid
further delay;
(d) expected changes in the completion date of the project;
(e) key personnel changes in the staffs of the Roads Depart-
ment, consultants or contractors;
(f) matters which may affect the cost of the project; and
(g) any development activity likely to affect the economic
viability of project components.
(ii) A bar-type progress chart, based on the project implementation
schedule, should show the progress in each project component.
(iii) A financial statement should be set out in tabular form and
indicate for each project component:
(a) original estimated cost;
(b) revised cost, if appropriate;



ANNEX II
Page 2
(c) actual expenditure;
(d) projected expenditure; and
(e) actual and projected withdrawals from the Loan Account.
(iv) Finally, the Report should state the status of action on each
covenant of the Loan Agreement.
March 1977



ANNEX II
Table I
APPRAISAL OP A FOURTH ROAD PROJECT
BOTSWANA
PROJECT MONITORING INDICES
Indices: actual vs estimates: absolute and
1. Where activity Level, as measured by a
specific index, is below estimates, the
reason should be ascertained. If a lower
than anticipated activity Level is the
result of an outstanding problem, re-
commend corrective action.
Indices
Estimated Actual Actual as % Reason for Recommend Corrective
of Estimated Divergence Action, If Any
I.  Construction Work
1. Preliminaries to mobilization (months)
2. Volume of earthwork (m3)
3. Length of subbase (km)
4. Length of base (km)
5. Length of shoulders (km)
6. Length of surfacing (km)
7. Pipe culverts (nos.)
8. Box culverts (nos.)
9. Length of bridges (m)
10. Construction work completed (date)
11. Cont:ractor certificates for payment (US$ or_)
12. Payments to contractor (US$ or
II. Preparation of Roads V
1. Preliminaries to start of work (months)
2. Inception Report (date)
3. Draft Final Report (date)
4. Final Report (date)
5. Payment to consultants (US$ or _)
111. Road Maintenance
(a) Programs
I. Agreement on Roads Department Maintenance
program by Government and Bank (date)
2. Agreement on extension of District Roads
Maintenance Pilot Program by Government and Bank
3. Implementation of Roads Department Maintenance
Program (schedule& dates)
4. Implementation of District Roads Maintenance
Program (schedule & dates)
(b) Equipment
1. Preliminaries to equipment delivery (months,
by item)
2. Arrival of equipment (date)
3. Payment to suppliers (US$ or
(c) Technical Assistance
1. Preliminary to start of work (months)
2. Appointment of counterparts (date, by position)
3. Technical assistance work (months, by position)
4. Payments tf- experts (US$ or
IV. Training School Equipment
(a) Equipment
l. Preliminaries to equipment delivery
(months, by item)
2. Installation of equipment (months, by item)
3.  Payment to suppliers (US$ or D
(b) Construction
I. Preliminaries to construction of school (months)
2. Construction of school (months)
3. Payment for construction (US$ or _)
March 1977



(hart I
BOTSWANA
ORGANIZATION OF THE ROADS DEPARTMENT OF THE MINISTRY OF
WORKS AND COMMUNICATIONS
Minister of Works and Communcat on5
I
Permanent Secretary                                   Executive Departments
PI3,lrqhwg                                                                                         -P osts & Telecommuications
Transport C-ntrol                                                                                        PS _Bueodiai
Railway Ad, sor                                                                                            vdIiaongs
Finace                                                                                                =Civil Aviatnor
Adnc & PMetnorological Serines
Central Transport Organizatior
Road
t   Chief Roads Engineer R
SecretariaJ Branh                         rDeve op-et Branch                                                  i X-|Mainte,,-nce Branch           |                   Rural Roads Branchl
Short Te-m Pl-,i g9                       _Pl-nnig, Design & C.srut-i-n                                    _Planning & Coordinafion                            _Pilot S,,her,es
^                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~of Roads & Aiwstrps
a  Metncict,iol                            _Advisory Services to Other Mminitres                            _I,ple-etation                                      _Studies & lmplemna
_ tandard Road Signs                      _S-rves and materiels                                            _C si Control & Bu.dgetimg                                   C-si - n IMtras MDest,,,-
UT,ai,,wg                               _ Feas-biity Swdies. etc                                             sette-ent Wrk                                   _        arcrr  Labor Inrersion
T,.fratfic                             _ Produ-tivity Analysis &                                                                                                    &"raduativity
Research
Secretary                                                                                                _ Road & Bidge Innvetories
r
| Maintenance   R < 3                           | ~~~~~~~~Maint,-anc  Regio,, North ||Maimte,j,,ce Region West|
Gaborone Area                     Kan-a A-a                    Franciswn Area                    Mahalae Area                       Maun Area                      Ghai A
Inspector of Works              Inspector of Works               Inspector of Works               Inspector of Wks s              Inspector af Works               Inspector of Works
Road Poremen                    Road Foremen                     Road Foremen                     Road Foremen                    Road Foremen        l           Road Foremen
World 8ank-9726



CHAWl 2
REPUBLIC,c;       . ,IA
FOURTH ROAI    i E.T
P'oject Implementation Schedule
Main Activities           : Responsible       1976        1977             1978       -   1979             1980            1981
Main____Activit__________     Responsible_____                         --   ____       .      ___          -.j-~         -     -9
Authority        3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4             31  4       2i 3   41    1   2
Credit Agreement Signed                          f       I       |I -                                                      1    -
Dat, af Credit Effectiveness
T.  ',AD CONSTRUCTION
Selection of Consultants                                                       I
for supervision              Roads Dept.
Preparation of tender                                2
doc.men.tation             !Consultants                              II i             iI
Wotld Bank approval              IBRD                _
Prequalification of
Contractors                  Roads Dept.
Bidding period                    - _
Evaluation of bids            Roads Dept.                    _
World Bank approval              IBRD         |               _
Award ccntract                Roads Dept.    j                 _
Construction                  Contractor                                  I , _
II. CONSULTAliT SERVICES                                                              i            i                       |
1. Supervision of              Consultants         I          4 i  |        -   -
construction               Consultants
2. Preparation of feeder                           Ij                                 i     l i
road prcject component                         i
Selection of consult-
ants                       Roads Dept        I
Preparation of draft       I
Creport                    Consultants                     j j                           !               | | ii j
Comments on draft           Consultants
report             ~~~Roads Dept.
Final, report              Consultants 
IT. RA*D 4ATwrENANCE                             !
1. Implementation of the
Road maintenance!       |
study                                     I                                                                     i
Preparation of tender       MWC/Roads Deptl
documents a 
World Bank approval            IBRD
Tender period            I          _I
Evaluation of tender        MWC/Roads Deptj                                         I
World Bank approval            IBRD          I
Award contract              MWC/Roads Dept     i                                              Ii I
Delivery of equipment       Contractor    |jI'                                                                       |
Program implementation      Roads Dept.                                                          |
2. Extension of District
Roads                   |
Maintenance Program                            j
Recruitment, technical
assistance                 MLGL
Prepa;.ation of equip-                                          - j
ment specifications        MLGL/MWC                       j
World Bank approval       |            IBRD  |
Tender period                   - _                   I                                                          i        I
Evaluation of tenders   |MLGL/MWC                      I
World Bank approval       I            IBRD
Award contract              MLGLj
Delivery of equipment       Contractor j
Program implementation j
IV. ROADS DEPARTMENT                                 i
TRAINTNG SCHOOL EOUIPMENT
Preparation of tender
documents                   Roads Dept.   |
World Bank approval            IBRD Ii             ! 
Tender period                   _
Evaluation of tender         Roads Dept.                I j
World Bank approval              IBRD 
Award contract               Roads Dept.                I
Delivery of equipment        Contractor                {    _                                                                      -
March 1977






RRD245IR3
XN                                                                                                                                                         A
90T$WANA
PROJ,FC T,
-)ft w0a
c q a e F
-V                                                                                       L
Z,
-P
-n                                                                                                                                                                                      T
E=-S                           ........... .
7,
P "i                                           I
NrAMILAND
T.t-a
IV;'m
qi
Pi
m bd
LA XO,
r1hakane
.4                   wp
%
H  A                                                             E  N T R
Z,
A            R                                                                          lOpy
M-q
Sh.,IPOg  I
-iE            R-    -F                                                                                      m
w   E   N        N
Ong
L tihakeng
W
G A L A G A D I
m
z", 0,
-771:
%
i2,                                                                                                                                               ------                                        . ....... ;
Pli i0L)E
N
UBL
SN                                         TshUb-                                                                                                                       4
3v
21
O



