CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1408 BT
Loan Agreement
(Fourth Road Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 20, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 20, 1977, between REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Third Road Project" means the project described in
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement No. 1174 BT dated November 21,
1975, between the Borrower and the Bank, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time;
(b) "Road Maintenance Study" means the study carried out
under the Third Road Project to prepare a 5-year road maintenance
program for the gazetted road network of the Borrower;


﻿-3-
(c) "District Roads Pilot Program" means the program carried
out under the Third Road Project for the betterment, rehabilitation
and maintenance of district roads in the Borrower's territory;
(d) "Road Traffic Act" means the Borrower's Road Traffic Act,
Laws of Botswana Cap. 69:01 (Law No. 43 of 1972), as amended,
governing vehicle weights and dimensions for protection of the
Borrower's road system; and
(e) "Central Transport Organization" means the organization
under the supervision of the Borrower's Ministry of Works and
Communications which provides and maintains all equipment and
vehicles used by the Borrower's departments and agencies.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to twenty million dollars ($20,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-5-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and two-tenths per cent (8.20%) per annum on the princi-
pal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out Parts A to D of
the Project through its Ministry of Works and Communications and
Part E of the Project through its Ministry of Local Government and
Lands, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in: (i) the
supervision of the construction of Part A of the Project; (ii)
the evaluation and comparison of bids received for the Project;
and (iii) the carrying out of Part C of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.


﻿- 7 -
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.


﻿-8-
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out Part A of the Project.
Section 3.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall cause the road included in Part A of the
Project to be constructed in accordance with the design standards
set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) review with the
Bank the results and recommendations of the Road Maintenance
Study, (ii) submit to the Bank, not later than July 1, 1978 or
such later date as the Bank shall agree, a road maintenance
program; and (iii) after having obtained the approval of the Bank,
promptly put such program into effect.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) review with the Bank the resu7ts
of the District Roads Pilot Program; and (ii) furnish to the
Bank, for its approval, a plan of action for the extension of the
District Roads Pilot Program referred to in Part E of the Project
before commencing the execution of such part of the Project.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; however, that, if for any
constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿- 10 -
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar
functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.


﻿- 11 -
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall adequately maintain
its gazetted roads and the district roads of the two districts
selected by the Borrower's Ministry of Local Government and Lands
for inclusion in the District Roads Pilot Program pursuant to Part
E of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall discuss with the Bank on an annual
basis its budgetary estimates and expenditures for road mainte-
nance.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take all action necessary
to: (i) cause the dimensions, axle-loads and weight limits of
the vehicles using the gazetted roads under the jurisdiction of
the Ministry of Works and Communications to be kept within the
limits provided by law; and (ii) ensure consistent and effective
enforcement of its Road Traffic Act.
Section 4.05. In order to ensure the proper planning of
maintenance, improvement and extension of its road system,
the Borrower shall take all measures necessary to improve the
procedures for collecting traffic data and to ensure that such
data shall, at all times, be collected and recorded in accordance
with appropriate statistical methods and procedures and on a
regular and systematic basis.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall take all action necessary
to strengthen the organizational and operational efficiency of
its Central Transport Organization enabling it to achieve an


﻿- 12 -
availability rate of vehicles and equipment for use by the
Roads Department of the Borrower's Ministry of Works and
Communications of not less than sixty per cent (60%).


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date August 18, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 14 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower for the time being
responsible for Finance and Development Planning is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and
Development Planning
Private Bag No. 008
Gaborone, Botswana
Cable address:                      Telex:
PULA (FINANCE)                      BD 414
Gaborone
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 15 -
IN WITNESS HEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of'Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
By /s/ Bias Mookodi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Hans A. Adler
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category        Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Civil works          11,030,000           68%
(2) Consultants'            930,000          80%
services
(3) Technical
assistance
and equip-
ment
(a) gazetted         1,000,000          100% of foreign
roads                              expenditures
(b) district         1,000,000          100% of foreign
roads                              expenditures
(4) Training                330,000          100% of foreign
equipment                                expenditures
for Part
B of the
Project
(5) Unallocated           5,710,000
TOTAL     20,000,000


﻿- 17 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower; provided,
however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of
another country from the territory of which goods or services are
supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or services
shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures".
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made ii respect of payments made for:
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and


﻿- 18 -
(b) expenditures in respect of Category (3) (a) on account
of maintenance equipment for the Roads Department of the Ministry
of Works and Communications until the Bank has received evidence
satisfactory to the Bank that the availability rate of vehicles
and equipment to be provided to the Roads Department by the
Borrower's Central Transport Organization has reached not less
than sixty per cent (60%).
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 19 -
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A
Construction of the road between Mahalapye and Serule, about
150 km long, to two-lane bituminous paved standard.
Part B
Provision of training equipment and vehicles and construction
of new classrooms and office space for the Training School of
the Borrower's Roads Department.
Part C
Preparation of a feeder road construction program.
Part D
Provision of technical assistance and equipment for the
implementation of the recommendations of the Road Maintenance
Study.
Part E
Provision of technical assistance and equipment for the
extension of the District Roads Pilot Program to two
additional districts of the Borrower's territory.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1980.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 1 and July 1
beginning July 1, 1982
through   January 1, 1997                    645,000
On July 1, 1997                                   650,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 22 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The followltg percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1.25%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                          2.45%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                          4.50%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                          6.55%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen years
before maturity                          7.40%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                          8.20%


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts B and D hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines) on the basis of international competitive bidding
as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for its approval a
list setting forth the equipment to be procured for the carrying
out of Parts D and E of the Project.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Equipment and vehicles for the Roads Department's Training
School included under Part B of the Project shall be procured
through bidding on the basis of local advertising or other local
procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank.
2.   Contracts for road maintenance equipment and vehicles
estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or less may be procured
in accordance with the Borrower's standard procurement procedures,
provided that the aggregate cost of all such contracts will not
exceed the equivalent of $50,000.


﻿- 24 -
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods;
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactuzed in Botswana may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Botswana if the bidder shall have established to the


﻿- 25 -
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Botswana equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Botswana.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from Group A or Group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group
A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods
offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs
duties and other Import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such group


﻿- 26 -
C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said
customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A
bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a result of
the comparison under paragraph (c) is the lowest evaluated bid
shall be selected.
D.   Procurement without Contracting
The Borrower may contract the new classrooms and office space
for its Roads Department's Training School, estimated to cost
approximately the equivalent of $75,000, through the use of force
account.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works and equipment
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.


﻿- 27 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends
to award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants
referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award of the said consultants and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall,
if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submission
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first


﻿- 28 -
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


﻿- 29 -
SCHEDULE 5
Design Standards for Mahalapye-Serule Road
Characteristics
Geometric Design Standards
Speed                                       120 km/hr
Minimum Horizontal Radius                   840 m*
Maximum Gradient                              4%
Maximum superelevation                        5%
Pavement crossfall                            2.5%
Shoulder crossfall                            3.5%
Maximum length of straight                2,400 m*
Roadway Features
Road widths                                  10.7 m
Bituminous pavement width                     6.7 m
Shoulder width                                2.0 m
Right-of-way width                           60.0 m**
Bridge width                                 10.7 m
Structural Design Features
Maximum axle load                             8.2 mt
Pavement design                      Road Research Laboratory
TRRL Report RN31
Bridge loading                                   AASHO-H20-S16
*    To be discussed on a case by case basis with the Borrower's
Roads Department.
**   40 m in urban areas, if necessary.


