Report No. PID10011
Project Name                     Kosovo-Third Economic Assistance Grant to...
Support Private Sector Development
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Private Sector Development
Project ID                       XKSF71264
Borrower                         NA
Implementing Agency              United Nations Interim Mission in Kosovo,
UNMIK
Pristina, Kosovo
Environment Category             C
Date This PID Prepared           December 20, 2000
Date Initial PID Prepared        December 20, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         February 12, 2001
Projected Board Date             NA
1. Country and Sector Background
In general terms, economic activity in Kosovo has been centered on extractive
industries, production of raw materials, and semi-finished products (lead,
coal, zinc and textiles), as well as agriculture. The economic policy and
regulatory environment was shaped by Yugoslav-style socialism. Industry was
largely directly held or controlled by the state or socially-owned
enterprises (SOEs). In contrast, agriculture was almost totally privately
held. Significantly, more than 60 percent of the pre-conflict population
lived in rural areas.
Kosovo's economy consists of two basic components: publicly owned enterprises
and privately owned enterprises. Publicly owned enterprises are mainly
SOEs . They have formerly been engaged in all sectors of the economy but
predominately in the industrial sector, and they are generally in very poor
condition. As a result of the events of the last ten years and the 1999
conflict in particular, comprehensive and up-to-date information on the SOEs
is not yet available. UNMIK, assisted by some donors, has started to assess
these enterprises, checking primarily on their workforce, condition of their
equipment and status of production activities. According to the latest
survey there are some 400 SOEs with a reported total workforce of about
57,000 persons. However, these employment figures are not very reliable.
Many enterprises report the number of workers that were on their official
payroll but may not have actually worked for quite some time as actual plant
operations have been substantially reduced or stopped altogether. The degree
of actual capacity utilization of the SOEs varies considerably from
enterprise to enterprise, but very few reported capacity utilization
exceeding 50 percent in 1999. Conflict related damages to SOEs' equipment
and infrastructure also vary considerably but are on average much less
significant than could have been expected. The SOE sector still controls a
large inventory of facilities and equipment, much of which is obsolete or
very close to obsolescence. On the whole, however, the SOE sector can still
be considered as having some value, with a small number of selected
enterprises likely to attract investors' interest.



The population of privately owned enterprises - much larger in number and in
collective output - is engaged mostly in trade and services activities. A
substantial segment of the private enterprise sector consists of gray market
activities in trade and services on a small to medium scale. Nevertheless,
it should be noted that the dividing line between the formal and informal
sector has been an obscure one, given the absence of an adequate legal and
regulatory framework, the incompleteness of registration of companies
(although a provisional business registration for fiscal purposes has been
recently implemented ), and the strong incentives during the pre-conflict
decade on the part of ethnic Albanians to distance their activities from the
formal sector. All sectors currently operate in institutionally and
economically unfriendly conditions with limited industrial production,
limited access to banking services, and an outdated and incomplete regulatory
framework.
The sharp decline in Kosovo's GDP over the past decade can be attributed to a
dramatic falloff in industrial output. The enterprises in this sector were
mainly socially owned. While virtually all enterprises had suffered damage
during this decade of disinvestment and neglect, their condition deteriorated
even further during the 1999 conflict, leaving many in a an extremely poor
physical condition. Most enterprises now need significant restart capital to
resume production. Enterprises also suffer from the far more serious problem
of having lost their markets. This is because the rest of the Balkan region
moved on economically after 1989, with FRY no longer a viable market for most
products previously manufactured in Kosovo. Furthermore, as a result of the
exclusion of the ethnic Albanians from management and skilled worker
positions, the skills of the ethnic Albanian workforce are out of date.
Throughout the past decade, the private sector, both formal and informal, was
a major pillar of Kosovo's economy. This was unusual relative to other non-
Balkan, Eastern European countries, but mirrored the contribution of the
private sector in the rest of the SFRY. In fact, the output levels of the
privately owned sector have remained more or less stable since 1987. As of
1996, privately owned enterprises contributed to almost half of total GDP
and, in 1998, the contribution of the private sector to the overall economy
rose to about 80 percent. In the meantime, the publicly owned sector became
stagnant just before the conflict.
As the formal economy collapsed, ethnic Albanians were dismissed from their
positions at public companies. While the official unemployment rate over the
decade was significant - some pre-war estimates running as high as 70 percent
- this was ameliorated by ethnic Albanian participation in the gray (legal)
and black (illegal) economy.
In theory, SFRY's legal and regulatory regime applies today to publicly and
privately owned enterprises as well as to the parallel economic segment.
With the repeal of Regulation 1, Section 3, and the adoption of Regulation
24, in December 1999, UNMIK adopted the SFRY commercial legal framework of
March 22, 1989, modified and expanded by other more recently issued UNMIK
regulations. In practice few, if any, of these SFRY laws have been
enforceable, nor are they suited to the type of market-oriented economy UNMIK
wants to establish.
2. Description and Objectives:
The objective of the proposed grant is to support Kosovo's private sector
development program. The operation was envisaged in the Transitional Support
Strategy for Kosovo (Progress Report) discussed in the Board on July 25,
2000. The reform actions being undertaken by UNMIK center on the creation of
a policy framework for encouraging the growth of private, small and medium
- 2 -



enterprises.
More specifically, the reform program being supported by this proposed grant
is the enactment of four regulations: (i) the Regulation on Business
Organizations, (ii) the Regulation on Contract for Sale of Goods, (iii) the
Regulation on Pledges and, (iv) the Regulation on Foreign Investment.
While the above four regulations are critical to the development of a viable
private sector, many more measures will need to be adopted. Work is already
well advanced on a new bankruptcy regime, on a law on mortgages over
immovable property and on legislation for the introduction of appropriate
accounting standards.
Special attention has been placed in the design of these regulations to
ensure continuance and sustainability when UNMIK withdraws and local
representative authorities take its place. Local Kosovar experts and
political leaders have been extensively consulted in the formulation of these
laws. An ancillary technical assistance operation is being prepared in
parallel to this grant to support the implementation and dissemination of the
newly proposed commercial legal framework.
3. Financing
The proposed grant operation in the amount of US$5 million will be made
available to UNMIK out of the Trust Fund set up for the benefit of Kosovo in
FY2000. It will be disbursed as a single tranche. The grant will be
disbursed against the standard Bank negative list for imports.
4. Benefits
The main benefits of the grant relate to the establishment of an adequate
commercial legal framework to support the development of the private sector.
More specifically, an improved business enabling environment should provide
the necessary conditions under which: investor's confidence can begin to be
restored, creditor and property rights can be protected, contracts can be
executed and secured lending transactions can be performed.
5. Risks
Prevailing political and social risks in the region remain a major threat to
the implementation of the reconstruction and reform program in Kosovo. The
recent political developments in FRY have caused donors to shift attention
away from Kosovo and there is a risk that some donor's funding would also be
diverted away. Major constitutional and political uncertainties remain
despite favorable developments in the FRY.
There are substantial risks associated with the implementation of the private
sector reform effort itself. The long period of exclusion from civic life of
the ethnic Albanian population and the legacy of the conflict has led to a
severe erosion of skills, lack of sense of civic responsibility, and
disrespect for the rule of law. Thus there is also some degree of
uncertainty as to whether the Kosovar business community will readily adapt
their informal and unstructured methods of operation to the formal
requirements of an organized economy. While one might expect that Kosovars
who were previously excluded would welcome the chance to live and work with
the recognized system, that enthusiasm may fade as persons realize it comes
with a cost in the form of rules and regulation to be obeyed, taxes to be
paid, etc.
Associated to the risk presented above, the interim nature of UNMIK and the
uncertainty regarding ongoing implementation and enforcement of the laws also
have implications for sustainability. Related to this is also the prevailing
low capacity and incipient state of affairs of the judiciary, and their
-3 -



ability to quickly absorb numerous new concepts and the required legal
practice embedded in the new commercial legal framework.
Finally, the completion of a full-fledged commercial framework will take
considerable additional time and effort, not to mention the even longer time
needed to create the institutional capacity to support it. A prolonged,
inefficient or half-hearted effort to complete a full-fledged commercial
framework will also undermine its credibility and enforceability. In
essence, weak local capacity remains a threat to the medium-term feasibility
of the private sector reform agenda.
6. Poverty Category
No significant social risks identified at this stage.
7. Environmental Aspects
Not Applicable
8. Contact Point:
Gerardo M. Corrochano, ECSPF
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 473-3568
Fax No.:         (202) 522-0005
Note:     This is information on an evolving project.    Certain components may
not necessarily be included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending March 2, 2001.
These publicly-owned enterprises are socially-owned except for a
limited number, mainly the utilities, the electric power company (KEK),
the telecommunication company and the water supply companies which are
under state ownership. Excluding the large mining and metallurgical
complex of Trepca. Current data from the provisional registry show
almost 28,000 registered economic units.
- 4-



