Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24329
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-27807)
ONA
GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF USS5 MILLION
TO THE
UNITED NATIONS ADMINISTRATION MISSION IN KOSOVO
FOR THE BENEFIT OF KOSOVO
FOR A THIRD ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE GRANT
TO SUPPORT PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
06/07/2002



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 7, 2002)
Currency Unit = EUR
I = US$ 0.9378
USS I = 1.0663
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EAR             -      European Agency for Reconstruction
EU              -      European Union
DTI             -      Department of Trade and Industry
FRY             -      Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
GDP             -      Gross Domestic Product
JAC             -      Joint Advisory Committee for Legislative Matters
PISG            -      Provisional Institutions of Self-Government
PSD             -      Private Sector Development
SFRY            -      Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
SMEs            -      Small and Medium Enterprises
SOEs            -      Socially Owned Enterprises
SRSG            -      Special Representative of the Secretary General
TA              -      Technical Assistance
TSS             -      Transitional Support Strategy
UN              -      United Nations
UNMIK           -      United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:  Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Manager:  Khaled Sherif
Team Leader:   Gerardo Corrochano



KOSOVO
Economic Assistance III (PSD)
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               7
6. Sustainability                                                                   7
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    8
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                   9
9. Partner Comments                                                                10
10. Additional Information                                                         11
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               12
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               13
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               14
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               15
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               16
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Perfomnance                                  17
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              18



Project ID: P071264                                  :   Project Name: Economic Assistance 111 (PSD)
Team Leader: Gerardo M. Corrochano                      I TL Unit: ECSPF
ICR Tvpe: Core ICR                                      IReport Date: June 19, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: Economic Assistance III (PSD)                 L/C/TF Number. TF-27807
Country/Department: KOSOVO                                             Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: BI - Institutional Development
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   01/16/2001                            Effective: 07/31/2001         07/26/2001
Appraisal:  02/08/2001                               MTR: 11/01/2002           11/01/2002
Approval:  03/05/2001                             Closing:  12/31/2001         12/31/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency:  UNMIK/UNMIK
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     Johannes F. Linn                          Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager:     Christiaan J. Poortman                   Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Manager:      Khaled F. Sherif                         liham Zurayk
Team Leader at ICR:  Gerardo M. Corrochano                    Gerardo M. Corrochano
ICR Primary Author:  Gerardo M. Corrochano;
Filloreta Mengri
I. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactoiy, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HU`N=Highly
lJnlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainabili- T.
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance.'S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quiality at Entry: S                    S
Project at Risk- at Any Time: No
Assessment of DeveloDmnent Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3. I Original Objective:
Context. The objectives of;the Kosovo ThirdiEconomic Assistance Grant (EAG I) to support private
-sector development (PSD),- need to be assessed in the context of (i) the exceptionally complex political
circumstances affecting Kosovo and the Balkan region, (ii) the stage of devastation of the Kosovar



economy following decades of neglect and conflict, (iii) the severely weak institutional development
affecting the entire business environment, and (iv) the near complete absence of a modem comnmercial
framework for private sector activity. It is also important to highlight that the United Nations interim
administration that was established in Kosovo since mid- 1999 (UNMIK) has had a particularly
difficult mandate that combines objectives of consolidation of peace and reconciliations among the
peoples of Kosovo, with and overarching goal to initiate a sustained effort of recovery and private
sector-led growth that would allow restoring normal civil life and adequate standards of living to
Kosovo. These are difficult crisis conditions that determined a narrow yet critically important
objective for the EAG Im, and that are crucial for understanding the context of this operation.
Original Objective. The main objective of the EAG III was to support Kosovo's PSD program. The
operation was envisaged in the Transitional Support Strategy for Kosovo (TSS - Progress Report)
discussed by the Board on July 25, 2000. The reform actions undertaken by UNNI4K centered on the
creation of a policy framework for encouraging the growth of the private sector. More specifically, the
Grant supported the enactment of four key commercial regulations: (i) the Regulation on Business
Organizations, (ii) the Regulation on Contract for Sale of Goods, (iii) the Regulation on Pledges, and
(iv) the Regulation on Foreign Investment.
Assessment. The objective presented above matched some of the most important priorities for Kosovo.
When UNMIK was established nearly three years ago, the economy was utterly destroyed. After a
necessary initial period of peace consolidation and restoration of normal life, the administration
recognized that urgent measures needed to be taken to foster Kosovo's economic recovery. Without
hesitation, fostering a sustainable and vibrant private sector was considered essential to growth and to
the generation of employment and income, and as such, it was given special attention by UNMIK and
the donor community. It was with this background that establishing the conditions under which the
private sector could flourish rapidly became a top priority. EAG III's objective aimed to address this
priority and became a key element of a complex policy dialogue to support Kosovo's PSD program.
Within this dialogue, it was determined that some components of the applicable legal regime to which
Kosovo was subject remained valid (i.e., pre-March 22, 1989 Yugoslav law, as all laws between
1989-99 were deemed discriminatory and abolished by UNMIK - Regulation No. 1999/24). However,
the laws goveming commercial activities were considered obsolete and did very little to support the
private sector.
Today, Kosovo's situation remains difficult as there is still a fair degree of political uncertainty.
However, the reconstruction effort has progressed well, economic growth has been strong, and efforts
to build basic institutions have yielded some impressive results. While a fully adequate business
environment in its broadest sense still requires a great deal of effort, it is fair to say that despite the
extremely difficult starting conditions, the private sector is playing a very important role in Kosovo's
economic development. New private enterprises are the major source of job creation and income
generation and have shown rapid post-war revitalization. Employment in the private sector is
increasing, and structural changes within enterprises can also be observed, with a fall in the proportion
of trade companies and an increase in the share of production firms. Statistics are particularly weak in
Kosovo, but official estimates show that the economy grew some 16 percent in 2001, a trend that is
expected to continue in 2002. During the post-war period the contribution of private business in GDP
has increased to more than 65%.
3.2 Revised Objective:
-2 -



The Grant Objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
To meet the objective of the project, EAG III components focused on critical areas of reform to establish
Kosovo's commercial legal framework. The project components were essential pillars to the establishment
Of a modem commercial legal framework that could provide parties in any commercial transaction the
necessary predictability to the consequences of their actions and a fair remedy in case of disputes in the
course of commercial transactions. Among a series of competing priorities within the multiple parts of a
comprehensive commercial legal framework, as well as time and institutional constraints, it was decided
ihat the initial effort would comprise four key commercial regulations:
i .    the Regulation on Business Organizations;
ii.   the Regulation on Contract for Sale of Goods;
iii.  the Regulation on Pledges; and,
iv.    the Regulation on Foreign Investment.
These four regulations were drafted by the commercial law team of UNMlK's Pillar IV - Department of
Trade and Industry (DTI), and were subsequently reviewed by UNMIK's Joint Advisory Committee for
Legislative Matters (JAC), a body created by the Special Representative of the Secretary General in
Kosovo (SRSG) and composed mainly of leading local Kosovar lawyers and academics, and by the local
UN Office of Legal Affairs. The drafts were also forwarded to UN New York for review by the UN Office
of Legal Affairs before the SRSG's final approval.
I)espite the fact that the introduction of these four commercial regulations was considered a high priority,
their approval was envisioned as a difficult process. Not only were these regulations highly technical
pieces of legislation, but its approval entailed a rather complex and largely untested approval mechanism
for commercial regulations within the administration. UNMIK requested the support of the World Bank to
leverage the process, by providing technical advise and supporting the consultation process. The final
approval of the above mentioned commercial regulation was defined as a condition for Board presentation
cf the EAG III.
3.4 Revised Components:
T he Grant Components were not revised.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
1'he operation was not selected for a quality at entry assessment by the Bank's Quality Assurance Group.
The Region's assessment is that the quality at entry of the operation was satisfactory, based on (i)
cDnsistency of the project objective with those identified in Kosovo's TSS, (ii) adequate match between
project objective and specific components with UNMIK's priorities, (iii) project design and focus that took
into account exceptionally hard starting conditions and constraints; (iv) adequate consultation process in
which the Bank played a key catalytic role, particularly with the local legal community; (v) adequate
i(lentification of risks; and (vi) identification complementary actions, particularly in parallel institution
building activities, that would deternine the sustainability of reform efforts supported by the project.
It should be noted that the EAG HI was complemented by a parallel Bank operation, the Private Sector
- 3 -



Development Technical Assistance Grant (Report No. 21 893-KOS), which is currently under
implementation. The PSD TA supports the establishment and operation of a modem business registry
system, provides training to the judiciary to strengthen the knowledge and understanding of the new
commercial legal framework, and assists in the development of capacity to implemented modem accounting
standards. The PSD TA is part of a broader and rather extensive program of technical assistance by the
donor community to assist institution building and PSD efforts in Kosovo.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
EAG III promoted the development of the private sector in Kosovo by supporting the enactment of the first
package of commercial legislation which created the basic legal framework for a functioning market
oriented economy. This marked an improved business enabling environment that has provided some basic
conditions under which economic agent's confidence has started to be restored. Given the extremely
difficult starting conditions, the incipient nature of UNMIK administration, and the largely untested nature
of the legislative process in commercial areas in Kosovo, the overall assessment of achievement of EAG
III's objective is considered satisfactory.
4.2 Outptits by components:
EAG III components focused on critical areas of reform to establish Kosovo's commercial legal framework.
Specifically, the project supported the enactment of:
i.    the Regulation on Business Organizations;
ii.   the Regulation on Contract for Sale of Goods;
iii.  the Regulation on Pledges; and,
iv.    the Regulation on Foreign Investment.
(i) Regulation on Business Organizations:
The Regulation on Business Organizations (UNMIK/REG 2001-6) established a legal regime for the
fornation, maintenance and termination of personal business enterprises, partnerships, and corporations in
Kosovo, by providing that the legal entities be organized as single person companies ("Personal Business
Enterprises"), as either general or limited partnerships, or in corporate form as joint stock companies or
limited liability companies. The provisions of the regulation are quite standard in following westem
European practice. One of the main goals of this regulation was to make it possible for the unregistered
business to emerge into legality. The means for achieving this goal was the establishment of a fully-fledged
business registration system as provided by the regulation on business organizations. The business
registration system is being supported by the Bank's PSD TA project currently under implementation and is
subject of a large-value technical assistance contract with the Norway Registry Development (NRD)
system.
-> The achievement of this component is rated satisfactory.
(ii) Regulation on Contract for Sale of Goods:
The Regulation on Contract for Sale of Goods (UNMIK/REG 2000-68) was based on the 1980 United
Nations Convention on Contracts for the Intemational Sale of Goods, also known as the Vienna Sales
Convention. The regulation repeals in part the existing FRY Law of Contracts and Torts of 1978. The
-4 -






effect of this regulation was that it made the UN Convention the applicable law for domestic as well as
international sales contracts. Given the current political status of Kosovo, the adoption of this regulation
has had a practical effect since it made the Convention effective in intemational trade in the same manner
as if Kosovo would have adhered to the Convention directly as a "member". Also, the previously
applicable SFRY law in Kosovo on this area was generally inconsistent with the most widely accepted
modem practice on sales, and as such needed to be replaced. Adopting the Vienna Convention as the
applicable law in Kosovo for the time being has corrected this situation and has provided Kosovo with a
modemr and practical sales of goods law. A more Kosovo-specific Contract for Sales of Goods regulation
will nevertheless have to be prepared in the near future as commercial practices develop and demand more
;pecificity from the existing regulation.
-> The achievement of this component is rated satisfactory.
(iii) Regulation on Pledges:
The Regulation on Pledges (UNMIK/REG 2001-5) gave Kosovo a modem law regulating all forms of
secured transactions that involve movable property. The Regulation on Pledges repealed those sections of
the prior SFRY Law of Contracts and Torts that deal with pledges. The regulation contains much more
detailed provisions for the creation and execution of pledges than the old law, and thus provides much
greater security to prospective lenders. Because security is a requirement of commercial lenders, this
regulation has facilitated the start-up of term-financing for business in Kosovo. Together with the
subsequent approval of the Pledge Filing Office Regulation, the enactment of the Regulation on Pledges has
provided Kosovo with a comprehensive regime that has made possible the use of various forms of movable
property as security for loans for business or personal purposes as a first step towards creating an
appropriate environment for larger-scale secure lending transactions. The Regulation on Pledges made it
possible for all lenders (mainly banks) to expand their lending activity and has had a direct impact in the
early stages of development of the credit market in Kosovo. Due to the still largely contentious property
rights situation, particularly in land and real estate markets, pledges of movable property remain the only
security that is in fact available to banks (the land and mortgage regime has not been reformed yet). As
such, the pledge legal framework has had an important impact on increasing provision of loans to private
business. All banks in Kosovo today use it, and it is widely considered that the pledge legal framework
c.reates a modem system for Kosovo that is sufficient to address the present needs.
-> The achievement of this component is rated satisfactory.
(iv) Regulation on Foreign Investments:
The Regulation on Foreign Investments (UNMIK/REG 2001-3) was intended to provide Kosovo with an
attractive regime to badly needed foreign investments for reconstructing and enhancing the economy. A
significant reason for the lower presence of foreign capital is the absence of a legal infrastructure which
creates a great level of insecurity amongst investors regarding their rights and obligations, thus placing
Kosovo's business environment at unacceptable level of risk. The purpose of this regulation was to put in
place certain basic legal guarantees that are necessary to encourage foreign investment. These guarantees
are quite standard, and are contained in varying forms in the laws of virtually all countries making the
transition to free market systems. More specifically, the regulation provides that foreign investments are
govemed by the principle of national treatment, meaning that they will be treated no less favorably than
similar domestic enterprises. Also, foreign investments are protected against unreasonable expropriations,
and provides that income from fo'reign investments may be freely transferred abroad or otherwise used in an
unrestricted manner. This regulation did not grant foreign investors any advantages over similar domestic
eaterprises regarding tax, customs, or other regulations.
- 5 -



-> The achievement of this contponent is rated satisfactory.
While the enactment of the above mentioned four regulations where narrowly defined as outputs of EAG HI
and were a condition for its approval, the project identified a broader legislative agenda that was also part
of the Bank's overall policy dialogue. The project clearly highlighted that it will take considerable time and
effort to complete Kosovo's commercial framework, and even longer to create the institutional capacity to
support it. Furthermore, the project mentioned the importance of continuing efforts to complete a new
bankruptcy regime, a new law on mortgages, and a new framework for modem accounting standards. Of
these three areas of reforn, only the reform in accounting standards has progressed approximately as
planned. The bankruptcy and mortgage regimes have been subject to extensive consultations, remain at
fairly advanced stages of preparation, but have not been completed.  However, to evaluate these
developments, it is crucial to understand the dramnatic political changes that occurred in Kosovo in recent
months with the adoption of the new Kosovo Constitutional Framework in mid-2001, and the subsequent
progress towards self-government with the creation of Kosovo's Assembly and the appointment of Kosovo's
President. While these changes have effectively redefined the political and legislative process in Kosovo,
the newly recently established Provisional Institutions of Self-Govemance (PISG) have already outlined
their reform agenda and pledged their commitment to attach the highest priority to the modernization and
completion of the commercial framework in Kosovo.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of retuirn:
Not applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional developmnent impact:
Institutional development impact was central to EAG III and is rated substantial. The operation was
conducted in parallel with a Bank PSD Technical Assistance facility and developed in the context of other
technical activities of major donors. The Bank's PSD TA project is currently under implementation and is
part of larger donor-driven technical assistance effort that has been carried out in Kosovo during the last
three years. It should be noted that the amount of resources committed by the Bank to Kosovo and to PSD,
are rather limited when compared to those of the European Union, the USAID, or other large donors.
Despite the fact that this was a straight budget support operation, important institutions have been created
and are in the process of being further developed in connection with policies supported by EAG m. Most
notably, the Pledge Filing Office, that has made possible the use of various forms of movable property as
security for loans for business or personal purposes as a first step towards creating an appropriate
environment for larger-scale secured lending transactions. In addition, with assistance of the Norway
Registry Development (NRD) a fully-fledge business registry system is the process of upgrading the
provisional business registration system.
While there have been several donor-driven complementary efforts in judicial training activities that relate
to the establishment of a new commercial legal framework, the specific activities planned in the context of
the Bank PSD TA for judicial training have lagged behind the original time-table. Efforts are underway to
correct this delay and generate additional institutional impact of the policies supported by EAG III.
- 6 -



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The implementation of a coherent economic development program has remained largely dependent on the
regional stability and the evolving nature of the political and social reality of Kosovo. While the return of
peace to the region brought back many of the aspects of normal civil life and there have been some visible
improvements in the economic condition of Kosovo, prevailing political and social developments have
continued to fuel a fair degree of uncertainty and remained a threat to restoring investors confidence.
Of particular importance have been the gradual progress towards self-governance of Kosovo marked by the
approval of a new Constitutional Framework in mid-200 1, and the Kosovo-wide elections of November
2001 that led to the establishment of the Provisional Institutions of Self-Government (PISG) that were
completed in March 2002, and resulted in the appointment of a new Kosovo President and Prime Minister.
In this context, it should be taken into account that the narrowly defined outcomes of EAG III that
supported the creation of a modem comniercial framework to facilitate private sector-led growth are part of
a long-term process that is largely dependent of the above mentioned political developments. Moreover, the
political events affecting the project outcomes, while conditioning the sustainability of project objectives,
are largely outside the control of project counterparts.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
BEAG III has highlighted that the development, approval and decision making process of regulating
commercial activities remains a difficult one. Moreover, adequate consultations with local stakeholders,
particularly now that the PISG are being established, will continue to be essential to foster the acceptance
amd sustainability of a modem commercial framework. On both counts, UNMIK and the newly established
]'ISG need to strengthen efforts to adequately prioritize the development of regulatory activities, define a
credible consultation process, and expedite the approval mechanism.
J.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
As highlighted in the project documents, parallel technical assistance in key areas of the newly established
c;ommercial legal framework remains crucial for its implementation. Of particular relevance are training
activities directed at the judiciary that will play a fundamental role in the enforcement of new regulations.
Parts of UNMIK and the PISG that have a direct role in defining and coordinating donor's efforts in
t, chnical assistance for PSD will continue to play a key role in this area. Efforts need to be increased to
rmake sure that technical assistance is delivered in a targeted and timely manner.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Not applicable.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
-7 -



The overall sustainability rating of the reforms supported by the Grant appears likely. The new
commercial fi-amework supported by this operation is largely under implementation, and while, the evolving
nature of commercial activities in Kosovo would demand further upgrades and 'Kosovarization' of the
initial regulations, there is marked evidence of the desire of UNMIIK and the PISG to continue to develop
an adequate and comprehensive commercial legal framework that suits the needs of Kosovo. In this
context, the outcomes of the project are highly unlikely to be reversed. The initial statements and policy
priorities outlined by the new Kosovo government largely coincide with the need to provide an adequate
business environment where the private sector can flourish. However, as EAG III highlighted, it will take
considerable time and effort to complete the legal commercial framework of Kosovo, and even longer to
create the institutional capacity to support it. Therefore, it will be crucial to prioritize the drafting and
enactrnent process according to a critical path analysis which focuses on removing the biggest obstacles
first, and adequately direct technical assistance efforts into institutions that would play a crucial role in the
enforcement of commercial regulations.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Not applicable.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank performance during project preparation was satisfactory. Risks and weaknesses related to the
context of the project, as well as those specifically related to the sustainability of policy reform were
identified in project documents. The project was identified in consultation with major donors and was part
of a coherent effort by the Bank to support PSD. The design of the operation largely matched key priorities
defined by UNMIK and coincided with the objectives outlined in the Bank's TSS. The Grant provided
much-needed budget support to U1NvIJK in a timely fashion within an agreed framework and appropriate
burden sharing with other donors. The conditionalities of the Grants were also grounded in supporting
economic work (see Annex 7 for details), and it was formulated in a highly collaborative process with the
interim administration in Kosovo.
Bank staff involved in the project had extensive experience in the region and in the sectoral policies that
were supported by the project. There was continuity and consistency between the extensive policy dialogue
that preceded this operation and the specific objectives and components that were subsequently outlined.
There was excellent cooperation and high complementarity with the interim administration staff and the
Bank missions during the identification and subsequent appraisal of the project. The role of the Bank was
particularly important during early stages of consultation with the local stakeholders.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision missions have continued to follow-up the implementation of the project. Much of the
activities of the Bank have been centered in implementation aspects of the PSD TA operation as its
components directly relate to institutional aspects that are considered crucial to the sustainability of the
policy reforms supported by EAG Im.
-8 -



It should be noted that one of the PSD TA components that was considered important to the sustainability
of the EAG III and that dealt with training to the judiciary in commnercial activities is substantially delayed
due to procurement difficulties. Efforts are well under way in the context of the supervision of the Bank
PSD TA project to correct these delays, and the impact of the policy reforms supported by the EAG III are
expected to be further leveraged in the coming months.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
The overall Bank performance during all stages of the project is considered satisfactory given the positive
outcomes and the likely sustainability of the reforms supported by the EAG III.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower perfornance during early stages of project preparation was considered satisfactory.
Tremendous efforts were put by UNMIK officials to jump-start and prioritize the regulatory process in key
areas of the envisioned modem o0mmercial framework. It should be noted that given the complex
environment under which UNMIK operated in late 2000 and early 2001, the initial efforts to set a modem
commercial framework and a piecedent for the legislative approval process were particularly satisfactory.
The staff of the interim administration dealing with the design and appraisal of the operation were highly
competent and their work was essential to the completion the EAG III.
7.5 Government implementation perforrmance:
UNMIK's performance during implementation has been satisfactory. Efforts have been maintained to focus
the legislative effort on the biggest priorities, and several aspects of the commercial framework that are
complementary to the EAG III1have been pursued.
As stated above, due to procurem ent delays, the planned training to the judiciary in commercial activities
under the Bank PSD TA has run-behind schedule. Specific actions have been taken under the PSD TA to
correct these delays so that the outcome of the reform policies supported by the EAG III is maximized in
the near future.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Not applicable.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
'The overall Borrower perfonria,ce during all stages of the project is considered satisfactory.
3. Lessons Learned
LEAG Ill demonstrates the Bank',s catalytic role by providing scarce budget support resources that are
specifically linked to sectoral policies. Much of the effectiveness of the policies supported by EAG III
-9-



reflect a project design that tackled key priorities that had been clearly identified by the interim
administration of Kosovo and the Bank's TSS.
Clear focus on limited outcomes was crucial to achieve EAG III's tangible results. Kosovo is a good
example of a post-conflict situation where particular emphasis was put on selectivity of the activities the
Bank could support with limited resources. The Bank's role (advisory to UNMIK, financing, and guiding
other donors who provided support to PSD policies) has been critical to leverage scarce resources. In this
regard, the exclusion of the ownership transforrnation agenda from this PSD operation was, in retrospect, a
controversial but correct decision, as privatization in Kosovo remains an elusive and politically charged
process that may take some more time to be resolved.
Ownership by the interim administration of Kosovo was an absolutely necessary condition to achieve
proper selectivity and adequate prioritization of conditionalities. UNMIK clearly defined (and EAG III
supported) a few key policy areas that were essential for sending immediate signals to the private sector of
the administration's intentions to modernize the business environment and improve the investment climate.
Local consultations in which the Bank played a key role were crucial given the early stages of UNMIK's
mandate in Kosovo. Tensions with the local community were on the rise and the proposed changes to the
commercial legal framework were seen at best with suspicion. The Bank, in cooperation with UNMIK
Pillar IV, organized a series of events where the Bank presented examples of neighboring transition
economies that facilitated the process of consultation, particularly with members of the local legal
community.
The companion PSD TA was crucial to leverage EAG IH impact. Despite some delays in the
implementation of the companion PSD TA, the combination of budget support and TA operations was key
to the positive outcomes of the project.
Frequent, close, and intensive consultation with donors (i.e., EAR, USAID, DFID) was critical. The Bank
had to play an important role in judging the areas of the greatest needs, and in providing signals to donors
accordingly.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
UNMIK highly appreciates the strong financial and technical support we have received from the World
Bank in the efforts to create a sound framework for the private sector in Kosovo. We consider the outcomes
as highly satisfactory, and in the field of the Regulation on Pledges as outstanding. Although the grant's
benchmarks focussed on the four pieces of legislation dealt with below, the Bank has given very valuable
inputs in the debate over the wider commercial law legislative framework.
With the Bank's support it was possible to put into place four major pieces of legislation (UNMIK
Regulations) that are cornerstones of a lawful development of the nascent private business sector that has
been rapidly growing in the post conflict environment after 19999. The area concerned is now in the realm
of the powers transferred to the Provisional Institutions for Self-Government, which can now build their
further work on a sound basis laid with the Bank's support.
(i)    The Regulation on Business Organisations (UNvIIK Reg. 2001/6) established a legal regime for
founding and running business corporations in Kosovo. Although the institutional development could not
follow suit as quickly and Kosovo is today still working with a provisional business registry, up to May
- 10 -



2002 more than 46,000 enterprises have been registered. A full fledged business registry is to be set up in
the very near future. With further integration into the European Union this Regulation, with some
amendments, is a good basis for covering the European acquis communautaire.
(ii)   The Regulation on Contract for Sale of Goods (UNMIK Reg. 2000/68) has provided Kosovo with
a very modem law for trans-border transactions. With very high imports and slowly rising exports this
Regulation provides basic security for the businessmen being active in probably the most dynamic sectors
of Kosovo's economy. A law on internal sales transactions is still to be developed.
(iii)  The Regulation on Pledges (UNMIK Reg. 2001/5) is a milestone for the development of credit
opportunities for the private sector, by providing the legal basis for the use of various forms of movable
property as collateral. With the subsequent Regulation on the Establishment of a Pledge Filing Office (Reg.
2001/32) this Regulation has already been contributing to the development of the credit market in Kosovo.
A significant number of pledges has already been registered, which means a boost in commercial banks'
lending activities.
(iv)   The Regulation on Foreign Investments (UNMIK Reg. 2001/3) is a first important legal
contribution to enhancing the investment climate for foreign investors, by setting out basic guarantees for
investments made in Kosovo. This type of guarantees have always been high on the agenda of potential
investors that have been talking to UNMIK over the last three years.
A major lesson learnt in the period behind us is that the necessary institutional development that is needed
to implement the legislation requires substantial financial and capacity building resources. Both factors, in
a post-conflict environment, are more time consuming than often anticipated.
In order to take these constraints into account, UNMIK has sometimes developed creative solutions to
bypass bottlenecks. For instance, given the weak commercial court structure, the need for a bankruptcy
Regulation that has correctly identified in the context of the Bank's assistance as an important part of the
broader legislative agenda, has been bypassed through provisions for voluntary liquidations, that can be
initiated by the new Kosovo Trust Agency that is going to carry through the privatisation programme in
Kosovo.
The Bank and its staff have been dealing highly professional with an environment that is still characterised
by permanently changing institutions (e.g. through the gradual handover of responsibilities to the Kosovar
institutions) and a high turnover in intemational and local staff that makes institutional learning particularly
diifficult.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N4ot applicable.
]10. Additional Information
Not applicable.



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
This operation did not include output/impact indicators. EAG III promoted the development of the
private sector in Kosovo by supporting the enactment of the first package of commercial
legislation which created the basic legal framework for a functioning market oriented economy.
This marked an improved business enabling environment that has provided some basic conditions
under which economic agent's confidence has started to be restored. The overall assessment of
achievement of EAG III's objective is considered satisfactory. Specifically, the project supported
the enactment of:
Outputs                                      Achievements
i.     Regulation on Business Organizations  Established legal regime for the formation, maintenance and
termination of personal business enterprises, partnerships,
and corporations, by providing that legal entities be
organized as single person companies ("Personal Business
Enterprises"), as either general or limited partnerships, or in
corporate form as joint stock companies or limited liability
companies.  The regulation's standard provisions follow
western European practice.
ii.    Regulation on Contract for Sale of Goods  Based on the 1980 UN Convention on Contracts for the
Intemational Sale of Goods (Vienna Sales Convention), the
regulation repealed in part the 1978 SFRY Law of Contracts
and Torts. The effect of this regulation was that it made the
UN Convention the applicable law for domestic and
international sales contracts.
iii.   Regulation on Pledges                 Established a modern law regulating secured transactions
that involve movable property.  The regulation repealed
those sections of the 1978 SFRY Law of Contracts and Torts
that deal with pledges. With the approval of the Pledge
Filing Office Regulation, the pledge regulation has made
possible the use movable property as security for loans for
business or personal purposes.
iv.    Regulation on Foreign Investment      Set an attractive that includes basic legal guarantees that are
necessary to encourage foreign investment. The regulation
provided that foreign investments are govemed by the
principle of national treatment, meaning that they will be
treated no less favorably than similar domestic enterprises.
Also, foreign investments are protected against unreasonable
expropriations, and provides that income from foreign
investments may be freely transferred abroad or otherwise
used in an unrestricted manner.
- 12 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs by Component              Appraisal               Actual
Estimate               Estimate
US$ mln.               US$ mln.
Total Baseline Costs:
Economic Assistance Grant III for PSD      5.00                   5.00
Contingencies                              0.00                   0.00
Total Project Costs                 5.00                   5.00
Total Financing Required            5.00                   5.00
-13 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
Month/Year     Count          Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
Sept. 2000 to                5   3 PSD specialist, 2-lawyers        S             S
January 2001
Appraisal/Negotiation
January 2001 to              4   3 PSD specialistw, I lawyer        S             S
April 2001
Supervision
June 2001                    1   1 PSD specialist                   S             S
ICR
April 2002 to                2    2 PSD specialists                 S             S
June 2002
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               12.7                          73
AppraisaVNegotiation                     10.0                          62
Supervision
ICR                                        10                          32
Total
- 15 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                      O H OSUOM       O N   * NA
F Sector Policies                     O H * SU O M    O N   O NA
O Physical                            O H   OSUOM O N       * NA
O Financial                           O H   *SUOM O N       O NA
E Institutional Development           0 H   0 SU 0 M 0 N    0 NA
OEnvironmental                        O H OSUOM O N         * NA
Social
Poverty Reduction              O H   OSUOM O N       * NA
O Gender                        O H   OSUOM     O N   * NA
0 Other (Please specify)        OH    OSUOM ON        * NA
F Private sector development          0 H 0 SU O M    0 N 0 NA
OI Public sector management           0 H O SU O M    0 N   0 NA
El Other (Please specify)             OH   OSUOM      ON    * NA
-16 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
EI Lending                                           OHS OS       O(U    OHU
] Supervision                                        OHS OS       OU     O HU
] Overall                                            OHS OS       0 U    O HU
5.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
[ Preparation                                        OHS OS       OU     O HU
[ Government implementation performance              O HS OS      O U    0 HU
[E Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS       OU     O HU
ED Overall                                           O HS OS      O  U   O HU
- 17 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Transitional Support Strategy for Kosovo. The World Bank. October 1999.
Transitional Support Strategy for Kosovo Progress Report. The World Bank. July 2000.
Kosovo. Building Peace through Sustained Growth: The Economic and Social Policy Agenda. The World
Bank. November 1999.
Toward Stability and Prosperity: A Program for Reconstruction and Recovery in Kosovo. The European
Commission and the World Bank. November 1999.
Kosovo, FRY. Memorandum of the Country Director to the Regional Vice-President on a Proposed
Economic Assistance Grant to the United Nations Interim Administration in Kosovo for the Benefit of
Kosovo from the Trust Fund of Kosovo. World Bank Report No. P. 7369. March 2000.
Kosovo, FRY. Memorandum of the Country Director to the Regional Vice-President on a Proposed Second
Economic Assistance Grant to the United Nations Interim Administration in Kosovo for the Benefit of
Kosovo from the Trust Fund of Kosovo. World Bank Report No. 21740 KOS. January 2001.
Kosovo, FRY. Memorandum of the Country Director to the Regional Vice-President on a Proposed Third
Economic Assistance Grant to the United Nations Interim Administration in Kosovo for the Benefit of
Kosovo from the Trust Fund of Kosovo. World Bank Report No. 21783 KOS. March 2001.
Kosovo, FRY. Economic and Social Reformns for Peace and Reconciliation, World Bank Report No.
21784-KOS, February 2001.
Kosovo 2001-2003 from Reconstruction to Growth. A Preliminary Assessment by the Department of
Reconstruction. Department of Reconstruction, UNMIK. February 2001.
- 18 -






IMAGING
Report No.:        24329
Type:     ICR



