Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF027807
Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Third Economic Assistance Grant)
between
UNITED NATIONS INTERIM 
ADMINISTRATION IN KOSOVO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(Acting as Administrator of the Trust Fund for Kosovo)
Dated July 26, 2001
TF027807
TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated as of July 26, 2001, between UNITED NATIONS INTERIM 
ADMINISTRATION IN KOSOVO (the Recipient) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Administrator).
WHEREAS (A) the Board of Governors of the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development, acting on the recommendation of its Board of Executive Directors, 
decided on September 30, 1999, to transfer from Bank surplus, by way of grant, 
$25,000,000 to a trust fund (the Trust Fund) for Kosovo, Federal Republic of 
Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) (Kosovo), established by Resolutions of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank (Resolution No. 99-7) and the Association (Resolution 
No. IDA 99-4) and to be administered by the Administrator, to be used for financing an 
emergency reconstruction program in Kosovo; 
(B)
the Board of Governors of the Bank further decided on September 27, 2000, 
to transfer from Bank surplus, an additional amount of $35,000,000 (Additional 
Contribution) to the Trust Fund;
(C) 
the Administrator has received a letter dated February 15, 2001, from the 
Recipient, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
achieve structural adjustment of the economy of Kosovo (hereinafter called the 
Program), declaring the commitment of the Recipient to the execution of the Program, 
for the benefit of Kosovo, and requesting assistance from the Administrator in support 
of the Program during the execution thereof; 
(D)
the Recipient has carried out the measures and taken the actions 
Page  2
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Administrator; 
and
(E)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Administrator has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Recipient, for the benefit 
of Kosovo, by making the Grant as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, to the Recipient a grant in an 
amount equal to five million Dollars (US$5,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The Recipient shall, prior to furnishing to the Administrator 
the first request for withdrawal from the Grant Account, open and thereafter maintain 
in a commercial bank a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Administrator. All withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be deposited by the 
Administrator into the Deposit Account.
(b)
Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this Section, the 
Recipient shall be entitled  to use the proceeds of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant 
Account and deposited in the Deposit Account in support of the Program.
(c)
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Grant shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any proceeds 
of the Grant shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, 
the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator: (i) deposit into the 
Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the 
Administrator shall so request, refund such amount to the Administrator. Amounts 
refunded to the Administrator upon such request shall be credited to the Grant Account 
for cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account unless the 
Administrator shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 
3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Administrator with the 
progress achieved by the Recipient in the carrying out of the Program.
(e)
If, after said exchange of views, the Administrator shall have given 
notice to the Recipient that the progress achieved and actions taken are not 
satisfactory and, within ninety (90) days after such notice, the Recipient shall not 
have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Administrator, then the 
Administrator may, by notice to the Recipient, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the 
Grant or any part thereof.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001, or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient and the Administrator shall from time to time, 
at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Administrator for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Administrator shall reasonably request.
Page  3
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall exchange views with the Administrator on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Grant which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, 
including any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Administrator’s request, the Recipient shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Administrator;
(b)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the date of the Administrator’s request for such 
audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Administrator shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning the 
Deposit Account and the audit thereof as the Administrator shall have reasonably 
requested.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness
Section 4.01. This Agreement will become effective upon signature by the parties 
hereto.
ARTICLE V
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 5.01. The Special Representative of the Secretary-General of the United 
Nations for Kosovo is designated as the representative of the Recipient for the 
purposes of Section 1.23 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
1.21 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
UNMIK Pristina
c/o UN Liaison Office in Skopje
M.H. Jasmin BB
ZGRABA NA NIP NOVA
Macedonia
9100 Skopje
Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
Facsimile:
21 963-8113
21 963-8603
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as 
of the day and year first above written.
UNITED NATIONS  INTERIM 
Page  4
    ADMINISTRATION IN KOSOVO
By /s/ Hans Haekkerup
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Christiaan Poortman
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Grant shall 
not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1.   
expenditures in the currency of Kosovo or for goods or services supplied from 
the territory of Kosovo; provided, however, that if the currency of Kosovo is also 
that of another country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, 
expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall not be excluded;
2.  
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Administrator, Bank or 
the Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Administrator, 
Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another grant, 
loan or credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Administrator by notice to the Recipient:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
   -
Alcoholic beverages
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanufactured,
tobacco refuse
122
   -
Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not contain-
ing tobacco substitutes)
525
   -
Radioactive and associated
materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semi-
precious sttones, unworked
or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated,
for nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971
   -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding
Page  5
gold ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to 
which the Recipient is a party);
6.
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Administrator determines 
that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or of a beneficiary of the Grant during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Recipient having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Administrator to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Actions Referred to in Recital (D) of 
the Preamble to this Agreement
The Recipient  has enacted the following four Regulations in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Administrator:
(i)
the Regulation on business organizations;
 
(ii)
the regulation on Contract for Sale of Goods;
(iii)
the Regulation on Pledges; and 
(iv) 
the Regulation on Foreign Investment.
SCHEDULE 3
General Conditions 
Section 1.01.  Application of General Conditions  
Without limitation or restriction upon the scope of any other provisions of this 
Agreement, these General Conditions set forth certain basic terms and conditions 
applicable to this Agreement.
Section 1.02.  Definitions 
The following terms have the following meanings wherever used in these General 
Conditions:
(a)
"Administrator" means the International Development Association acting as 
administrator of the Trust Fund;
(b)
"Association" means the International Development Association;
(c)
"Bank" means the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development;
(d)
"Closing Date" means the date specified in Section 2.03 of this Agreement 
after which the Administrator may, by notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of 
the Recipient to withdraw from the Grant Account;
(e)
"Currency" of a country means the coin or currency which is legal tender 
for the payment of public and private debts in that country;
(f)
"Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of 
this Agreement;
(g)
"Dollars" and the sign "$" mean dollars in the currency of the United 
States of America;
Page  6
(h)
"Grant" means the Grant provided for in this Agreement;
(i)
"Grant Account" means the account opened by the Administrator on its 
books in the name of the Recipient to which the amount of the Grant is credited;
(j)
"Program" means the program referred to in the Preamble to this 
Agreement;
(k)
"Recipient" means UNMIK for the benefit of Kosovo;
(l)
"Taxes" includes imposts, levies, fees and duties of any nature, whether 
in effect at the date of the Trust Fund Grant Agreement or thereafter imposed; and
(m)
"UNMIK" means the United Nations Interim Administration in Kosovo 
established pursuant to United Nations Security Council Resolution No. 1244 (1999) of 
June 10, 1999.
Section 1.03.  Grant Account
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to the Grant Account and may be 
withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient as provided in this Agreement and in these 
General Conditions.
Section 1.04.  Currency of Withdrawals  
Except as the Recipient and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, withdrawals 
from the Grant Account shall be made in the currency of the Deposit Account specified 
in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement.
Section 1.05.  Valuation of Currencies.  
Whenever it shall be necessary for the purposes of this Agreement to determine 
the value of one currency in terms of another, such value shall be as reasonably 
determined by the Administrator.
Section 1.06.  Withdrawal from the Grant Account
The Recipient shall be entitled to withdraw from the Grant Account in accordance 
with the provisions of this Agreement and of these General Conditions.
Section 1.07.  Special Commitments by the Administrator
Upon the Recipient's request and upon such terms and conditions as shall be 
agreed upon between the Recipient and the Administrator, the Administrator may enter 
into special commitments in writing to pay amounts to the Recipient or others in 
respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
notwithstanding any subsequent cancellation by the Administrator or the Recipient.
Section 1.08.  Evidence of Authority to Sign Applications for Withdrawal
The Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator evidence of the authority of 
the person or persons authorized to sign applications for withdrawal and the 
authenticated specimen signature of any such person. 
Section 1.09.  Supporting Evidence 
The Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator such documents and other 
evidence in support of the application as the Administrator shall reasonably request, 
whether before or after the Administrator shall have permitted any withdrawal 
requested in the application.
Section 1.10.  Sufficiency of Applications and Documents  
Each application and the accompanying documents and other evidence must be 
sufficient in form and substance to satisfy the Administrator that the Recipient is 
entitled to withdraw from the Grant Account the amount applied for and that the amount 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account is to be used only for the purposes specified 
in this Agreement.
Section 1.11.  Treatment of Taxes  
Page  7
It is the policy of the Administrator that no proceeds of the Grant shall be 
withdrawn on account of payments for any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the 
Recipient on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or 
supply thereof. 
Section 1.12.  Payment by the Administrator  
The Administrator shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the 
Grant Account only to or on the order of the Recipient.
Section 1.13.  Cancellation by the Recipient  
The Recipient may, by notice to the Administrator, cancel any amount of the 
Grant which the Recipient shall not have withdrawn. 
Section 1.14.  Cancellation by the Administrator  
If, at any time, the Administrator determines, after consultation with the 
Recipient, that an amount of the Grant will not be required to finance the Program's 
costs to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant, or the Administrator may, by 
notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals with 
respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the Grant 
shall be canceled.  
Section 1.15.  Effectiveness of Provisions after Cancellation
Notwithstanding any cancellation, all the provisions of this Agreement shall 
continue in full force and effect except as specifically provided in this Agreement.
Section 1.16.  Taxes  
This Agreement, and any other agreement to which these General Conditions apply, 
shall be free from any taxes levied by the Recipient or in the territory of Kosovo on 
or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof.
Section 1.17.  Cooperation and Information  
(a) The Recipient and the Administrator shall cooperate fully to assure that the 
purposes of the Grant will be accomplished.  To that end, the Recipient and the 
Administrator shall:
(i)
from time to time, at the request of any one of them, exchange 
views with regard to the progress of the Program, the purposes 
of the Grant, and the performance of their respective 
obligations under this Agreement; and furnish to the other 
party 
all such information related thereto as it shall 
reasonably 
request; and
(ii)
promptly inform each other of any condition which interferes 
with, or threatens to interfere with, the matters referred to 
in paragraph (i) above.
(b) 
The Recipient shall afford all reasonable opportunity for representatives 
of the Administrator to visit any site for purposes related to the Grant.
Section 1.18.  Insurance  
The Recipient shall insure or cause to be insured, or make adequate provision 
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof 
to the place of use or installation.  Any indemnity for such insurance shall be 
payable in a freely usable currency to replace or repair such goods.
Section 1.19. Use of Goods and Services  
Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall cause all 
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Grant to be used exclusively 
for the purposes of the Program.
Section 1.20.  Records and Reports  
(a)
The Recipient shall: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate to 
Page  8
record and monitor the progress of the Program (including its cost and the benefits to 
be derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant, and to disclose their use in the Program; (ii) within its capacity, 
enable the Administrator's representatives to visit any facilities and construction 
sites included in the Program and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant and any plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property, equipment, 
records and documents relevant to the performance of the obligations of the Recipient 
under this Agreement; and (iii) furnish to the Administrator at regular intervals all 
such information as the Administrator shall reasonably request concerning the Program, 
its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure 
of the proceeds of the Grant and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(b) 
Upon the award of any contract for goods or services to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant, the Administrator may publish a description thereof, the 
name and nationality of the party to which the contract was awarded and the contract 
price.
(c) 
Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Administrator, the 
Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Administrator a report, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Administrator shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Administrator of their respective 
obligations under this Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Grant.
Section 1.21.  Notices and Requests  
Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under this 
Agreement and any other agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement 
shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or 
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or 
facsimile to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's 
address specified in this Agreement, or at such other address as such party shall have 
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. 
Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.
Section 1.22.  Evidence of Authority  
The Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator sufficient evidence of the 
authority of the person or persons who will, on behalf of the Recipient, take any 
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken or executed by the 
Recipient under this Agreement, and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 1.23.  Action on Behalf of the Recipient  
Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents required or 
permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the Recipient may be taken 
or executed by the representative of the Recipient designated in this Agreement for 
the purposes of this Section or any person thereunto authorized in writing by such 
representative.  Any modification or amplification of the provisions of this Agreement 
may be agreed to on behalf of the Recipient by written instrument executed on behalf 
of the Recipient by the representative so designated or any person thereunto 
authorized in writing by such representative, provided that, in the opinion of such 
representative, such modification or amplification is reasonable in the circumstances 
and will not substantially increase the obligations of the Recipient under this 
Agreement.  The Administrator may accept the execution by such representative or other 
person of any such instrument as conclusive evidence that in the opinion of such 
representative any modification or amplification of the provisions of this Agreement 
effected by such instrument is reasonable in the circumstances and will not 
substantially increase the obligations of the Recipient thereunder.
Section 1.24. Settlement of Disputes
Any dispute arising out of, or relating to, this Agreement which is not settled 
by agreement of the parties shall be finally settled by arbitration in accordance with 
the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules as at present in force. 
Section 1.25.  Execution in Counterparts  
This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be 
an original.
Page  9
