Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20547
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-20810)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$51.3 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
FOR AN INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
June 19, 2000
Private Sector Unit
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
| official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 12/31/99)
Currency Unit = Meticais
Meticais 10,000 = US$ 1
US$ I = Meticais 13,208
FISCAL YEAR
January I -  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BE            Beneficiary Enterprise
BSTM          Standard Totta Bank of Mozambique (Banco Standard Totta de MoCambique)
BM            Bank of Mozambique (Banco de Mo,ambique)
CPI           Investment Promotion Center (Centro de Promo,do de Investimento)
DCA           Development Credit Agreement
DEPAE         Department of State Assets (Departamento do Patrimonio do Estado)
DOC           Department of Credit Operations (Departamento de Opera,ces de Cre'dito)
ERC           Enterprise Rehabilitation Component
ERTU          Enterprise Restructuring Technical Unit (Unidade Tecnica para a Reorganiza,cao
das Empresas)
EDP           Enterprise Development Project
GREAP         Bureau for Restructuring Enterprises in the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
(Gabinete de Reestrutura9iio de Empresas Agrarias e Pesqueiras)
GREICT        Bureau for Restructuring Enterprises in the Ministry of Industry, Trade, and Tourism
(Gabinete de Reestrutura,do de Empresas Industriais, Co,mercio e Turisms)
INE           National Statistics Institute (Instituto Nacional de Estatistica)
IPEX          Export Promotion Institute (Instituto para a Promo qao de Exportaq6es)
MICTUR        Ministry of Industry, Trade, and Tourism (Ministerio da Indzstria, Comercio e Turismo)
PFI           Participating Financial Institutions
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
TAC           Technical Assistance Component
UTRE          Technical Unit for Restructuring Projects (Unidade T&nicapara a Reabilita,'do
de Empresas)
Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director (Acting):    Michael N. Sarris
Sector Manager/Director:    Demba Ba
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Marilyn S. Manalo



FOR OFFICL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   7
6. Sustainability                                                                       8
7. Bank and Borrower Perfornance                                                        9
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     11
9. Partner Comments                                                                    II
10. Additional Information                                                             12
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   13
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   14
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   16
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   17
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   19
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      20
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project 1D. P00] 784                                        Project Name: INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE
Team Leader: Marilyn Swann Manalo                          TL Unit: AFTPS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                          Report Date: June 19, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE                           L/C/TFNNumber: IDA-20810
Countrv/Department: MOZAMBIQUE                                             Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: IR - Industrial Restructuring
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  06/30/88                                 Effective:  12/31/89           08/06/90
Appraisal:  03/15/89                                   MTR: 06/30/93               01/11/93
Approval:  12/21/89                                 Closing:  12/31/97             12/31/99
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOVT/GOVT OF MOZ.
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                          E.V.K. Jaycox
Country Manager:      Michael N. Sarris                          Stephen Denning
Sector Manager:       Demba Ba                                   David Cook
Team Leader at ICR:   Marilyn S. Manalo                          Vincent M. Rague
ICR Primary Author.   Sati Achath
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability. L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Industrial Enterprise Restructuring Project (IERP) was designed as an integral part of the
Government's strategy to resuscitate production and growth in Mozambique and complement the
country's Economic Rehabilitation Program (ERP). The project was to focus on the rehabilitation
of selected key enterprises considered important for a supply response and growth in the industrial
sector and to establish an institutional framework and approach to enterprise rehabilitation and



restructuring. The original objectives of the Project were to (a) introduce a framework and
criteria for selecting enterprises for rehabilitation (based on each enterprise's potential economic,
financial, and technical viability and on its management capacity to operate efficiently); (b) finance
rehabilitation, restructuring and operational support to pre-selected and potentially efficient major
enterprises (including, rationalization of capacity, privatization, technical partnership
arrangements, or closure of operations); (c) require each beneficiary enterprise to institute
measures to protect the environment and worker safety; (d) strengthen Government's capacity to
implement the rehabilitation program; and (e) support policy reforms and sub-sector reviews
designed to strengthen enterprise operations in a more liberalized, market-oriented environment.
The project was conceived as a pilot project which would focus on a limited number of
enterprises, and concurrently establish the institutional capacity to rehabilitate many more critical
industrial enterprises without reference to enterprise ownership. The 15 enterprises initially
selected for support from the project were considered to have characteristics which would
maximize the effectiveness of the credit line. Since these enterprises were considered to be least
affected by the serious structural problems endemic in the economy, they had the prospect of a
rapid and significant economic impact.
The objectives of the project were realistic and clear. They were also consistent with the Bank's
country assistance strategy and the Government's ERP. However, the project was demanding for
the implementing agencies since the Borrower had little capacity to appraise applications for long
term credit and both the enterprises and the Borrower had little experience in implementing
rehabilitation plans. The expertise required was to be developed during the project through the
Technical Assistance Component (TAC).
3.2 Revised Objective:
After the first operational year of the project, the Government recognized that the rehabilitation
process was slower than expected because of, among others (i) changes in the economy including
the influx of undocumented imported goods; (ii) a complex and time consuming evaluation
process of enterprises given the need to resolve legal questions on ownership of enterprises and
financial and accounting inadequacies; and (iii) the tight fiscal position of the Government which
did not make it feasible for it to inject much needed capital to restructure enterprises' debt profile
and enhance their market value. At this time, only three enterprises (in cement, mining and
agriculture) were to be supported under the project. The Government then decided to minimize its
involvement in restructuring individual enterprises and focus on attracting private investment and
restructure enterprises through privatization. In response to this change in Government policy,
the Government's request to refocus the objectives of the TAC to privatization was supported by
IDA in December 1992. In order to enable the Government to implement its privatization
program effectively, the project shifted emphasis from "rehabilitating essential sectors first, and
then privatizing eventually", to "privatizing first and restructuring later". The rehabilitation
objectives became redundant. The Government's privatization program had three major objectives
to (i) increase enterprises' efficiency and competitiveness; (ii) introduce modern management
methods; and (iii) increase productivity and attract investment.
- 2 -



The Enterprise Rehabilitation Component (ERC) was revised to become a general line of credit to
support the Govermnent's objectives to assist privatized enterprises and to support the
development of the broader private sector through the provision of longer-term funds.
3.3 Original Components:
Consistent with the state of the art for restructuring and privatizing enterprises when the project
was designed (1989), the project consisted of two main components (a) the ERC; and (b) the
TAC. The ERC was designed as an apex facility (administered through the Bank of Mozambique
(BM)) to finance the rehabilitation and restructuring of about 15 selected enterprises identified as
having good rehabilitation prospects but facing financial difficulties because of past policy
distortions and operating inefficiencies. The allocation for this component was to fund fixed
investments, working capital requirements, and operational support services designed to upgrade
the enterprises' technical, financial, marketing, and general management capacity. Restructuring
of these enterprises was expected to be achieved through recapitalization, conversion of debt to
equity or quasi-equity, injection of fresh equity through divestiture, joint venture, or technical
partnership arrangements with foreign or local private investors.
Originally, the TAC was to support capacity building through (a) assistance to the Enterprise
Restructuring Technical Unit (UTRE) that would implement the rehabilitation program and
provide operational and technical assistance to enterprises; (b) assistance to enterprises to develop
satisfactory business or rehabilitation plans, liquidation, privatization, or joint venture
arrangements; (c) training of laid-off staff to alleviate the social costs of personnel reductions in
the course of enterprise restructuring or liquidation; and (d) five sub-sector studies in the areas
including packaging, metal working, textiles, edible oils, and construction and building materials.
Considering the industrial sector's constraints, such as antiquated plant and equipment, unclear
ownership, deficient financial structure, and under-qualified management, the original components
were reasonably expected to contribute to achieving the project's objectives. However, the
difficulty of implementing the project were underestimated (see Section 3.5).
3.4 Revised Components:
Consistent with the revision of the original objectives, following the project's mid-term review,
the ERC was re-oriented to make additional long-term financing available to private and
privatized enterprises for investrnent, term financing, working capital, and business planning
requirements. Administration of the ERC was transferred out of UTRE and into the Department
of Credit Operations (DOC) in the BM. The DOC served as the apex unit that would on-lend
funds to participating commercial banks. The TAC component was reoriented to strengthen the
Government's institutional capacity to sell state-controlled enterprises.
Throughout project implementation, other revisions were made to the TAC to strengthen the
Government's institutional capacity to privatize SOEs and to extend business support services and
support private sector development. Beneficiary government agencies included the Investment
Promotion Center, the Export Promotion Institute, and the National Statistics Institute. The
- 3 -



project also coordinated and partially funded the Privatization Impact Study in 1996 and
sponsored a series of successful annual private sector development conferences.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality of the project at entry was unsatisfactory. The project objectives and components
were consistent with the (i) Government's broad policy initiatives to rehabilitate and restructure
the economy by reducing or eliminating macroeconomic distortions; and (ii) Bank's assistance
strategy to address structural constraints to economic growth. However, the original risk
assessment did not adequately take into account either the commitment to restructuring of the
enterprises affected, or the magnitude of the hurdles the enterprises faced in their external
environments. In addition, the impact of the problems faced in resolving legal ownership of assets
and preparing historical financial statements and business plans were not fully recognized.
The quality at entry of the revised ERC was also unsatisfactory. Administration of the ERC was
transferred at a time when a weak financial sector was in the midst of a reform program. The BM
had just been transformed to become solely a central bank and its commercial banking functions
were transferred to a commercial bank. State-owned commercial banks were being rehabilitated,
restructured, and privatized. The large portfolio of non-performing assets in commercial banks
reflected the absence of necessary credit management skills. Modifications to the design and
implementation arrangements of the component were made largely on the basis of expectations
that a large number of privatized enterprises would require long-term funds, then in short supply.
In addition, capacity building issues were left to be managed under another on-going project, the
Second Economic Recovery Credit (SERC). Although poor performance of the ERC had the
potential of reversing gains made following sectoral reforms funded under the SERC, steps were
not taken to include mechanisms to enforce financial discipline under the ERC. Deficiencies
included the absence of (i) well-defined incentives and indicators to ensure the disbursement and
supervisory function of the DOC were supported with equal emphasis and in coordination with
the Supervision Department of the BM; (ii) criteria and procedures to address credit discipline
and disallow weak financial institutions from accessing project resources; and (iii) adequate
consideration of the inability of enterprises to service their debt due to their financial and
operational weaknesses.
The quality at entry for the TAC was also unsatisfactory when emphasis shifted to addressing the
structural constraints to economic growth through the privatization of enterprises and enabling
these enterprises to resume production, employment, and incomes in the productive sectors. For
example, it did not sufficiently address asset valuation procedures, methods of sale, limited
purchasing power of the sectors interested in purchasing state-owned assets, training for
redundant employees, and appropriate guidelines and benchmarks necessary to determine
achievement of objectives.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Focusing on the Government's developmental strategy in the industrial sector, support under the
project contributed to the (i) recovery of production and growth in Mozambique; (ii) privatization
-4 -



of enterprises considered important for a supply response and growth in the sector; and (iii)
establishment of an institutional framework and approach to privatizing enterprises. The Project's
outcome is satisfactory.
Following the shift in policy from restructuring to privatizing enterprises, the Government decided
that it would focus its efforts on commercially-oriented and non-strategic enterprises. Strategic
enterprises providing basic public goods and services would be retained in the public sector. The
objective of supporting the Borrower's capacity to privatize and liquidate these enterprises was
achieved. A privatization framework was established through a series of laws and supporting
decrees; the privatization process was accomplished with assistance from government bodies
strengthened or established for this purpose. The objective of privatizing all non-strategic state
owned enterprises was also achieved.
The impact of the rapid privatization of SOEs was found to be highly positive in an impact study
(based on a sample of about 80 privatized enterprises) conducted by the Government and IDA in
1996 (at this time, approximately 600 enterprises had been sold to the private sector). The study
concluded that (i) the number of non-producing enterprises had decreased; (ii) sales in the
sampled enterprises almost doubled by their third year following privatization (for large firms this
was more dramatic with a reported tripling of sales); (iii) employment dropped significantly in the
sampled enterprises in the years preceding privatization and increased modestly during the
three-year period following privatization; (iv) real wages per employee increased by about 60
percent; (v) the collection rate of sales tax increased by about 38 percent overall and if the firms
which had tax exemptions were excluded, by over 132 percent; and (vi) almost 92 percent by
number, and 60 percent by value of the enterprises privatized, had been sold to Mozambican
nationals.
Following project closure, the very few enterprises which responded to the Government's request
for current information on their results since privatization, indicated an average of about 390
percent increase in sales since privatization, a slight decrease in the number of workers employed
(although the experience of the large enterprises and the smaller ones differed; employment by
smaller enterprises increased, while the larger ones have a smaller work force than at the date of
their privatization), capacity utilization has increased in all reporting enterprises, and taxes paid
remained about flat.
The 1996 impact study also documented a number of privatization and post-privatization
problems, which, as of the project closing date, still existed. These included (i) the absence of a
mechanism to resolve the situation where the purchase amounts received or promised were
inadequate to retire the pre-privatization liabilities of the enterprises assumed by the Government;
(ii) the distribution of the portions of equities which had been reserved for workers still remained
uncompleted; and (iii) the Government's continued involvement in these enterprises was often
perceived as a restraint to the enterprises' ability to raise additional equity.
The objectives of strengthening the Borrower's institutional capacity to develop and implement
rehabilitation plans became redundant when the focus of the project changed to privatizing SOEs.
-5-



The capacity building initiatives directed at Government agencies including the Ministry of
Industry, the Investment Promotion Center and National Statistics Institute was achieved and
fostered stronger partnerships between the government and the private sector. This is illustrated
by a joint public/private sector steering committee that will play a major role in guiding the future
development of the private sector. This partnership is receiving support under a Bank-funded
follow-up project, the Enterprise Development Project (see Section 6 below).
The objective under the ERC to provide financial resources to enterprises so they could upgrade
their technical, financial, marketing, and general management capacity, was partially achieved. In
reviewing the repayment performance of the sub-borrowers, it is clear some participating financial
institutions (PFIs) have experienced losses because sub-borrowers were remiss in servicing their
debts. The poor repayment record suggests that the private sector borrowers continued to face
difficulties. Despite this performance, monitoring repayment performance of sub-borrowers by
BM was not regular although it debited the PFIs' account with BM once repayments were due
from sub-borrowers.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Enterprise Rehabilitation Component
The revised ERC was made available to private and privatized enterprises to finance their
investment, term financing, working capital, and business planning requirements. Resources were
passed from BM through PFIs for on-lending to enterprises at an interest rate determined by the
PFIs. Of the interest charged to the beneficiary enterprises, 50 percent of the nominal interest was
retained by the BM to cover the foreign exchange risk and administrative costs (5 percent). The
remaining 50 percent was retained by the PFIs to cover their commercial risk of lending, financial
and operating costs, and expected returns. Sub-loans were denominated in Meticals and had a
maturity of 3-12 years including a grace period of 1-4 years. Access to these funds was based on
the enterprises' ability to meet the following eligibility criteria (a) enterprises engaged, inter alia,
in agro-related industries, light manufacturing and heavy industry; and (b) enterprises with
financial, economic, technical and environmental viability.
Six PFIs utilized the project resources to finance 39 sub-projects totaling approximately US$36
million. The distribution of these sub-projects included (i) sectorally: 41 percent in transport, 36
percent in industry and 23 percent in other sectors; and (ii) geographically: 85 percent in Maputo,
5 percent in Nampula, and 3 percent each in Cabo Delgado, Tete, Niassa, and Zambezia areas.
Ten sub-borrowers (26 percent), representing two of the original 15 enterprises identified at
appraisal and the newly-privatized enterprises under IERP, borrowed about 78 percent of the total
disbursed amount for this component.
While loan commitment and disbursement proceeded reasonably well, the major issue for this
component was the high default rates. Of the over $3 million due at end-October 1999, about 40
percent was yet to be recovered from about 21 defaulters (65 percent of borrowers whose grace
periods have expired and who should have been servicing their loans). PFIs confirmed that they
have experienced losses due to defaults by some sub-borrowers. PFIs were stepping up their
collection efforts and provisioning against the arrears.
- 6 -



Technical Assistance Component
(a)   Privatization Program. An Inter-ministerial Commission for Enterprise Restructuring
guided the privatization process. This Commission was supported by UTRE for the privatization
of large enterprises. In addition, the Bureau for Restructuring Enterprises in the Ministry of
Agriculture and Fisheries (GREAP) and the Bureau for Restructuring Enterprises in the Ministry
of Industry, Trade, and Tourism (GREICT) supported the privatization of medium and small-size
enterprises identified by the National Evaluation and Sales Commissions and the Provincial
Evaluation and Sales Commissions for the Ministry of Industry Commerce and Tourism, and the
Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, respectively. By project closure, 1,272 enterprises
(representing approximately 97 percent of all non-strategic enterprises to be privatized) were
privatized under this program (MICTUR: 701 enterprises; Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries:
278 enterprises; Ministry of Public Works: 181 enterprises; Ministry of Communications and
Transport: 87 enterprises; and other ministries: 25 enterprises).
UTRE and GREAP continue to deal with post-privatization issues including the claims of
workers, pensioners, and creditors of the enterprises that the Government agreed to assume. At
project closing, GREICT was completing the sale of approximately 12 enterprises and was also
actively working on the technical aspects of the sale of the equity reserved for the employees of
about 58 enterprises. GREAP was finalizing the sale of approximately 30 small enterprises.
(b)   Investment Promotion Center (CPI).  Support under the project enabled CPI to
implement its Three Year Strategic Plan. This focused on (i) re-engineering its organizational
structure and internal operational procedures; and (ii) executing a proactive promotional program
in areas where the country has a demonstrated comparative advantage. CPI: (a) rationalized its
organizational and salary structure; (b) revised the investment registration process; (c) developed
its management information systems including an investor tracking system and promotional
presentations on the Internet on privatization opportunities in Mozambique; (d) implemented a
pilot linkage program which stimulated increased foreign and domestic investments, employment
generation, technology acquisition and transfer, and the diversification of economic production
and export opportunities (CPI succeeded in maximizing business opportunities for Mozambican
firms through the Mozal aluminum smelter plant, the country's first mega project, and facilitated
the signing of 45 contracts or sub-contracts with local suppliers reportedly totaling about US$96
million); (e) facilitated the approval of new, less cumbersome free zone regulations by the Council
of Ministers (resulting, at project closing, in the development of an industrial site in the Beluluane
District and commencement of preparation work for one in the Boane District); and (f) revamped
its Beira office and opened antenna offices in South Africa, Mauritius, and Brussels.
(c)   Ministry of Industry, Trade, and Tourism. The Private Sector Development Unit
(PSD) in MICTUR was set up as a central coordinating unit to support private sector
development policies. An action plan, prepared by MICTUR for an inter-ministerial working
group, guided the removal of red tape and administrative barriers to investment. Achievements
include the revision of legislation relating to price fixing, copy and property rights, tourism
development, and land demarcation, among others. Dialogue and a consultative process between
- 7 -



government and representatives of local business associations was established and is on-going.
Annual private sector conferences were held since 1995 in the provincial and national levels (with
business sector and donor support) wherein major investment and development constraints were
identified and plans to remove them drawn. The Working Commission of Business Associations'
Business Directory and a Practical Guide to Doing Business in Mozambique was published.
MICTUR also carried out an assessment of the competitiveness and employment in the cashew
processing industry in Mozambique. Recommendations of the study to both the Government and
the private sector are under consideration. Support was also extended to the Cashew Working
Group Secretariat (CWS) for market research and information services to the cashew industry and
its stakeholders. Implementation of a pilot Cashew Processing Support Program did not proceed
when its impact and sustainability were jeopardized after the cost-sharing aspect of the scheme
was abandoned and the loan and lease guarantees expected from commercial banks were not
realistically achievable.
(d)   Export Promotion Institute (IPEX). Capacity building support led IPEX to implement
its reorganization plan, develop its corporate plan, upgrade management and staff skills, and
participate in international trade fairs and seminars covering export procedures, product
development and finance. IPEX also developed a Trade Market and Information Center, which
provides exporters information on current trade, export and commodities information, and permits
them to draw upon real-time data and relevant economic and trade news globally.
(e)   National Statistics Institute (INE). With the technical training and logistical support it
received under the Project, INE continues to strengthen its institution (based on an INE-prepared
five-year work plan, human resource plan and an information technology plan) and build its
reputation as a reliable provider of statistical data. It produces the National Accounts; reports on
the consumer price index for Maputo, Beira and Nampula; publishes the General Population and
Housing Census; and is spearheading the preparation for an agricultural census.
(f)    Other Technical Assistance. Sub-sectoral studies (edible oils, textiles and garments,
transportation, sugar, electrical energy) were conducted and they provided the necessary
background infornation for legislators and sectoral ministries to define policies and modify
legislation.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development inmpact:
The project made a positive institutional development impact on agencies involved with the
project. Notable among these institutions are (i) UTRE, GREAP and GREICT, which
successfully privatized enterprises; (ii) MICTUR, which fosters constructive dialogue between the
-8 -



public and private sectors; (iii) CPI as a major player in contributing to maximize business
opportunities for Mozambican firms; and (iv) INE, as a source of important statistical information
and key economic indicators.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or inplementing agency.
The damage and destruction caused by the country's civil war adversely affected the possibility of
successfully rehabilitating enterprises originally selected during appraisal. Legal and accounting
problems, as well as a lack of participation by enterprise management adversely affected the
project as initially designed. Following the decision to refocus on privatizing SOEs instead of
rehabilitating enterprises, it was clear that the limited availability of financial resources on the part
of the nationals negatively affected their ability to both acquire and revitalize state-owned assets.
In addition, the influx of imported goods for two years during 1989-90 prevented enterprises from
finding lucrative markets and, as a result, forced many to re-evaluate their product lines in view of
the changing market. The over-leveraged positions of clients with good projects prevented them
from meeting the lending criteria of PFIs including equity contributions and collateral
requirements. Weaker enterprises that defaulted on their loans were unable to implement their
projects as planned and faced problems of insufficient working capital. Banks also found it
difficult to assist enterprises whose management skills were limited and technical skills outdated.
They continued to take a cautious approach to term financing for small and medium enterprises.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control.
The maintenance of favorable macroeconomic policies and the Government's demonstrated
consistent level of commitment to the privatization of SOEs (reflected in the series of laws and
decrees passed by Government, the approval and oversight structure to support the privatization
framework, and the appointment of highly dedicated and competent people in key positions in the
privatization units) permitted, with some exceptions, the relatively expeditious handling of the sale
of enterprises.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The impact of the ERC would have greatly improved if the DOC focused more on the
performance of the project portfolio and took steps to exclude PFIs whose credit management
capacity was weak. These steps were important despite the fact that PFIs bore the credit risk and
their accounts with the BM were automatically debited after repayment due dates,
Under the TAC, as discussed above, the flexibility displayed by the different implementing
agencies (for example, CPI, MICTUR, MOF) increased their contribution to private sector
development, fostered the development of the important dialogue between the public and private
sectors, and resolved implementation problems including the need to establish a number of special
accounts to improve the response time for disbursements. For the agencies implementing the
privatization program, their responsiveness was best displayed in the conditions they created to
increase the ability of nationals to acquire and re-vitalize former state owned assets. The impact
of the privatization program, however, would have increased if privatization issues had been
-9-



addressed earlier. These include: greater transparency in the evaluation process and valuation
methods, responsibilities toward redundant labor and pensioners, sale of equity to the workers,
the level of default by new owners who purchased on the basis of deferred payments, and the
possible mismatch between the proceeds of privatization and the associated liabilities assumed by
the Government.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
There were variations in the appraisal estimate and actual utilization of IDA's funds for the project
components. These resulted from about a 20 percent decrease in utilization under the ERC and
an increase of about 95 percent under the TAC. The increase in the TAC was made to
accommodate requests submitted by the Government to provide private sector development
assistance through MICTUR, CPI, INE and IPEX (see Sections 3-4 above). (Note: contributions
made by beneficiaries were not provided to the Bank and therefore are not reflected in Annex 2).
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The Government's privatization program has been completed and its sustainability is highly likely.
How effective the remaining process will be depends on the ability of the Government to continue
to provide a favorable business environment, strengthen and broaden the financial system, and
foster the rapid development of indigenous managerial, financial and technical skills. Additional
support in these areas will be extended by the Bank under the Enterprise Development Project
(EDP, project effectiveness is expected by September 1, 2000). The EDP was designed to (i)
help broaden the base of private participation in Mozambican economic growth by boosting its
competitiveness; (ii) providing a more efficient market for training and capacity building services;
and (iii) establishing forward and backward linkages to existing and new local and foreign buyers
and investors; and enhancing access to term finance by both first-time and other borrowers. Finns
assisted under this project will be monitored on production, investments, sales, increased exports,
additional jobs, technical training, linkages with foreign owned firms, among others.
The sustainability of the privatization program will also be affected by the manner in which the
Government deals with post-privatization issues including: defaults in installment payments for the
purchased assets (as of end-October 1999, approximately 27 percent of payments for large
enterprises were received by the Government); the transfer of 20 percent of the equity position
reserved for employees but still held in trust by the Government; and the payment of claims of
creditors, workers and pensioners assumed by the Government.
The project provided essential financial resources to the private sector at a critical time in
Mozambique's development. It also contributed to the evolution and maintenance of financial
sector reforms through an increase in the level of intermediation and a market-based credit
allocation system. The sustainability of the achievements in providing financial assistance to the
private sector under the credit line will depend on PFIs vigilantly implementing their credit
management systems and the BM closely supervising PFIs. This would prevent a high level of
default on sub-loans, which could adversely affect the financial system.
- 1 0 -



Sustainability of the development of rehabilitation plans ceased to be relevant when the project
focus shifted to privatization of SOEs.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
In discussing a future operational plan for ERC, it was agreed that DOC and the Banking
Supervision Department at BM would proceed to work closely with PFIs to improve the
repayment performance of sub-borrowers. Also, under the IDA-funded EDP, PFIs' access to
credit resources would be based on PFIs meeting eligibility criteria which includes, initially,
having total non-performing loans of less than 20 percent of portfolio and, thereafter, collections
on sub-loans not dropping below 85 percent of amounts coming due.
For the TAC, transitional plans include (i) the transfer and preservation of the institutional skills,
responsibilities and documentation which exist in the UTRE, GREICT, and GREAP; (ii) the sale
of equity to employees; (iii) the establishment of a working group to accunulate analyses of
sectoral and regional privatization patterns which, when combined with other inputs, would assist
in the development of economic policy to be implemented by sectoral ministries. This working
group would comprise representatives from the sectoral ministries and sectoral privatization units,
and representatives from the Department of State Assets. This working group will be charged
with settling all post-privatization issues including collections on the sale of assets, the transfer of
20 percent of the equity position reserved for employees but still held in trust by the Government;
and the claims of creditors, workers and pensioners, among others.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
During project identification, the Bank was satisfied that the project objectives were consistent
with the Bank's assistance strategy for Mozambique and the country's development needs at that
time. The Bank was also satisfied that the Government's development strategy responded to these
needs.
During project preparation, the Bank assessed the adequacy of project design and other relevant
aspects. The Bank assisted the Borrower by providing comments and guidance on prefeasibility
studies for selecting beneficiary enterprises (BEs) for rehabilitation. While selecting 15 BEs, the
Bank endeavored to ensure that these enterprises had the managerial capability, and economic and
financial viability and that their operations were not seriously affected by the security situation in
the country.
While appraising the project, the Bank was satisfied with the Government's policy initiatives and
determination to overcome the constraints in the enterprise sector and its commitment to the
project objectives. The Bank also assessed the project's major risks including the economy's
fragility, potential political and social opposition, the Government's and enterprises' limited
experience in implementing rehabilitation plans, and the security situation. In retrospect, the risk
assessment did not adequately consider the competence and commitment to restructuring of the
BEs nor the difficult financial and operational hurdles the enterprises had to overcome after the
- 11 -



civil war.
7.2 Supervision:
The supervision of the project by the Bank was satisfactory. Over the eight years of project
implementation, more than 20 supervision missions were conducted, with an average of 2.5
missions per year at an average stay of three weeks per mission. Aide-memoire were regularly
prepared and transmitted. These alerted the Government to problems with project execution and
suggested remedies in conformity with Bank procedures.
Bank staff worked closely with various units of the Government and the working relationship was
cordial and productive. The project team responded to the Borrower's requests promptly and
expeditiously. Complementary support from the Resident Mission staff also increased the
effectiveness of the Bank's support to the country under this project.
The Bank showed flexibility and adaptability by modifying the project three times in order to
meet the changing private sector development requirements of the country. The project was
amended first in December 1992 to support the Government's privatization and parastatal reform
program by increasing the capacity of UTRE in its growing role of coordinating and managing the
privatization prograrn for the large SOEs. The project was modified for a second time in June
1994 to enable BM to onlend funds to participating private commercial banks, which would then
undertake their own appraisal of the BEs. The third amendment was signed in October 1997 to
support MICTUR through the creation of GREICT, which became responsible for privatizing
small and medium enterprises. As indicated earlier, the impact and sustainability of the project
would have improved if the Bank had displayed more flexibility and incorporated guidelines and
benchmarks that would have guided the assessment of the project achievements. Also, increased
attention during supervision to the overall repayment performance of sub-borrowers would have
minimized the deterioration of banks' portfolio quality.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Government's high level of commitment to the objectives of the project was demonstrated
early on in project preparation. Key officials and staff played an active role and collaborated with
the Bank's project team.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's performance during project implementation was satisfactory. The impact of
the project was improved when the leadership in Govemment took major steps (albeit belatedly
sometimes) to correct the slow progress in implementation. These included refocusing the
objectives of the project to privatization, expanding the line of credit to provide access to a wider
set of beneficiaries, piloting new ways to foster the establishment of foreign and local
- 12 -



partnerships, and establishing a forum for annual private and public sector dialogue in key regions
in the country.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The collaboration between the DOC and the Bank in the preparation and implementation of the
Project was satisfactory. DOC's relationship with PFIs seemed to be good although it h)ad
difficulty in obtaining the required progress reports from PFIs. The sometimes unfavorable
market conditions, unsatisfactory credit management practices of PFIs, the choices made bv
sub-borrowers to default on loans all contributed to the difficult challenges to bring the repayment
performance ratios up to acceptable levels. The sustainability of the ERI will remain threatened
if DOC continues to hesitate to conduct a more rigorous monitoring of sub-borrower and PFI
performance because they feel it oversteps their boundaries as PFIs are taking the credit risk.
The performance of UTRE, GREICT, and GREAP was satisfactory. Qualified and dedicated
officers maintained a high level of commitment to the privatization objectives. Officers at CPI and
MICTUR implemented their programs enthusiastically and proactively and other agencies utilized
the capacity building resources effectively.
However, throughout the implementation period, the implementing agencies had procurement and
disbursements problems, often unnecessarily delaying important initiatives. Also, audit reports
were submitted although sometimes late, without management letters, and with qualified opinions
because of inadequate record keeping and weak internal controls over procurement of goods and
services.
7. 7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's overall performance was satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
*  The success of financial intermediary loans is dependent upon a disciplined credit
environment. Measures should be included in the project design to address issues relating to
governance, management, financial policies and credit risk management. Appropriate
guidelines and benchmarks should be included so that PFIs are strengthened rather than
undermined by their participation in similar projects.
* Where a project has a major shift in emphasis, it is essential to do a risk assessment based on
the new objectives, and to set up appropriate guidelines and benchmarks to help determine
progress toward achieving those objectives.
*  Development of a more comprehensive structure for privatization, including clearer
procedures on asset valuation and methods of sale, may have avoided delays and bottlenecks
which were built up during project implementation. In addition, a clear strategy for involving
local purchasers with limited purchasing power in the privatization of state-owned assets and
the potential cost to the government of various alternatives should be addressed and
-13 -



thoroughly assessed at the early stages of project design.
*  To maximize the effectiveness of privatization, a program supporting the development of the
real sector is necessary. The pilot program sponsored by CPI (to identify potential partners
and establish smart partnerships between local and foreign finns and to provide them with
opportunities to develop effective management practices and to access up-to-date technical
know-how and financing) successfully illustrates this lesson.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
9.1   Assessment of the project objective, design, implementation and operation experience
The project had a tremendous impact in the economy, both as regards to its financing component
for the beneficiary enterprises (BEs) and its restructuring of state-owned companies component
and through creation of better conditions for development of the private sector.
(a)   Rehabilitation of industrial enterprises. Initially the project targeted mainly the
rehabilitation of industrial enterprises. Even taking into account the limited amounts available for
this purpose and considering the needs of the economy and lending ceilings imposed on the
commercial banks, the project played a very significant role in the rehabilitation of a large number
of industrial enterprises.
(b)   Privatization Program. About 1,272 enterprises were privatized under this program,
dramatically changing the face of important production sectors, such as beverages, food, cement,
building, tourism and others. This was noted in an impact study (based on a sample of about 80
enterprises conducted by the Government and IDA in 1996) and confirmed by other studies
conducted with the cooperation of the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC).
The impact of the privatization program was only reduced by the structural problems of the
Mozambican economy, which at times discouraged private participation, particularly the lack of
infrastructure (roads, communications) and qualified personnel.
In terms of revenues for the State, the enterprise privatization program included in UTRE's
program, raised more than US$82 million of cash and deferred installments already received by
the Ministry of Planning and Finance. Even though part of these funds were used to pay liabilities
of former state-owned enterprises, the general balance of this operation remains highly positive to
the State.
Taking into consideration the structural constraints of the economy and the financial weaknesses
of Mozambican investors, the possibility given by law to buy state-owned enterprises partly by
deferred payments, allowed a relatively fast divestiture by the State that could not otherwise have
been possible.
- 14 -



(c)    Development of the private sector. The project with its support to the Investment
Promotion Center (CPI), Ministry of Industry, Trade and Tourism (MICTUR), Export Promotion
Institute (IPEX) and the National Statistics Institute (INE) played an important role in the
development of institutional capacity aimed at creating conditions conducive to the development
of the private sector.
9.2    Evaluation  of the  borrower's own performance  during  the  development and
implementation of the project
In general it is considered that the institutional arrangements established efficiently served the
different purposes of the project.
Regarding the rehabilitation of industrial enterprises, the changes made in the co-ordination of the
program that was assumed by BM, made the project much more efficient considering the direct
connection between BM and the PFIs.
In terms of the Privatization Program, even if its pace is sometimes considered slow, it must be
noted that it was conducted in a difficult and incomplete market environment that made private
investors slow in responding to the offers.
Maybe the process could have moved faster if more staff and TA had been hired at the start of the
privatization program, but the reaction of the private sector would probably not have been
sufficiently strong to absorb all the enterprises to be privatized.
Accordingly, and in general, it is considered that the legal framework and institutional
arrangements made by the Government responded relatively well to the needs of the privatization
process.
Moreover, the Government's firm commitment to the privatization program and its availability for
swift decisions in all relevant matters was also a major factor of success.
However, even if the legal framework is considered satisfactory, the transfer of shares to workers
clearly remains a question. Institutional arrangements were not efficient enough to resolve this
outstanding matter. A specific program to settle this is needed to complete transfer of shares in
the short term.
9.3    Evaluation of the Bank's performance during the development and implementation of the
project
The Bank's cooperation, its flexibility, and that of its task managers, in considering adaptations to
the initial purposes of the project are considered to have been a decisive factor in its success.
However, regarding the rehabilitation of industrial enterprises, the general conditions for the line
of credit were seen as not very attractive in terms of interest rate considering the structural
- 15-



deficiencies of the Mozambican economy.
The market environment in Mozambique is not yet entirely competitive and without concessional
credit, investors are not attracted to the country.
Moreover, the investment needs are huge in light of the very low level of the National Product,
and even with private investment as the motor, lines of credit are essential to stimulate increased
investment.
The general terms of sale for state-owned enterprises were determined in cooperation with the
Bank, which always insisted on considering payments in the first place.
As a large majority of proposed payments by investors were in installments after a first cash
payment, the evaluation of financial bids became subjective and based on promises as
development plans.
A compromise was reached assigning a weight of 50 percent for financial and technical bids that
satisfied both the Borrower and the Bank.
The relationship with the Bank was at times difficult as regards to disbursements. Even though
there were unquestionably procurement problems on the Borrower's side, the Bank frequently
delayed payments, causing problems for the normal flow of the project and the rehabilitation of
the enterprises. The main reason for that situation being, as had been noted, was the lack of
coordination between the task team leader, following issuance of "no-objection", and the
disbursements department.
However, that situation improved toward the end of the project, and the Borrower feels that this
lack of coordination was progressively overcome.
9.4   Proposed arrangements for future operations
* In terms of Bank procedures, a better organization and simplification was advised, in order to
avoid unnecessary delays in implementation and operation.
* To be successful, credit lines to be set up for the private sector must be taken into account,
besides bank conditions, the specific conditions of the local economic environment, as well as
structural deficiencies. Otherwise, they will not be sufficiently attractive, which may delay
implementation and be contrary to the interests of the end beneficiaries.
* In a country like Mozambique, with the specific infrastructure and market conditions already
mentioned, a privatization program must consider the financial capacity of potential investors
as well as the ability to pay any deferred installments. Therefore, the Beneficiary agrees with
the need to analyze this question with the interested parties, prioritizing payment of the total
sales amounts at the time of sale even if these are less than the amounts considered for sales
purposes. This frees the State from the need to implement complicated and inefficient systems
- 16-



for controlling deferred payments.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
- 17 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
0 indlca07070000torlMa0020tr  0Pro ed7 in last PSR'                       AcItuaiLatest Estimate
Performance Indicators were not mentioned
in the SAR
Output Indicators:
Indlc torlM       0.t ti; ;00$000  Projected ito  PSR                    Actua fte  Estimate
Performance Indicators were not mentioned
in the SAR
End of project
- 18-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
AppraIl       ActuaLatest   Percentage of
.  smate        Esatati            -
Project Cost By Component                US$ million     US$ million
Enterprise Rehabilitation Component (ERC)                95.90            30.61           31.9
Technical Assistance Component (TAC)                      9.15            17.96          166.3
Vehicles and Equipment                                    0.25             3.98         1592.3
Refunding PPF                                             1.50             0.86           57.3
Total Baseline Cost                                     106.80            53.41
Total Project Costs                106.80     .      53.41
Total Financing Required                106.80      .     53.41
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement IlAeOwd'
Ependiture Categoy         ICs          NCS       Mdhod            N.B.F.      Tota Cost
1. Works                     29.38          3.67          1.84          1.84         36.73
(29.38)       (3.67)        (1.84)        (1.84)       (36.73)
2. Goods                      5.02          2.05          0.00          0.00          7.07
(5.02)        (2.05)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (7.07)
3. Services                   12.55         5.11          0.00          0.00         17.66
_______ _ __ _  (12.55)  (5.11)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (17.66)
4. Miscellaneous              44.75         0.00          0.00          0.00         44.75
(44.75)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (44.75)
5. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
______________________ ..(0.00)            (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                      91.70         10.83         1.84          1.84         106.21
(91.70)       (10.83)       (1.84)        (1.84)       (106.21)
- 19 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
nxpenditur Category    1 ICProcurement Method
Expenditure cat-egory         [I NCB                         her           N.B.F.        Total Cost
1. Works                          0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
2. Goods                         33.50           0.00                           0.00           33.50
(33.50)         (0.00)           0             (0.00)         (33.50)
3. Services                      12.18           0.00            0.00           0.00            12.18
(12.18)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (12.18)
4. Miscellaneous                  1.26           6.47                           0.00            7.73
(1.26)         (6.47)            O            (0.00)          (7.73)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
Total                         46.94           6.47            0.00           0.00           53.41
_   (46.94)          (6.47)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (53.41)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
}   X                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Percentage of Appraisal
Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate
l  Bank       Govt.     CoF.       Bank       Govt.      CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
Enterprise Rehabilitation                                 30.61                          0.0    0.0    0.0
Component (ERC)
Technical Assistance                                      16.50       1 .45              0.0    0.0    0.0
Component (TAC)
Vehicles and Equipment  |                                 2.44       0.73                0.0    0.0    0.0
Refunding PPF           _                   l             0.85     _         l           0.0    0.0    0.0
-20 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable
- 21 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)     Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count        Specialty                          Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
July-Aug./1988                 I   Operations
November/88                    3   Operations Officer, Economist,
Financial Analyst
Appraisal/Negotiation
March/89                       5   Operations Officer,
Economist, Financial
Analyst, Training Specialist,
Legal Officer
Supervision
July/89                         2  Operations Officer,                     S                  S
Economist
March/90                        2   Operations Officer, Project            S                  S
Mgmt.
July/91                         I  Operations Officer                      S                  S
October/911                     2   Operat. Officer, Economist             S                  S
March/92                        I  Operations Officer                      S                  S
August-September./92            4  Operations Officer, Economist, 2        S                  S
Private Sector Specialists
May/93                          3  Operations Officer, Economist,          S                  S
Private Sector Specialist
July/93                         I  Private Sector Specialist               S                  U
October/93                      4  Director, Div. Chief, Res. Rep,         U                  U
Economist
November/93                     3   Economist, Private Sector              U                  U
Specialist, Legal Officer
February-March/94               4  Operations Officer, Economist,          U                  U
Private Sector Specialist,
Financial Analyst
June-July/94                    2   Economist, Private Sector              U                  U
Specialist
February-March/95               2   Financial Economist, Private           S                  S
Sector Specialist
July/95                         3   Financial Economist, Private           S                  S
Sector Specialist,
Microenterprise Specialist
October-November/95             4   Financial Economist, Private           S                  S
Sector Specialist,
Microenterprise Specialist,
Privatization Expert
March/96                        3   Financial Economist, Private           S                  S
Sector Specialist, Privatization
Expert
- 22 -



July-Aug/96                     2   2 Private Sector Dev. Specialists      S                 HS
May/97                          I  Private Sector Dev. Specialist          S                 HS
March/98                        I  Private Sector Dev. Specialist         S                  HS
June/98                         I  Private Sector Dev. Specialist          S                 HS
November-December./98           2   Operations Officer, Private            S                  S
Sector Dev. Specialist
May/99                          1  Operations Officer                      S                  S
Nov.-Dec./99                    2   Operations Officer, Private            S                  S
Sector Dev. Specialist
1CR
Nov.-Dec/99                    2    Operations Officer, Private            S                  S
Sector Dev. Specialist
(h) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks               US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation                 49.1                         93.6
Appraisal/Negotiation                      29.7                         58.5
Supervision                               191.7                        401.9
ICR                                         2.5                          9.0
Total                                     273.0                        563.0
- 23 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
AMacro policies                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Sector Policies                           O H  *SUOM  O N  O  A
N Physical                                 O H  O SU O M  * N  O AA
,7 Financial                               C H  C SU * M   O N  O AA
X Institutional Development                0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 /\JA
2 Environmental                            0 H  O SU 0 M  C N  0 NA
Social
Poverty Reduction                  O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Gender                             O H O SU O M O N * NA
Other (Please specify)            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
@ Private sector development               0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
Z Public sector management                 0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
X Other (Please specify)                   O H  OSUOM  C N  * NA
- 24 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                  Rating
O Lending                                             O HS OS *U OHU
O Supervision                                         C HS * S  OU  OHU
O  Overall                                            OHS OS   O U  O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                              Rating
Preparation                                        O HS * S   C  U  O HU
O  Government implementation performance              0 HS 0 S   0  U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                   O HS * S   O  U  O HU
l Overall                                             OHS OS   OU  O HU
- 25 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Aide-Memoire and Back-to-Office Reports
2. Consultant Reports
3. Consultant Studies included in the Project
4. Borrower's Evaluation Report
5. Staff Appraisal Report
- 26 -



