Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C#e R            F/                           Report No.7826-MOZ
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MOZAMBIQUE
INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
NOVEMBER 21, 1989
Industry and Energy Operations
Southern Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribotion and may be used by recipients only in the performaaoce of
their offciil duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank aothorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1 - 813 Niticais (MT) - October 1989
US$1 . 682 Meticais (MnT) - at tine of Appraisal (March 1989)
MT 1000 - US$1.47
ABBJIVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADL            Arthur D. Little
BE             Beneficiary Enterprise
BM             Bank of Mozambique
BES            Business Environment Study
BPD            Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento
BSTM           Banco Standard Totta de Mocambique
CCADR          Caixa de Credito Agrario e Desenvolvimento Rural
CDC            Commonwealth Development Corporation
CNP            Commissao Nacional de Planeamento
(National Planning Commission)
CREE           Commissao de Relacoes Economicas Externas
(Commission for External Economic Relations)
ERC            Enterprise Rehabilitation Component
ERP            Economic Rehabilitation Program
ERTU           Enterprise Restructuring Technical Unit
GOM            Government of Hozambique
GPIE           Gabinete de Promocao do Investimento Estrangeiro
(Office of Foreign Investment Promotion)
IDIL           Instituto Nacional de Desenvolvimento de Industria Local
National Institute for Light Industry Development
IFC            International Finance Corporation
MA             Ministry of Agriculture
MCW            Ministry of Construction and Water
MOF            Ministry of Finance
MIE            Ministry of Industry and Energy
ML             Ministry of Labor
MTC            Ministry of Transport and Communications
PETROMOC       Empresa Nacional de Petroleos de  Mocambique
(National Petroleum Company)
PFI            Participating Financial Institutions
PPF            Project Preparation Facility
RP             Rehabilitation Plan
SARL           Sociedades Anonimas de Responsabilidade Limitada
(Public Limited Liability Companies)
SNAAD          System for Non-Administrative Allocation of
Foreign Exchange
SEILA          Secretariat of State for Light Industry
SETEP          Secretariat of State for Vocational and
Professional Education
SQRL           Sociedades por Quotas de Responsabilidad Limitada
(Private Limited Liability Companies)
UNIDO          United Nations Industrial Development
Organization
FISCAL YEAR
Government and Public Enterprises: Calendar Year



,  ,    AL_  I 
MOZAMBIQUE
INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUIARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . .i-iii
1.   THE ECONOMY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
Background ........................... . 1
The Economic Rehabilitation Progranm and The Industrial
Sector ............................ . 2
II.  INDUSTRIAL SECTOR BACKGROUND .................. . 3
A.  The Structure of Industrial Production,  1973-1987 ..... . 3
B.  Institutional Framework  ............. ... 6
C.  Financial Sector .................. ... 7
D.  Sector Issues and Constraints  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
E.  Government Objectives and Priorities . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
F.  Status of Enterprise Review ............... . 15
G.  IDA Assistance ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..    15
Past Bank Involvement ................ . 15
IDA's Role in the Sector . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
III. THE PROJECT ......................... . 16
A. Project Rationale .16
B. Objectives .17
C.  Project Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Enterprise Rehabilitation Component (ERC)  . . . . . . . 17
Technical Assistance Component (TAC) . . . . . . . . . . 18
D. Project Cost and Financing .19
IV. MAIN FEATURES OF THE CREDIT .23
A.  Credit and Onlending Terms and Conditions  . . . . . . . . . 23
B. Selection of Potential Beneficiary
Enterprise (BEs) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
C. Sample Enterprise Profiles .25
D. Enterprise (Subproject) Eligibility Criteria
under the ERC  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
E.  Subloan Processing and Administration  . . . . . . . . . . . 28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offitial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MOZAKIQUE
INDUSTRIAL ZNTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
V.   PROJECT IMPLDKNTATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
A.  Institutional Setting and Management . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
B. Status of Project Preparation and Implementation
Schedule . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
C.  Project Preparation Facility . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
D.  Procurement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
E.  Disbursement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
F.  Special Account  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
G.  Accounting and Auditing Requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
H.  Monitoring and Reporting Requirements  . . . . . . . . . . . 39
VI.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
A.  Benefits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
B.    Risks  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    40
VII. SSM#ARY OF AGREEMNTS AND RECONEND&TIONS  . . . . . . . . . . . 40



|                                MOZ^M~~~~~~IWBIQUE
INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
LIST OF ANNEXES
2-1      Structure of Manufacturing Industry, 1973-1987
2-2      Geographical Distribution of Industrial Enterprises - 1973
2-3      "Tutelage  of Manufacturing Industry
2-4      Structure of Interest Rates
2-5      Sectoral Distribution of Credit
2-6      Evolution of Bank Credit to Enterprises by Bank and Activity
2-7      Suzmmary Data on 40 Major Enterprises
3-1      Technical Assistance Costs to the Enterprise Restructuring Unit
Restructuring Technical Unit (ERTU)
3-2      Human Resources and Training Institutions in the Industrial
Sector
3-3      Draft Scope of Packaging Sub-sector Study
3-4      Cost Estimates for 15 likely Project Beneficiaries
4-1      Data Sheet on Probable Rehabilitation/Restructuring Enterprises
4-2      Guidelines for ERTU Operations, Subproject Eligibility Criteria
and Subloan Administration
5-1      Project Implementation Organization Chart
5-2      Bank of Mozambique-Summary Accounts, 1980-87
5-3      Monetary and Credit Developments, 1980-87
5-4      Terms of Reference for the ERTU
5-5      Enterprise Restructuring Technical Unit - Jos Descriptions
5-6      Estimated Disbursement Schedule for the IDA Credit
5-7      PCR Preparation Arrangements
6-1      Selected Documents and Data Available on Project File



I1OZAMBIQU
INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
.
Borrower:         People's Republic of Mozambique
Beneficiaries:    Ministry of Finance (MOF); Bank of Mozambique (BM); Ministry of
Industry and Energy (MIE); and selected major beneficiary
enterprises (BEs).
Amount:            SDR 40 million (US$50.1 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Onlending Terms:  Government will pass on US$50.1 million equivalent of the IDA
credit to the BM to: (a) channel US$39.9 million to BEs under the
Enterprise Restructuring Component (ERC); and (b) retain US$10.2
million equivalent for technical assistance to strengthen the
Enterprise Restructuring Technical Unit (ERTU) and other agencies
involved in the Project, for consultancies to BEs for subproject
preparation, and for training. The ERC would be channelled to BEs
primarily as loans through BM. However, in appropriate cases, the
Government could use this component to make direct equity
investments in BEs in combination with loans according to their
assessed needs for fitancial restructuring.  The BM would onlend
the credit proceeds under the ERC in local currency to eligible
BEs at adjustable interest rates based on the structure of rates
prevailing in Mozambique. The credit risk on onlending would be
borne by the BM who would receive an appropriate spread as
determined by the banking system. The foreign exchange risk would
be borne by the Government and would be covered by the interest
yield on funds onlent, net of the service charge on the IDA
credit, and the onlending spread of the BM. The Government would
bear the risk on any equity investments. Subloans under the ERC
would have maturities of up to 15 years, including up to a 5-year
grace period.
Project
Description:      The Project's overall objective, which is in support of the
Government's strategy, is to restore production and efficiency in
a selected group of major industrial and agro-industrial
enterprises.   More specifically,  the Project aims to:   (a)
introduce a framework and criteria for selecting enterprises for
rehabilitation,  based  on  potential  economic,  financial  and
technical viability, and on management capacity to operate
efficiently and profitably; (b) finance the rehabilitation,
financial restructuring and operational support to selected
enterprises. The restructuring process would, where appropriate,
include rationalization of capacity, privatization, technical
partnership arrangements, or, if necessary, closure of nonviable
operations; (c) protect the environment and worker safety; (d)
strengthen Government's capacity to implement the rehabilitation



- ii -
program; and (e) support policy reforms and subsector reviews
designed to strengthen enterprise operations in a market-oriented
environment.
Project Benefits
and Risks:.       Rehabilitation of selected major enterprises will yield high
economic returns through restoration of employment and higher
levels  of  production  and  incomes.       Improvements  in  the
institutional and policy framework, plus increased enterprise
autonomy and competition, with more private sector involvement
through joint ventures and divestiture, should enhance enterprise
efficiency and profitability.   The rehabilitation, financial
restructuring, privatization and technical management approaches
developed for enterprises under the Project will serve as
demonstration cases for the design and implementation of similar
programs in other enterprises. Further, the Project will aim to
increase  the  market  orientation  of  enterprises   through
improvements in financial and management information systems, with
emphasis on accurate record keeping, cost controls and related
training of enterprise personnel.
The major risks associated with the Project stem from: (a) the
economy's fragility and therefore the possibility that political
and social opposition may weaken Government's commitment to the
ERP reform program during Project implementation, particularly the
more sensitive changes (e.g. price liberalization and state
enterprise divestiture or liquidations) whb"i represent a
significant departure from past policies; (b) limited Government
and enterprise experience in implementing rehabilitation plans;
and (c) the security situation, which might adversely affect
project implementation. To mitigate these risks: (a) the Project
would provide assistance in training a.nd financing tools and
equipment for laid-off staff in order to alleviate the social
costs and therefore, reduce the risk of resistance on the part of
the public; and (b) BEs will be selected primarily on the basis:
of their potential economic, technical and financial viability;
that they possess a capable management team or plans are made to
secure such a team; and that their operations are not seriously
affected by  the  security  situations.    The  ERTU  is  being
strengthened through the services of an experienced consulting
firm and enterprise management will also be strengthened and,
where necessary, assisted in formulating and implementing their
rehabilitation  plans.      Close  supervision  during  Project
implementation will be maintained to deal with problems as they
arise to ensure that the environment is not adversely affected by
the operations of BEs. Government commitment to, and progress so
far in, implementing the reform program has been encouraging and
no evidence exists of flagging Government resolve.



- iii -
NOWKBIOQUE
INDUSTRIAL lNTRPRISF RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
Local     Foreign      Total
A. Estimated Project Costs 1/                        (US$ Million Equivalent)
Project Components
1. Enterprise Rehabilitation Components
(Fixed investments, spares, working
capital & TA)                                  33.5       62.4       95.9
2. Technical Assistance Component:                    2.0       8.8        10.8
TOTAL COSTS                                      35.5       71.2       106.7
B. Financing Plan
Government and enterprises                       34.1        0.0        34.1
Co-financing 2/                                   0.0       22.5        22.5
IDA                                               1.4       48.7        50.1
TOTAL                                            35.5       71.2       106.7
C. Estimated Disbursements: 3/
IDA Fiscal Year:  FY90*    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96
Annual             1.8      6.8      11.4    15.5    8.1       4.0      2.5
Cumulative         1.8      8.6      20.0    35.5   43.6      47.6    50.1
Z of Total         3.5Z    17.02    40.0Z   71.8Z  87.0?    95.02  100.02
Estimated ComPletion Dates December 31, 1996
*Including the Repayment of PPF advance.
1/ Project Cost Estimates exclude taxes and duties.
2/ Interest to co-finance has been expressed by Italy (US$22.5 million equivalent).
In addition, several bilateral and multilateral agencies may co-finance specific
enterprise rehabilitation, including IFC, CDC, Caisse Central.
3/ Based on standard World Bank, Africa-Region disbursement profiles and recent
disbursement experience in Mozambique.



MOZAMBIQUE
INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING PROJECT /
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE ECONOMY
Background
1.01     Pre-Independence.  Despite its considerable natural resource base,
Mozambique's principal foreign exchange earnings during colonial times
derived from transit trade services and mine workers' remittances,
principally from South Africa and Zimbabwe.   A variety of agricultural
products (including prawns, cashew nuts, tea, cotton, copra, sugar and thyme,
mostly from the settler-dominated estate sector) were also exported.
Industry consisted of agro-processing operations closely linked to the
agricultural estate sector and import substitution activities, which were
concentrated in Maputo and Beira and depended on imported raw materials,
equipment, and spare parts.
1.02     The 1973-86 Economic Decline.   Between 1974 and 1976, the mass
exodus (approximately 90%) of the Portuguese settlers and instability in
the region, which spread into Mozambique, created major disruptions
throughout the economy.   Industrial enterprises and agricultural estate
operations were abandoned by owners, managers and skilled technicians.
Industrial production, which accounted for 12% of GDP in 1973, declined by
almost 50% between 1973 and 1976. Destruction of production facilities and
infrastructure by armed bandits intensified after 1980, and the deteriorating
security situation in rural areas had a severe impact on agro-industries.
After recovering somewhat between 1976 and 1980, industrial production
continued to decline thereafter and in 1986, was estimated to be about one-
third of the 1973 level. Effective production capacity declined sharply to
about 10-40% of rated capacity because of obsolescence, mechanical
breakdowns, shortages of replacements and spare parts, and war-related
damage.
1.03     Other key economic indicators have also been in decline.  Between
1980 and 1986 exports fell by nearly 75%; imports decreased by more than one-
third from 1980 to 1985, before recovering somewhat in 1986.  Since 1980,
external imbalances, aggravated by the increasingly overvalued exchange rate,
have led to the rapid accumulation of external debt service arrears.
Internally, difficulties attributable to inappropriate economic policies were
aggravated by the deteriorating rural security situation, which even now
seriously disrupts agricultural export production.
/  Detailed information and analysis on the economy and the sector are
available in several Bank reports, including (a) Country Economic
Memorandum (June 6, 1985); (b) Memorandum of the President for the 3rd
Rehabilitation Credit (April 24, 1989): and (c) the green cover
industrial sector "Business Environment Study" (June 20, 1989).



-2-
1.04     Government efforts to reverse the decline began in 1984-86 with the
introduction of the Economic Action  Program.   Liberalization measures
introduced in the program included a foreign exchange retention scheme for
selected export enterprises and a new investment code to promote foreign
direct investment.   These measures were not sufficient to stimulate any
significant turnaround in economic performance.  The economy was isolated
from international and domestic market forces by centralized economic
management and control.
The Economic Rehabilitation Protram and the Industrial Sector
1.05     In  response  to  the  continuing  economic  crisis,  in  1987  the
Government of Mozambique (GOM) with Bank and IMP assistance, launched a far-
reaching Economic Rehabilitation Program (ERP).
1.06     In addition to major macroeconomic  adjustment measures,  which
included progressive devaluations of an extremely overvalued metical, the
GOM initiated major reforms in economic management.   The reforms were
intended to (a) progressively reduce centralized administrative controls and
encourage private sector participation;  (b) encourage improved resource
allocation through indirect methods such as market determined prices and
credit policies rather than administrative intervention; and (c) establish
more direct links between economic performance and financial results.
1.07     Industrial sector objectives included in the ERP were to: (a)
restore production, (b) improve efficiency of resource use, (c) increase
enterprise autonkomy and accountability, and (d) encourage a comercial
business environment. Efficiency in resource allocation is being promoted
by a combination of measures, including:   (i) a revised foreign exchange
allocation system, which became operative in 1987; (ii) more restrictive
credit policies and reduced subsidies; (iii) increased freedom to adjust
employment in response to economic signals; (iv) progressive decontrol of
input and output prices; and (v) greater enterprise-level authority with
respect to procurement and marketing. As a result of these measures, two
and one half years after initiation of the ERP, enterprises are operating in
a more market-influenced environment rather than under the heavily
administered system of the past.   To assist industrial enterprises in
adjusting to this more open environment and to restore efficient production,
the GOM requested the International Development Association (IDA) to help
design and finance the proposed Industrial Enterprise Rehabilitation Project
(IERP).



-3-
II. IUMJSTRUIL SWGTOR IACIGROUND
A. The Structure of Industrial Production. 1973. 1987
2.01     Annex 2-1 presents the structure of manufacturing industry.  Data
presented are from the last couprehensive pre-independence survey and from
preliminary estimates  for 1987.   In 1973,  1,409 registered industrial
enterprises employed 98,868 workers. Manufacturing value added was estimated
at 12? of GDP. Numerically, the largest group of enterprises were the 331
(mostly village-level) flour mills (average employment 5.75) and the 285
small bakeries (average employment 15). The largest operations in terms of
employment were six sugar mills (5,298 workers) and 15 cashew processing
operations (20,850 workers, or 212 of total employment). The food, beverage,
and tobacco sub-sectors were the largest contributors to value added (44Z),
followed by textiles, garments, and leather (16X), metals fabrication and
engineering (13.5Z), and wood, paper, and printing (102).  Several recent
estimates of industrial employment and composition have been prepared from
a variety of sources, but the results have been considerably divergent. A
reconciliation of the latest data available from the Ministry of Labor (ML)
and from the Ministry of Industry and Energy (MIE) shows an estimated
industrial employment level for 1988 of 80-100,000 versus 98,868 reported in
1973.  For 1984, a United Nations Industrial and Development Organization
(UNIDO) study team estimated 100,000 employees for the formal sector and
50,000 for the informal sector, but these estimates appear optimistic. A
1987 ML survey, covering all enterprises, estimates for 1987 show that there
were 66,500 in the manufacturing sector, 17,700 in construction, and 3,700
in public utilities. The National Planning Commission (CNP) estimates for
1987 show that there were 87.800 employed in nationally registered
manufacturing enterprises.
2.02     Table 2.1 2/ traces the decline of industrial output from 1973
through 1987.
Table 2.1s MOZAMBIQUE - INDEX OF INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION, 1973-87 Al
(1980 - 100)
1973  1975  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985   1986  1987
Total manufac-
turing output  139   87   100    103    90    70    56    43    42    45
aI/ 1980 - Base Year, 100
Source:  National Planning Commission (CNP), Informacao Estatistica, 1987.
2/ Based on gross output data for nationally registered enterprises only
(over 50 employees).



-4-
The index indicates that output for 1987 was about 72 higher than in 1986,
the first increase for 7 years. The modest improvement appeared to be mainly
due to donor import support programs, including the IDA First Rehabilitation
Credit (Cr. 1610-MOZ), which allocated about US$35 million to industry. The
recovery,  however, was uneven.   Major improvements in production were
recorded in textiles (212), wood products (462), chemicals and plastics
(16Z), and basic metals (1362). Tobacco and leather production registered
declines. Preliminary indications are that industrial production increased
by a further 72 in 1988.
2.03     Recent mission field  surveys  confirm  that  the composition of
registered enterprises is relatively unchanged since the colonial period.
due to the extremely low level of post-independence investment. Shutdowns
have been numerous, and production by establishments that continue to
function has substantially declined because of obsolescence and breakdowns.
2.04     Ownership Structure of Industry.  In 1975, following independence,
the State's decision to 'intervene' in abandoned or commercially sabotaged
enterprises radically changed the operating structure of industry. After an
initial "intervention' in about 300 enterprises, the 1977 law (D-L 16-75 of
February 13, 1975) permitted chaniges, including full state ownership or
reversion to private ownership. By 1984, the structure of ownership of 575
nationally registered enterprises was as follows: state - 114; intervened
- 140; private - 294; mixed and cooperative - 27.
2.05     As a result of many restrictions placed on market-based private
operation, there was little interest in, or movement towards, privatization
of "interveneds or mixed enterprises until the start of the ERP. Recently,
the  situation  is beginning  to change.    The Government  has  begun  to
rationalize the status of some "intervened, enterprises by grouping those
within the same subsector and converting them into state enterprises. Some
of those already formed are SOVESTE, E.E. (garments - 5 factories); IMOCAL,
E.E. (shoes and leatherwear - 5 factories); EMPLAMA E.E. (plastics - 5
factories); and COMETAL (railroad cars and heavy steel fabrication). Other
"intervened* firms have either been sold to private investors or returned to
the original owners. To date, decisions related to enterprise ownership have
been on a case-by-case basis.   It is expected however, that the pace of
divestiture will significantly increase and will take place in a more
systematic fashion, through the proposed IERP. Company asset valuations and
the structuring of sales agreements have been carried out by working groups
within the MIE. At the larger enterprise level, a number of "intervened"
companies have been sold, usually to Mozambican entrepreneurs, who are
starting to become interested in purchasing assets at current devalued
prices.
2.06     Industrial Location.  In 1973, 412 of industrial employment and 51Z
of sector value added were located in Maputo Province (Annex 2-2). If Beira
were included in the ccelculations, employment and value added estimates were
572 and  712,  respectively.    Manufacturing activities  such as rubber,
plastics, chemicals, paints, metal fabrication and engineering were heavily
concentrated in these two cities.  Agro-based activities such as cereals
milling, cotton ginning, sisal and tea production, and forestry operations
were more widely dispersed. By 1987, the pattern became further concentrated



because of the decline in agro-processing and an increase in the share of
total production accounted for by Haputo province.  This may reflect, in-
part, under-reporting elsewhere.  Nevertheless, reported absolute employment
in manufacturing and processing in Maputo Province increased from 34,800 in
1973 to 46,400 in 1987.
2.07     Current Investment Climate.  The business climate in 1987-88 has
improved as a result of the ERP. Principal policy reforms have included:
(a) devaluation and an increase in the relative price of internationally
traded goods and lower real wages in the organized sector; (b) decontrol of
pricing, distribution, and procurement; (c) movement towards non-administered
foreign exchange allocation; and (d) increased efforts by the Government to
stimulate local and foreign private investment through, inter alia,
privatization efforts, investment incentives, and recognition of the role of
the private banking sector. The increased availability of imports financed
by donor aid has also been a positive factor.  Nevertheless, the investment
climate  continues  to be  adversely affected by  security problems,  the
generally poor condition of infrastructure and industrial plant, and the
potential contraction of demand resulting from lower real wages.
2.08     The few indicators which are available show an upturn in activity.
Foreign investment proposals to the Office of Foreign Investment Promotion
(GPIE), which was established in 1985, have increased from a total of 15 for
the 3-year 1985-87 period to 20 for the first 11 months of 1988.   The
majority of proposals in the pipeline are tourism and trade related;
processing industry proposals included fish, cashew nuts, and tobacco.
2.09     Demand for Industrial Sector Production. Increased foreign exchange
availability and market liberalization have created a short-term resurgence
of industrial activity and consumer demand.   Sustainability is uncertain
until the security situation is resolved and rural areas can be reintegrated
.nto the formal sector of the economy. In urban areas, the severe drop in
real incomes, which has accompanied exchange rate adjustment, has eroded
purchasing power at the lower levels of the economic pyramid. The Business
Environment Study (BES) survey of 62 enterprises indicated that food
processing activities continued to experience strong demand, but some
softness was beginning to appear in sectors such as textiles, garments,
shoes, and condensed milk. Soft demand for local manufactures may be due in
part to a preference for newly available, higher-quality imports,
particularly for shoes and apparel. Products whose principal markets are
rural, such as bicycles and agricultural implements, continue to experience
lagging sales and inventory buildup because of security problems that
constrain access to markets.
2.10     Industrial EfficiencS.  A survey of industrial efficiency based on
a domestic resource cost analysis of a 40-enterprise sample has recently been
completed as part of the Business Environment Study. The objective was to
identify and rank industrial subsectors in terms of operational efficiency
and production cost structure relative to international competition. Given
the deficiencies of most enterprise balance sheets, cost accounting
practices, and other data shortcomings, the results should be interpreted as
only indicative. The analysis indicated that, at the ERP adjusted exchange
rates, a fairly wide cross-section of import-substitution industries and some



- 6 -
agricultural export operations have efficient short-run marginal production
costs. This is in sharp contrast to the pre-ERP prevalence of negative value
added operations.   The long-run efficiency of industries was less clear,
emphasizing the need for detailed enterprise-by-enterprise studies before
embarking on major rehabilitation investments.
2.11     Preliminary as they are, study results indicate that potential
exists for development of low-capital, labor-intensive export oriented
operations in the Maputo area. These operations could take advantage of a
relative abundance of idle factory capacity and (by Sub-Saharan Africa
standards) a relatively industrialized work force. The study also indicates
that local resource-based industries such as sugar and edible oil processing
and textile manufacturing are currently burdened with high input and
operating costs, resulting in part from security-related uncertainty of raw
material supply and subsequent low capacity utilization.
B. Institutional Framework
2.12     The organization of the industrial sector reflects vestiges of a
centrally planned economy. Enterprises deemed to be of national importance
--whether  state  owned,   mintervened,o  or  private--come  under  the
administrative "tutelage, of central ministries. Local enterprises are under
the tutelage of the provincial directorates of the MIE. Approximately 580
registered national enterprises (not all in an operative state) are under the
tutelage  of  eleven  central  ministries.         Areas  of  administrative
responsibility are given in Annex 2-3. As of March 1989, SEILA was dissolved
as a Secretariat, but its functions were retained in a Light Industry
Department created within the MIE.
2.13     Unidades  de direccao  (Coordination Units)  are responsible  for
supervision.   There are a total of 11 unidades under the Light Industry
Department (formerly SEILA) and 7 under the MIE, excluding energy production.
Each unidade supervises a set of industrial subsectors, each containing
between 10 and 30 individual enterprises. In some cases larger enterprises
such as SOGERE (beverages) and ELECTROMOC (electrical services) act as the
unidades  for  the  rest  of  the particular  subsector.    SEILA was  also
responsible for the Directorate of Local Industries; this directorate is now
the Institute for Local Industry Development (IDIL).
2.14     Until 1988, the unidades linked the enterprises with the central
planning process. Their main responsibility in practice was the coordination
of data for planners, based on data received from compulsory company
reporting.   The unidades were also responsible for price authorization,
foreign exchange allocation, technical assistance, training coordination, and
industry studies.
2.15     In practice, unidades varied considerably in terms of the functions
they performed. More important, the level of autonomy permitted individual
enterprises varied widely, especially with respect to foreign exchange
allocation. In some unidades, enterprises could procure and import diractly,
whereas in others all such activity was carried out by the unidade's
management, and individual enterprises were charged fees for the unidade's
services.



- 7 -
2.16     Consistent with the rapidly changing sector environment, both de
Jure and de facto relationships between unidades and individual enterprises
are in a state of flux.  In general, enterprises enjoy greater managerial
autonomy than in the recent past.   An important indicator is that many
enterprises are now permitted to trade directly with each other, rather than
through wholesaling intermediaries, both in domestic and international trade.
C. Financial Sector
2.17     The present financial system came into being when the banking system
was restructured in 1978.   There are three banks, one of which, Bank of
Mozambique (BM), is legally responsible for carrying out the dual functions
of both a central and a commercial bank. Both BM and the second bank, the
Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento (BPD), are 10O? state-owned.   The third
bank, Banco Standard Totta de Mocambique (BSTM), is a (largely foreign-owned)
private bank. In addition, an Agricultural Development Credit Fund (CCADR)
was established in 1988. 3/
2.18     For the first decade after independence, the banking system operated
mostly as a passive conduit of funds to finance p-oduction plans for the
various sectors of the economy.   In keeping with the Government's new
economic policy, considerable changes are now under way in Mozambique's
financial sector, including introduction of competition in resource
allocation within the banking system.   For example, while BM has held a
monopoly on foreign exchange operations, a limited foreign exchange
operations license was recently granted to BSTM.
2.19     Structure of Interest Rates.   The structure of both lending and
deposit rates of interest in Mozambique is shown in Annex 2-4 (including a
translation of the Ministerial Order of 1989 which sets the most recent
rates).  As the Annex shows, the rates for 1981 and 1987 were very low in
nominal terms, ranging from 0 to 6Z for deposits, and 3 to 102 for lending.
In real terms these rates were negative because inflation levels averaged in
excess of 1OZ over the period. The structure of interest rates was revised
(with increased interest rates on demand and time deposits) effective January
1987, as part of Mozambique's agreements with the IMF for a Structural
Adjustment Facility (SAF).  Effective January 1989, the number of lending
rates was reduced to 16, ranging from 14Z to 352. The number of term (over
one year) lending rates has declined from 27 to 7, and the range contracted
from 18-35Z to 22-34Z, with rates for most categories increasing by 4-6Z.
2.20     Interest rates are still negative in real terms, although less so
now that inflation has started to decline. Under the terms of Mozambique's
agreement with the IMF, interest rates would continue to be reviewed and be
progressively revised to achieve positive real interest rates by 1990.
3/ A more complete discussion of the financial sector is contained in
paragraphs 3.01 - 3.47 of the SMEDP (Small and Medium Enterprise
Development Project) SAR (Report No. 7987-MOZ).



- 8 -
2.21     Credit Allocation Policy and Sectoral Distribution.  Mozambique had
no active formal credit allocation policy until 1987, when a ceiling on
domestic credit expansion was introduced in the context of the SAF agreements
with the IMF. Under the terms of the agreements, additional credit expansion
is allowed to the extent of the countervalue in meticais of certain foreign
exchange resources, such as IDA Credit loans.
2.22     Credit Ceilings.  For 1988, the ceiling on domestic credit expansion
was Mt 74 billion, of which Mt 20 billion was for lending to the State and
Mt 54 billion for lending to the economy.   The level of bank finance
available to the State declined significantly in real terms.   This shift
partly reflects changes in the channelling of financial resources to State
enterprises, in the context of rationalization of their operations, as well
as increasingly tight controls on the Government's budget and the desire to
make adequate funds available to the economy to stimulate growth.
2.23     Provisional figures for 1986 show an actual expansion in domestic
credit of Mt 64.9 billion.   In 1986, BM accounted for 792 of total bank
lending, BPD for about 182, and BSTM for about 32. By year-end 1988, these
figures were 69.52, 23.62, and 4.32, respectively, with the remaining 2.62
lent by the newly established CCADR.   More significant perhaps are the
various institutions' shares in incremental lending in 1988: BM lent less
than 482, BPD accounted for about 37Z, BSTM for about 72. and CCADR for about
92.
2.24     Sectoral Distribution.  In recent years, agriculture has accounted
for around half of total bank lending; of the remainder, industry accounts
for about 172 (39-422 if primary transformation of agricultural products is
included), construction for about 5-72, transport and communications for
around 12-14Z, domestic trade for some 7-92 and foreign trade for 62. Data
for BM (Annex 2-5), which are fairly indicative since BM has accounted for
852 of industrial lending, suggest that manufacturing receives only about
112 of total lending. As of year-end 1988, BM accounted for 702 of total
lending to industry, down from 852 in 1986, and BPD and BSTM accounted for
13.52 and 12.92, respectively.  The newly established CCADR accounted for
3.5Z. BPD does not at present lend to the construction and trade sectors and
only recently has it lent to the transport sector; BSTM has less than a 32
share in lending to construction and transport but an 11-132 share in lending
to the domestic trade sector (Annex 2-6).
,.25     Banking System Arrears and Capital Base.  The banking system faces
a serious arrears problem,  which has arisen from several sources.   A
significant portion of the arrears dates back to independence, when many
Portuguese owners of firms left the country.   Another portion stems from
directed lending by the state-owned banks (mainly BM and BPD), largely to
state enterprises and intervened firms.   Much of this lending covered
operating deficits. Total figures for this type of lending, and for arrears
arising from it are not currently available. Since 1987, the Government has
covered enterprise operating deficits through direct fiscal subsidies. The
level of subsidy has been reduced substantially from Mt 9.1 billion in 1987
(most of which went to the agricultural sector) to Mt 6.8 billion in 1988.



- 9 -
2.26     The  Government has  begun  to  address  the  arrears  problem  in
negotiations with BH, which holds most of the arrears (about Mt 40 billion).
This amount represents only the principal in arrears, since BH does not
accrue interest on doubtful loans. The proportion of these arrears in BM's
overall portfolio is declining. In 1986, the proportion of arrears stood at
41Z; by December 1987, they had declined to 34Z and by December 1988, they
were only about 152. Other arrears deemed reprogrammable have declined from
42Z of the total portfolio to 212 over the same two years.  Reprogrammed
amounts now constitute 25Z of the portfolio and doubtful debts have remained
fairly stable at about 6?.   In the meantime, BM's healthy portfolio has
increased from 132 to 332 (or to 58Z if rescheduled amounts are included, and
to 732 if the amounts the state has agreed to assume are also included).
BH's equity and reserves also increased substantially in the last quarter of
1987, to Mt 25.9 billion; the adequacy (or degree of inadequacy) of this
figure is quite difficult to judge because the extent of unrealized foreign
exchange losses that may be allocated to the commercial banking function of
BH is uncertain. The other two banks have begun similar negotiations with
the Government. The total amount of debt the state will assume has not yet
been decided. If the banks had to recognize the full extent of their current
arrears as losses, they would have negative net worth, given the banks'
narrow capital base.  The capital-to-assets ratio was about 42 for BH in
December 1987 (after an 82? capital increase), 2.32 for BPD, and 1.1Z for
BSTM. Assurances about timetables for clearing the commercial banks' lending
arrears, and overall rehabilitation of the banking system, are being sought
in the context of the Small and Medium Enterprise Development Project
(SMEDP).
D. Sector Issues and Constraints
2.27     The  constraints  facing  the  industrial  sector,  which  include
antiquated plant and equipment, often unclear ownership, deficient financial
structure, and underqualified management will clearly affect its capacity to
respond to the expanded market opportunities that the new policy environment
has made possible.
2.28     Initial  supply response difficulties since the ERP began have
highlighted a series of macro and enterprise-level constraints that must be
addressed if the industrial sector is to respond fully to the opportunities
inherent in Hozambique's changing circumstances. The following summarizes
the latest developments and/or recent policy changes relevant to the
industrial sector and areas where further work is needed.
2.29     Exchange Rate Adjustment.  The ERP-induced devaluations have helped
to rationalize the structure of domestic resource costs vis-a-vis foreign
equivalents. Mozambique has become, in international terms, a low-labor-cost
producer (in terms of salary, if not as yet in terms of unit cost).  The
policy of flexible exchange rate adjustment will be maintained, with
quarterly reviews in light of actual price developments in Mozambique and
abroad, and with a view towards narrowing the gap between the official and
parallel market rates.
2.30     Foreign Exchange Allocation.   The heavy reliance  on  external
assistance, much of which is provided only on a tied basis, requires the



- 10 -
continued use of a system for centrally administered direct allocation of
foreign exchange. While such a system is necessary, the Government will seek
to enhance the operation and efficiency of the allocative mechanisms. As
devaluation reduces the level of excess demand for foreign currency, a staged
opening up of access  to foreign exchange  is becoming  feasible.   The
Government has initiated liberalization of the foreign exchange allocation
process by setting up two funds. The "Market Fund' provides foreign exchange
for the purchase of inventory for trading companies, and the 'Small
Enterprise Fund" finances inputs for a short list of 180 designated
enterprises.   In 1988, a total of US$6.0 million was disbursed from both
funds.   The fund allocation for 1989 is expected to total US$25 million.
With the objective of progressively moving toward a more open trade regime,
in 1989, a System for Non-administrative Allocation of Foreign Exchange
(SNAAD) is being introduced through the Third Rehabilitation Credit (Cr.
2021-MOZ).   In the first year of operation, foreign exchange and import
licenses will, on request, be automatically granted for a narrow range of
imported inputs (spare parts for cargo and collective transport, and key
inputs to the garment and shoe industries).   These products will not be
subject to domestic price control regulation. The estimated value of foreign
exchange to be dedicated to the SNAAD is US$25 million, or about 20 percent
of projected "free' exchange for imports during 1989.
2.31     Regulations require that a metical-denominated countervalue of the
foreign exchange requested mist be deposited in the BM before the foreign
exchange can be utilized. Mission conversations with individual enterprises
indicate that a metical scarcity--a result of devaluation and inflation--is
impeding some firms from solicitiag foreign exchange.  Access to metical
countervalue through the local banking system by BEs to be rehabilitated will
be  an  essential  part  of  the  IEPP.    Operational  sustainability  of
rehabilitated enterprises at satisfactory levels of capacity utilization will
require that they have assured access to foreign exchange for the procurement
of recurrent imported raw materials and spare parts.
2.32     The Foreign Exchante Retention Scheme, introduced in 1984, entitles
exporters to hold a proportion of their sales proceeds at the BM in a
convertible account.  The proportion retained is variable, with a current
average of about 50X.  The retention account is normally denominated in
meticais and is therefore convertible only at the prevailing exchange rate.
Import licenses are granted only after the Ministry of Trade checks for
possible local supply availability. A further issue concerns the mechanism
for transfer of import entitlements to enterprises supplying the export
sector. Refinement of this system in the short run would be beneficial; in
the long run, the implications of this system to the economy-wide allocation
of foreign exchange merit closer examination. The Government will seek to
reduce the export retention rates as the scope of the SNAAD expand, and, with
this objective, will review the rate structure in 1989.
2.33     Tariff and Taxation Policy.   Before the ERP, fiscal and tariff
structures were complex, with a system of turnover taxes and tariffs that
had a cascade effect, acting as a disincentive for the use of domestic
intermediaries in the absence of quantitative restrictions. The realignment
of the currency and the progressive opening of foreign exchange allocation
will r.ow permit the price of foreign exchange to play a more important



- 11 -
allocative role. In line with the Policy Framework Paper (PFP), which has
been agreed to with the Bank and IMF, the Government is implementing a two-
stage reform of the tax and tariff structure. The first stage, completed in
early 1989, concentrated on converting specific rates to ad valorem rates and
simplifying rate structures through the consolidation of product categories
and reduction in the number and range of rates.
2.34     The legislation also: (a) established a duty drawback scheme for
export production with at least 35? local value added; (b) provided exemption
for one-half of import duties for raw materials, equipment, and spare parts
for import substitution projects with at least 45? local value added; (c)
established the possibility of full tariff exemption for raw materials,
equipment, and spare parts for export expansion projects; and (d) revoked all
existing regulations pertaining to customs tariff exemptions. Measures were
also initiated to strengthen the administrative capacity of the Customs
Administration. During the second stage of tariff reform, to be completed
by end-1989 under the Third Rehabilitation Credit, progress will continue in
simplifying the system and harmonizing the tariff nomenclature with
international conventions.
2.35     Pricint Policy.  Reduction of the incidence of fixed pricing and
replacement of ex ante authorization for price changes with ex post review
have been key improvements in the industrial sector's operating environment.
Those industrial products still subject to fixed pricing are cigarettes,
beer, soap, wheat and corn flour, sugar, and cooking oil. All others are
subject to price controls. Fixed prices are being periodically adjusted in
relation to international prices.   As supply conditions and competition
improve, the GOM plans to adopt a more flexible pricing policy.
2.36     Distribution Policy.  All industrial products except sugar are now
freed from trading through monopoly trading corporations. All enterprises
are now permitted to trade directly; state trading companies are expected to
compete with the private sector. Control over foreign procurement is still
exercised through the foreign exchange allocation system and import
licensing.    Administrative  control  over  allocation  of  some  essential
industrial goods (e.g. flour) will be continued through rationing in Beira
and Maputo and through priority rural distribution.
2.37     Enterprise Debt, Asset Revaluation, and Financial Restructuring.
During the pre-ERP period many enterprises--state-owned, 'intervened," and
private--accumulated large debts from sustained operating iosses, often due
to price controls, which were subsidized by virtually unlimited credit from
the BM.   The combination of sustained operating losses, excessive debt,
depreciated currency, and now-unrealistic depreciation allowances and
understated asset values renders many enterprise balance sheets virtually
meaningless. Financial restructuring will therefore be a central element of
enterprise rehabilitation contemplated under the IERP. Decree 13/88 requires
revaluation of all assets by enterprises, beginning with the balance sheets
for fiscal 1988. To simplify the process, the revaluations will be carried
out in accordance with a series of monetary correction coefficients issued
in January 1989.



- 12 -
2.38     The Government has so far taken steps to transfer about Mt. 8.0
billion of the debt of ten State and *intervened" companies to the Central
Budget, where revised terms and conditions of repayment will be worked out
(para. 2.26). However, the Government has not considered the possibility of
restructuring private company debt in this manner.   Some individual debt
reschedulings have also been arranged through the BM. The BM and Ministry
of Finance (MOF) have begun to deal with the resolution of pre-ERP internal
debts on a case-by-case basis for parastatal and "intervened' enterprises.
Restoration of financial stability for each enterprise will be a subloan
condition for enterprises supported under the IERP Credit (para. 4.13).
2.39     Accounting, Auditing and Financial Management Practices.  A review
of auditing, accounting, and financial management practices of both public
and private enterprises was carried out by the World Bank's Internal Auditing
Department (IAD) in 1987.   The review team found that:  (a) a system of
standard accounts had been instituted in 1984; (b) because of a scarcity of
trained accountants, the accounts of many state enterprises were in arrears;
and  (c) internal auditing quite often was deficient.   Enterprises are
currently required to submit annual financial statements to the MOF within
four months of the end of the fiscal year.  External  udit of enterprise
accounts is not required in Mozambique, and there is almost no independent
accountancy profession.   In fact, until recently,  there were no public
accounting firms in the country and there were only several dozen individual
accountants with private practices.   Some auditing for tax purposes is
undertaken by a small unit in the Ministry of Finance (the Department of
Audit and Tax, DAT), and some accounting firms are now showing interest in
setting up offices.  One local firm is carrying out company valuations on
behalf  of  the Office  of Foreign  Investment  Promotion.    The  recently
promulgated decree requiring updated asset revaluation of all enterprises,
though urgently needed, will impose an additional demand for expertise that
is  in very  short  supply  in Mozambique.    Larger  firms  often contract
expatriate accountants.   As a response to the shortage of accounting and
auditing expertise, the MOF has already authorized a mixed ventu-e with an
international firm of chartered accountants and will soon authorize a second.
Several  large  international  accounting  firms  are  also  considering
establishing offices in Maputo. The Commercial Institute of Maputo (CIM),
a Government entity, is the only commercial training institute in Mozambique.
It offers a concentration in accounting, approximately equivalent to the U.S.
Bachelors degree. The lack of affordable and competent financial management
expertise is a major constraint to expeditious preparation of plans for the
financial restructuring of enterprises.
2.40     Incentive System.  Between 1984 and 1986 a variety of measures with
the stated objective of promoting private investment in productive activities
was introduced.   Their cumulative impact was marginal in the face of the
fundamental policy, regulatory, and security barriers to most private
investment activity. Since initiation of the ERP, considerable progress has
been made in policy and regulatory areas to encourage private sector
activity, but not much more than a modest recovery of investment activity can
be expected regardless of the nature of the incentive system, until the
security situation improves.



- 13 -
2.41     The Foreign Investment Law of 1984 and the domestic investment law
of 1987 established modest systems of incentives including tax holidays,
accelerated depreciation allowances and investment credits, and exemption
from payroll and turnover taxes and import and export duties. All exemptions
are usually negotiated on a case-by-case basis. Export operations are also
able to negotiate foreign exchange retention schemes in order to procure
imported inputs directly. Recent legislation has established a duty drawback
scheme and a partial customs duty exemption for qualifying import
substitution operations. Legislation to permit debt-equity swaps, through
which foreign investors could acquire Mozambican assets in return for
assumption of external debt, was promulgated in January 1989, but as of April
1989 had not yet been utilized. The legislation requires investment in fixed
assets, technology, or foreign currency that is complementary to the swap.
The legislation protects foreign investors against exchange rate risk but
also contains restrictions on repatriation of capital and acquisition of
cleat _.tle to "intervened" enterprises.
2.42     Legal and Regulatory Framework.   The overall question of company
formation and ownership has been partially addressed by the Government
through legislation relating to 'intervened" enterprises.   The Government
has sold off assets abandoned by previous owners and has come to specific
agreements with new owners. Conditions of sale have been that the company
is retained for its original purpose (otherwise a new license is required)
and that labor is retained in acccrdance with the labor protection laws.
Sales are negotiated case by case; however, no general clarification of the
legal position of "intervened" enterprises has been made (Decree Law No. 16-
75 dated February 13, 1975). The Government has expressed the intention to
determine the legal position of intervened enterprises and, in general, to
deal with the question of company formation and ownership for the benefit of
attracting new investors. Agreement was reached at negotiations that, with
IDA support, the Government shall, not later than December 31, 1990, prepare
and complete an action plan to determine the legal ownership status of
enterprises under Government intervention, and promptly thereafter, take all
legal and administrative measures necessary to implement the Plan. Not later
than June 30, 1993, the Government would, jointly with IDA, undertake a major
review of progress in implementation of the Plan.   Progress would also
continue to be monitored as part of the normal Annual Project Implementation
Review.
2.43     Labor Laws.  Until January 1987, employment was governed by Law 4/80
of 1980, which set out 4 basic occupational categories.  This system  was
inflexible  and  detracted  from  efficient  use  of  labor.    In  1985,  a
considerable amount of labor shedding took place, and in January 1987 Decree
5/87 implemented a new labor law setting 20 grade ranges in industry,
specifying new pay levels, and allowing supplementary payments such as
performance-linked and seniority bonuses. During implementation, a series
of interim increases were permitted to offset part of the effects of
devaluation-induced price increases. The aim was to permit more flexibility
in employment by rewarding efficiency and allowing enterprises to lay off
workers. It is intended that these measures will allow wage costs to reflect
operating conditions more accurately. The prevailing base minimum irdustrial
wage in March 1989 was Mt 16,000/month.  The prevailing range is Mt 20-30,000



- 14 -
per month for production workers.  Total employer costs are approximately
twice the base salary.
2.44     Enterprise ManaRemet.   A certain level of competent management
(most often found in privately owned import substitution industries--e.g.,
food processing, light metal fabrication, etc.) does exist, but quality
varies widely among enterprises.   The situation in the parastatal,  and
especially "intervened' enterprises is critical. Typically, management is
not sufficiently qualified in technical, marketing, and financial management
skills and has matured in an essentially non-competitive environment where
most allocation decisions were made at unidade levels. In many 'intervenedo
enterprises, the skills required to identify markets, prepare financial and
physical rehabilitation programs, and obtain term finance simply do not
exist.   Skilled supervisory and engineering personnel are also in short
supply.   Shortages of managerial and technical skills must be regarded as
a principal constraint to sector rehabilitation.
E. Government Objectives and Priorities
2.45     Government objectives for the industrial sector are to restore
production and efficiency and to develop a commercial business environment.
To achieve these goals, Government has assigned high priority to: (a)
selective investments for rehabilitation, financial restructuring, and
privatization of potentially viable major enterprises;   (b) improving the
policy and incentives system; (c) allocating sufficient resources to manpower
development; (d) support for the development of small and medium-scale
enterprises (SMEs).  The proposed IERP supports strategies (a) - (c).  In
1987, the Government undertook the ERP, a far-reaching reform program, which
incorporates this strategy and has resulted in some supply response
(paras.1.05 - 1.07). However, it will take some time for most of the recent
reforms to work through the system, for the shift and reallocation of
resources to take place, and, thus, for restructuring to be accomplished.
The Government has begun to address some outstanding issues in the sector by:
(a) setting up an Enterprise Restructuring Technical Unit (ERTU) in the MOF
in 1988 to provide the institutional framework to coordinate the overall
rehabilitation program (para. 5.09); (b) preparing rehabilitation and
restructuring plans (which may include privatization where necessary) for
priority enterprises on a case-by-case basis; (c) initiating studies that
will be the basis for reforming the corporate legal framework; and (d)
carrying out subsector studies, which may include recommendations on the
rationalization of capacity or closure of non-viable enterprises (para.
3.10). Given the large magnitudes, it is unlikely that the Government can
raise enough resources in the short term to rehabilitate the entire
enterprise sector and restore production to its pre-1975 peak.  Moreover,
rehabilitation of some production capacity may not be economically justified.
Sectoral strategy is, therefore, viewed as essentially a two-phase process:
first, cost-effective rehabilitation of selected enterprises to restore
production over the short run, and second, a higher level of capital
investment to sustain modernization,and rationalization over the medium and
long term.



- 1S -
F.  Status of &nterprise Review
2.46     The  Industrial  and  Agro-industrial  Enterprise  Review  of  40
enterprises, completed early in 1988, formed the basis for the design of the
IERP. The international consulting firm of Arthur D. Little was contracted
to undertake this review, which was carried out at two levels.  First, a
sample of 40 enterprises, with characteristics representative of the large
scale enterprise sector, were selected for the initial sectoral review.
Subsequently, 15 enterprises were selected for prefeasibility level review.
The prefeasibility studies for all fifteen enterprises have been completed.
2.47     According to the Review, most problems that enterprises face center
around four issues: (a) impaired production capacity due to lack of foreign
exchange; (b) inappropriate policy environment; (c) scarcity of managerial
and technical skills; and (d) security. Donor balance of payments support
is assisting Government to address (a) and (b) within the framework of the
ERP. The study recomuended that given the delicate economic and security
situation, priority be given to rehabilitatior. of enterprises with high
marginal returns, especially those that can either save or generate foreign
exchange, those with basic managerial competence and those located in
relatively secure zones.   This strategy was followed in selecting the 15
enterprises for prefeasibility review and in designing the proposed project.
The prefeasibility studies and subsequent feasibility studies will be used
to prepare each enterprise's rehabilitation plan, which will include plans
for physical rehabilitation, financial restructuring, and strengthening
operational capacity (para. 4.10). If they meet the eligibility criteria,
the 15 firms would form the core group of BEs for the IERP foreign exchange
credit line. Annex 2-7 provides a snapshot view of the 40 enterprises.
G.  IDA Assistance
1.    Past Bank Involvement
2.48      IDA has so far made eight credits to Mozambique, both general
balance of payments support and several project-based investment credits in
various sector operations.   At the macroeconomic level, IDA has already
provided imported inputs and spare parts to the industrial sector through the
First and Second Rehabilitation Credits, approved in 1985 and 1986,
respectively, and will continue this type of balance of payments support
under the Third Rehabilitation Credit approved in 1989. At the operations
level, project investment aims to support restoration of production (and
increased productivity), efficiency, and competitiveness. In parallel with
the IERP, a project is being prepared to assist smaller enterprises via
provision of an APEX credit line for foreign exchange requirements, technical
assistance for the SME sector, and training in project and credit analyses
for selected staff of participating banks (BM, BPD, BSTM).  The Small and
Medium Enterprise Development Project (SMEDP) will emphasize support for the
emerging private sector entrepreneurs. In addition, the proposed Economic
and Financial Management Technical Assistance Project was recently
negotiated.   Through the project, IDA would help finance institutional
support to strengthen the capacity of key economic decision making agencies
involved in the implementation of the ERP. IDA's program of sectoral support



- 16 -
will benefit from the Business Environment Study, which will enable the Bank
to advise the Government on industrial strategy 4nd policies beyond
rehabilitation and recovery.   IDA's dialogue with the Government, together
with recent Government policy initiatives, suggests a strong determination
to come to grips with the constraints in the enterprise sector, and a
convergence of views is emerging on how to resolve some of these issues.
Continued Bank involvement over the medium term is important to support and
assist in deepening the reform process and in maintaining the momentum of
economic recovery.
2.    IDA's Role in the Sector
2.49     IDA's assistance strategy to Mozambique is consistent with the ERP
and aims to provide: fast-disbursing support for the Government's broad
policy initiatives to rehabilitate and restructure the economy by reducing
or  eliminating  macroeconomic  distortions  and  addressing  structural
constraints to economic growth; and project-based investment lending to
facilitate the resumption nf production, employment, and incomes in the
productive sectors. The IERP would complement the Government's efforts by
emphasizing: (a) enterprise rehabilitation to restore output or increase the
rate of capacity utilization from the current low levels (10-30Z) within
existing production capacity; (b) restructuring of enterprises to restore
financial stability; and (c) strengthening management and operations to
improve competitiveness.   The strategy views rehabilitation as having two
levels. In the short term the objective is to restore production in those
facilities that are still usable and that require relatively small investment
in spare parts and upgraded equipment; over the medium and long term, much
higher levels of investment in modernized plant and equipment will be
required to sustain sector recovery in a more competitive external and
liberalized internal environment.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Rationale
3.01     The IERP is an integral part of Government's strategy to resuscitate
production and growth in Mozambique and complements the ERP's medium-term
policy  framework  for  economic  recovery.    The  Project  would  aim  to
rehabilitate and restructure about 15 key enterprises that are considered
important for a supply response and growth in the sector. The Project aims
to build an institutional framework and approach to enterprise rehabilitation
and restructuring that could form the basis for a continuing rehabilitation
program.    Review of the  legal ownership  status  of enterprises  under
Government intervention under the Project is supportive of the move towards
greater private sector involvement and a more market-oriented economy. IDA's
involvement--through general policy dialogue, three rehabilitation credits
and several project-based investment credits--has contributed significantly
in shaping the Government's strategy and priority setting under the ERP.
IDA's further involvement through this Project will help broaden and deepen
the recovery program and is viewed by the Government as necessary to sustain
the momentum of reform, to generate an adequate supply response, and to



- 17 -
encourage other donors (many of whom have already given strong support to the
ERP) to support these efforts in a well-coordinated manner.
B. Obiectives
3.02     The IERP is designed to: (a) introduce a framework and criteria for
selecting enterprises for rehabilitation that is based on each enterprise's
potential economic, financial, and technical viability and on its management
capacity to operate efficiently and profitably and that they undertake to
introduce measures to protect the environment; (b) finance rehabilitation,
financial restructuring and operational support to preselected and
potentially  efficient  major  enterprises.         The  rehabilitation  and
restructuring process would, where appropriate, include rationalization of
capacity, privatization, technical partnership arrangements, or, if
necessary, closure of operations; (c) require that each BE institute measures
to protect the environment and worker safety; (d) strengthen Government's
capacity to implement the rehabilitation program; and (e) support policy
reforms and subsector reviews designed to strengthen enterprise operations
in a more liberalized, market-oriented environment. The project is conceived
as a pilot effort that would develop an approach that could be replicated in
other large-scale enterprise rehabilitation, restructuring, or privatization
efforts.
C. Project Description
3.03     The Project, with a total cost of US$106.7 million (including IDA
credit of US$50.1 million equivalent), would consist of two components: an
Enterprise Rehabilitation Component and a Technical Assistance Component.
A brief description of each is given below.
1. Enterprise Rehabilitation Component (ERC)
3.04     The ERC would assist the rehabilitation and financial restructuring
of about 15 selected enterprises. Funds allocated for rehabilitation would
finance fixed investments (the repair, replacement, or modernization of
obsolete or damaged assets; elimination of uneconomic lines and activities;
consultancy services, operational support and training to strengthen
management) and incremental permanent working capital needs for the selected
enterprises.   The project would assist the financial restructuring of
enterprises that have good rehabilitation prospects but face financial
difficulties because of past policy distortions and operating inefficiencies.
Restructuring would be achieved through recapitalization; conversions of debt
into equity or quasi-equity; and injection of fresh equity through (where
appropriate)   divestiture,   joint  venture,   or  technical  partnership
arrangements with foreign or local private investors. The eligibility of BEs
would be based on:  confirmation (through appraisal) of their efficiency,
economic and financial viability, and potential to earn or save foreign
exchange; review and approval of their rehabilitation plans; and an
undertaking to institute measures to protect the environment.



- 18 -
3.05     Subloans and investments under this component will finance: (a)
rehabilitation or replacement of fixed assets (machinery, equipment, factory
buildings and related civil works); (b) permanent working capital (increases
in stocks of imported raw materials, spare parts, and components required to
sustain production for the initial period following rehabilitation); and (c)
operational support services (including expatriate staff, personnel training,
and advisory services on environmental protection) to upgrade BEs' technical,
financial, marketing, and general management capacity.
2. Technical Assistance Coponent (TAC)
3.06     The TAC would support institutional development in the following
areas.
3.07     Assistance to ERTU.   The Credit would finance the services of
experts to strengthen the ERTU's (and other institutions) capabilities to
implement the rehabilitation program and provide operational technical
assistance to enterprises. These advisers would also provide training to
local staff in project appraisal, enterprise rehabilitation and restructuring
techniques and methodology.  A detailed breakdown of technical assistance
costs to the ERTU is given in Annex 3-1. The Project also makes provision
for additional short-term consultants to assist ERTU in specialized areas.
3.08     Assistance to Enterprises.   Most of the BEs will need outside
expertise to develop satisfactory business or rehabilitation pians.   The
Project would, through the ERTU, support the hiring (on a reimbursable basis)
of short-term consultant services for the preparation of prefeasibility
studies, rehabilitation plans, and/or liquidation, privatization, or joint
venture arrangements. Financing would be provided for the preparation of a
further 10 enterprise rehabilitation plans, beyond those for the 15
enterprises already identified, whose implementation could be financed under
parallel or subsequent projects.   To assist enterprises to comply with
reporting requirements, financing would be made available for external
audits.
3.09     Training of Laid-off Staff.    To alleviate the social costs of
possible personnel reductions, the IDA Credit would include an allocation of
US$1.4 million under the TAC to assist Government in the preparation of
training programs for staff laid-off in the course of enterprise
restructuring or liquidation.   Since staff retrenchment could only be
accurately identified after the completion of enterprise reviews and
inclusion in the rehabilitation plans, the Government would, in consultation
with enterprise managers, design specific training programs for re-deployed
staff. The programs would include, inter alia, provisions for financing of
skills training and (in some cases) of related tools and equipment for
employees seeking to start up in trade or commerce on their own. Since many
of the workers laid off are likely to be those with little formal education
who may not immediately benefit from the training offered by existing
institutions such as the Secretariat of State for Vocational and Professional
Education (SETEP), skills training would aim to equip such staff with a
practical trade or skill for redeployment or starting up on their own.
Programs will be initiated by Government, which will submit them to the ERTU
for review and transmission to IDA for approval.   Implementation will be



- 19 -
overseen by the Ministry of Labor (ML). and will be supervised by the ERTU
(which would be responsible for coordinating the program).   Training will
be provided at existing technical institutions in Mozambique. The Government
is in the process of initiating changes in the education system that will
strengthen the provision of technical training. A profile of some Le the
institutions  in the country is provided in Annex 3-2.   Some of these
institutions are to receive technical assistance to strengthen their
institutional capacity through a UNDP/UNIDO project. Most training programs
would be carried out by local trainers, and the bulk of the costs involved
would be local costs.   Disbursement of IDA funds for training would be
conditional on each concerned BE furnishing to IDA, through Government, the
plan for implementing training.
3.10     Subsector Studies.    The TAC would finance subsector and policy
studies, which will be implemented by the MIE. On the basis of preliminary
findings of the Business Environment Study, the subsectors that require
further review include edible oils, textiles and garments, transportation,
sugar,  and public sector enterprise management.   During appraisal,  an
understanding was reached with Government that four subsectors--packaging,
metal-working, textiles and edible oils--would be studied initially.  The
scope of the studies is attached in Annex 3-3.   At negotiations,  the
Government requested, and a decision was made, to undertake a fifth study for
the construction and building materials subsector. The TOR fl this study
are expected from Government before end of FY90. The five stu_.es will be
initiated before end of FY89 through PPF financing and are expected to be
completed by September 30, 1990. Provision has been made to finance several
other sectoral and subsector studies in the course of Project implementation.
Agreement was reached at negotiations that the Government shall: not later
than April 30, 1991, submit to IDA acceptable terms of reference for all
subsector studies in addition to the original five to be undertaken and
completed under the Project Preparation Facility; not later than December 31,
1991, the Government shall carry out and submit to IDA the recommendations
of all subsector studies: not later than June 30, 1992, the Government shall
exchange views with the Association on the recommendations and agree on an
action program; and not later than March 30, 1993, carry out the action
program.   It was agreed that Government will make efforts to initiate
implementation of the recommendations for the original five studies before
September 30, 1991.
D. Prolect Cost and Financing
3.11     Justification of Project Cost.  Aggregate investment costs for the
rehabilitation of all large-scale enterprises (UNIDO estimate for 130 large
scale enterprises) in Mozambique over the next five years are estimated at
about US$1.0 billion of which US$500 million would represent foreign exchange
expenditures (equipment investment and spare parts, US$ 400 million;
technical assistance, US$100 million). This amount would be divided about
equally between fixed investments and increases in permanent working capital.
Preliminary estimates of rehabilitation requirements for the 15 potential BEs
are provided in Annex 3-4. The Project cost estimates and financing plan for
the 15 BEs are szumarized in Table 3.1. Total Project cost is estimated at



- 20 -
US$106.7 million equivalent, including US$71.2 million in foreign currency.
The IDA Credit of approximately US$50.1 million equivalent would finance 47S
of total Project costs and 70Z of foreign exchange requirements. The balance
is being sought from co-financiers. About US$34.1 million equivalent would
be financed from local sourcess Bls, Government, and local banks (paras. 3.12
- 3.14).  The cost estimates under the ERC assume  hat rehabilitation of two
enterprises (CIH and IMA) would be phased and exclude financing requirements
for three enterprises (CELMOQUE, CAJU and CARMOC) that are being considered
under  separate  operations.    Should  financing  from  those  sources  not
materialize, these enterprises would be eligible for financing under the
IERP. If they were to be included in the estimates (and if CIM's and IMA's
rehabilitation were not phased), total ERC costs would be US$107.9 million
($74.4 million in foreign currency).   Detailed project costs for these
enterprises are on Project file.



- 21 -
Table 3.1: MOZAMBIQUE - PROJECT COST ESTIM&TES AND FINANCING PLAN
Local     Toreign     Total
(USS million)
l
Enterprise Rehabilitation
Component (ERC)
Fixed Investments                         4.8       36.6          41.4
Spare Parts                               1.2        2.8           4.0
Working Capital (incremental)            27.2        18.2         45.4
Technical Assistance                      0.3        4.8           5.1
Subtotal                            33.5       62.4          95.9
Technical Assistance Component (TAC)
ERTU operations                           0.6        3.5           4.1
Other institutions                        -          1.0           1.0
Technical assistance to enterprises       -          3.8           3.8
Other studies                             -          0.5           0.5
Staff training                            1.4        0.0           1.4
Subtotal                               2.0        8.8          10.8
Total project cost                  35.5       71.2         106.7
FINANCING PLAN:
IDA                                       1.4       48.7          50.1
Govermnent/Project Entities              34.1        -            34.1
Co-financing:
Not yet finalized                    -         22.5          22.5
Total Project Finance          35.5       71.2        106.7
3.12     Co-financing.  In view of the large foreign currency requirements
of the sector, co-financing from other donors is being sought to fill the
financing gap.  IDA's involvement in providing untied long-term financing of
the foreign exchange component is important in coordinating and attracting
further co-financing for enterprise rehabilitation. The other donors look
to IDA to assure the technical and financial viability of the BEs and their
economic contributions to Mozambique.   Discussions have taken place, and
official solicitations of interest were sent to several potential co-
financiers for a financing gap of US$22.5 million equivalent. The Government
of Italy has agreed in principle to co-finance the project through bilateral



- 22 -
agreement with the Government of Mozambique.   The IFC and Commonwealth
Development Corporation (CDC) have also indicated their interest in co-
financing the Project.   Prefeasibility studies for some of the fifteen
enterprises have been sent to CDC. Participation by both institutions would
be on an enterprise-by-enterprise basis, contingent on viability of the
enterprise. Caisse Central de Cooperation Economique may also participate
on a case-by-case basis. To encourage full use of cofinancing, IDA financing
of individual subprojects will be limited to US$8 million. For enterprises
with financing requirements exceeding US$8 million (4 out of the 15
enterprises may fall into this categoryw Annex 3-4), Government will be
required to seek other sources of financing to complement the IDA credit.
3.13     Local Currency FinancinR.   The BEs would finance about 23Z of the
physical rehabilitation and related working capital expenditure in local
currency.  This will, to the extent feasible, be financed by:  enterprise
net profits, new shareholders through cash purchases of newly issued
enterprise shares, and new borrowing from the local financial markets.
3.414    Government contribution to Project financing will be limited by the
tight foreign exchange and fiscal budget constraints prevailing in
Mozambique. The Government would finance 52 of overall Project costs, mostly
in the form of the recapitalization of enterprises through equity
contributions and the local operating costs for the ERTU.   A lOZ cost
contingency has been included in the rehabilitation cost estimates.   A
reliable estimate of the financial needs of each enterprise to be
rehabilitated will only emerge from the final feasibility studies, which will
provide a basis for adjusting the scope of the project during implementation.
Should financing be insufficient to cover all 15 enterprises, Government
(with agreement from IDA) may delete some of these enterprises from the
Project.  Conversely, if funds available exceed the requirements of these
enterprises, additional enterprises could be selected jointly by IDA and
Government for prospective rehabilitation according to the process
established under the Project.
3.15.    Technical Assistance Requirements.  The    foreign    exchange
requirements of the TAC would total US$8.8 million over the Project period
for: (a) consultancy services to prepare prefeasibility studies and
rehabilitation plans; (b) Project management and ERTU training; and (c)
sectoral and subsector studies. The cost is estimated on the basis of actual
costs for those contracts already concluded and similar experience in the
region. The magnitude of this technical assistance is explained by the
complex nature of this Project in the Mozambican environment; the
multiplicity of enterprises in a wide range of subsectors to be assisted,
each requiring specialized expertise currently unavailable in the country;
and the need to have appropriate quality control and to strengthen management
skills within the ERTU and the BEs.   Valuable transfer of know-how is
expected to be derived from the presence of external experts, in sector
management as well as in the technical aspects relating to enterprise
operations.   In view of limits on Government expenditure as part of its
recent agreements with both the Bank and the IMF, IDA would allocate the
equivalent of US$1.4 million in local currency to help finance the local
costs of retraining laid-off workers.



- 23 -
IV. MAIN FEATURES OF THE CREDIT
A. Credit and Onlending Terus and Conditions
4.01     The proposed IDA Credit of US$50.1 million equivalent will be made
to the People's Republic of Mozambique on standard IDA terms. The Government
will pass total credit proceeds to BMH to: (a) channel $39.9 million
equivalent to BE's primarily as loans.  However, in appropriate cases the
Government could use the ERC to make direct equity investments (US$5 million
shoulld be initially allocated for this purpose) in BEs in combination with
loans according to their assessed needs for financial restructuring as
identified in the Rehabilitation Plan (RP); and (b) US$10.2 million would be
retained for the TAC, to be administered by the ERTU. The ERC amount will
be passed on by the Government to the BM under a subsidiary administration
agreement  on terms  and conditions  acceptable  to IDA.    The  onlending
arrangements as well as the eligibility criteria for BEs, subloan processing
and administration, and onlending terms and conditions are briefly outlined
below.
4.02     Financial restructuring would be a major issue for almost all the
enterprises assisted under the proposed Project. BM is the commercial bank
with which most of the targeted enterprises have operated and, therefore,
which holds most of their debt.  BM is also an interested party, in its
capacity as Central Bank, in all programs to help clear the banking system's
loan portfolio arrears.   For this reason,  BM would be the financial
intermediary for the ERC under the proposed Project.   Once the initial
subloan is made, it would be possible for subloans to be sold by BM to the
other commercial banks, either in entirety or through syndication, with BM
acting as the lead manager. BM would be acting in its commercial banking
function when making subloans, for which it would bear the normal banking
risk.   The signing of a subsidiary administration agreement between the
Government and BM, transferring the funds to BM and defining the functions
and responsibilities of the latter, shall be a condition of Credit
effectiveness.
4.03     With respect to the lending portion of the ERC, the BM would make
the Credit proceeds available to the BEs at variable interest rates in
accordance with the interest rate structure prevailing in Hozambique. That
structure has been established in consultation with the IMF, and it has been
agreed that the level of interest rates will evolve so that they become
positive in real terms by 1990. The revised interest rate structure (para.
2.19) introduced in January 1989 raised lending rates for loans with
maturities of over one year to between 22? and 35? and was also considerably
simplified. Annual reviews of the interest rates charged on subloans under
the Project will be undertaken jointly by the Government and IDA.
4.04     The subloans or investments in BEs would be denominated in meticais
converted at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of disbursement from
the Special Account. The BM would retain, out of the interest payments due
from the BEs, an annual administration fee (about 0.5? of the outstanding
subloan amounts) to cover its costs in administering the Credit plus a margin



- 24 -
not to exceed 452 of the annual interest rate charged by the BM to the BE to
cover the credit risk.  The foreign exchange risk would be borne by the
Government and would be covered by the interest yield on funds onlent, net
of the service charge on the IDA credit, and the onlending spread of the EM.
The Government would bear the risk on any equity investments.
4.05     Subloans for financing fixed assets, spare parts, and the aLsociated
increase in permanent working capital, and for the preparation of
rehabilitation plans would have maturities of up to 15 years, including grace
periods of up to 5 years. Onlending to BEs will be under subloan agreements
on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. Repayment of each subloan by a
BE to the EM would be on the basis of a fixed amortization schedule.
4.06     The Government could use up to US$5 million of the Credit to make
equity investments in enterprises where this is necessary for financial
restructuring.   The proceeds of the investment would also finance fixed
assets,  spare  parts  and permanent working  capital.   All  such  equity
investments, including the respective Investment Agreement between BM on
behalf of Government and the respective BEs, would require prior approval by
IDA. Whenever equity investments are made, a divestiture policy satisfactory
to IDA would be adopted. When a divestiture takes place, the Government's
equity investment under the proposed Project could be repaid either at once
or on the basis of a fixed amortization schedule. The funds repaid by the
BEs to the BM could be used by the Government to finance enterprise
rehabilitation and restructuring in a manner consistent with the objectives
and financing arrangements under the Project.   Eligibility criteria for
subprojects, and onlending terms and conditions under the Project will be
reviewed at least once annually to identify changes needed to ensure
successful Project implementation.
B.  Selection of Potential Beneficiary Enterprises (BEs)
4.07     During Project preparation, the Government in consultation with IDA
selected 15 enterprises, from a sample of 40 enterprises studied by a team
of consultants,  as potential Project BEs.   The 15 prospective BEs were
selected on the basis of their potential technical, economic and financial
viability and on their ability to adjust to or operate under the new
incentive system.   Viability would be confirmed through prefeasibility
studies to evaluate market potential as well as technical and managerial
capacity.  The status of studies undertaken so far is summarized in para.
5.12.   Other enterprises may be added depending on the availability of
finance (para 3.14).  The enterprises that were selected fall into three
broad categories: agro-industry, as represented by processing of cashew nuts
(Caju de Mocambique) and edible oils and soaps (Grupo Madal and
FASOL/SABOREL), timber (Madeiras de Cabo Delgado), citrus fruit (Citrinos de
Manica), and grain milling (Compagnhia Industria de Matola); light
manufacturing industry, represented by metal working (Metal Box and ECOME),
cables (CELMOQUE), paper cartons (CARMOC), pipes and roofing material (IMA),
steel drums (Van Leer), construction material (PROSUL), plastics, and rubber
products (FACOBOL); and heavy industry (Cimentos de Mocambique-Dondo). As
a group the selected enterprises have: (a) a significant impact on the
performance of the subsectors they represent; (b) a substantial impact on
foreign exchange savings through efficient import substitution or generation



- 25 -
through exports; (c) important links to other enterprises; and (d) important
potential as generators of employment and incomes.
4.08     To overcome security constraints, only those projects located in
fairly safe zones were initially selected.   The maximum amount of ERC
proceeds that could be used for investments or subloans to a single
enterprise would be US$8 million.   This ceiling would enable the Credit
proceeds to be spread equitably among the 15 BEs. For subprojects with large
rehabilitation requirements, Government would make efforts to secure
additional financing above the US$8 million from other sources, especially
to meet the enterprise's working capital requirements (allocations for this
purpose could come from the import support programs). The Government would
actively seek the involvement of institutions such as IFC and CDC to
supplement the IDA funds.   Specific eligibility criteria  for BEs are
summarized in paras. 4.10   4.13.
C. Sample Enterprise Profiles
4.09     Summary details of the 15 beneficiaries enterprises are provided
below in Table 4.1, and more complete profiles are provided in
Annex 4-1.



1le 4.1t H2EBW     - PEE; M   S    ENWII   MUWIMT urN
IML DENE   MLFG I
SAM       Nb.
E-                AMTfY                    -   FDWaN P  s S EMN(  ME= rr                         UIMErLIDN
1986) a/ J fc.)           !5 b/
k E;                                                RN ~I W   IUrL
Caju de 1tx aq   Ca ns ts               State       8.53   0.00   8.53    12.3       6,500       E kmn       b * .ww.
Me= do                                                                                 400       4pn, t        x.q
Co D11           7lne                 State       3.00   0.00   3.00       1.2
Cl z ,s   de       Ctiriws             State       4.05   0.00   4.05       5.3     1050       irr.g. rdtib.Ie 2din
>kii Qu4          Oopm & edib  oil    Ptiwate       8.43   3.42  11.85       3.5     3600       TO ,B defi.d (e 4p.
zmhb. &    aq;szt)
able E"Tiit     }nterwnmd  6.46   5.03  11.49        4.4       485     RMub./fkru&ia  restr.
CxutC at                                                                             lb be deflild (zeub. In
mulvJcnfczdyt Iktxzaterzvud 11.96  18.33  30.29    32.1            450      pses)
-M  M         -.    M         ZIfa0%
Mfta Bk            Ma1 castalxis        Pdvute      1.50   0.00   1.50       1.2      250        dpzu  Wub.Izw,lw./-
(abmxpe           clas                  IrAwud  1.50   0.00   1.50           1.3      160         t      ;       t Ist.(TV
VWur cztm/Uie-td
bcz?d n    2l        Mind        2.00   0.00   2.00      0.4       250               i     iid7 cq tAl
IM       1 E      p%m&  FlcTsnt Rme                                                                     3      pdpei
m dpes  l           t boed       8.64   3.07  11.71      0.4       310      Fblati lJzu
BOWS              Mtal  cLxCAts         State       2.28   0.26   2.54       2.0      360      Ejdpiet rdbb.
EEDL Mcr tiz1n                      W )Mteuals Tztvwd  5.03   0.78   5.81   4.0     1306                rE.tFL4m  r hin str./ITA
MUEN              Sb    duneffipmstic                                                                    nrwlPmiatln;
setki               State       1.67   1.13   2.80       0.5       72                          cbc tAl
Di         L         EtSiber   & a s ptab.
(teWA ises, Euber                                                                       -loIxt  r mludtLm; 1sk
fttitts, pgaiRtS)   Pvftate    _5.44   1.07  _6.51       7.2     -400       tiu t czct
SMSb_tObil                                         2SC17;   5M1  37T7       Irl      3IW5
4x,abique (Mub) 0MHt                    State      _.3.91  _0.40 _.4.31    _3.2       30        lwtIivatirfin of I2ND
Itil ar15                                          74.40  33.49 107.89    79.0    15,                   
a/ Ecrty etepqrises wie stxided by Arthr D. Tittle, Inc. (AL) as a repqesmtative spile of the ntetpris      r.
1986 salsflues f muy be distorted dbe to mavaUind eadw    rate.
b/ I*jir  manzalats to uterfrise ciratins inlde meek or la-d*&: maikets; zzdmaterllas; plmlrqg
irtmxkil csols; p.oxxM                mmean3nt  Y4ty; icistxus; labor;  fore*                   secliy;
tmainiqg; ourfsbtlp.



- 27 -
D. Enterprise (Subirolect) Eligibility Criteria under the FRC
4.10     Rehabilitation Plans (VPs). Under the Project, BEs will be required
to prepare RPs once their potential viability is established through the
prefeasibility studies. (Terms of reference for pre-feasibility studies were
agreed to between IDA and the Government during project preparation and are
available on the Project file.) If necessary, the Project will finance
consultants hired by the enterprises to assist with the preparation of RPs.
For an enterprise 'ound viable, a full RP will be developed by enterprise
management for subsequent negotiation with the Government and BM in order to
reach agreement on an effective rehabilitation and restructuring program.
The agreement reached shall be documented in the subproject appraisal report
prepared by the ERTU and in the subloan and investment agreements.
4.11     The RP would include: (a) a marketing plan aimed at establishing
realistic marketing goals in domestic and foreign markets and identifying
steps to improve the product mix, distribution channels, product design,
quality etc.; (b) a plan for the rehabilitation of plant and equipment to
restore production and to fill needs identified in the marketing plan; (c)
a plan to strengthen management and technical skills and to rationalize
staffing; (d) a financial restructuring plan to reduce the debt burden to
serviceable levels, to restore the enterprise's financial stability and,
where necessary, a plan for privatization or involvement of foreign investors
through equity participation or technical partnership arrangements; (e) a
proposal for a subloan to finance fixed investments, permanent working
capital and technical and managerial service contracts; (f) proposals for
access to foreign exchange to meet recurrent working capital needs for
imported raw materials, spares, and other inputs during the first three years
of operations; and (g) financial projections showing the expected results of
all these measures.
4.12     Another element of the financial restructuring will be to strengthen
enterprise financial and accounting standards and practices to be in line
with national accounting standards. Where these do not exist, the RP should
include measures to strengthen the enterprise's financial and accounting
systems (including adoption of and adherence to generally accepted accounting
standards and practices, the hiring of competent financial managers, and use
of a firm of qualified accountants as external auditors). Use of external
auditors, who may be financed through the Project, will be a condition for
subloans to enterprises.
4.13     The appraisals of all RPs and their related restructuring proposals
(and, where necessary, divestiture or technical partner arrangements) would
have to be done on a case-by-case basis. They would be expected to include
a calculation of the enterprises' incremental internal economic rate of
return (IERR) and incremental financial internal rate of return (FIRR). Sub-
loan requests would be financed only if the incremental FIRR and IERR exceed
12? in real terms. Similarly, equity investments would be expected to yield
an after-tax return of 12? in constant prices. The IERR would be estimated
using border prices. To determine if the RP is viable, the ERTU would ensure
that the proposed restructuring plan would, given reasonable assumptions,
enable the enterprise to service adequately its debt while maintaining



- 28 -
satisfactory liquidity (with a debt service ratio of at least (3:1). The 15
enterprises selected would be eligible if they were found to be viable. The
IDA Credit would finance up to 100Z of eligible foreign expenditures of the
subproject.    Guidelines  for  the  operations  of  the  ERTU,  subproject
eligibility criteria, and subloan administration are provided in Annex 4-2.
E. Subloan Processing and Administration
4.14       Primary responsibility for preparation of prefeasibility studies
and RPs, and for implementation of the actual rehabilitation will rest with
enterprises seeking financing.   However, the technical requirements for
defining and preparing the rehabilitation plans are likely to be complex and
beyond  the  capacity  of most  enterprises.    Many  enterprises  lost key
management, professional or technical staff over the past te:.. years resulting
in a generalized shortage of qualified personnel in Mozambique. To overcome
this constraint, the Government would, through the ERTU, finance the
enterprises' hiring of consultants to assist with preparation of feasibility
studies,   RPs,   and  when  necessary,   implementation  of  the  actual
rehabilitation. These costs would be refinanced through subloans.
4.15     The BM will assume the credit risk on subloans financed by the
proposed Credit and will satisfy itself that the rehabilitation and
restructuring plans are sound and the enterprise is creditworthy.  The BM
will also undertake to supervise subprojects it finances.  BM's review of
subprojects would be based on the subproject appraisal reports prepared by
the ERTU. The BM would appoint a qualified officer to coordinate and work
with the ERTU during subproject appraisal. Through working with the ERTU and
with training to be provided under the Project, it is expected that staff of
the BM will over time develop the necessary experience -o undertake in-house
appraisals of large, complex projects.
4.16     The ERTU will undertake a detailed analysis of each RP to ensure
that enterprises meet established eligibility criteria. On the basis of the
review, the ERTU will prepare a subproject appraisal report recommending that
the Minister of Finance approve or reject the subproject (including the
rehabilitation plan). In reviewing the subproject, the ERTU will determine
whether there are policy issues (such as divestiture, resolution of
ownership, joint venture arrangements, or a complex restructuring plan) that
require Government decision. In such a case, if the subproject meets the
other eligibility criteria, it will be approved then submitted by the
Minister to the Commission for External Economic Relations (CREE) for
resolution of the issues identified by the ERTU. The BM will then indicate
its approval or rejection for financing of investment proposals on the basis
of banking criteria.   The MOF and BM will actively seek to secure co-
financing (especially for enterprises requiring large investments) from
private sector joint venture or technical partners, both local and foreign,
including IFC and CDC.
4.17     All subprojects would require IDA's prior review and approval for
financing under the proposed Credit.  Subprojects submissions sent by the
ERTU to IDA for review would includes (a) an appraisal report of the
subproject, analyzing the economic, financial, technical, and environmental



- 29 -
viability. The appraisal would be carried out in accordance with guidelines
satisfactory to IDA; (b) a copy of the rehabilitation plan; (c) the proposed
terms and conditions of the subloans or equity investments; (d) a list of
goods and services to be financed out of proceeds of the IDA Credit and the
respective method of procurement; (e) the method of procurement of goods and
services; and (f) where necessary, the results of efforts to secure co-
financing.   ERTU and the BM would coordinate closely to ensure that all
required elements of the package are submitted to IDA.   BM and IDA will
review jointly the subproject approval procedures after the first three
subproject have been onproved by IDA.
4.18     The ERTU and BM would regularly supervise subprojects to ensure that
implementation is effective, that subloans are utilized for the intended
purposes, and that sub-borrowers adhere to subloan conditions. ERTU would
keep supervision reports on file for review by IDA Project supervision
missions.  The ERTU and BM would also have the right to visit the BEs as
necessary and to receive relevant information, including enterprise quarterly
and annual audited financial statements.  The BM will submit to the ERTU
quarterly reports on the performance of the portfolio financed from the
Credit proceeds.   As part of Project preparation the ERTU will hold
orientation seminars for the staff of BM, Ministries responsible for
potential BEs, MOF, and enterprises to familiarize them with project
appraisal, financial restructuring techniques, and procedures for subloan
processing and administration. A series of training seminars and workshops
coordinated by the ERTU will be held throughout Project implementation to
train local staff in these institutions in the use of project appraisal and
restructuring techniques.
4.19     Environmental Safety Arrangements.  In reviewing subprojects, the
ERTU would assess the environmental aspects of all subprojects to ensure that
they do not negatively impact the environment.   BEs will be required to
protect the environment by incorporating in the RP measures to minimize the
discharge of pollutants and to provide for a safe working environment for
their workers. The environmental impact and necessary measures to control
effluent emission for each of the 15 enterprises for which prefeasibility
studies have been undertaken are briefly discussed in Annex 4-1. Supervision
missions will be required to review compliance of the BEs with the parameters
set for pollution control and document any variations and the reasons for not
meeting the limitations.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Institutional Setting and Management
5.01     The arrangements for the organization and management of the Project
and ERTU shown in Annex 5-1 reflect the various aspects of enterprise
rehabilitation which must be addressed in the RPs.   These include term
lending, debt to equity conversions, debt rescheduling, joint venture or
technical partner arrangements or privatization, training, sector and
subsector studies, and policy and institutional reforms affecting several
Ministries and the enterprise sector in general.  These arrangements also



- so -
take  into  account  Mozambique's  administrative  system  which  divides
responsibilities among several different Government entities.
5.02     Comission for External Ecooanic Relations (CURE).    CREE was
established by the Government of Mozambique to serve as a coordinating
committee on external economic relations, particularly those relating to
foreign exchange allocation among competing projects.   For the proposed
Project, the CREE will act as the Steering Committee, responsible for
providing inter-Ministerial coordination in planning, resource allocation,
policy   coordination   and   resolution   of   issues   affecting  project
implementation. CREE meets on a weekly basis and is chaired by the Prime
Minister. Other members include: the Minister of Planning; the Minister of
Finance; Minister of International Cooperation; Minister of Foreign Affairs;
Minister of Trade; and the Governor of the BM.  Other sector Ministers and
Government agencies are co-opted whenever issues affecting operations under
their jurisdiction are being discussed.
5.03     The Ministry of Finance (MDF), will be the Project executing agency.
Acting on the recommendation of the ERTU, the Minister would approve
financing of RPs.  Once approved by the Minister, in consultation with the
responsible Ministry and the BM, a subproject would be submitted to IDA for
approval of financing under the Credit in accordance with the process
described in paras. 4.14 - 4.18.
5.04     Bank of Mozambique (BM).  The BM will make final arrangements for
subloans with BEs for approved RPs.  The BM would bear the credit risk on
the subloans.   As fiscal agent of the Government, the BM would operate
foreign exchange accounts and designate officials who would sign withdrawal
applications for eligible expenditures. As a member of CREE, BM will also be
actively involved in approving RPs and will cooperate with ERTU in subproject
implementation.   The ERTU, which would have primary responsibility for
subproject appraisal and supervision, would work and coordinate closely with
the BM to ensure smooth Project implementation.
5.05     BM is the largest of the three banks, and the one with the broadest
mandate.   It was created in 1975 to take over the central banking role
previously played by Portugal's Banco Nacional Ultramarino (Statutes approved
by Decree No. 2/75 dated May 17, 1975). In 1978, it absorbed the Mozambican
operations of four Portuguese-owned banks.  BM has 10 filiais (provincial
head offices), 17 agencias (district branches) and 13 delegacoes (deposit
offices).  The limits  &-aigned to each branch for credit approval tend to
vary from branch to branch and-aecording to factors such as the size and
complexity of operations.  Each directorate hap-4 staff of three or four
credit analysts, of whom on average one may have been to university. The
remainder usually will have completed secondary school and done some
vocational training, generally in accounting or a related subject.  Many BM
credit analysts, from both Maputo and the provinces, have received training
in project analysis and processing, financed under an IDA PPF advance.
5.06     Central vs. Commercial Banking Functions.  Although distinctively
defined in its statutes, the two functions of BM, as central bank and
commercial bank, were not clearly distinguished in practice.  It is still
difficult today to distinguish properly between these two functions in both



- 31 -
accounting and operational terms.  BM is now taking steps to distinguish
between and separate these two roles.
5.07     In 1988, BM introduced a new accounting framework to be fully
applied to all banks. This framework will eventually permit all aspects of
operations to be clearly identified according to either the central banking
or the commercial banking function of BM. A full separation of accounts
along these lines is expected to be available after 1992.
5.08     Financial Situation.   Its  two  functions make  BM's  financial
situation more difficult to evaluate. Selected BM financial statements and
a Monetary Survey are shown in Annex 5-2 and Annex 5-3, respectively. An
important development in the balance sheet is noted in 1987 and 1988 and
reflects the impact of the devaluation of the Metical.  The devaluation
caused medium to long-term foreign liabilities to increase from Mt 36.8
billion in December 1986 to Mt 612 billion in December 1988 (of which Mt 78
billion corresponds primarily to IDA financing), with corresponding
unrealized losses. The sectoral distribution of credit, covering the bulk
of BM's lending portfolio, indicates that from 1987 to December 1988 the
relative share of agriculture declined from about 42Z to 392 of total
lending, whereas industry's share declined slightly from 17Z to 16Z.  The
share of domestic trade increased from 8Z to almost 14?, with construction
and foreign trade each accounting for about 7-8Z and transport and
communications accounting for the remaining 17-18Z.
5.09     EnterDrise Restructuring Technical Unit (ERTU).    The ERTU was
created in the MOF on February 19, 1988, to help design and coordinate
implementation of the ERP. The ERTU is responsible for planning, managing
and supervising Project implementation, including: supervision of enterprise
studies; appraisal of enterprises' RPs; providing advisory support to the
Government on enterprise policy issues; and supporting enterprises in
identifying and organizing management training. The terms of reference for
the ERTU were agreed between IDA and the Government during Project
preparation and are available in Annex 5-4. The ERTU would be responsible
for the day-to-day management of the Project and for monitoring the use of
Project funds and ensuring that reporting requirements are met (para. 5.24).
The MOF's assistance to enterprises includes the preparation of financial
restructuring proposals, seeking local and foreign private sector investors,
preparing  joint  venture  or  technical  arrangements,  and  overseeing
implementation of approved RPs. A detailed budget for technical assistance
to the ERTU is provided in Annex 3-1.
5.10     The ERTU is headed by a Project Director (the Deputy National
Director of Treasury in the MF), who reports directly to the Minister of
Finance.  At negotiations, it was agreed that the Project Director would
devote sufficient time to the Project to ensure effective implementation.
Besides the Project Director, the ERTU includes a technical assistance team
of three experts provided by PARTEX, CPS, an international consulting
company. The team, which was initially employed under a PPF advance and has
been in Mozambique since October 1988, includes a Project Advisor, who
coordinates the work of other professional staff, supervises the work of all
consultants hired by the ERTU, and provides policy advice on enterprise
sector issues to the Minister of Finance; an Engineer who oversees all



_ 32 -
technical aspects of the Project; and an Economist, responsible for economic
analysis and for providing project appraisal training. A local Economist has
also been seconded from the MF as counterpart to the expatriate economist.
Other local staff to be recruited include, an Accountant and a Procurement
Advisor. Terms of reference for the expatriate staff are provided in Annex
5-5. To complement its full-time staff, the ERTU will also have access to
the services of consultants (including legal expertise on corporate workouts,
ownership arrangements, and liquidations) and will be able to co-opt staff
from other Government Ministries for specific tasks.   The ERTU will also
provide advisory service to the Government on issues affecting enterprise
performance, and will,   as may be requested by enterprises, continue to
provide technical assistance after completion of this project. Government
gave assurances at negotiations that it will take all necessary steps to
ensure that ERTU staffing remains both capable and sufficient in numbers to
discharge the responsibilities associated with the IDA Credit.
5.11     Interministerial Working Group (IWO).   The IWG's objective is to
ensure that relevant sector Ministries, and the BM, concur with RPs prepared
for various enterprises, that the enterprises have an opportunity to
participate in the discussion of the RPs, and that most issues are resolved
before the proposals are submitted to the Minister of Finance. The Project
Director would be expected to seek the advice of the IWG in carrying out his
responsibilities.   The IWG would be composed of senior-level officials
representing inter alia the Ministry of Finance; Ministry of Industry and
Energy; Ministry of Construction and Water; Ministry of Agriculture; Ministry
of Transport and Communications; and Bank of Mozambique, all of which will
be directly involved in Project implementation.
B. Status of Project Preparation and ImPlementation Schedule
5.12     Preparation of the Project was undertaken in close collaboration
with the ERTU. Inputs were also provided by other Government agencies (BM
and MIE) and enterprises.  During Phase II of the Arthur D. Little (ADL)
Enterprise Review, ten enterprises participated in "profiling" sessions which
involved most key people who would need to cooperate in project
implementation.   The objective of the sessions was to discuss with the
principal managers and staff, the merits and disadvantages of various
rehabilitation alternatives and to attempt to reach a consensus on which
alternative should be pursued. The premise of the rehabilitation program is
that it will only be successful if it is accepted by all concerned parties.
Given the skills shortage in Mozambique, the sessions imparted knowledge
about project evaluation and financial restructuring to local staff of the
ERTU, Government, and the enterprises. Government has indicated that it will
continue the approach in reviewing other enterprises for rehabilitation.
Enterprise managers expressed their appreciation that for the first time they
were directly involved in developing ideas affecting the future of their
companies.   Preparation activities have proceeded well and are nearly
complete.
5.13     Implementation Schedule.  An appraisal mission visited Mozambique
in March 1989, and reviewed with Government the rehabilitation prospects of
each potential BE.   On the basis of this review it was estimated that
implementation of approved RPs will stretch over 3 - 5 years starting March



-  33  -
1990. Restructuring of enterprise balance sheets may take slightly longer,
which leads to a conservative estimate of a Project implementation period of
six years with completion in December 31, 1996. The Credit is expected to
be closed by December 31, 1997.
C. Proiect PreRaration Facility
5.14     A PPF advance for US$750,000 was approved by IDA on  January 19,
1988, for project preparation. The PPF advance provided financing for: (a)
the cost of hiring an international consulting firm to provide technical
assistance to the ERTU; (b) enterprise prefeasibility studies (Phase II
studies) and RPs; and (c) sector reform studies. Following appraisal, IDA
approved a second PPF advance of US$700,000 to supplement the first PPF and
to ensure completion of preparation activities and prompt Project start up.
The advance total now stands at US$1.45 million.
D. Procurement
5.15     Enteririse Rehabilitation Component.       The ERTU would supervise
procurement and will ensure that BEs follow established and suitable
commercial practices acceptable to IDA. The ERTU would be responsible for
both International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and non-ICB procurement and for
ensuring competitiveness (in price and quality), of the items procured and
their suitability for the purpose intended.   Assurances were given at
negotiations that award of rehabilitation contracts will not be undertaken
without a detailed RP and engineering estimates of the actual rehabilitation
needs of each BE.  Given the weak technical, administrative and financial
capacities of some enterprises, the ERTU would closely monitor the
procurement process.
5.16     All individual contracts with a value of US$500,000 and above would
be procured in accordance with ICB, with prior IDA review of the bids as well
as contracts.  Preferences would be granted to domestic manufacturers and
contractors for purchases of goods costing less than US$500,000 which shall
be procured on the basis of local compet-.Ltive bidding (LCB), or international
or local shopping (IS or LS) procedures, as appropriate, but with quotatioas
from at least three suppliers eligible under Wor'd Bank guidelines, and
contracts will be reviewed by the ERTU prior to award. The aggregate value
of IS and LS procurement would be approximately US$10.5 million, and for LCB
$1.6 million.    LCB procurement would be  limited  and mainly  for  the
procurement of civil works (foreign firms would be allowed to participate in
such bids in accordance with local procedures acceptable to IDA). The first
LCB document will be reviewed by IDA prior to its release to bidders. IDA
requirements for LCB should be specified in local advertising, including
public bid opening, clarity in evaluation criteria, and award to the lowest
evaluated responsive bidder.
5.17     Specific  brands  of  spares  and  equipment  made  by  only  one
manufacturer for the ERC and ERTU would be purchased directly from the



- 34 -
suppliers of the original plant and equipment through direct contracting
procedures. Where enterprises are unable to undertake their own procurement,
advice may be sought through the Procurement Advisor at the ERTU.   All
subproject appraisal reports prepared by the ERTU would include a list of
goods and services to be financed under the credit and the methods of
procurement. Procurement of vehicles, office equipment, and furniture under
the technical assistance component would be through local shopping as
described for international shopping above. Appointment of an Accountant to
the ERTU acceptable to IDA will be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
5.18     Consultants.      Consultancy  services  necessary   for  Project
implementation (categorized under "other procedures" in Table 5.1), will be
procured locally and internationally in accordance with Bank Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants.   To ensure knowledge transfer,  those activities
requiring the use of foreign firms and experts would be linked to training
programs.   All consultancy contracts would have terms of reference and
consultant selection subject to IDA approval before contracts are awarded.
5.19     As part of its normal supervision of subprojects, the ERTU would
review procurement to ensure that approved practices have been followed.
The ERTU would maintain records of the procurement methods and documents in
order to monitor use of Credit funds (see Table 5.1).   IDA supervision
missions would review procurement procedures to ensure compliance with the
agreed Procurement Guidelines.



- 35 -
Table 5.1t NDOUNIQU - PROCURCN5 ARRANGDNTS
(US$ Killion)
ICB                         Other
Proce-                      Proce-
Project Item                       dures    ISILS    LCB       dures    Total
Enterprise Rehabilitation
Component (ERC):
Rehabilitation,
Restructuring and TA to
Enterprises a/                   28.3       10.0    1.6      56.0 d/   95.9
(28.3)    (10.0)  (1.6)    (0.0)    (39.9)
Technical Assistance
Component (TAC)                                0.3             10.5       10.8
(0.3)           (9.9)    (10.2)
Consultants' Services b/                                      7.6        7.6
Training of laid-off staff                                    1.4       1.4
Vehicles and Equipment cI                    0.3              0.0        0.3
Refunding of PPF                                              1.5        1.5
Total                               28.3      10.6    1.6      66.5      106.7
(28.3)    (10.3)  (1.6)    (9.9)    (50.1)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
a/ Contracts would be awarded as follows: (i) in excess of US$500,000 equivalent
through ICB; (ii) less than US$500,000 through LCB and local and international
shopping (IS/LS); LS/LCB (with public bid offering) would be suitable for
civil works contracts.
bl Consultant contracts would be procured in accordance with Bank's Consultants'
Guidelines.
c/ Procurement of vehicles and equipment would require at least three price
quotations.
d/ Items to be financed by Government, enterprises and co-financiers.



- 36 -
R. Disburses_nt
5.20     The allocation of the IDA Credit is summarized in Table 5.2 and the
disbursement schedule in Annex 5-6.   The IDA Credit would be disbursed
against the following itemst (a) for the Enterprise Rehabilitation Component,
1002 of the foreign exchange expenditures or 1002 of subloans and equity
investments, 10O2 of expenditures for technical assistance to enterprises,
and 10O2 of approved expenditures for training of staff laid off as part of
the rehabilitation effort; and (b) for the Technical Assistance Component,
10O of foreign expenditures, 10O of foreign expenditures for vehicles,
equipment, and office supplies, 10OZ of operating costs of ERTU, and 1002 of
expenditures for technical assistance and training.  The IDA Credit would
also reimburse the PPF advance. Disbursements would be made on the basis of
full documentation, except for withdrawals related to contracts valued at
less than US$20,000 equivalent, equipment and civil works contracts valued
at less than US$100,000 equivalent, and local training programs, which would
be disbursed on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs). Supporting
documents related to amounts withdrawn on the basis of SOEs would be retained
by the ERTU and made available on request for review by auditors and Project
supervision missions. Only expenditures made no more than 180 days prior to
the receipt by IDA of information relating to a subloan or investment
operation, or before the receipt of the request by IDA for approval of the
subproject shall be eligible for reimbursement. The extension of the normal
90 day limit is justified by the limited implementation capacity in
Mozambique. Appointment of a Procurement Advisor, and approval by IDA of a
model subloan aRreement between BM and the respective BEs, will be conditions
of disbursement on the ERC.



- 37 -
Table 5.2: MOZANIQUE - ALLOCATION OF IDA CUDIT
Amount          Z of Expenditure to
Category                         (US$ million)          be Financed
Enterprise Rehabilitation            39.9      10O  of foreign expenditures
Component (ERC)                                of each subproject.
(Rehabilitation,
restructuring and TA to
enterprises)
Operating Costs of ERTU               0.2      1002 of total expenditures.
Technical Assistance to ERTU:         2.9      10OZ of foreign expendi-
(Consultant services, training,                tures.
vehicles & equipment)
Consultant services for               3.2      1002 of foreign expendi-
Feasibility Studies & Subsector                tures
Studies
Training of laid-off staff            1.4      10O? of total expenditures.
Refunding of PPF                      1.5      1002 of amount advanced.
Unallocated                           1.0
TOTAL                            50.1



- 38 -
5.21     Disbureement  Schedule.       In  accordance  with  the  standard
disbursement profile for industry loans and credits in the Africa Region and
recent disbursement experience in Mozambique, the IDA credit is expected to
be disbursed as shown in the schedule given in Annex 5-6. The last date for
the submission of subprojects for IDA approval or authorization would be
December 31, 1996, and the Project closing date would be December 31, 1997.
F. Special Account
5.22     To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account to be managed by the
ERTU and operated by the BM would be established in US dollars at a
commercial bank acceptable to IDA.  The Special Account, with an initial
deposit of US$2 million (equivalent to an average disbursement of four
months) would finance Project-eligible expenditures under the ERC.  All
foreign exchange transactions would be made through BM under existing
regulations governing the allocation of foreign exchange in Mozambique. BM
would advise ERTU promptly of all transactions affecting the special account.
The ERTU through its Accountant would be responsible for all record keeping,
reconciliation of bank statements under the credit as required by IDA, and
for preparation of replenishment applications for signature by designated BM
officials.
5.23     Documentation  to  be  submitted  by  the  ERTU  for  withdrawal
authorization from the Credit account or from the Special Account with
respect to subloans or investment operations would includes (a) a summary
description of the BE and an appraisal report on the subproject, including
its economic, technical and financial viability, and environmental aspects
in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to IDA; (b) a list of goods and
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the IDA Credit; (c) the
methods of procurement of the goods and services; and (d) terms and
conditions of the subloan or investment, as appropriate.
G. Accounting and Auditing Requirements
5.24     The ERTU would maintain accounts and records adequate to reflect the
Project's operations and financial situation in accordance with sound
accounting principles. Independent auditors acceptable to IDA would annually
review: (a) project accounts kept by the ERTU; (b) the Special Account; and
(c) financial statements of each BE, including a statement on compliance with
eligibility criteria and subloan covenants. The auditors would also include
a separate statement on whether satisfactory accounting procrlures are in
operation.  Assurances were obtained from Government at negotiations that
audit reports of the Project and the audited accounts of the BM shall be
submitted to IDA not later than six months after the end of each Government
of Mozambique fiscal year. The audited statements of enterprises are also
expected to be submitted to IDA. If a suitably qualified Government employee
cannot be found to prepare accounts, the credit would finance a consultant
to serve as Project Accountant, and any training program needed to equip a
local staff member to take over this responsibility.



- 39 -
B. Monitorins and Reporting Require_ents
5.25     For monitoring Project implementation, the ERTU will prepare an
implementation schedule that establishes monitorable milestones, which would
be used to assess progress in the various components.  The ERTU would be
responsible for monitoring, evaluation, and reporting activities. The ERTU
would be required to prepare, in consultation with other agencies involved
in project implementation, detailed Project monitoring formats for review by
IDA. Other project implementing agencies would provide the ERTU with the
data necessary for preparing reports for submission to IDA. Based on this
data, the ERTU would prepare consolidated annual progress reports. BM would
submit to the ERTU the following:   (a) a monthly report summarizing all
transactions on the Special Account; (b) a quarterly report on the status of
the portfolio of subloans and investments financed under Project; and (c)
disbursement reports on the Project Accounts.  BEs would submit quarterly
reports and audited annual financial statements to the ERTU, with copies to
the BM. The ERTU shall consolidate the quarterly reports with reports on
other Project activities and would prepare a quarterly report on the progress
of Project implementation. Such progress reports would be submitted to IDA
one month after the end of each quarter. In addition, the ERTU would prepare
an annual report summarizing progress in all key areas of the Project to be
submitted to IDA three months after the end of each year. At the close of
the Credit, the ERTU will prepare a Project Completion Report, based on the
PCR preparation arrangements summarized in Annex 5-7.
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
6.01     Major enterprise rehabilitation will likely yield high economic
returns through restoration of production employment and higher production
levels and incomes. Improvements in the institutional and policy framework,
plus increased enterprise autonomy and increased competition from more
private sector involvement through joint ventures and divestiture, should
enhance  enterprise  efficiency  and profitability.    The  rehabilitation,
financial restructuring, corporate privatization, and technical management
approaches developed for enterprises under the Project will serve as
demonstration cases for the design and implementation of similar programs in
other enterprises.  The Project will also contribute significantly to the
strengthening of Mozambican institutional capability to develop and implement
rehabilitation and restructuring plans and, where appropriate, privatization.
It is expected that the rehabilitation and financial restructuring strategies
developed under the Project will contribute to improvements in enterprise
operations, including consolidation or specialization in core businesses
while abandoning or separating out unprofitable or unrelated activities, with
emphasis on achieving a viable scale of enterprise operations. Further, the
Project will aim to increase the market orientation of enterprises through
improvements in financial and management information systems, with emphasis
on accurate record keeping, cost controls, and related training of enterprise
personnel.   Individual enterprise rehabilitation investments must have



- 40 -
minimum economic rates of return of 122. In most cases the rates of return
are expected to be substantially higher.
B. Risks
6.02     The major risks associated with the Project stem from:  (a) the
economy's fragility and, therefore, the possibility that political and social
opposition may weaken the Government's commitment to the ERP during Project
implementation (particularly to the ERP's more sensitive changes e.g., price
liberalization and state enterprise divestiture or liquidations which
represent a significant departure from past policies); (b) limited Government
and enterprise experience in implementing rehabilitation plars; and (c) the
security situation, which may adversely affect project implementation. To
mitigate these risks: (a) beneficiary enterprises will be selected primarily
on the basis of their potential economic, technical, and financial viability
(i.e., that they possess a capable management team or plans are made to
assure such a team, and that their operations are not seriously affected by
the security situation); (b) the Project would provide assistance in training
and redeployment of laid-off staff in order to &ileviate the social costs of
adjustment and therefore, reduce the risk of resistance on the part of the
public.    The ERTU  is being  strengthened  through  the  services  of an
experienced consulting firm; and enterprise management will also be
strengthened and, where necessary, assisted in formulating and implementing
their rehabilitation plans. Close supervision during Project implementation
will be maintained to deal with problems  as they arise.    Government
commitment to and progress so far in implementing the reform program has been
encouraging and no evidence exists of flagging Government resolve.
VII.   SUMMARY OF AGREEM}NTS AND RECONMENDATIONS
7.01     During negotiations, the following major assurances and agreements
were obtained from Government regardings
(a)   Formulation with IDA support by December 31, 1990, of an
action plan to determine the legal ownership status of
intervened enterprises, and to promptly thereafter take all
necessary legal and administrative measures to implement the
Plan. Although implementation progress would be reviewed as
part of the Annual Implementation Review, a major review shall
be undertaken by June 30, 1993 (para. 2.42);
(b)   Submission to IDA for review of the terms of reference for
subsector studies to be undertaken under the Project would not
be later than April 30, 1991 and all studies would be carried
out by December 31, 1991. The Government will exchange views
with IDA on recommendations of the studies and agree on action
program by June 30,. 1992, and carry out said action program
by March 31, 1993 (para. 3.10);



- 41 -
(c)   Government and IDA will, not later than June 30, 1991, and
annually, as part of the annual project implementation review,
undertake reviews of the interest rates charged on subloans
under the proposed Credit, including commitment levels,
subproject  eligibility  criteria,   onlending  terms  and
conditions, and general project implementation progress
(para. 4.03);
(d)   The Project financing plan (para. 3.11), arrangements for
channelling the credit to the eligible BEs, economic,
financial and technical subproject eligibility criteria, and
onlending terms and conditions (paras. 4.01 to 4.08);
(e)   The credit operating guidelines and subloan processing and
administration procedures (para. 4.18);
(f)   Procurement,  disbursement,  accounting,  and  reporting  and
monitorir.g arrangements (paras. 5.15 - 5.24);
(g)   An Enterprise Restructuring Technical Unit and IWG, shall be
maintained throughout the life of the Project with staff and
responsibilities acceptable to IDA, (para. 5.09);
(h)   Audit  reports  of  the  Project  and  audited  accounts  of
enterprises to be submitted to IDA not later than six months
after the end of each Government of Mozambique fiscal year
(para. 5.23).
(i)   All subloans to be financed under the Credit shall require
prior approval by IDA (paras. 4.17 and 5.22);
(j)   All equity investments would be under an investment agreement
that shall require prior approval by IDA (para. 4.06);
(k)   Financing of training programs  for laid-off staff would
require prior IDA approval (para. 3.09); and
(1)   The Government would carry the foreign exchange risks (para.
4.04).
7.02     Conditions of credit effectiveness would be:
(a)   Signing of the subsidiary administration agreement between the
Government and BM passing on US$39.9 million to BM for the ERC
and defining the functions and responsibilities of the latter
(para. 4.02); and
(b)   Appointment of an accountant as part of the ERTU staff (para.
5.16).



_ 42 -
7.03     Conditions of disbursement for the ERC would be:
(a)   Submission to IDA and its approval  of a model  subloan
agreement between the BM and the respective BEs (para. 5.19);
and
(b)   Appointment of a Procurement Advisor (para. 5.19)
7.04     On the basis of the above assurances and agreements being reached,
the Project would be suitable for an IDA Credit of US$50.1 million equivalent
to the Government of the People's Republic of Mozambique at standard IDA
terms, with a 40-year maturity.



I
I
I
MOZAMBIQUE
INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
ANNEXES



MOZAMBIQUE - STRUCTURE OF MANUFACTURING INDUSTRY - 1973, 1967
-----------------------------------------------------------------__---------__-----------------------------------------------------------------__---
1973
Number of                       1973                 Value Added                     1987.0 *J
Food Products                     Establishments   Percentage  Employment   Percentage  (Esc Million)  Percentage  Employment Output
X         %
Food Products                               772.0          54.8    41643.0         42.1           1616.4       29.6                 26.0
of which:
Vegetable Oil                                 9.0                    1887.0                        130.6
Flour Mills                                 331.0                    1909.0                         81.6
Sugar                                        *.0                     6298.0                        630.2
Cashew Processing                            16.0                   20860.0                       284.4
Tea                                          19.0                    3073.0                        87.8
Bakery, Confectionary                       286.0                    4304.0                         83.6
Bverages, Tobacco                            24.0           1.7      4111.0         4.2            732.0       14.3        30.0    11.0
Textiles, Carments
Leather, Fibre                              111.0           7.9    16879.0         16.9            808.6       16.8        24.0    26.0
of which:
Cotton Ginning                               21.0                    29S4.0                        186.6
Spinning, Weaving                             3.0                    4461.0                        256.9
Garmnts                                      28.0                    4211.0                        156.2
Wood, Paper, Printing                       227.0          16.1    16797.0         16.0            628.6       10.8        14.0    10.0
of which:
Logging, saumilling                          76.0                    7665.0                        143.0
Carpentry, furniture                         91.0                    3607.0                        102.6
Printing                                     4S.0                    3293.0                        199.9
Petroleum, Chemicals
Rubber, Plastics                             6s.o           4.6      4088.0         4.1            449.9        8.8         8.0     11.0
of which:
Rubber Products                               2.0                     774.0                         66.8
Plastic Products                             12.0                     742.0                         64.2
Paint, Varnish                                4.0                     393.0                        129.7
Nonmetal, Mineral Products                   62.0           4.4      4686.0         4.7            360.3        7.0         3.0      2.0
of which:
Aloes Products                                1.0                    6e7.0                          63.1
..ment                                       3.0                      898.0                       184.0
M*elhs and engineering                      139.0           9.9    11484.0         11.6           692.9        13.6        19.0    14.0
of which:
Struct. Metal Prods.                         40.0                    2107.0                        101.4
ebsic Iron A Steel                            3.0                    1131.0                         57.0
Metal Furniture                              15.0                    1618.0                         89.0
Shipbldg, Repairs                             8.0                    1436.0                        110.6
Other Industries                              9.0           0.6       380.0         0.4             28.2        0.6         2.0
TOTAL                                      1409.0         100.0    98868.0        100.0           6114.8      100.0       100.0   100.0
----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__-------------------------------------------------------------
Source:  Based on Estatisticais Industriais 1973 and 1987.
Note: a/ Based on gross output at 1985 prices, VA figures are not avail-ble for 1987; however 1973 and 1987 output shares appear comparable.
b/ Includes food products and beverages, tobacco, textiles and garments.



- 44 -
ANNEX 2-2
MOZANBIQUE
GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION Of INDUSTRIAL ENTRPRISES - 1973
Province              Enterprises                 Eployment
Number    % of Total         Number    % of Total
(000' s)
Maputo                      428     34                    34.8          41
Beira (Sofala)              229     18                    12.9          16
Vila Pery (Nampula)          88      7                     6.6           8
Zambezia                    166     13                     4.7           6
Manica                      121      9                    16.3          19
Ceza                         52      4                     4.3           5
Tete                         86      7                     0.7           1
Cabo Delgado                 29      2                     1.0           1
Inhambane                    49      4                     2.7           3
Niasa                        24      2                     0.3           1
TOTALS                     1272   100%                    84.3         101



- 45 -
AN*     23
Page 1 of 2
NOZAMBIOUS
INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
TU=L"QGE OF MANUFACTURING nDUSTRY
(activities supervised)
MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY AND ENERGY (HIE)
Electric Power
Petroleum Refining [Management Unit (U.D.) for Petroleum] )/
Metallurgy (U.D. for Metallurgy)
Heavy Metalworking
Metal Fabrication (Gabricom)
Electrical Machinery and Materials (U.D. for Electrical Engineering)
Refrigeration and air-conditioning equipment (U.D. for Refrigeration)
Rubber and Rubber Goods
Glass and Glassware
Basic Chemicals (U.D. for Chemicals)
Fertilizers and Pesticides (U.D. for Chemicals)
Paints, Varnishes and Lacquers (U.D. for Chemicals)
Explosives (U.D. for Chemicals)
Miscellaneous Chemicals Products (U.D. for Chemicals)
Paper, Paperboard and Paper Products (U.D. for Chemicals)
Shipbuilding and repair - steel vessels (MIE)
Shipbuilding and repair - wooden and other vessels (U. D. for Fishing)
Office Equipment (U.D. for Electrical Equipment)
Support for Industrial Machinery (EQUITEC, E. E.)
PREVIOUSLY UNDER STATE SECRETARIAT FOR LIGHT AND FOOD INDUSTRY (SEILA) (339
ENTERPRISES) h/
Textiles from cotton and other fibres (U.D. Textiles)
Garments (U.D. for Garments)
Footwear and Tanning (U.D. for Footwear and Tanning)
Animal and vegetable oils and fats (U.D. for Oil Products)
Soap including toilet soap (U.D. for Food Products-UDRAT)
Noodles, Confectionery and Cakes (UDRAT)
Dairy Products (UDRAT)
Processed Tobacco (UDRAT)
Canned Fruit and Vegetables (U.D. Agro-Foodstuffs)
Cleansing Products (M.U. for Matches and Hygiene)
Raw, homogenized and refined salt (U.D. for Salt)
Plastic Articles (U.D. for Plastics)
Wet and Dry Batteries
Miscellaneous Metal Products (U.D. for Beverages)
Wood Furniture (U.D. for Wood Furniture)
A! U.D. - Unidade de Direccao (Management Unit)
hi Formerly SEIDA, which was integrated into the MIE in March, 1989.



- 46 -
ANNEX 2-3
Page 2 of 2
SECRETARY OF STATE FOR FISHING (SSF) (2 ENTERPRISES)
Building and Repair of wooden and fibre boats
Canned fish
Manufacture of fishing nets
MINISTRY OF CONSTRUCTION AND WATER RESOURCES (nCA) (21 ENTERPRISES)
Cement and lime
Pottery and cement products
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE (NA) (77 ENTERPRISES)
Piocessed tea
Processed and canned meat
Milk and dairy products
Sawing and machining of wood
Rice hulling and polishing
Sisal defibering
MINISTRY OF INFORMATION (31 ENTERPRISES)
Printing and publishing
MINISTRY OF HEALTH (O(S (1 ENTERPRISE)
Pharmaceutical products
SECRETARY OF STATE FOR COTTON (MA) (9 ENTERPRISES)
Cotton ginning and pressing
SECRETARY OF STATE FOR CASHER (MA) (14 ENTERPRISES)
Preparation of cashew kernels
NATIONAL SUGAR INSTITUTE (NA) (5 ENTERPRISES)
Raw and refined sugar
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION (1 ENTERPRISE)



PEOPLES REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Structure of Interest Rates
--------------------------------------------
(In percent)
Rates Effective from January 1, 1981                                               Rates Effective from January 1, 1987 1/
Public    Cooper-Fam_ily      r    Individ-                                            91-160 181-365   1-2    2-6 Over 6
Enterpri- tiv-n   Sector  Et*t-   uols                                          90 Days ODys   Days    Years  Years Years
LENDING RATES 2/
Agriculture
Investment         4        a       4        S       -    LEVEL 1. Priority productive
Working Capital   6         3        4       6       -    sectors.
Group I: Agriculture, light
Fishing                                                        manufacturing (consumer goods),
Investmnt          S        3       4        6       -      traditional exports, fishing,
Working Capital   6         3       4        7       -      and mining                          12/14 13/16   16/18   18/20  19/21  20/22
Industry A Tourim                                              Group I:  Public
Investmnt          6        4       -        6       -        tranportation,
Working Capital   6         4        -       7       -        construction, agricultural,
traders, manufacturing
Transportation                                                    (other), end housing.            13/16 16/16   17/19   19/21  20/22  21/23
Investment         6        -       -        6       -
Working Capital   6         -        -       7              Group III:  Hotels (touricm) and                                                           4s
other priority activities.        16/10 16/17   18/20   20/22  21/23  22/24
Trade A hostelry
Investmnt          6        4       -        6       -    LEVEL 2. Services, comerco
Working Capital   7         4        -      8.6      -    crafts, and personal (essential
consumer goods, etc.)                 16/16 18/20   20/22   22/24  24/26  26/28
Other Activitie
Investmnt          6        -       _        6       -    LEVEL 3. Nonessential goods and
Working Capital   7         -        -      8.6      -    services                               26     26      28      30     32     36
Housing               6        4        -       6      6-10
Coemumption 3/        -        -        -       -      8-10
DEPOSIT RATES
Demand deposits       0        2        1       1       2    Demand deposits: 3 percent              -      -       -
Time Deposits                                                Tiso deposits                          12      13     16      18     20     20
1O-386 days         0        3       3        2       a
1-2 y-ars           0        4       4        3       4
Over 2 yrs          0        6       6        4       6
Source: Bank of Mozambique
1/ Lower rate shown appli-s to cooperatives and family sectors; and higher, to enterprises (public and private).
2/ Central bank discount rate: 3 percent, 1981-806; 10 percent, 1987  on amounts up to 6O  of demnd deposits; 12S on  dditional  x of deposits).          *
3/ So-called 5guided5 consumption, ie, for purchases of durables such as furniture, appliances, bicycles.
o 



- 48 -
ANNEX 2-4
Page 2 of 4
INTEREST RATES. 1989
THE MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND THE BANK OF NOZAXBIOUE
NINISTERIAL ORDER
Pursuant to the provisions of numeral 5 of Resolution 11/80 of December
31, concerning credit and interest rate policy, the Minister of Finance and the
Governor of the Bank of Mozambique order the following:
1.      The following interest rates are hereby fixed for lending transactions:
1.   Central Bank discount vwndow:
Rate 1
a. Rate: 10 percent p.a.
b.   Amount:  up to 6 percent of demand deposits
c.   Term:  Up to 3 weeks
Rate 2
a.   Rate:  12 percent p.a.
b.   Amount:  Up to an additonal 6 percent of demand deposits
c.   Term:  Up to 2 weeks
II. Level 1
Covers the following economic sectors:
- Agriculture and forestry
- Farm marketing
- Coor ratives (agricultural, consumer, and others)
- Food industry
- Electricity, gas, steam, and water
Workin  Cultural                                  Investment
To        To         To                   To              To         Over
90        180        365                  2               3          3
da- s                          years           years      years
14        15         16                   22              22         22



- 49 
ANNER- 2-
Page 3 of 4
III. Level 2
Covers the following economic sectors:
- Manufacturing (light and heavy)
- Extractive industries
- Construction, public works, and housing
- Export
- Fishing
- Railroad and maritime transportation and other public transportation for
passengers and freight (enterprises and associations)
Working Capital                                Investment
To          To         To                         To              To         Over
90          180        365                        2               3          3
AAYs  d       ay s      days                       years           years      years
(In percent)
18           20         22                         24              25          26
IV. Level 3
Covers the following economic sectors:
- Wholesale and retail trade, restaurants, hotels, tourism, and other
- Passenger and freight transportation (individual operations)
- Other activities not included in Levels 1 or 2 and individuals
Working Canlital                              Investment
To           To         To                    To              To         Over
90           180        365                   2               3            3
d       ays             davs                  yvears          years      years
(In Rercent)
26           28         30                     32             33          34
2.      Investments in construction and freight transportation made by the
commerce and tourism sector and the housing sector by individuals may benefit
from Level 2 interest rates.
3.      Surplus inventories of essential goods in the consumer goods,
commerce and industry sector may benefit temporarily from credit support Level
2 rates.



- 50 -
ANNEX 2-4
Page 4 of 4
4.      The Bank of Nozanbique will determine by public announcement which
goods are to be financed on these terms and the loan terms therefore.
5.      The interest rate system fixed herein may also be applied to loans
outstanding on the date of entry into force of this ministerial order if the
pertinent contracts provide for modification of the interest rate in the event
a different ceiling is legally established.
6.      Disputes arising from interpretation and implementation of this
ministerial order shall be settled by joint order of the Minister of Finance
and the Governor of the Bank of Mozambique.
7.      This ministerial order shall enter into force on January 1, 1989.
Maputo, December 31, 1988
/sj                                                /s/
Eneas da Conceicao Comiche                             Abdul Magid Osman
Governor, Bank of Mozambique                           Minister of Finance



- 51 -
MOZAMBIQUE                                          ANNEX 2-6
INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Soctoral Distribution of Credit
(Meticals, million)
12/81/86                     12/31/87                     09/30/66
SECTORS                                    ---------------------------------------------------------
Working                      Working                       Working
Capital Investment   TOTAL   Capital Investmnt  TOTAL   Capital Investment  TOTAL
1. AGRICULTURE AND
CATTLE                 41208         746    41904    482sa       1408    40696    54622       1464    66076
Tea                       5504         62     5566     5570         96    56        7065         06     7181
Sugar                   24090         68S   24866    27262         694    27046    28667        694    29351
Cashew                    1522          6     1580     1697         16     1606     2627         16     2646
Sisal                     -         -            0     -         -            0      -                     0
Copra                     1761        s6      1847     2508        864     2857     8006        446     3641
Cotton                    7731         1S     7746    10609         70    10679    12296          0    12296
Others                     677         32      6os      672        171     1043      6S1        201     1062
2. FORESTRY AND WOOD
PRODUCTS                n.&       n.o       n.a      n.o       n.c       n.a      n.u       n.o       n.a
3. FISHERIES                   2646        191     2889      4277       120     4397      5661         0     681
4.  MINING                     2078        129     2207      2161       184     2815      2161       184     2316
Coal                     1504        129     1688     1674        134     1708     1574        134     1708
Others                   674           0      674      607          0      607      607          0      607
S.  MANUFACTURING             12127        770    12697    12801        690    13494    16027        997    17024
Food, Bov. & Tobacco      2302         74     2876     2762        188     2695     8770        527     4297
Textilea A Germ-nte       1864        222     2076     2096        256     2851     4000         19     4019
Chemicals                 648         256     1090      946        217     1168     1858        247     1600
Metal Iurgy               3724         60     8804     4271         24     4295     4367         6o     4427
oth-r-                   8404         180     8648     2726         64     2790     2657        144     2681
6. ELECTRICITY
GAS A WATER                 0        140      140        0          a  88 3           0          0        0
7.  CONSTRUCTION A
PUBLIC WORKS           7867        1142     8609    8629        1458    10082    10206        418    10624
6. DOMESTIC TRADE              2564        144     2708      9122       860     9462    14997        891    15868
9.  EXTERNAL TRADE             7118          0     7118      9079         0     9079    11078          0    11076
10 TRANSPORTS WAREHOUSING
A COMMUNICATION           6006       7824    15420    11119       0837    2006s    11176      12698    23e73
Rail Tranep.            7187        6707    12644     9071       6210    17971     90761     1066     20444
Road Tranap.              117        588      705       179       612      691       28        646      671
Other Trenop
A Warehousing            S66        1029     1694      900      1ll       2015     1112       1867     2479
Coi _unlcations           177          0      177      279          0      279      279          0      279
TOTAL                83206       10686    93792   105501      14008   1195684   125965     16502   142657
SOURCE: Banco de Mocambique, November 28, 1980



- 52 -
ANNEX 2-6
MOZAMBIQE                                        ----
INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURtNQ PROJECT
Evolution of Bank Credit to Enterprises by BSnk and Activity
(Neticais, million)
12/31/36         03/31/87          06/30/67          09/31/37
DESCRIPTION
Value       X   Value         X   Value         X    Value        X
---- ----- -----  ----- ----- ----- --------                                          - --
Total Credit         126,360      100 126,460       100 1S1,370       100  137,063      100
B.M               99,210       79 101,630        79 103,990        79  109,567       79
B.P.D             22,400       18  23,040        18  23,390        16  24,818        18
B.S.T.N            3,770        a   3,790         3   3,990         3   38,6S         8
Agriculture           68,090      100  64,780       100  66,730       100  69,632       100
B.1               42,820       67  43,510        67  44,640        67  46,684        67
B.P.D             20,700       88  21,270        83  22,190        38  22,967        88
B.S.T.M               70        0        0        0        0        0       81       0
Industry              21,420      100  21,890       100  22,280       100  22,841      100
B.U               18,180       85  17,990        84  16,820        64  19,303       e6
B.P.D              1,700        8   1,770         6    1,700        6    1,861       8
B.S.T.M            1,590        7   1,680         6    1,760        8   1,667        7
Construction           8,580      100   8,590       100   9,040       100   9,004      100
B.M                8,600       99   8,500        99   8,970        99   6,965        99
B.P.D                  0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
B.S.T.U               80        1       90        1       70        1       49        1
Transport             16,450      100   16,290      100  16,720       100  17,714       1OO
a.111             15,310        9   16,160       09  16,640       100  17,657       100
B.P.D                  0        0        0        0        0        0        0       0
B.S.T.M              140        1      130        1       s0        0       57       0
Commorce              16,840      100  17,410       100  17,100       100  18,862      100
B.11              14,950       89  16,470        89  15,020        88  17,118       91
B.P.D                  0        0        0        0        0        0        0       0
B.S.T.U            1,890       11   1,940        11   2,080        12   1,744        9
SOURCE:  Banco de Mocambique.   Maputo, February 4, 1986



MOZAM ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~~ .0
ZINUSMAL                      U             PrOCT
SUMER" DATA UN 40 NAiM  EITEWIS1
ORGAZISQ   RECI2ES                              L1?1C?ASI                                      ,
-    -.                                         -                                            j4USD  EGO
Z Ca
LXEW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 HERAE CLS-VX
|    37    -   ClMtlXOS  DE  .ICA CLtrinos * * ',160 1,.E0} 3,60DI t.050 _ lwlgrLos-                  u s     to
2 t7 -                     EtlOcHx Chi                                          _3$ * 0,S75  1,St5 32,5001 17.500-a'
32 -CJ DCR   CcUrs. .Co do                                                             |a*ta b       0 4,00 104,c0    -ol,OD01'.?5l A
34 - C;RUPO HAUOL                                   Coor. altos alimetntses                     -                      '.9 ).798!  1-.91~  Sl,m
17 -__ETAL tlOX L_to_rL_ (CO_te_t_e_)__                                                         __                 1,155_ __    IO s5 -_                         ! 
3% - CM-OLWRASE    CCoabs EI.ctrtcos *  Toros  s1 * _s r                                 I,2  :0,i *5                                                                                O1 U0_
03  -CI     SC        C                             CiatTes "fIs                                               (3  13a0O I a3.    1 .01
01 - XAOCi                                          Pneus                                                   087$   00S  7.'3001    jD5             .II                        I $
05 - VTuASAL                                        Sl .T3uo                                    i                                    3O7
21 - CSO TOS DE   CArI.UE                         ii         o                       ii                ... *_        :001 1,:D3   1.sa
_2  - P2RSUL AIuDAL                                lCos. *               tes   | th                        3i 9001  3?00t   .30_
I 'i -10 cLn4CCabot .lcs bcacs                                                                                                         so91L:~(  4                            eu*
23 - LUSALTE OE OC C        ttE U                 Caes   or. tuolsncai                                     - u.s  M 1 t31.3911                                               400
2S - G2UPO J.F . S(TSOoi Al-od1o. ciz4tl o                           r                                                   | * 1    2.'                                            as Co_;   hr*
10 -  FLOHA -  ltiD IFIOESTAIS DE AhlCA             T oros de  teaira                                               %.01 .. " C,   |  J.'6t*ZOi172         ~;$441uteci si
01 - LPOno                                                                                                   - t    7.800 P.   $IC5 DE LIONDE  5 rrog  4.I  | 1 ;'v0!    7ettis  
14 -FSOL -    FTAUbCAS ASSOC7AAS DE  aLEO S                      oK                                                OA1U I -   '3.4031  |43
11        II Cfl4VETO- CUtVEIAS N    1EtICE CRAe,TIE  Ie!-                                                         3 1  i.6oo1001  2.500           _                            NI_me_
29 - SOCIEDAOE AC22COLA DO 1;COYATT                 A qfisuear                     il { I *1  1  ]          ~      3       ; 13.!00  3.ooo _i 3O    3
3S   AcCUARElIgA OE 'UFAKtUSSE                    i  eucar                         ||U       |    !* i- 'I,l    !,}00           t  S.OO .' -                             *
13 - TtECRIra T mxcs  bIr3*61eaIt                                                                                                     503; "                   |  
L' - ALCODS   DE L .                               Algozio  * C                                      I         *.04
02 - FWSlCA tE 13tCLETAS DE 'wmB10UE                             Cuaicielst          1-                   1 1C iluo           I       !s                          *          I_ultriss
jO3 -GRUFO bLRCZR                                   Tincas1                                  ||            |-        ,cS   ,3t         .2        ;     L                       bs racmetttte 
|10- -FACZA - FAB. tL .OtESTORSS         DA TilIA          d Cobcores                    *        I                                                                            C -  ,     4 
I6 - CRUOLAG.ESA:tOS                               lTadia  cL                       il  * O     1         ,I                            31                              t    *lta   *   I
IS -CO'tEC                                          Cucelarna. uccosilios X ctlic.| *, S i  *-- I OS2I),S601|  i5Oi                                              |              J tt rl*T  I  I 
I 1 - UNl;tI FABRIL - UCLD  LOC                      Sao:o  dI                                                - to  de b.rah  i.. I    .0O                      _C |                 S;
12 - ACObOL - FAb. CA  TMENL*DTAL DE 39LRACO        SJOOsi                                                j I  3          ;43, 1       uS1 *uol
!C - CI CEL                                       i FundiCio                           i *     i-  i    j         |-.JOta  .I |.00 ;6          0
29 - SOCTEDADE  Et .AAOS - SAT ECTabOco Ak 0 -L                                                                           I 3  I.s OI .,0;  3.6
33 - A-;CAACO                                      ( ComcerctilZJCo  ro                                            1.7 a001  3001 :TOOII1                                U
35 - -)Klt tOERCi OL Xos. S3nences.  4ec.                                                                                                   d|e  er.30os
02 -i :CTA -   CS.      .; ... Ait.;                 i.eLaio a* terrenCs jC0EAS DC  aCoe S                   -- g                                                       *    *
20-3  AOA -LCA ACR.  LOC.TRS                        AS$&S!iZCA Coborcores                                             CIO I--          *                                                  
161 - ElIMA:caGL2.S '.AoLC                          amoores$tencil Go s-oul.                                       3 col.     |    --    -1 ).3|I    -61   ri t ;_ zss
O        uSL -                                                  barracE s                      I                             .+I *-                        I_
!09 - ECOMt                                        ! 'caercta&lzaricui I.Od.           Lii i                                , o11 3..00
35 - ~~~~~~~rn0fl CO:IERCIAL    dufos, ioaenC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s. .1CC.          20.680 :o,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~&,l    233                   . ~~~~~~~~~~~



IDUSTRIAL ENTEPRISE RESTRUCItPIO PROJECT
TEOINICAL ASSISTANCE COSTS TO THE ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTINO  UNT
(S DolIare.  00)
19(Actual)    1    1969 1                190               1991               192               19                1994         I       TOTAL 
IwaNt L.C. I F.C. IWII   L.C. I F.C. iNxul  L.C. I F.C. Iatxl  L.C. I P.C. |IdMl  L.C. I F.C. Ilixi L.C. I F.C. IlxNl  L.C. I F.C. 11   I L. C.  F F.C  I I
--                     @_I-I I-I I I I III-I-I1 1I1 1I-l.l. .                                                       II-__ _ _I -I-1I-I   -I
A. PArWVX ST:AF COSTS
1. Lea  nd. Advisor       3   0.00  29.50  12   0.00 111.60 12   0.00  119.41 12   0.00  127.77  12   0.00 158.71 12   0.00 140.28 12   0.00  156.62          75   0.00    627.81 1
2.  cit                   3   0.00  24.20  12   0.00  91.20 12   0.00  97.58 12   0.00  104.41  12   0.00  111.72  6   0.00  89.77  3   0.00  851.96          60   0.00    82.87 
S. Egsns r                3   0.00  24.20  12   0.00  91.20 12   0.00  97.68 12   0.00 104.41 12   0.00  111.72  6   0.00  59.77  3   0.00  81.96             60   0.00    820.87 ?
Total Parex Coat.        9   0.00  77.90  8   0.00 294.00 86   0.00 314.88 S    0.00  388.60 J6   0.00 860.18 24   0.00 265.6S 18   0.00 220.40    198   0.00  1.869.86 1
--  -  ------ -  -   -  -     --   -    ------- ----------- ---------- --------  ----_--- --__----- -   - --- --  -  --- -- _- --- -- _----- -- _----- -------- -_- _- ___________________________________________________----  -      -
D. LOCAL STAFF
4. Project Coordinator    12   2.07   0.00  12   2.07   0.00  12   2.21   0.00  12   2.37   0.00  12   2.84   0.00  12   2.71   0.00  12   2.90   0.00        e4  18.66       0.00 I
5. Econoaiata (a2)        0   0.00   0.00 24   3.11   0.00 24   8.32   0.00 24   3.56   0.00 24   8.60   0.00 24   4.07   0.00 24   4.36   0.00    144  22.22                 0.00 i
S. Procuremnt Officer     0   0.00   0.00  12   2.07   0.00  12   2.21   0.00  12   2.87   0.00  12   2.84   0.00  12   2.71   0.00 12   2.90   0.00          72  14.81       0.00 l
7   nginer                0   0.00   0.00  12   2.07   0.00  12   2.21   0.00 12   2.37   0.00  12   2.54   0.00  12   2.71   0.00  12   2.90   0.00          72  14.61       0.00
8  Accountant             0   0.00   0.00  12   0.99   0.00  12   1.06   0.00 12   1.14   0.00  12   1.22   0.00  12   1.80   0.00  12   1.39   0.00          72   7.11       0.00 I
9  Layer                  0   0.00   0.00  6   1.44   0.00  6   1.84   0.00  6   1.68   0.00  6   1.76   0.00  6   1.66   0.00  6   2.02   0.00               86  10.29       0.00
10. Secretary (42)         0   0.00   0.00 24   1.90   0.00 24   2.08   0.00 24   2.17   0.00 24   2.33   0.00 24   2.49   0.00 24   2.66   0.00    144  13.5                 0.00 1
11. Other Support Staff    0   0.00   0.00 24   1.21   0.00 24   1.29   0.00 24   1.38   0.00 24   1.48   0.00 24   1.86   0.00 24  1I6    0.00    144   6.64                 0.00 1
(Driver A Cleanning)
Total Local Staff Coat&   12   2.07   0.00 126  14.85   0.00 126  15889   0.00 126  17.01   0.00 126  18.20   0.00 12   19.47   0.00 126  20,8S   0.00    7   106.82         0.00 I
Tota Staff Coat,       21   2.07  77.90 162  14.85 294.00 162  15.89 314.58 162  17.01  356.60 162  18.20 380.16 10  19.47 268.83 144  20.83 220.48    963  10S.32  1.n69.5 
C. OPUPATINO COSTS
12. Translation                 0.00   0.00  0   0.00  21.60  0   0.00  23.11  0   0.00  24.78  0   0.00  26.4t  0   0.00  28.81  0   O.0O  30.60               0   0.00    184.81 I
13. Doaatic Travel              0.00   0.00  0  20.00   0.00  0  21.40   0.00  0  22.90   0.00  0  24.50   0.00  0  26.22   0.00  0  26.05   0.00               0 143.07       0.00 1
14. Other Equipmnt              0.00   0.00  0  80.65   0.00  0   0.00   0.00  0   0.00   0.00  0   0.00   0.00  0   0.00   0.00  0   0.00   0.00               0  eo.68      0.00 1
15. Miscellaneous               0.00   0.00  0  44.78   0.00  0  47.92   0.00  0  81.27   0.00  0  54.86   0.00  0  86.70   0.00  0  62.81   0.00               0 320.33       0.00 I
16. Housing (PAMI               0.00   9.60  0   0.00  40.80  0   0.00  43.68   0   0.00  46.71  0   0.00  49.96  0   0.00  53.46  0   0.00  87.22              0   0.00    301.45 4I
17. Intnti Travel (PARTE        0.00   6.60  0   0.00   18.20  0   0.00  14.12  0   0.00  16.11  0   0.00  16.17  0   0.00  17.80  0   0.00  18.51              0   0.00    101.02 1
18. Equipment (PARTEX)          0.00  60.88  0   0.00  80.00  0   0.00   0.00  0   0.00   0.00  0   0.00  70.00  0   0.00   0.00  0   0.00   0.00               0   0.00   Io.58 1
19. Hone Off Coat. (PARTEXO     0.00   2.88  0   0.00  26.70  0   0.00  28.87  0   0.00  30.57  0   0.00  32.71  0   0.00  85.00  0   0.00  37.48               0   0.00    19.67 I
Total Operating Ceota     0.00  79.t3  0 145.43 152.30  0  69.32  109.48  0  74.17 117.12  0  79.86  195.32  0  84.91  134.09  0  90.e6  148.46           0 544.04    981.41 1
-_ -_ -_--------- -- ----_ -_ -_ -_-__---_-_- _- _-_- _-- _- _---------- --------------- ---------------- ------------ - -_ --_-_ ---------_ ----_-_ ------ ------------_ -- --_-_-_-_ ---_ -- ------_ -_-_-_- _-___-- _- _- _-   -
0. COI6,II1 ESC
20. Foreign Costa (8S)          0.00   0.00  0   0.00  22.32  0   0.00  21.20  0   0.00  22.89  0   0.00  27.77  0   0.00  20.00  0   0.00  18.20               0   0.00    132.17 1
21. Local Costa (86)            0.00   0.00  0   8.01   0.00  0   4.26   0.00  0   4.86   0.00  0   4.68   0.00  0   8.22   0.00  0   6.86   0.00               0  32.81       0.00 1
Total Continganciee         0.00   0.00  0   8.01  22.32  0   4.26  21.20  0   4.56  22.69  0   4.88  27.77  0   8.22  20.00  0    .586  18.20              0  32.51    132.17 1
TOTAL COSTS               S0   2.07 157.53 162 168.29 488.82 162  89.47 448.24 162  98.73 476,41 162 102.43  630.261 15  109.60 419.92 144 117.26  862.16    988 66614.801 8293. 114.13 63,616.01 I
tIEIO: WiN - eaneontha, L.C a local currency. F.C. . Fore'ign Currency                                                                                               181.986    61.073   IO0.00%1
I'



- 55 -
ANX3-2
Page 1 of 6
MOZAMBIOU
HUMAN RESOURCES AND TRAINING INSTITUTIONS IN THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
The acute shortage of qualified personnel is a major constraint
to industrial sector development.   The banking sector requires personnel
trained in financial and credit analysis; the business community requires
trained employees, in the areas of general business management, financial
management, accounting, marketing and sales, production, inventory control,
and plant management and technical fields.   Computing and information
management systems are needed in all sectors.
Between 1975 and 1986, Government accorded high priority to
education.   Primary enrollment more than tripled and secondary enrollment
more than quintupled. Over 1.5 million adults enrolled in specially-designed
courses at all levels of the education system. The literacy rate jumped from
an estimated 10 percent to about 38 percent during the same period. In 1986,
there were an estimated 1.26 million enrolled at the primary level, 132,000
at the secondary level and 1,630 at post-secondary level. The effects of
Government attention to education are apparent in the 1980 census data, which
show literacy rates for the 15-24 year age cohort reaching 40-50 percent, as
opposed to less than 8 percent for the over-60 population. 1/
The two IDA credits to the industrial sector would support
Government efforts to build and sustain human resource capacity: the Small
and Medium Scale Enterprise Development (SHED) credit--to strengthen the
capacity of the banking system to manage long-term credit, its appraisal and
supervision; and the IERP credit--to strengthen Government capacity to
implement the overall rehabilitation program, in particular to finance
training and to assist Government develop redeployment programs for laid-off
staff.
The following preliminary assessment of available training
facilities which could eventually provide assistance to the industrial sector
is based on mission interviews and visits.
Ministry of Labor (ML). At present Government maintains within
the Ministry of Labor a Provincial Labor Directorate (Gabinete da Funcas
Publica) with a department where those who have lost jobs or seek employment
may register. Most of the applicants who register are low-level, unskilled
workers. Some ministries and enterprises notify the Directorate when they
have vacancies, others do not.   A recent draft proposal on labor force
policy- -which was to be discussed in March by the Council of Ministers --would
require enterprise registration of vacancies and prohibit an employee who has
/  Data in this paragraph taken from the SAR for the Mozambique Education
and Manpower Development ProJset, April 15, 1988.



- 56 -
ANEX 3-2
Page 2 of 6
a job from accepting new employment without first leaving the current one.
This is intended to discourage job-hopping motivated by higher salaries.
SETEP (Secretaria de Estado da Educacao Tecnico Profissional) is
the State Secretariat for Technical-Vocational Instruction.   Under the
Ministry of Education, SETEP is responsible for coordinating at a central
level and setting guidelines for technical and vocational training throughout
the country. It began functioning as the National Directorate of Technical
Education in 1977, with training followed by job placement; in 1983, SETEP
was created, and in 1986, legislation was enacted formally setting it up as
a semi-autonomous entity within the Ministry of Education. SETEP carried out
job placement until 1987, when the function was transferred to the Ministry
of Labor. SETEP maintains that the ML is not make sufficient efforts to
place those who have completed training. However, there is a reorganization
underway within both the SETEP and the Ministry of Labor and it is uncertain
which entity will eventually handle job placement.
Under the auspices of SETEP within the subsystem of technical and
vocational training, there are 24 basic level schools (8 agricultural, 2
commercial, 6 industrial and 8 commercial/industrial) and 8 medium-level
institutes, of which 1 is commercial and 2 are industrial. It is required
that those intern at the basic level have four years of primary education.
At medium-level nine years of educations are required.    Lack of books,
inoperative equipment and scarcity of teachers undermine the quality of
vocational education.
SETEP TRAINING CENTERS AND INSTITUTES
The Commercial Institute of Maputo (ICM) offers a medium-level
certificate in accounting in both three-year (full-time) and four-year (part-
time) programs.   The academic requirement for entrance is nine years of
primary education.   Last year the ICM trained 617 students in the two
programs. Graduates from the ICM are qualified to begin university training.
The ICM is presently receiving assistance under the on-going IDA Education
and Manpower Development project to update accountancy curricula and
examinations  that  would  be  of  sufficiently  high  standard  to  be
internationally competitive.   The Commercial and Industrial Institute of
Beira is expected to begin offering medium-level courses with IDA assistance
under the Beira Corridor and Second Education projects. SETEP expects to set
up a commercial institute in Nampula in the future.
There are several vocational training schools (for high-school
aged students) and centers (for adults) in Maputo and all are constrained by
lack of technology, old machinery, dilapidated buildings, lack of qualified
instructors, inadequate budgets, and outdated equipment not relevant to
enterprises for which they are training. The schools (escolas) are geared
to young people who enter after six years of primary education. The May 1
Industrial School offers courses in lathe operation, welding, civil
construction, design for civil construction, analytical chemistry, and
electricity. After three years, including 2-3 months with OTJ training in
an enterprise, students receive a Basic-level Certificate and are placed in
enterprises. Their first year of work is difficult since they have had a



- 57 -
Page 3 of 6
limited amount of actual machine time, and training has been on outdated
equipment. The Industrial School of Natola has similar curricula and similar
problems:  the pedagogical director mentioned that the machinery used for
teaching was installed in 1979 when the school was opened.
The centers/institutes cater mostly to enterprise employees. The
Electro-Technia Center trains enterprise employees in industrial electronics,
coil-winding, electrical installation, and automobile electricity. Courses
last for 36 weeks followed by 10 weeks of on-the-job practical application
in their respective enterprises. A certificate of professional qualification
is granted after passing exams. In 1984 one course on refrigeration was
given; however, after the instructor left the country, the equipment fell
into disuse and the course was not offered again. Sometimes Electro-Technia
accepts repairs from enterprises which are more poorly-equipped.
The Industrial Institute of Maputo (IIX) offers three-year (full-
time) and 3.5-year (part-time) courses in general mechanics, electricity
systems, industrial electronics, construction, hydraulics and analytical and
industrial chemistry. A certificate of mid-level technician is awarded after
exams.    Graduates  are prepared  to enter university-level  engineering
training. Most return to their sponsoring enterprises. The IIM director
cited problems in providing practical experience to students, especially lack
of modern equipment (for general mechanics and electricity) and limited
access to raw materials (for construction).   The IIM has contracts with
various enterprises to provide its students with practical training in
electricity systems and electronics. IIM received Swiss and Swedish support
in the past and expects continued SIDA assistance in construction of a new
building for electric systems and electronics.
The Vocational Training Center of Nachava trains students in
automechanics and carpentry. It operates at 50 percent capacity and in 1988
trained 24 students. A Certificate of Category C is awarded after the first
10 months of training; if a student returns for more technical training,
usually the case in automechanics, he would receive a Certificate of Category
B after 10 months.
SETEP coordinates with the National Planning Commission (NPC) the
employment  needs  of  ministries,   including  enterprises  under  their
supervision.   The NPC is responsible for establishing skilled manpower
allocations for university graduates and for technical graduates. Ministries
and State Secretariats inform NPC annually of their needs for medium- and
higher-level technical staff in each specialty.   On the basis of these
requests, manpower needs are registered at SETEP, which then supplies
ministries with graduates from the technical/vocational and commercial
training institutions under its tutelle. However, SETEP does not contact
ministries directly.
SETEP is willing to provide assistance to enterprises and maintains
that 90 percent of its personnel are skilled technicians. SETEP would likely
benefit from increased promotions of its services. Recently it has prepared
information brochures with animated designs in black-and-white to inform the
public of opportunities for technical/vocational training in, inter alia,



- 58 -
ANNEK 3- 2
Page 4 of 6
civil construction, mining, administration (bookkeeping, typing), industrial
and laboratory chemistry, electricity and construction.
At present SETEP offers job counseling in vocational training only
for full-time students but plans to set up a similar program for adults.
There was a first m4eting of all directors of vocational training in May 1988
and SETEP is now preparing a policy to implement decisions taken at that
time.
MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY AND ENERGY TRAINING CENTERS
Ministry of Industry and Energy (MIE). There are three training
centers set up under the MIE: The Center for Industrial Training (CFI),
which was set up under the previous MIE; and two Vocational Training Centers,
which were established under the previous SEIIA. On March 15, 1989, both
vice-ministers of MIE were to present to the Minister a plan to integrate MIE
and SEIIA, including the merger of the CFI and SEIIA training centers under
one umbrella. At appraisal, this had not been completed: MIE was basically
at a standstill due to its reorganization and consequent turf battles at the
management level and uncertainty on the part of employees about their future.
Center for Industrial Training (CFI). While the majority of courses
offered by CFI are technical (production planning and management,
maintenance, design, inventory and stock control) and clerical (word-
processing, bookkeeping, stenography, English), there are several courses
aimed at middle-level managers (basic and applied accounting of 1.5 months
each, financial management including economics in association with the
Eduardo Mondlane University for 3 months). CFI was originally set up under
MIE as its Department of Human Resources. Beginning in 1986 with SIDA
support, and in 1987 with UNDP/UNIDO assistance, it began to operate with
financial autonomy while still under the auspices of MIE. It offered courses
in operational methods for foremen (OTJ with machine training) and a seminar
for managers on industrial development and training (organization, methods,
work simplification).   It was intended to assist enterprises under the
tutelle of MIE although its services are available to enterprises which fall
under the tutelle of other ministries; cooperative agreements with eight of
these have been signed. Enterprises cover the fees for their personnel to
attend courses at CFI.
Since February 1988, CFI has been self-financing. About 8,000
students have enrolled in various courses at CFI during its two years of
operation. The academic entrance requirement for most business courses is
six years of primary education. CFI has eight classrooms and is well-
equipped. In Phase 2 of UNDP/UNIDO and SIDA assistance, which would focus
more on enterprise management, CFI expects to target middle- and higher-level
managers and plant supervisors from the 40 selected enterprises drawn up by
Government and the Bank to be considered for rehabilitation assistance,
beginning with ERMOTO, ELECTROMOC and AGRO ALFA. CFI would continue to offer
the above-mentioned courses as well as workshops to address problems
particular to women, establish a personnel information system in MIE and a
documentation center. CFI hopes to recruit instructors from the university



- 59 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 5 of 6
to reinforce its own in-house personnel in order to develop a local
consulting capacity.
SEILA Vocational Training Centers (2). originally established in
1978 under the Ministry of Labor and transferred in 1984 to SEILA to assist
enterprises under its tutelle, SEILA vocational training is offered in two
locations. With Italian financial and technical support, the centers offer
practical training in repair and maintenance of equipment with courses in
mechanical design, civil and industrial electrical installation (at one
center) and in machine tool work, machine maintenance and welding (at the
second center). A new site for consolidation of some activities is nearly
finished and some classrooms are operational. The academic requirement for
welding and machine training is completion of the sixth year of primary
school.   For electricity and design, ninth year.   Since 1984 the SEILA
centers have trained around 124 workers. Course duration runs from 12-28
months, depending on the subject. In periodic inspections, the Ministry of
Labor evaluates classes to determine the level of professional qualification.
A certificate of professional qualification is awarded upon completion of
each level of instruction, e.g., welder, first-level, second-level, third-
level.
SEILA officials state that there are few course participants from
enterprises; experience has shown that enterprise employees drop out after
six months, due to a law which states that the employee must contribute a
percent of his salary to Lover training costs after six consecutive months
of training.   Thus SEILA estimates that 97 percent of those who attend
training are private individuals who do not have jobs prior to training but
secure employment after its completion. Other problems cited by SEIIA
officials include reticence by enterprises to contribute to operating costs
of the training centers, need for modern equipment and protective clothing
and participants' difficulties with transportation, lodging for those from
outside Maputo, and a relatively low average and general level of literacy.
ENTERPRISE TRAINING CENTERS
Enterprise  Centers.   Several enterprises  maintain  their own
training centers, which vary from one room with some equipment to a well-
planned training program for each employee, classrooms, workshops, equipment
and visual  aids.    A  few  of the better-equipped  enterprises  include
ENTREPOSTO, MABOR, EDM and SOGERE.  ENTREPOSTO, the Mercedes and Peugeot
dealer in Mozambique, maintains a showroom, garage and training program in
each of its four centers: Maputo, Beira, Nampula and Quelimane. Courses are
given in electrical systems, fuel injection, general mechanics and parts
maintenance.    Completion  of the  sixth  year  of primary  school  is  a
prerequisite for enrollment in this program. Entreposto covers the cost of
training external participants, which have included employees from the
military, PETROMOC, EDM, CAJU and Toyota as well as interested individuals.
The enterprise trains approximately 300 persons annually depending on needs
in their four centers. A diploma is given upon completion of each course.
Turnover is extremely low. ENTREPOSTO has modern well-maintained workshops,
equipment and machinery, and benefits from private, as well as KfW, financing
for its activities.



- 60 -
AN=E 3-2
Page 6 of 6
The President and General Manager of HABOR, the tire company,
believes that the most pressing need in the industrial sector is for trained
middle-level managers. Each new employee takes an exam (reading, problem-
solving, accounting) to determine scholastic ability and placement. He is
then interviewed by the President.   If an employee receives a favorable
evaluation by supervisors after an initial 1-3 months, a training program--
both on-the-job and coursework- -is developed and his progress reviewed by the
President every six months. In order to raise the literacy level of staff,
the enterprise offers evening classes such as math and chemistry. Classes
in English are mandatory and employees are aware that they cannot progress
beyond a certain stage without it. There are about 500 employees in MABOR.
MABOR accepts about 20-30 employees per year from other
enterprises, e.g., TEXLON, PETROMOC, MAQUINAGA, VIDRERA and provides them
with the same evaluation and opportunities for training.   It has also
provided training of 3-4 months for employees from Tanzania and Angola tire
plants. About 10 percent of higher-level technicians are female and the
percentage is increasing.
EDM (Electricity of Mozambique) provides training for its own
employees and for staff whose enterprises sponsor them to learn production
and distribution of energy.   It maintains a new, well-equipped training
center in Maputo.
The Ministry of Agriculture controls the planning and curricula
of several enterprises which offer training. One of these, MECANAGRO, is
essentially a service enterprise for agricultural machinery but also makes
spare parts. With technical assistance from Italy, the self-financing center
instructs 70 students per annum in a basic course of 10 months in operation
and maintenance of tractors, diesel mechanics, automobile electricity and
spare parts management and inventory.   Nearly all places are filled by
MECANAGRO employees--sent from branch offices--although outsiders are allowed
to attend, at a fee, on a space-available basis.   The minimum academic
requirement is sixth year primary.   After completion of the course, a
Certificate of Vocational Training is awarded. The center has equipment in
good operating condition, some of it brand-new, financed by Italy.
Other agricultural enterprises require four years of primary
education before commencing training, such as GAPECON, a dairy and training
center in Namaacha, and INCOL, a pig-raising enterprise in Maputo; both offer
training for 6-12 months and award the same certificate. Women from rural
cooperatives are more visible in the two latter agricultural training
activities (5-15 percent) than in the agro-industrial or industrial training.
SETEP should make available to enterprises its information on
training opportunities, but the Ministry of Labor is better-placed to handle
and match offers of supply and demand, as it is already doing.  This is
recommended at least for the present until Government has reorganized (within
both SETEP and the Ministry of Labor; it is uncertain which will handle job
placement in the future, and there is also discussion that some of their
functions may be merged).



- 61 -
ANNE 3-3
Page 1 of 8
MOZAMBIOUR
INDUSTRIXL ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
DRAFT SCGPE OF PACKAGING SUB-SECTOR STUDY
1.        Approach to the Study.  Packaging is of great importance for the
protection of goods during transport and handling as well as for the
marketing of goods with the help of attractive appearance and/or clear
definition of the content of the package. Therefore it is proposed that a
team of consultants would review the principal packaging practices and
materials in Mozambique in order to provide the Government with
recommendations for rehabilitation, diversification and/or increase of its
packaging materials industry. The terms of reference and the selection of
consultancies would be jointly made by the Government, UNIDO and the World
Bank in Accordance with the Bank guidelines for the rise of consultants.
The consultancies would be financed under the proposed Industrial Enterprise
Restructuring Project (IERP), initially through an IDA Project Preparation
Facility advance (P-470-l).
2.        StudX Obiectives.   The consultants would carry out an in-depth
study to: (a) analyze the present practices of packaging goods, including
industrial products. The study would identify areas for improving packaging
practices with the view to possibly reduce the cost of packaging, increase
attractiveness of goods and reduce transport damages and increase the use of
locally available raw materials for packaging; (b) propose possible solutions
to existing problems in the packaging material industry, including the
analysis of the present trend to disperse the production of packaging
materials such as glass bottles and tin sheet containers. The results should
lead to recommendations to a development strategy and to medium-term policy
measures to be implemented at the macro-economic, sub-sectoral and enterprise
level.
3.        The scope of the investigation and the final report would cover
the following issues:
(a) The packaging practices and their improvement, covering
packaging materials such as paperboard and paper, wood, glass,
plastic natural and artificial fibres etc.;
(b) The analysis of the locally available and the imported
packaging materials with the view of increasing the use of
locally available raw materials and their processing;
(c) The investigation of existing industrial capacities for
packaging material production: capacity utilization, degree
of equipment obsolescence, production technology, locations
and ownership.   The investigation should also include a
description of inputs and sales markets, including connections
for imports and exports;



- 62 -
AN=E 3-3
Page 2 of 8
(d) Individual enterprise-level, key performance indicators will
be  determined  such  as  production  efficiency,   cost,
profitability, product demand (domestic and abroad). These
data should be compared with comparable performance indicators
from other developing countries.
(e) Constraints should be identified which may impede the
adjustment of the packaging industry of Mozambique towards
the desirable volume  and composition  of  output.    Such
impediments could be technology, management, logistics
(transport), labor, finance, etc.; and
(f)  Recommendations  should  comprise  an  overall  long-term
development strategy for the packaging sub-sector, medium-
term policy measures necessary to support restructuring and
rehabilitating the sub-sector, and selected, individual
measures, primarily at selected enterprise level, such as
modernization of technology, re-investment, divestiture,
mergers, product diversification, etc.



- 63 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 3 of 8
MQZADBIOUE
INDUSTRIAL ENTEPPRISE RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
DRAFT SCOPE OF METAL-WORKING SUB-SECTOR STUDY
1.        Ap=roach to the Study.  The Metal-Working industrial sub-sector
is to be understood to cover all metal-mechanical and metallurgical
industrial processing activities.  In Mozambique, main activities include
non-flat steel re-rolling, ferrous and non-ferrous casting, mechanical
processing. In the field of industrial operation and product design, there
is certainly room for improvement. At the same time, production cost and
product prices could be reduced in absolute terms. Therefore it is proposed
that a team of consultants would review the current status of this sub-sector
(excluding metal packaging which will be covered by the packaging sector
study) with a view to provide the Government with recommendations for
rehabilitation and possibly for restructuring, and for efficient growth. The
terms of reference for the consultancies and the selection of the consultants
would be jointly made by the Government, UNIDO and the World Bank in
accordance with the Bank guidelines for the use of consultants.   The
consultancies would be financed under the proposed Industrial Enterprise
Restructuring Project (IERP), initially through an IDA Project Preparation
Facility (PPF) Advance (P-470-1).
2.        Study Objectives.   The consultants would carry out an in-depth
study to:  (a) obtain an overview of the existing metallurgical and metal
mechanical industrial activities in Mozambique, including existing vertical
and horizontal inter-sectorial linkages; (b) identify possibly existing
productive imbalances and/or missing production steps which might be
introduced; and (c) identify possible solutions to constraints, including
recommendations of policy measures which could be implemented by the
Government at macro-economic, sectoral and enterprise level for the
rehabilitation and rationalization of this sub-sector.
3.        The scope of the study would,  therefore,  cover at least the
following main issues:
(a) The structure of the sub-sector with main industrial
processing activities and units; the present effective
industrial capacity; t-he degree of capacity utilization; the
present condition of plant and equipment as well as the
applied technology.   Patterns of ownership,  domestic and
foreign markets, capital structure, ecc. should be described;
(b) The performance should be analyzed showing brands, production
volume and composition, costs and productivity, domestic and
export sales, competitiveness and efficiency. The study would
compare the performance of selected Mozambican enterprises
with those from other, comparable developing countries;



- 64 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 4 of 8
(c)  Constraints would be identified which impede continuous growth
and efficiency of different segments of the sector, such as
technology, engineering, linkages or integration with other
industrial sub-sectors. Problems may also be identified in
the areas of management and labor, industrial inputs, access
to financing for assets and/or working capital. etc.;
(d) Serious deficiencies in labor safety and/or pollution control
should be identified and improvements should be proposed; and
(e) Recommendations should be made concerning a longer-term
development strategy for this sub-sector.    These concepts
should be supported by medium-term policy measures such as
investment incentives, export promotion, improved provision
of industrial infrastructure (energy transport, etc).  The
sub-sector rationalization should also consider possible
divesture, mergers, etc.



- 65 -
ANEK 3W-
Page 5 of 8
HOZAMBIO
INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
DRAFT SCOPE OF TEXTILE SUB-SECTOR STUDY
1.       AhDroach to the Study.  The textile sector plays an important role
in the economy of Mozambique in terms of employment and value added.
Therefore, it is proposed that a team of consultants review the current
status of the sector with a view to provide Government with recommendations
for its rehabilitation/restructuring and promoting its efficient growth.
The selection and terms of reference for the consultancies would be jointly
made by the Government, UNIDO, and the World Bank in accordance with Bank
guidelines for the use of consultants. The consultancies would be financed
by the proposed Industrial Enterprise Restructuring Project (IERP) and IDA's
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) Advance (P-470-1).
2.        Study Obiectives.   The consultants would carry out an in-depth
study to: (a) identify productive constraints that face enterprises within
the different segments of the textile chain (ginning, spinning, weaving,
knitting,  and  garments).    The  study  would,  in  particular  (but  not
exclusively) include in its review a comparative analysis of performance and
problems that affect public sector textile firms; (b) identify possible
solutions to the constraints, including recommendation of policy measures to
be implemented by Government at the macroeconomic, sectoral, and enterpri..e
level for the rehabilitation and rationalization of the textile sector.
3.        The scope of the study would,  therefore,  cover the following
issues:
(a)  The structure of the sector:   usable capacity; capacity
utilization; present condition of plant and equipment and
technology; patterns of ownership; distribution (domestic and
exports markets) channels; capital structure etc.;
(b)  Performance:     key  indicators  of  performance  (trends,
production data, costs, productivity); effective demand
(domestic  and  export)  estimates  and  competitiveness;
efficiency.   The study would compare the performance of
Mozambican enterprises with those from relevant developing
countries;
(c)  Constraints:   identify the factors that have impeded the
growth and efficiency of the different segments of the sector
(technology, engineering, linkages or integration with other
sectors, management and labor, non-labor inputs, access to
long term finance, etc.), marketing etc;
(d) Safety (sanitation, pollution control, effluent treatment
etc.); and



- 66 -
Page 6 of 8
(e)  ReCoendations,   (i)  short  term measures necessary  to
rehabilitate/restructure the sector, (ii) medium policy
measures on export and investment incentives, import
competition, sector rationalization (divestiture, mergers,
etc.), tern finance etc. The objective would be to reorient
the sector in a ianner consistent with Mozambique's
comparative advantage.



- 67 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 7 of 8
hOZAMBIOUE
INDUSTRTAL SNEPISE RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
DRAFT SCOPE OF EDIBLE OIL SUB-SECTOR STUDY
1.        Approach to the Studv.  Potential exists for the edible oil sub-
sector to quickly begin to make a significant contribution to industrial
growth in Mozambique, provided its assets are rehabilitated and complementary
policy measuLes instituted. Government, therefore, proposed to retain a team
of specialized consultants to review the current itatus of the sub-sector
with  a  view  to  provide  Government  with  recommendations  for  its
rehabilitation/restructuring  and promoting  its efficient  growth.    The
selection and terms of reference for the consultancies would be jointly made
by the Government, UNIDO, and the World Bank in accordance with the Bank
guidelines for the use of consultants. The consultancies would be financed
by the proposed Industrial Enterprise Restructuring Project (IERP) and IDA's
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) Advance (P-470-1).
2.        Stud! Objectives.   The consultants would carry out an in-depth
study in order to provide the background data and the insights necessary to
put the enterprise-specific studies in their proper context. A clear global
picture of the industry will be necessary as a basis for decisions regarding
its rehabilitation and restructuring. The study would identify productive
constraints that face enterprises in the sub-sector, its performance, and
recommend possible solutions (both enterprise-specific and policy measures)
to the sub-sector constraints at the macroeconomic, sub-sectoral, and
enterprise level.
3.        The scope of the study would, therefore, cover the following
issues:
(a) The edible oil sub-sector structure: domestic milling usable
capacity (including an inventory of oil mills in the country,
focusing on solvent extraction facilities); size and location
of plants; capacity utilization; present condition of plant
and equipment and technology; patterns of ownership;
distribution (domestic and exports markets) channels; capital
structure etc;
(b) Raw material supply, both domestic and imported; in the case
of domestic supply of inputs- marketing channels from farm
gate to oil mills, mode of payment and terms, and
transportation issues should be highlighted. Data on imported
inputs such as sunflower and palm oil.  Prospects for the
supply of inputs from both local and foreign sources should
be evaluated, as well as the likely and desired evolution of
the marketing chaia, and the extent to which operations
(including transportation) are affected by the war;



- 68 -              ANNEX 3-3
Page 8 of 8
(c)   erformance:     key  indicators  of  performance  (trends,
production data, costs, productivity); effective demand
(domestic  and  export)  estimates  and  competitiveness;
efficiency, the actual delivered cost of oil from the main
sources of supply to the urban retail outlets;
(d)  Constraints:   identify the factors that have impeded the
growth and efficiency of the sub-sector (technology,
engineering, demand (actual and potential demand of oil by
type and region) management and labor, non-labor inputs,
access to long term finance, etc.), policy environment
(production licensing, pricing, e.g., pan territoriality of
prices etc., taxation and institutional issues);
(e) Safety (sanitation, pollution control, effluent treatment
etc.); and
(f)  Recommendations.    (i)  short  term measures  necessary  to
rehabilitate/restructure the sector, (ii) medium policy
measures on investment incentives, import competition, sector
rationalization (divestiture, mergers, etc.), term finance
etc.



PEOPLE'S REPUBLC OF MOZI41JE
ZISUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE RESTR ING PROJECT
Cost Estimtes For 15 Likely Project Sneficiaries
(USD I re, m1l  iIon;
CAPITAL DNESTMIENT    SPARE PAMTS   WORKING CAPITAL       TECHIICAL ASSISTANCE  TOTAL     Forelp  Local
EWERRISE                                                                   To      -       -      o-  INESTMENT Currency Currency
Ttenl             Totel                 Total                 Total
L.C.  F.C.  C.I.  L.C.  F.C. S.P.   L.C.   F.C.  .C.  L.C.   F.C.  T.A.
01. CAJU (Mozomb)l/    0.00   8.00  3.00  0.00 0.00  0.00   0.00   2.88  2.6    0.00   2.70  2.70            8.58    B."    0.00
02. CITRINO( Ianica)  0.00   1.47   1.47  0.00 0.00  0.00   0.00   0.7C  0.75    0.00    1.88   1.38         4.06    4.06    0.00
08. MADEROS (C. 0.)   0.00  2.50  2.50  0.00 0.00  0.00   0.00   0.50 0.50   0.00   0.00  0.00               3.00    8.00   0.00
04. METAL WX          0.00   1.00  1.00  0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00   0.50 0.50   0.00   0.00  0.00             1.60    1.50   0.00
06. CELU0IOE 1/       0.00   1.00  1.00  0.00 0.00  0.00   0.00   0.50 0.60   0.00   0.00  0.00              1.50    1.50   0.00
08. IMA 2/            0.08   1.50  1.65   0.11 0.64  0.76   2.93   6.60  9.43   0.00   0.00  0.00           11.71    6.64    8.07
07. MATOLA 2/         1.00 10.41  11.41  0.86  0.00  0.86  16.68   0.60 17.28   0.00   0.9s  0.95           80.29   11.96  13.88
0. FACOBOL            0.66  3.15  3.81  0.02 0.06  0.07   0.39   2.00  2.39   0.00   0.24  0.24              6.51    5.44    1.07
09. CIMENTOS (Dondo)   0.40  2.27  2.67  0.00 0.00  0.00   0.00   0.87 0.87   0.00   0.77  0.77              4.31    8.91   0.40
10. CARMIOC 1/        0.00  2.00  2.00  0.00 0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00 0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00               2.00    2.00   0.00
11. ECOIE             0.00  1.15  1.15  0.03 0.10  0.13   0.00   0.93 0.93   0.23   0.10  0.33               2.54    2.23   0.26
12. MADAL             1.60  6.73  7.63  0.29 0.72  1.01   1.28   1.48 2.76   0.05   0.50  0.66              11.85    8.48   8.42             C
13. VAN LEER          0.0,0  0.40  0.40  0.09 0.20  0.29   1.04   1.00 2.04   0.00   0.08  0.06              2.80    1.67   1.18             '0
14. PROSUL            0.78  8.50  4.28  0.00 1.03  1.03   0.00   0.50 0.50   0.00   0.00  0.00               6.81    5.08   0.76
15. FASOL             0.18   8.50  8.63  0.00 0.11  0.11   4.90   2.50  7.40   0.00   0.85   0.85           11.49    6.46    6.08
TOTAL          4.80 42.68 47.86   1.19 2.865  4.04   27.22   21.48 48.68   0.28   7.52  7.30    107.69   74.40  33.49 1
I   Total Funding Requirements*:   6.U  _62.17 638.49 1
NOTE:  The dots Is derlvd fram consultant field work and
preliminary analysis.
1/ Caju, Celmoque and Carmoc may bh excluded from this Project and considered under *oparat
IDA-supported projoet.
2/ The assumption Is that Matola and IMA would be rehabilitated In stages.
Cost. estimte. are: for Matols - US839.02 mlliIon (with 620.69 mlliion In foreign currency). and
IMA - US81.06 atillion (with 326.01 million In F.C) which would lncroas
total project costs, the ERC component, to US81U6.5S8 million (with 6102.5 million In F.C).
o  Total Funding Requirement estimates exclude financing rquirement. for CARMOC, CEUlMUE (both of which havo
already secured financing), end CAJU, whose financing require_onts are being considered under a e_perete IDA
operation.



- 70 -                 ANNEX 4-1
Page 1 of 31
MOZAHBIOU
INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
DATA SHEET ON PROBABLE EEHABILITATIONIRESTRUCTURING ENTERPRISES
I. CELKOOUE (Fabrica de Conductores Electricos de Mozambique) SARL. Beira
1. Current Status/Ownershi.:      Intervened.
Supervising Ministry:          Ministry of Industry and Energy, but under
control of Electromoc E. E.
Original Owners:               The British Group, BICC, through CEL-CAT, its
subsidiary in Portugal. CEL-CAT has expressed
interest to participate in CELMOQUE in the
future.
Origin:                        Celmoque was formed in 1961 by private sector
interests (British and Portuguese) in the 1950s
and 1960s. In 1976 the Government intervened
and all the mid- and high-level technicians
left the country.
2. Products:                      High and low tension cables, and insulated
wire for automotive, television and telephone
use.
Raw Materials:                 Imported.
Markets:                       Government   and   private   sector   (civil
construction).
3. Operational Data
and Background:                Capacity:  copper wire/year (3 shifts): 1,000
tons; Cable (installed but inoperable): 1,000
tons.
Emtplo2ment:                   160 workers.
The equipment was installed in 1961 and is still in operating condition even
though some of it is over 40 years old. A recent study, by GEL-CAT engineers,
concluded that rehabilitation of equipment could be made at a cost of
US$500,000, including $200,000 for equipment and the remainder for technical
assistance. Financial proposals for new competitor projects were estimated
at between US$2 and 3 million. The new line, if made operational, would
permit polyethylene coating.
4. Firance and Accountint.  CELMOQUE is in fairly good financial condition.  As
other industries, around 80% of its fixed assets are already amortized. The
firm's cost accounting system does not include annual depreciation of fixed
assets and thereby understates the costs of production. The cost accounting
system needs to be strengthened.



- 71                    ANEX 4-1
Pa8e 2 of 31
Financial Highlights:          198        1984      198        1986
Operating Results                         (Mt. Millions)
Total Receipts                 n.a.       n.a.      n.a.       56.87
Total Expenses                                                 43.68
Operating Profit(Loss)                                         13.20
Balance Sheet                    8         194      19          Mt
(Mt. millions)
Current Assets                 161.77      160.57   148.13       n.a.
Fixed Assets                    11.34        7.84     5.97       n.a.
Total Assets                   173.12      168.41   154.10       n.a.
Current Liabilities            102.33      107.61    78.36       n.a.
Long Term liabilities           n.a.        n.a.      n.a.       n.a.
Net Worth                       70.79       60.80    75.74       n.a.
5. Prospects and Rehabilitation Requirements.   Celmoque is a company that was
operating successfully prior to independence and is in a line of business
that can be rehabilitated and returned to profitability at an estimated cost
of about US$500,000 (capital investment and technical assistance). To realize
this rehabilitation, the following areas need to be addressed: improved access
to foreign exchange for rehabilitation and import of inputs, improvements in
financial practices and controls, strengthened management, resolution of the
ownership question, study and implementation of a market development strategy,
technical assistance during the start up period for the second line of
production, and staff training.   BICC, the previous owner, has already
prepared a rehabilitation study and is willing to provide technical assistance
and supply equipment.  BICC has also expressed interest to return as a
shareholder.
6. Environmental ImRact.   The production process involves use of coating
extruders for plastic coating, wrapping machines for applying ribbon
insulation, and cable twisting and bunching machines.   The environmental
impact of the process is through dust emission which would have no permanent
adverse effects. However, to control dust emissions for the work place and
to protect the workers, the enterprise would be required to institute measures
to keep the dust levels below the threshold limit valves (TLV).
II. METAL BOX. S.A.R.L.. Machava Industrial Area. Maputo.
1. Current Status/Ownership:      Private sector
Metal box, South Africa - 53% (expected to be transferred to Metal Box, U.K.
in the future).  Printex Fabrica de Tintas - 47% Government Supervision:
Secretariat of Food and Light Industry.
rijgiu:                        Metal  Box  was  started by  private  sector
interest in 1965 and remains in the hands of
foreign private investors.  A proposal has
been put forward to alter the capital structure
and is awaiting a decision.
2. Products:                      Metal cans.



- 72 -                  MM  4-1
Page 3 of 31
Raw materials/suppliers:       Tin plate and solder are supplied by Metal Box
RSA and other foreign companies.
Customers:                     Various local food product canners,  paint
companies.
3. Operations Data and Background: Capacity: 38 million units; Employment-250;
Sales - 3.9 million units (1986 est.). Although the 15 stamping presses are
well maintained, they are old and obsolete. The plant is fully depreciated.
The lead-based solder Metal Box used inhibits exports to the USA and EEC.
4. Finance and Accountina:        General accounts for 1986 had been closed.
By 1986, the company had incurred a debt of
more that US$12 million at the BM and Banco
Stanidard Totta.
Financial Highlights           1983      1984       1985      1986
Operating Results:                     (Mt. millions)
Total Receipts                                                49.13
Operating Expenses                                            49.12
Operating Profit (Loss)                                        0.01
Balance Sheet=
Current Assets                 109.88     93.87    118.35
Fixed Assets                    21.85     18.80    316.78
Total Assets                   131.73    112.71    135.12
Current Liabilities             36.90    514.84      15.08
Long Term Liabilities          431.68    465.32    506.49
Banks                         (429.13)  (460.31)  (501.49)
State                          -0-        (0.25)    (0.23)
Shareholders                    (2.55)    (4.76)    (4.76)
Net Worth                     (336.91)  (367.46)  (386.45)
5. Prospects.  Metal Box is part of a well-organized worldwide can-making group
with financial, management, and technical resources to sustain and expand the
Mozambican operation. The most significant problem is that Metal Box lacks
access to foreign exchange to carry out the necessary rehabilitation and
modernization program to make it competitive. Rehabilitation costs are
estimated at about US$0.5 million, with annual requirements of about US$1.5
million for raw materials.
6. Environmental Imact. The environmental impact of the production process is
through dust emission which would not have no permanent adverse effects.
However, to control dust emissions for the work place and to protect workers,
the enterprise would be required to institute measures to keep the dust levels
below the threshold limit valves (TLV).



- 73 -
AMWE 4-1
Page 4 of 31
III.  CAJU DE MOZAMBIOUE. Machava Industrial Area. NaiMto
1. Current OwnershiD Stats:       Intervened.
Government Sunprvision:        Ministry of Agriculture. Secretariat of Caju.
Previous Status:               Six separate cashew processing plants located
at Angoche (1): Beira (1): Inhambane (1):
Manjacaze (1): and Maputo (2).
OrLgin:                        The company was set up in 1979 to administer
the abandoned assets of the six plants.
2. Products:                      Cashew nut kernel in 23 grade3, and shell oil.
Ra_ Materials:                 Raw cashew nuts,  tin cans,  and cardboard
cartons.
Suppliers:                     Authorized brokers buy from family farmers who
gather nuts. Also some medium sized estates
furnish nuts. CM makes some of its own tin
cans and buys cartons from GARMOC.
Markets:                       20-25 international buyers and bilateral trade
agreements.
3. Operational Data and
Background:                   Capacity - 70-75,000 MT/year raw cashew.
Employment:                    6,500 (was 12,000 at peak):  5% - maintenance
and 10% - administration.
Because of the civil war disturbances and shortages of consumer goods, farmers
started to give up cashew collection in favor of subsistence farming. The
fall-off in the collection of nuts led CM to close two factories. It now
transports the raw nuts by coastal vessels from those areas to Maputo. Mos:
of the equipment is more than twenty years old, designed by the previous
owners, and is labor intensive.
4. Finance and Accounting: CM showed a small operating profit in 1986. The
accounting practice followed is not analytical but rather a simple totalling
of incomes and expenses.
5. asnpects: CM can easily increase capacity utilization if supply of cashew
nuts increases and foreign exchange is made available for rehabilitation and
estate development. Assuming stable world prices for cashew, CM would earn
about US$36 million by raising throughput to 7,600 tons of end product, about
double current production levels. Direct investment necessary for the
rehabilitation of existing equipment, purchase of selected new equipment,
conduct of selected studies, and management assistance and training is
estimated at US$6.3 million. Of the total, 50% would be for equipment repair
and the balance for management support and technical assistance over a four
year period. Most of the costs would be in foreign exchange, according to
a study by Arthur D. Little.



- 74 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 5 of 31
6. Environmental Imfact.  The enterprise is not being considered under the
project. Should it be, appropriate studies to determine its impact on the
environment and measures to reduce pollution would be undertaken.
IV. hADEIRA DE CABO DELGADO E. E. (NCD). Peuba.
1. Current Status/Ownership:      Public (State owned).
Government supervision is by Ministry of Agriculture.
Oriain:  The enterprise was formed in 1981 as a result of the MONAP-1 program
(a collaboration program between Mozambique and Scandinavian countries).
Total investments were US$2.3 million ($1.0 million for forest resources
study: $0.3 million for acquisition of equipment and US$1.0 million for
technical assistance). The sawmill started operations in 1983 and is able
to process most tree species in the region except for ebony.
2. Products:                 Logs and sawn wood.
Raw Materials:            Native forest.
Suppliers:                Various for parts, fuel and lubricants.
Customers:                Japan, W. Germany, South Africa, etc: and domestic
buyers.
3. Poerational Data and Backeround:  Capacity:  1986, 5,000 cu m/year of sawmill
capacity to produce lunber except ebony which requires special saws that are
not yet fully installed.
Emplovment: 400 - 500.
Due to security problems in the southern part of the forest, activities were
moved temporarily to the northern part. However, the northern area's 250 km
distance from Pemba makes road transportation uneconomic, such that logs are
transported by coastal freighter to the factory. This mode of transportation
is limited because there is only one boat with a 70 ton capacity. The problem
affecting the enterprise is lack of capacity (lack of tractors, cranes and
boats) for surface and water transportation of logs and sawn wood.
4. Finance and Accounting: Accounting data was not available for review by the
consultants. Summary report from the National Planning Commission showed a
1986 income of US$1.16 million against costs of $1.5 million.
5. Prospectp:   The enterprise seems to have good potential for generating
foreign exchange for the country.  Forest reserves are extensive and comprise
a large proportion of mixed hardwoods. The possibility to increase production
for export is good, and will not require an excessive investment given the
results that can be obtained. It is estimated that an investment of about
US$6.0 million would be required over a three year period to finance logging
equipment and infrastructure improvements.
6. Impact on Environment. Current extraction rates are well below the natural
replacement rate. However, the enterprise would be required to ensure that



- 75 -
ANNEK 4-1
Page 6 of 31
extraction of the forestry products is accompanied by appropriate measures
to replace extracted trees in order to protect and maintain forests.
V. CITRINOS DE MANICA S.E. (GM). Chizoio.
1. Current Status/OvnershiA: Public (state owned).
Government supervision: Ministry of Agriculture.
Origin: The enterprise resulted from the consolidation of four private farms
abandoned by the Portuguese after independence. At first "intervened", the
enterprise was converted to a state enterprise in 1978. The aim in joining
the farms was to maximize their syner& ' ? in production and management
policies related to citrus production for i-tcernal and export markets.
2. Products: Oranges, grapefruit, lemon and litchees. Raw materials: seedlings,
water, fuel, fertilizer, packing boxes, agricultural tools, farm equipment
and lorries.
Sunpliers:                     Some are imported.
Markets/Customers:             60% is exported and 40% is distributed locally
through wholesalers.
3. Operational Data
and Background:               Capacity:  Total farm  - 1,150 ha. (660 ha is
cultivated). Estimated potential output from
660 ha - 21,000 tons. Actual output from 660
ha - 13,073 tons (8,218 tons of oranges; 4,184
tons of grapefruit; and 761 tons of lemons).
Employment:                    750 permanent and 300 seasonal pickers/packers.
Agricultural activity has been severely affected by the security situation
in Manica Province. Guerrilla activity has obstructed worker access to the
farms and, therefore, restricted harvesting, and prevented effective
maintenance of infrastructure, and generally prevented the orchards from
receiving necessary care. Irrigation pumps and pipes (installed on 250 ha)
face maintenance problems due to foreign exchange shortages. Out of a fleet
of 35 tractors,  only 17 are in working condition.   50% of the eight
operational trucks are grounded due to foreign exchange shortages and lack
of qualified personnel.
4. Finance and Accounting: The enterprise's cost accounting system needs to be
strengthened. The company has shown profits for the past ten years despite
the operational difficulties it faces.
Financial High_lihts                 1984      1985       1986
Operating Results                              (mt. million)
Total Receipts                      n.a.       n.a.       229.81
Total Expenses                      n.a.       n.a.      179.12
Operating Profit (Loss)             n.a.       n.a.        50.69
Balance Sheet



- 76 -
Page 7 of 31
Current Assets                       241.74    342.27    429.35
Fixed Assets                         166.94    166.94    166.94
Total Assets                        408.68    509.21    596.29
Current Liabilities                   16.43    n.a.      n.a.
L.T Liabilities                       84.64    181.43    313.50
(Banks)                             (58.61)   (58.61)  (155.40)
(Shareholders)                      (26.03)   (26.03)   (26.03)
Net Worth                           (307.67)  (327.78)  (282.79)
5. Prospects: Citrus production is an expanding business worldwide due to an
increase in demand for citrus products. Mozambique is well positioned to
take advantage of the expansion in demand. Western markets absorb the greater
part of world fruit demand; however, Eastern Block countries as well are
experiencing gradual demand expansion. With the strong prospect of expanding
export markets for fresh fruit, Citrinos de Manica could become a major
foreign exchange earner for Mozambique. The major risk to this potential is
the security threat, however, because of its location on the Beira corridor,
the problem is not as severe as it is for some companies outside the corridor.
6. Impact on Environment.   Effluent from citrus processing are primarily a
mixture of solid and liquid waste stream. Wastewaters from processing are:
(a) common to the fruit processing industry; (b) made of biodegradabale
organic matter; (c) unlikely to have a permanent adverse effect on the
environment; and (d) amenable to biological treatment at the point of
discharge. The enterprise will be required to maintain in-house procedures
and house-keeping practices that are effective in reducing the waste load to
be treated.
VI. INDUSTRIA MOCAMBICANA DE ACO S.A.R.L. (IMA). Matola. Maputo.
1. Current Ownership
Structure:                     Joint Venture - Public/private GOM - 50% and
the Agolfo Group in Portugal - 50t
Supervising Ministry:          Ministry of Industry and Energy.
The company was founded in 1966 by Portuguese private sector interests. In
1975, the firm lost its skilled labor, cut back production and in 1979 was
intervened by Government. In 1985, Government invited former owners back
with promise of autonomy in management and the company was eventually
registered as a mixed enterprise.
2. Products: (i) High pressure water pipes (galvanized); (ii) irrigation pipe;
and (iii) galvanized roofing sheets. Raw materials are imported from South
Africa (steel sheets, zinc, lead, antimony, acids, and flux). IMA sells to
GOM for construction and irrigation projects and exports to USA.
3. Operations Data
and Backfround:
Annual Capacity:  23,000 tons of steel.    Actual Production:  1975 (peak
year) - 15,000 tons of steel; 1979 - 2,000 tons of steel; 1985 - 7,200 tons
of steel.



77 -              ANNEX 4-1
Page 8 of 31
250
The firm operates two pipe manufacturing lines, which are 20 years old. The
zinc galvanizing plant needs urgent rehabilitation. Similarly, the corrugated
sheet production facility operates below rated capacity (about 31% of a total
capacity of 23,000 tons of steel per annum) due to maintenance problems. The
major problem has been shortage of foreign exchange for importation of
equipment, spare parts and raw materials.
4. Finance and Accountin2:  The accotnting system is being upgraded so that the
internal management information systems and reports to Government can be more
effective. Past debts of US$6.02 million are being consolidated with a 4 year
grace period followed by a 10 year repayment schedule at the interest rate
that was effective at the time of the loan.
5. Management:  Part of the rehabilitation plan includes upgrading of management
and the work force. Four former employees of ALGOLFO have been contracted
for the positions of Director General, Director of Production, Director of
Maintenance, and Director of Finance. Other employees of the Portuguese firm
are called on for technical support and for specific consultations.
6. Rehabilitation ProsRects: ADL's brief investigation concluded that IMA has
plant and management adequate to produce according to international standards,
and should be encouraged to maximize its productivity and foreign exchange
earning potential.   Three rehabilitation options are summarized in the
following table.
Option 1: Rebuild existing plant and continue to operate at one shift per
day.
Option 2:  Expand to two shifts per day and install a line to produce
irrigation pipe couplings which are currently purchased outside.
Option 3: Expand capacity by installing a new production line for high
pressure pipe, the installation of the irrigation pipe coupling line, and
operate two shifts per day.
Option 1 involves rebuilding the existing plant and continuing to operate at
one shift per day. Options two and three require this basic rebuilding plus
fixed investments. Expansion investments would take place in the second,
third and fourth years of the project. Because the company has capable
management and production supervisory staff, no technical assistance will be
required beyond installation assistance which will accompany the purchase of
new equipment.
7. Environmental Impact. The environmental impact of the production process is
through dust emission which would not have no permanent adverse effects.
However, to control dust emissions for the work place, the enterprise would
be required to institute measures to keep the dust 'evels below the threshold
limit valves (TLV), to protect the workers.



- 78 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 9 of 31
|                               CAP~~~~~~~gITAL INVESTNENT
(All data in USS 000)
1 - Option 1
2 - Option 2                  Foreign CurrencX         Local Currency
3 - Option 3        F      .O.B. Insurance Freight   Duty       Other      TOTAL
1                                                           0
FIXED INVESTMENT  2        6,673      153     844                336       8,006
3      12,772      294   1,615                616      15,297
1         635       15      80                 29         759
SPARE PARTS        2         635       15      80                 29         759
3         635       15      80                 29         759
1       7,500      173     948    2,586       345      11,552
RAW MATERIALS      2      13,030      300   1,641    4,491       791      20,253
per year         3      13,388      308   1,693    4,616       875      20,880
T 0 T A L  Option 1        8,135      188   1,028    2,586       374      12,311
T 0 T A L  Option 2       20,338      468   2,565    4,491    1,156       29,018
T 0 T A L  Option 3       26,795      617   3,388    4,616    1,520       36,936



-  79 -
A            4-1
Page 10 of 31
PIUIT I   Ul     IN                     - nl  to a- I                   $ l
am      me       lilt    him      him      Me      sum      19i      iwI     19_ 
UW6E3           Ladsi ~4S                      3,541  5,434   5,070   A%,3    17 ,79    1146"   14133   151,       15,125   14,145
LoWt N4Ii                       4A 41    744   4,06   5,018    ?,%1  9,54   9,7   10,312  10,150   11,695
.~~  -
TOTE.                         3,M    30,17   30,1 S   3543  1,7N   9%15    85,111     1,          5,075     ,30S
ca   OF         Ldw                               7      357     5so        14     144      677      710     746      703 
no Nb  lals                   3,7  1 1   5,460   21,06   11,65   II,=    81,90  3,0   A14                   2,5
;Uilitia                         14      134      IN      in       13       134      134     in       In      17
Oe                              X30      J2       350     3        35       35      35       32       320     320
ToTE.                         4,0      ,M    17494  30,1   A73    40               ,1 lo    ,441  4470  8381
_I m                                            (S     1,S I   3,63    7,1    3,013           2,007        1.711   1.1    1. 519
(0) b1ld        0.7    15.%   117        11I1 W0IU        10.4%    10.0%    9.5
swITD   eVP   AM1u I 74.lc                         0      113    1to       la       la      103      la      la       103      583
OU      __m m                     0      735      100    1t0       100      100     100      100    t10       t0
Ohp1dia                          as               15      77 m     74       713     G        65       634     609
TI                               a    1,00 ,X           I,=1      1,5       gm      so       93       917     693
UEwT    OE                                      (1I7)    US   81         6,707    1,19    1,35    1,131    1,7U4    1,60    1,6t1
O-E ElE   Iluwt                                    0      57    2,1491.0          3,05    1.001    2,5      2,24    1,94    1,616
ME-=  PI T                                      (67)    31i       (5)   4s1    (1,1    (910)   (719)   (45)    (a)               I
tmm TN                                            0      104        03,141           0        0       0        0        0       0
MET Plt                                        1(617)    504      (5)   8,141   (1,47      (910)   (719)    40)    (25)         0
to)    O."    -0.81     7.0%   -4.0    -3.5    -1o    -1.05   -1.05    0.0%
tOI Nw OML MM  CM    U                         ti       IVA      I'm      1n      19 1      " 1             19u  e  aI  9s   19a
'  ime                                    (617    1to       (S)  8,141  (1,01)    (910)   (710    (450)   (a5)             0
Plu  ltMwwu  bmI    (E_ to mvib                   0      170   2,2"      1,11   3,46    8,01   8,55    241    1,934    1,104
b .eltim  Eupmus,                           a       11      15       771      741    .713      6       659      634      609
buidal  awl (Ya  10)                                                                                                 (11.601)
Lam  amp in   VW"  cth1                           7   4,667        10  (1,04       (013)     I        to      31      (14)     31
Capital CuA                                  0     640      710   7,00          0       0        0       0        0        0
T P15  o       R1                               (0m   (4,771)   8,57    (1,741)  3,5      8,54   8,34    8,418   1,3Z  (10,90)
Mm bte    11%                                 Not miad V..             (m1,3U) 1m tOf Sl11"    m
lw     al All EWty Cus Flea                     54  (8,80)  3,40          1S    5,517   4,576   4,51   4,4         4,411   (,0



-80- -fl  4-1
Page 11 of 31
VII. ECOME: Machava Industrial Area. NaMuto
1. Current Ownership:             State; intervened.
Supervising Ministr=:          Ministry of Industry and Energy.
Origin:  The company resulted from a merger of 8 privately-owned companies,
which were intervened in 1978 and placed under an Administrative Commission.
The Commission was subsequently replaced by one director general in 1987. The
company is now being transformed into a state enterprise.
2. Products:   The company consists of four production lines,  each with the
capability to produce a variety of metal products. Proprietary hoes, shovels,
catanas, and sheet metal products made to order (water tanks, towers, truck
bodies, safes, push carts, flame cut pieces, etc.).
Raw Materials: Steel sheet and bars, welding rods, wooden handles.
Suppliers: Direct import on price/delivery quotations.
Customers: AGRICOM and DIMAC for agricultural tools. Custom work is sold
directly to buyers.
3. Operations Data and Background.
Cavacitv: Large Custom-made Items: 180/year: Agricultural tools: 180,000
items/year; Actual production: n.a.
Emnlovment: 505
5. Finance and Accounting: The national plan of accounts has been modified to
accommodate the particular characteristics of this business. Accounts are for
the most part current.
6. Prospects. In 1986, the company lost US$400,000 equivalent, largely due to
shortages of raw materials in the fourth quarter. ECOME is in the service
sub-sector which is vital for Mozambican industry. Two rehabilitation options
exist. The first involves providing spare parts and raw materials. The second
involves purchase of new equipment (metal cutting, metal bending, welding,
lathes, presses, etc.) to upgrade existing production lines, improve production
quality, and add new capabilities. The estimates below relate to the second
option, which will require US$1.9 million in foreign currency.



-81 -
Page 12 of 31
7. Environmental Impact. The environmental impact of the production process is
through dust emission which would not have no permanent adverse effects.
However, to control dust emissions for the work place, the enterprise would be
required to institute measures to keep the dust levels below the threshold limit
valves (TLV), to protect the workers.
CAPITAL INVESTMENT
(All Data in US$ 000)
ForeigLn Currency        Loan Currenc,y
F.O.3 Insurance Freight    Duty     Other      TOTAL
FIXED INVESTMENT      626      4        51        70                 751
SPARE PARTS           128               10        22        40       200
RAW MATERIALS         776      4        42                 106       928
per year
TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE            230                                  30       260
per year
TOTAL                 1,760     8       103       92       176      2,139



-82 -                              ANNEX 4-1
Page 13 of 31
ECOIE: ANALYSIS OF OPTION 2
XV-A.  PROFIT & LOSS - WITH PLAN
1989     1990     1991      1992     1993     1994      1995     1996      1997     1998
REVENUES                     -----    .....    -----    .
Local Market                   907    1,718    2,187    2,392    2,619    2,870    3,147    3,454    3,793    4,169
Export Market                    0       *O         0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0
TOTAL              907    1,715    2.187    2,392    2,619    2,870    3,147    3,454    3,793    4,169
COST OF SALES
Labor                          120      120       126      132      138       145      153      160       168      177
Raw materials                  215    1,042    1,359    1,481    1,616    1,765    1,928    2,109    2,308    2,527
Utilities                       36      121       151      166      182       201      221      244       270      298
Other                            0        0         0        0        0         0        0         0        0        0
TOTAL                371    1,283    1,636    1,779    1,936    2,111    2,302    2,513    2,746    3,002
GROSS MARGIN                    23      435       551      613      682       759      845      940    1,048    1,167
0       25       25        26       26       26        27       27        28       28
OPERATING EXPENSES
Adnin & Technical               93       77        77       77       77        77       77       77        77       77
Other Expenses                  30      240       140      140       30        30       30       30        30       30
Depreciation                     8       61       116      112      108       103       99       96        92       88
TOTAL                130      378      333       329      215      210       206      203       199      195
OPERATING MARGIN               107       56       218      284      467       548      638      738       849      972
OTHER EXPENSE: Interest          0       45        71      108      101        90       79       68        57       46
PRE-TAX PROFIT                (107)     (12)    (147)    (176)    (366)    (458)    (559)    (670)    (792)    (926)
INCOME TAX                       0        6       73        88      183      229       280      335      396       463
NET PROFIT                    (107)       6       (65)      88      183       229      280      335       396      463
DERIVATION OF ALL EQUITY
CASH FLOW                  1989     1990     1991      1992     1993      1994     1995     1996      1997     1998
Net Income                      31       67        73       88      183       229      280      335       396      463
Plus: Interest Expense
(after tax savings)           0        7       36        54       50       45        39       34        29       23
Depreciation Expense             8       69       116      112      108       103       99       96        92       88
Residual Value (Year 10)                                                                                         4,859
Less: Change In Working        181      266      207        78       84       93       103      114       126      140
Capital
Capital Costs                    0      641       540        0        0         0        0        0         0        0
NET PROJECT CASHFLOWS          142      763      521       176      257       284      315      350       390    5,294
Discount Rate 11I                 t Present Value:  2,144        InternaL Rate of Return:  31



- 83 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 14 of 31
VIII. GRUPO NADAL. S.A.R.L.. NMauto
Plant Locations: Maputo, Quelimane, Pebane, Beira.
1. Current Status/Ovnershlg: Private. Norwegian Individuals and firms-85%:
Bobone Family of Portugal  - 15%.   Government Supervision:  Ministry of
Agriculture and Association of Copra Producers.
Origin.   The enterprise dates back to the turn of the century when a
Portuguese group and varicus Norwegian individuals and corporations invested
in the parent company. Although the Bobone family holds only a 15% interest
in the company's stock, they control 50% of the voting rights. MADAL is
reported to be the largest private agricultural firm in the country.
2. Products/Raw Materials & SupnliersZCustomers:    Madal  is a vertically
integrated company based on: copra production for export; cattle ranching;
feed production; agency business for Ford tractors, Mobil oil and diesel
fuel; shipping services; and the production of salt, and margarine for
employees.
Comae. Two grades of copra are produced: 1) hot air dried for export; and
2) ambient air dried (termed "free merchandise"), which is purchased from
private growers for domestic sale.  Due to the current guerrilla war,
production of hot air dried copra now averages only 4,000 to 6,000 tons per
year down from 11,000 tons. Many of the copra stands are old (40-60 years),
are declining in productivity, and need to be replaced. Two thirds of the
coconut producing areas have been affected by the war.
Nfargarine. Madal has installed capacity to produce 7,000 tons per year at
the plants in Beira and Maputo, which now operate at less than 50% capacity
Due to the war, the Beira plant has suffered from interruptions in the
delivery of copra and shortages of foreign exchange to purchase hydrogenated
oil.
Livestock and Fish. Cattle production is used to provide manure fertilizer
for the plantations. Due to the war the herd has dropped from approximately
100,000 to 8,000. FEED. Mixing capacity is 12,000 ton/year, but in 1986
only 4,000 tons were produced. Tea. Due to the lack of security in Zambezia
province since 1982, Nadal's 700 ha tea farm is not in production, but is
slowly being recuperated. In 1981, the hectarage produced 1,100 tons of
tea. Salt, The salt beds in Quelimane have a production capacity of 2,000
tons/year, and were able to produce 1,100 tons in 1986. Spare parts for pumps
and repairs to the beds are needed to maintain and increase production.
Raw Materials: Coconuts.
Spp=ijera: Company nucleus estates and other estates.
Customers: ENACOME, Madal group companies, and FASOL.
3. Operational Data
and Backaround:    Capacity:  10,000 - 12,000 tons of copra a year.



- 84 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 15 of 31
EmIJ&23Mn2: 5,500 contracted, and 500 permanent.
4. Finance and Accounting. The accounting system is not only fragmentary from
a management point of view, but has fostered an added tax liability. The
company has petitioned the authorities to resolve this so that profits can
be reported on a consolidated basis.
Financial Hiahliuhts:             I m               851986
Operating Results:                           (It. Million)
Total Receipts                   29.70            18.49           63.32
Total Expenses                   23.70            22.85           50.86
Operating Profit (Loss)          (6.01)           (4.36)          12.45
Balance Sheet:
Current Assets                   44.43            70.18          88.35
Fixed Assets                     12.50            12.39          14.39
Total Assets                     56.92            82.57         102.74
Current Liabilities              45.08            87.65          87.79
L-T Liabilities                   0.05             0.05          29.51
(State)                          (0.05)           (0.05)         (0.02)
(Shareholders)                     -0-             -0-          (29.49)
Net Worth                        11.79            (5.13)         (14.56)
5. ProsRects:  As an integrated company, Madal has the potential to be a
profitable enterprise for processing local raw materials, even given the
uncertainties of world copra prices. If other related product lines were
added and economies of scale developed, additional profits could be generated
to fuel growth and sustain employment. Crucial, however, is access to foreign
exchange to maintain equipment and upgrade processing equipment. With some
financial and management reorganization, the companies in the group could
effectively function as separate profit centers, but within a corporate unit
that could share resources such as accounting, training, transportation,
communications, data processing, and banking services.



- 85 -
ANE  4-1
Page 16 of 31
6. Environmental Imnact. MADAL is a diversified operation which requires that
each operation be looked at separately. The product lines that have an impact
on the environment are: (a) copra (see Citrinos above); and (b) MARGARINE,
for which the effluents are primarily all liquid (semi-processed raw material
is imported). the effluents in Margarine result from detergents, lubricants,
and wastages. The wastes are organic in nature. MADAL will be required to
take measures to limit effluent emissions to permissible levels of biochemical
oxygen demand through efficient waste monitoring systems.
MADAL
CAPITAL INVESTMENT
(All Data in US$ 000)
Foreian Currency          Local Currency
F.0.B Insurance Freight    Duty A/ Other a/  TOTAL
FIXED INVESTMENT        3,877    21       300               1,798      5,996
SPARE PARTS               402      2       30                 288        722
RAW MATERIALS
per year              1,129      6       90       400       875     2,500
TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE               500                                 50       550
per year
TOTAL                   5,908    29       420    400        3,011      9,768
a/ To be paid in local currency.
IX.  CARNOC
Plant Locations: Maputo and Beira.
1. Current Status/Ownership. Mixed (State/Private). Government of Mozambique
- 50%: NAMPAK (Subsidiary of Barlow Rand, RSA) - 50%. Origin. CARMOC
started as a private company, capitalized at Mt. 20 million. Shares were
then held by NAMPAK (50%) and F. Dicca Ltd.  (50%).  The Government of
Mozambique took over the Dicca shares from the former Portuguese owners who
ceased to operate in Mozambique.
2. Products/Raw_Materials/Suppliers/Customer3: Products: Corrugatedpaperboard
cartons, linerboards and sultcases.  Raw Materials: Kraft paper in rolls and
fluting in rolls.  Suppliers:   Barlow Rand, RSA, and Sweden. Customers:
Many. CARMOC is the only producer of linerboard and the leading producer of
cartons. Suitcases are sold to distributors F.0.B. factory.
3. Operational Data and Background.  Capacity:   Maputo  - 24,000 tons; Beira
- 10,000 tons (presently not utilized).   Employment:   Maputo  - 185  :
Beira-120. The biggest problem has been access to foreign exchange for raw
material imports.



- 86 -
Page 17 of 31
4. Finance and Accounting: Factory controls are based on standard cost. General
and cost accounting procedures are manual. However, most of the accounting
staff are technical school graduates.
Financial Hiahlights                   18              1984      18
-Oerating Results:                                (Mt. million)
Total Receipts                         146.60          117.66     99.92
Total Expenses                         143.41          118.17    107.70
Operating Profit (Loss)                  3.19           (0.51)    (7.83)
Balance Sheet
Current Assets                         166.19          127.19    117.25
Fixed Assets                            72.24           61.00    243.81
Total Assets                           238.44          188.21    161.06
Current Liabilities                    152.38          110.03     86.74
L.T. Liabilities                         n.a.            n.a.      n.a.
Net Worth                               86.05           78.17     74.32
5. Prospects.   CARMOC is a well run company in the service industry with good
prospects for growth if it can gain access to foreign exchange for importation
of raw materials.
6. Impact on Environment. Most effluents are likely to be organic in nature
and CARMOC will be required to take measures to limit their emission and
ensure effective disposal.
X. FASOL (Fabrica Associades de Oleos. S.A.R.L.. Maputo.
Plant Location: Machava Ir4ustrial area, Maputo.
1. Current Status/Ownership: Intervened. Government Supervision: Oleaginous
Products Directorate.
OrQgjz. FASOL resulted from a merger of several enterprises of the same kind
in Maputo. Founded in 1964 as a stock company to produce oils and soaps, it
was converted into a corporation in 1968 and consisted of two distinct
enterprises:   FASOL and SABOREL (Saboreiras Reunidas de Oleos, S.A.R.L.).
The Government intervened in 1977.
2. ProductstRaw Material/SuDnliers/Markets.   FASOL/SABOREL are two companies
that produce refined and unrefined vegetable oils (and oil by-products) and
soap by-products.
Raw Materials consist of oilseeds and copra.   PVC and polyethylene for
containers. Spjljers are both local (AGRICOM) and foreign (Quimica E.P. ,
Portuguese, etc). Customers include Enacome and Interquimica, Maputo Supply
Company, and Cogropa (Spence portuguesa) Dionisio e Almeida.
3. Operations Data and Background.    Capacity: Crushing - 26,000 tons/year;
Refining - 14.400 tons/year. Employment: 485



-87 -
ANELX 4-1
Page 18 of 31
4. Finance and AccountWnn.   FASOL operated,  like many other companies  in
Mozambique, under a regime of price controls. Consequently, it accumulated
large losses in the past few years, which were financed by overdrafts at the
Bank of Mozanbique. As of 1986, FASOL's debt to BM stood at about US$15
million, plus other debts of about US$2 million, resulting in a debt to equity
ratio of 10/1.
Financial Highlights:                   1983           1984            1985
Operating Results:                          (Mt. millions)
Total Receipts                       140.79           49.75          190.53
Total Expenses                       203.18           75.23          278.41
Operating Profit (Loss)              (62.39)         (25.48)         (87.87)
Balance Sheet:
Current Assets                       623.71          576.93           75.39
Fixed Assets                         144.41          147.89          158.52
Total Assets                         768.12          724.81          733.91
Current Liabilities                  285.08          370.21          350.52
L.T Liabilities                      474.22          475.63          616.74
(Banks)                           (468.86)        (467.16)       (609.15)
(State)                             (0.96)          (4.08)         (3.20)
(Shareholders)                      (4.39)          (4.39)         (4.39)
Net Worth                                             (7.39)         (32.88)
5.          Prospects:  The future viability of FASOL will depend on resolution
of the three major problems (obsolete equipment, lack of imported raw materials,
and high debt) through: modernization of equipment, access to foreign exchange
for raw material imports, and financial restructuring.
6.          Environmental Imnact.   Wastes originating from oil processing
operations are generally limited to solids and liquids. The solid materials
from copra and other raw materials and are readily amenable to separation and
disposal. Liquid wastes originate from the sterilizers and the oil clarification
stages resulting in sludge. FASOL will be required to institute measures to
limit effluent emission and institute appropriate pollution measurement
parameters.



- 88 -
NNS4-1
Page 19 of 31
FASOL
A phased rehabilitation of FASOL is recommended. The first phase
will be based on importing crude oil and rehabilitation of the mechanical
pressing operation in the refinery and soap plants, upgrading the refinery plant,
and recuperation of the soap plant and boiler house. A second phase would
involve rehabilitation of the solvent extraction plant, and would bring the total
project cost to US$27.6 million equivalent. Only phase one costs are included
in the table below. Out of the total (US$21.3 million), US$16.3 million would
be in foreign currency.
CAPITAL INVESTMENT
(All Data in US$ 000)
Foreign Currency        Local Currency
F.O.B Insurance Freight    Duty -/  Other S/
TOTAL
FIXED INVESTMENT          3,335    20      260                125      3,740
SPARE PARTS              1,288      7      105                         1,400
RAW MATER14LS
per year              10,000    50       900      900      4,000    15,850
TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE                300                                 50       350
per year
TOTAL                   14,923    77    1,265       900      4,175    21,340
a/ To be paid in full currency
XI.  VAN LEER (EMBALAGENS VAN LEER MOZAMBIOUE) LTD.. Haputo.
Plant Location: Matola Industrial Area, Maputo.
1.   Current Status/OwnershiR.  Nationalized Factory.  Government Supervision:
Metals and Mechanical Light Industry Directorate.
Origin.    The  enterprise was  founded in 1960,  as  "Metal  Containers
Proprietary, Ltd" with 1% of shares held by Metal Containers of South Africa
Ltd. and 99% by Antonio Mendoca. In 1962 its name changed to Embalagens
Van Leer Mozambique Ltd. In 1975, Van Leer of South Africa (Proprietary)
Ltd. transferred 1,750 of its shares to each of the Dutch companies:
Valeyafa B.V., Van Leer Netherlands B.V., Iszerhander Van Der List or Joner
B.V., Royal Packaging Industries, Van Leer B.V. e Emballage Fabrieeken Verna
B.V. The remaining shares were retired by the company. From 1975 to the
Government's intervention in 1975, direct management support was provided
by Van Leer of South Africa.
2.   Products/Rat Materials/SulMliers/Markets.   Products.   Steel drums and
plastic sheeting.   Raw Materials.  Steel sheet. plastic granules, and



- 89 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 20 of 31
chemical products.   SgJ1l.su.    Van Leer of South Africa.  Nbrkots.
Petroleum refinery and paint factories.
3.   0Ierations Data and Background.   Cagacit:  210 and 160 litres drums -
175,000/year; 20 litres drums - 740,000/year; Plastic Sheeting - 100,000
sq. n/year.  Zb12uant:  68.  Machines are old and not wvll maintained,
particularly due to shortages of spare parts and technicians. Until 1980,
the enterprise had recourse to South African technicians to calibrate and
adjust the machines but after 1980 the company did not have access to this
resource due to lack of foreign exchange.
4.   Finance and Accounting.   The company has made significant losses in recent
years which are eating into its capital base. Rehabilitation would have
to include introduction of a cost accounting system to control expenses.
5.   Pirospects: Van Leer is a vital intermediate producer in Mozambique. Because
of the antiquated equipment, the weak present management, and current market
limitations, rehabilitation would be limited to provision of sufficient
spare parts to rebuild existing equipment. With an adequate supply of raw
materials, this would enable the company to return to a pre- independence
production level of 30% of capacity, as compared to just over 10% at
present. US$3.8 million equivalent in foreign currency would be required
for the purchase of spares and raw material.
6.   Environmental Impact.  The environmental impact of the production process
is through dust emission which would not have permanent adverse effects.
However, the enterprise would be required to institute measures to keep
the dust levels below the threshold limit valves (TLV) to protect workers.
CAPITAL INVESTMENT
(All Data in US$ 000)
Foreign Currency      Local Currency
F.O.B Insurance Freight   Duty a/Other a/  TOTAL
FIXED INVESTMENT   0
SPARE PARTS              250        5      28       75        10       368
RAW MATERIALS           3,067      67     338      920       123     4,515
per year
TOTAL                  3,317       72     366      995       133     4,883
A/ To be paid in local currency.



- 90 -
Pago 21 of 31
__________  _______*n...uu.UUUuU-uuinm m2nim m-'uuu'uauUwy3asssu
a'.    ,aur  T LCSS - iWN 09.hS 
:191     11910    I:        :99      1993      1114     1915      1)56     :997  l:?i
; I .                   iret                          0    :S    2,2307    2,3*5    2,63 i ,62?    4732    2, 75             26    26I'3
EApmt ark@t                          0        0         0        0         0        0         0        U        0         ,
TOM                                  O    l,15    J207    2,35    2,663    2,621    2,732    2,7. 9          ,2fi6    i,23
COST OF S.AS    L&ea                                  0        37       39        *l       43                                     * i     ".
so Nhtarsas                        261    1,46      1,*71    1,53    1,655    1,747    1,52        :,S39    1,1       :.12i
Utilities                           29       :oo       97      103       to       I15       119      U!        I       :3:
Owlm,*                   0        ~~       ~     ~ ~      ~ ~~          ~    ~ ~~0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0
TOTAL                              291    1,606    1,607    1,707    1,507    1,907    1,14    2a,)10    2,XI   i:1;
6GM     561%                                        ;2!11)    36U      600       636      676       7:6      746       79       76'      7'i:
EPA     19.2%    27.2%    27.2%    27.2%    27.2%    27.2%    27.11    27.3%    27.;1s
TL U EP    Abbn A Tgchecal                            12       12        12       12       12        12       12        :2       :a :U
o      01_Enpenn                     0      275         O   0         0         0        0        0             0
h~~c:at:w~~~~  *            0 ~~ 0        0        0         0        0         0        0             0        0
TOM.                                12       57?       12       la        12       12        12       :2       ::        *a
WIMATZ1   PIN                                       ii031      5       516      E26       66        702     7?32       737     7?3 !      7E
31R EPIU I;  'ntust                                   0        35     1to        10      1in        122     610        94        10       Si
M-TIR PIFIT                                         1303)      99      "a        616      :26       579      624      663       673  ?:3
IEl  TAX                                              0        29      224      to3       264      210       312      321       336      351
mu 0WIT                                             (33)       29      44        243      2"        - 0      312       3al      33i      3:1
El       1.51    MRS2   10.6%    10.63    11.1%    11.IS    :1.           13s    :*.:t
INIVA'>TM4F ALL' 3IY C     f.OII                   19        110      1"91      19       195i      11"      :55       1S%      1957     I;35F
1t !'tcgus                                  (30J)      9       2_6       243      26       2190      312      321       3oi      '11
PlUs2 Interestf         (after tog uvi                 0       17       70        70       66        61       56       *7        40       __
huiatioa  bEpense                               0         0        0         0        0         0        0        0         0
bsi a1l valu  (est :01                                                                                                           3,a3 j
Lo: Owap in ioriq Capital                             30      we0       40        56       56        56       65         .        7       2?
Capitl Cats                                     0         0        0  .           0        0        0         0             0        0
NT PECt C        L        .                         M333)    (673)  .;6   i       57      276                321      .4        Pk   *, j4
OiuSi  ate           11%                         ltt PreNt Val"               2,114     Inet-l R ate of Retw,,   40.Js
*aim
lierdl All Eqty Cum  Flow                           (406)  t,070)     12        (6%)              .267       12)     u:         :6    3,762
.%.           rt -



- 91 -
AM=K 4-1
Page 22 of 31
XII.  CINENTOS DE NOZAMBIOUJE. NMto.
Plant Location: Beira (Dondo).
1.   Current Status/Ownership:  State.  Government Supervision:  Ministry of
Construction and Water Development.
Origin. The enterprise was originally formed in 1970 as a joint venture
operation by Cimentos Portugueses (90% shareholder) and the Bank of
Mozambique (10% shareholder). By 1979, the company had run up a debt of
US$30.5 million with the Bank of Mozambique and other creditors. The
Government intervened in the management in 1979. In 1983. the Bank of
Mozambique in essence foreclosed on the company's assets and assumed
operating control.  As part of this process,  the company's debt was
transferred to the books of the central government.   Until now,  the
Government has not been able to reach agreement on settlement of these
debts with the former majority shareholders and the creditors.
In 1980, a year after intervention, the company commissioned a feasibility
study by a Cuban consulting company, ACEMAT.   The study included an
extensive analysis of the problems of domestic cement distribution. Despite
this study, and conversion of the company into a state enterprise,
management problems have been not yet been successfully resolved.
2.  Products/Raw Materials/SupDliers/Markets:   Products.   Bulk and sacked
cement.  Raw Materials.  Limestone.   Suppliers.  Normally self sufficient
in limestone but now importing clinker. Markets. Government of Mozambique
and private domestic construction industry.
3.   Ogerations Data and BackMround.   Capacity: 177,000 (represents 14% of
total cement production capacity in the country). Employment: not broken
down by factory, but all 4 factories together employ 1,049 workers. The
Dondo plant is a wet process installation. It began operations in 1973.
Clinker was originally to have been supplied by the Matola plant, but is
currently imported. Rehabilitation plans on the plant were shelved in the
past due to the security situation itl the country. Operations at the Dondo
plant have virtually stopped.
4.   Finance and Accounting.  Not separated out by plant.  The consolidated
statements show operating losses of over US$30 million between 1976 and
1979. Both the accounting systems and the organization of the people who
operate it are inadequate to support the management of an indutstrial complex
of this magnitude.
5.   Prospects.  Consultants have been appointed to review the viability of the
Dondo plant. Rehabilitation costs for the entire complex (the four plants)
are estimated at US$15.2 million.
6.   Environmental Impact.  Cement manufacturing plants vary widely in volume
and composition of pollutants discharged. Differences arise from process
variations, inplant practices, housekeeping, etc. three basic steps are
normally utilized in cement manufacture:  (i) raw material grinding and
blending; (2) clinker production; and (c) finish grinding: Cementos is
potentially able to have all these process stages, but at the moment only



- 92 -                      ANNEX 4-1
Page 23 of 31
has the latter due to the security situation in the country thus forcing
the importation of clinker. Cement manufacture can result in pollution of
air (dust), water (dust) and land (dust, raw materials, clinker, coal,
etc.). Cementos would be required to take measures to limit the emission
of these pollutants within permissible levels.
DONDO
Government's intention is to rehabilitate the Dondo Cement Plant to supply
the central region with sufficient low-cost, high quality cement. Three
options are currently under consideration. Ontion 1: Shut down plant and
service the region with imports and/or production from Nacala and Matola.
Option 2: Rehabilitate the plant's cement grinding capability, enabling
the plant to produce cement with clinker which would be initially imported
and  eventually  produced  by  the  Matola  plant.   Option  3:   Full
rehabilitation, including clinker production capability. Option 3 is not
considered feasible and can not be considered until 1994 due to Cimentos'
agreements with EIB. Costs in the table below are for Option 2 and include
a requirement of US$40 million equivalent in foreign currency.
CAPITAL INVESTMENT
(All Data in US$ 000)
Foreign Currency       Local Currency
F.0.B  Insurance Freight   Duty   Other         TOTAL
FIXED INVESTMENT
(with engineering)      2,000     200     200         200    200         2,800
SPARE PARTS               300      30       30         30                  390
RAW MATERIALS                              800         80      96          976
per year
TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE              380                                              380
per year
TOTAL                   2,680     230   1,030        310     296         4,546
XIII. FABRICA CONTINENTAL DE BORRACHA. S.A.R.L. (FACOBOL)
A.    FACOBOL. Maputo, Mozambique.
1.   Current Status /Ownershin:   Private.  Ownership:   Fabrica Portuguesa de
Borracha - 50%; Various Portuguese Families - 40%; Costa and Cordeiro -
10%. Government Supervision: SEILA. Oriain: FACOBOL was founded in 1942
with local capital and the same shareholders have continued to own the firm.
The firm was never intervened.
2. Products/Raw Katerials/SuW2lierslMarkets: Products. Canvas/rubber shoes,
leather shoes, bicycle tires, tubes, various rubber rings and gaskets.
Materials. Natural and synthetic rubber, canvas cloth, leather. Suppliers.



- 93 -
Page 24 of 31
Raw materials are imported from Europe, Malaysia and Brazil. Domestic
supplies are by Textafrica.  Nar.kts.  ENCATEX of the Ministry of Commerce.
3. Onerations Data and Backaround: Capacity: 1,500 tons of rubber/year made
into various products.
Aaloynt:  400.
The  equipment operated by  the company  is antiquated:  the  last new
installations occurred in 1973, and some shoe molding machines date from
1930. The biggest problem facing the company is shortages of raw materials
and spare parts.
4.   Finance and Accountina.  The firm has up-to-date financial statements.
However, accounting methods do not accurately reflect account balances or
unit operational costs.
5.   Prosnects.  FACOBOL, even with its old equipment line,  is capable of
increasing production and gross income. However, because of shortage of
raw material inputs, along with low production rates, it is unlikely that
profit margins can be significantly increased.   Profitability can be
achieved through rehabilitation, ready access to raw materials, and a
significant reduction in labor costs.  Upgrading of mid-level supervision,
accounting, and maintenance personnel should accompany any capital
injection.
Rehabilitation would upgrade production capabilities in all three production
areas (canvas shoes, bicycle tires and tubes, technical articles). The shoe
production line would be upgraded and expanded with the installation of new
PVG injection and compression molding equipment, a turntable mold, and new
lasts. Also, a delivery vehicle will be purchased. Tire production would
be upgraded and expanded with the purchase of automated equipment for
producing cord, new tire fabrication machines for BNX and moped tires, and
new vulcanizing molds. The inner-tube line will be entirely replaced with
new extruding, cooling and rubber welding equipment as well as new inner-
tube molds.  Technical articles production will be upgraded with the
purchase of spares for presses, extruders and mixers. A new extruder, a
cooling and cleaning bath, laboratory equipment, transport vehicles and a
forklift will be purchased.   Total sub-project costs would be US$5.2
million, with a US$4.2 million foreign currency component.
6. Impact on Environment. Most effluents are likely to be organic in nature
and FACOBOL will be required to take measures to limit their emission and
ensure effective disposal.



~ 94 -             AM=NEL 4-1
Page 25 of 31
FACOBOL SHOES
CAPITAL INVESTMENT
(All Data In US$ 000)
Foreisn Currencm         Local Currency
F.O.B Insurance Freight   CIF   Duty   Other      TOTAL
FIXED INVESTMENT                               1,255   188      126    1,569
SPARE PARTS                                       40      6       4       50
RAW MATERIALS
per year                                       800   240             1,040
TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE                                      100             20      120
for 2 yrs.
TOTAL                                          1,195   434      150    2,779



- 95 -AM                         4-1
Page 26 of 31
FACOBOL - TIRE & TUBE
CAPITAL INVESTMENT
(All Data in US$ 000)
Fore ln Currency   Local Currency
F.0.B Insurance Freight   CIF Duty  Other      TOTAL
FIXED INVESTMENT                               620    93    62        775
SPARES                                          30     5               35
RAW MATERIALS                                  300    90              390
per year
TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE
per year
TOTAL                                          950   188    62      1,200
FACOBOL - TECHNICAL ARTICLES
CAPITAL INVESTMENT
(All Data in US$ 000)
Fore len Currency local Currency
F.0.B Insurance Freight   CIF Duty  Other      TOTAL
FIXED INVESTMENT                               780   117    78        975
SPARES                                          30     5               35
RAW MATERIALS                                  200    60              260
per year
TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE
per year
TOTAL                                        1,010   182    78      1,270



- 96 -                ANNEX 4-1
Page 27 of 31
FACOBOL - TOTAL
CAPITAL tNVESTMENT
(All Data in US$ 000)
Foreign Currency       Local CurrencY
F.O.1 Insurance Freight  CIF  Duty  Other      TOTAL
FIXED INVESTMENT                             2,655   398   266      3,319
SPARES                                         100    15      4       119
RAW MATERIALS                                1,300   390      0     1,690
per year
TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE                                    100     0    20        120
per year
TOTAL                                        4,155   803   290      5,248
XIV. PROTURA DE MATERIAIS DE CONSTRUCAO. E.E. (PROSUL).  Mauto.
Plant Locations:   Umpala,  Icbul,  Cimoc, Machava,  Julio G. Ferreira,
Xinavane.
1.   Current Status/Ownership.  State owned.  Government Supervision:  Ministry
of Construction and Water.
Origin: PROSUL was formed by the State in 1979 by merging 24 abandoned
small-to-medium scale enterprises. By 1986, PROSUL had run up a debt of
Mt. 750 million because of controlled prices for construction materials
(not adjusted since 1974). In 1986, PROSUL reorganized its operations so
that 16 divisions (2 quarries, 2 tile factories, 5 stone dressing
operations, a machine shop, an auto repair shop, a furniture factory and
4 pre-cast concrete installations) were retained. The assets of 4 divisions
have been rented out to private operators on a 50/50 net profit sharing
basis (no share in operating losses), 2 other divisions were placed (one
each) in 2 construction consortiums as PROSUL's joint venture contribution.
The remaining 2 were returned to their former owners.
2.   Products/RAw Katerials/SupDliers/Markets:  Products:  crushed stone, roof
tiles, cut marble, pipes and sheets of cement and furniture. Materials
include: wood, stone, clay and cement.  Most of the raw material is source
locally. PROSUL sells directly to construction contractors, wholesalers
and individuals.
3.  Oferations Data and Background:  Cagacity: 14.9 million pieces of products.
E=1m2pent: 1,306 (administration: 52, skilled: 21, qualified technicians:
5, and unskilled: 1228).
Most of the equipment is old (more than 20 years) and in need of
replacement. The company operates at 25% to 30% of capacity, due primarily
to: lack of raw materials, lack of spare parts, old and worn out equipment,



- 97 -                ANNEX 4-1
Page 28 of 31
inadequate maintenance of machinery, difficulties associated with
transportation and inadequate planning capability.
4.   Finance and Accounting:   PROSUL's books follow the national plan of
accounts. They are not up to date and the company has not developed
analytical costing, because it has been unable to gain control over its
inventories which are spread over widely scattered areas. They receive
inventory movement reports from each warehouse weekly, but their
warehousemen are not well trained.
5.   jros2ects:  PROSUL performs an important function of supplying construction
materials to the economy and could be profitable if it were rehabilitated
and restructured.
PROSUL - QUARRY
CAPITAL INVESTMENT
(All Data in US$ 000)
Foreign Currency         Local Currency
F.O.B Insurance  Freight    Duty    Other      TOTAL
FIXED INVESTMENT      1,400      140      168      140       84     1,932
SPARES                  600       60       72       60                792
RAW MATERIALS
per year
TOTAL                  2,000     200     240      200       84     2,724
PROSUL - BRICKWORKS
CAPITAL INVESTMENT
(All Data in USS 000)
Foreion Currency       Local Currency
F.0.B Insurance Freight   CIF Duty  Other      TOTAL
FIXED INVESTMENT                             1,090   109    67      1,266
SPARES                                         300    30              330
RAW MATERIALS
per year
TOTAL                                        1,390   139    67      1,596



- 98 -
Page 29 of 31
PROSUL - TOTAL
CAPITAL INVESTMNIT
(All Dat. in US$ 000)
Foreign Currency Local Currency
F.O.B Insurance Freight   Duty    Other    TOTAL
FIXED INVESTMENT       1,400     140   1,258      249      151       3,198
SPARES                   600      60    372        90                1,122
RAW MATERIALS
per year
TOTAL                  2,000     200   1,630      339     151        4,320



i - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~99 -                                                                 ANE         -1
Page 30 of 31
PROfIT    LOS5 - 6ITH PLAN              as         -                 119" 
196      199       19"1     1W2       1M9      14        9   1W6           197     s998
_~~~~~~~~~~-                  -       .. ..    ---       ---      ---       ----. ... .
;EVERES          :xQcal Market                 1.Sl1   1.023    2836    2.45    2,850    3.097    3,503    3.548    3,611    3,611
Export Market                   127       160      232       201      216       233      260      265       272      272
TOTAL                         1644     19M3    3.018    247    3.06          3.330    3t763    3.813    3,883    3.883
COST OF SALES    Labor                           347       144      512       537      564       593      622       653      686       720
Raw Materials                   126       175      20        183      193      206       213      217       m        222
Utilities                        13        18       23        18       1,       20        22       22        23       Z3
Other                           241      241       241      241       241       241      241       241      241      241
TOTAL                           727      79        96       979    1.O07    1.059    1.m0       1,133    1.172    1.206
mOSS M6IN                                        919    1.185    Z.089    1.88    2s050    2270    2.665    2.680    2.711    2,677
55.61    S9.81    68.01    45.61    66.8       68.21    70.81    70.31    69.81    68.91
OpERATINGEXP    Aduin   Tehnical                  28        28       20        28       28        28       28        28       28        28
maintenance lOther              367      367       367      367       367      367       367      367       367       367
Depreiation                     40       577       735      707       413      397       382      367       353      339
TOTtL                           802      973    1130    1.102         80       792       m        762       748      735
ENATIING MARGIN                                   117      212      951       766    1241    1.475    188         1I918    1.963    1,94Z
OTHER EXPENSE: Interest                          363       374      46        516      425       327      240       214      180       145
PRE-TAX PRFIT                                   (246)    (162)      492       250      816    1,151    1640    1.704    1,783    1.797
INC01 TAX                                                    0      24        125      48        575      820      852       892      898
ET POFWIT                                        (24)    (142)      24        125      48        575      820       852      892       698
-14.99.     .21      6.01     4.41    13.31    17.31    21.6       22.31    23.01    23.11
DERIVATION OF ALL E0JITY CASH PLON             199       190      19        199      193       199      1995      1996     1997      1998
Not Income                                (24)    (112)       246       125      40        575       20       852      892      898
Plus, Interest Expense (atter tax uving)         363       374      233       258      213       164      124       107       90        73
Depreciation Expense                       4U        577      735       707      413       397      382       367      353      339
Re"idual VaIue (Yr 10)                                                                                                        9,712
LUss  Chnew  in Wltkins Capital                   78        57      193       (37)      36        46       75        10       14        2
Capiul Costs                                 0    1.9"    1.94            0        0         O                  0        0         C
NET PROJECT CAIfLOiS                             445   (1.212)    (923)   1,126        915    1.090    1.250    1.316    1.321   :1,020
Oiscount Rts         11i                      Not Ptesent Valu$            7.180     Internal Rate of Return    49.41



- 100 - 
Page 31 of 31
XV.  CO_PANHiA nDusTRIAL             (CIX)  Matola. Ilpto.
l.CIN is a large integrated company that produces basic foodstuffs such as wheat
flour, pastas, bread, animal feed, candies and chocolates.
2.Pros;2cts The rehabilitation strategy includes rebuilding the wheat and
flour mills in two stages. building silos to store incoming grains, construction
of new pasta plants in Maputo and Nacala, erection of a feed plant, installing
new material handling equipment and vehicles, and installing fire prevention
equipment.
NOT:  It is assumed that, in the interim, CIM will continue to purchase its
raw materials from the Government through donor supported import programs. This
reduces the total foreign currency requirement to about US$22.4 million
equivalent out of total project costs of US$41.3 million. A small component of
technical assistance will be required for those production facilities in which
new equipment has been installed.



-101 -
ANX4-2
PlaS 1 of 9
STAIN APPRA3"ISA MMPR
ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING TECHNICAL UNIT (UTU)
GUIDELINES FOR ERTU OPERATIONS. SUBPROJECT ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA. AND SUBLOAN
ADNINISTRATI
1.       This statement lays down the policies and procedures that the
Ministry of Finance, as executing agency, and the Bank of Hozambique, as the
financial intermediary, will carry out through the Enterprise Restructuring
Technical Unit (ERTU) in discharging their responsibilities under the
proposed Industrial Enterprise Restructvring Project (the Project) which is
to be financed in part by a Credit (the IDA Credit) to the People's Republic
of Mozambique by the International Development Association (IDA).
I. ERTU ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE AND OPERATING GUIDELINES
(a)  As part of its broader responsibilities, the ERTU will review
(see IV (a) below) proposed investment projects (the
subprojects)  in order  to ensure  they are eligible  for
financ4ng out of the proceeds of the IDA Credit. Based upon
this review, the ERTU will recommend either approval or
rejections to the Minister of Finance (hereafter referred to
as the Minister). Subprojects approved by the Minister will
(in consultation with the BM and other Ministers unde.r whose
responsibility beneficiary enterprises fall) be submitted to
IDA for review and approval for financing under the Credit.
However, if the Minister determines that a subproject involves
issues which require approval at the Government level, then
the subproject shall first be submitted to the Committee on
External Economic Relations (CREE) for resolution of
outstanding issues and approval. Subsequent to the approvals
by the Minister or CREE and IDA, the Bank of Mozambique (BM)
will finalize subloan arrangements based on its normal banking
criteria and the subloan conditions in Sections III and VI
below.
(b)   The ERTU staff will consist of a Project Director and a number
of professionals, some of whom will be working full time on
the Project while others (including staff from other
Government Ministries and agencies) will be seconded
temporarily for specific tasks.  The Project Director will
report to the Minister of Finance and will be responsible for
the management of the ERTU and overall coordination,
supervision and implementation of the Project. The current
National Director of Treasury for Economic and Price Analysis



- 102 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page   of 9
in  the Ministry  of  Finance has been  appointed Project
Director. It is expected that he will devote most of his time
(not less than 70%) to project implementation activities. In
addition  to  the  Project  Director,  at  least  four  other
professionals (Project Advisor, Economist, Engineer and
Procurement Advisor) will work full time in ERTU (ERTU TOR are
provided elsewhere).  The Project Advisor will work closely
with the Project Director and act as Program Coordinator for
the Project. The economist will be seconded to the Unit by
the Ministry of Finance. The ERTU would have access to legal
expertise (possibly on a retainer basis) equivalent to an
actual full-time lawyer. This arrangement would provide the
flexibility required to handle all the different legal aspects
of restructuring or privatization, which could exceed the
expertise of any individual lawyer. The ERTU will also have
access to consultancy services or staff seconded from other
Government agencies for short periods to carry out specific
assignments.
(c)   The ERTU will take all the steps necessary to ensure that its
staffing remains both capable and sufficient in numbers to
discharge the responsibilities associated with the IDA Credit.
Both its consultant managerial and technical staff, will be
hired in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for hiring
consultants.
(d)   In carrying out its task, the ERTU, will collaborate with
other  Ministries,   especially  the  concerned  technical
ministries, the BM aud the Ministries of Industry and Energy,
Commerce and Labor,  which  are  dir,ctly  responsible  for
supervising  the  performance  of  enterprises  as  well  as
management  of  some  of  the  beneficiary  enterprises.
Coordination with these parties will be facilitated through
the Interministerial Working Group (IWG). The purpose of the
IWG is to ensure that relevant line Ministries, BM and
enterprise management have the opportunity to provide inputs
in the development of enterprise rehabilitation proposals,
and that agreement is reached on issues, before the proposals
are submitted to the Minister.
II. Utilization of Funds
(a)   The IDA Credit funds will be managed and disbursed by BM.
(b)   The proceeds of the IDA Credit shall be used, in accordance
with the terms of the Development Credit Agreement entered
into between the People's Republic of Mozambique and IDA (the
DCA), to finance the procurement of capital and intermediate
goods, raw materials, spare parts and services needed for the
restoration and normal operation of enterprises that are
currently in need of rehabilitation or in financial distress



_103 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 3 of 9
and which undergo financial restructuring under the Credit
that transforms them into fully viable enterprises.
(c)   The  beneficiary  enterprises  that  may  receive  financial
assistance  shall  be  manufacturing  and  agroindustrial
enterprises.
(d)   The proceeds of the IDA Credit will be used to finance only
specific projects that are technically, legally, financially
and economically eligible. Financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit will be provided only for the purposes, and to
cover the types of expenditures, stated in the DCA. No funds
from the IDA Credit will be used for repayment of existing
obligations of the enterprise.
III.  Subloans Terms and Conditions
(a)   Subloans will finance fixed investments for fixed assets and
spare parts (including investments carried out in order to
restore production or improve the beneficiary's technical
capabilities) and increases in permanent working capital.
Such subloans financing fixed investments and the working
capital associated with these investments, will have
maturities of up to 15 years, including grace periods of up
to 5 years. Subloans for the preparation of rehabilitation
plans will have maturities of up to 5 years, including grace
periods of up to 2 years, and could be refinanced when fixed
investment subloans are approved. However, no subloan will
mature after the IDA Credit's closing date.
(b)   Subloans will be denominated in Meticais.  Each subloan will
be intermediated by the BM which will make a commitment to
provide any supplementary domestic financing needs to complete
the investment project.
(c)   Interest rates for subloans will be variable and in accordance
with the interest rate structure which prevails in Mozambique.
The current interest rate structure has been established in
consultation with the IMF, and it has been agreed that the
level of interest rates will be adjusted so that they become
positive in real terms by 1990. Thereafter, BM and IDA shall
consult and agree on both the structure and level of interest
rates to ensure they remain positive in real terms.
IV.  Subloan Apnraisal and Supervision
2.       Role of the ERTU will be, inter alia, to assist enterprises prepare
rehabilitation plans and financial restructuring proposals. For the purposes
of the IDA Credit, the ERTU will appraise the proposals for rehabilitation
and/or restructuring presented by potential beneficiaries to ensure that they
meet the subproject eligibility requirements and will recommend subprojects



-104 -
4-2
Page 4 of 9
to the Minister for approval or disapproval on the basis of the appraisal.
Technical assistance needed to prepare the rehabilitation plans would be
eligible for financing under the Project.
(a)   Rehabilitation Plan.    Each rehabilitation proposal would
include the following basic elements: (i) a marketing plan,
aimed at increasing the enterprise's revenues, through
emphasis upon the more profitable products and customers,
product  redesign,   quality  improvements,   and  expanded
geographic coverage; (ii) a production rehabilitation plan,
devised to restore production, fill the needs identified under
the marketing plan. The rehabilitation plan could include
measures to downsize productive capacity, achieve a fuller
utilization of existing capacity, or, where necessary, expand
existing capacity;  (iii) a management Rlan reviewing existing
management capacity and recommending measures to streamline
management and the organization structure.   The need for
specialized staff and training would also be identified; (iv)
a financial restructuring olan to restore financial soundness
and to assist enterprises regain competitiveness if they have
excessive debt on their balance sheets; and (v) a financing
"1an prepared outlining how to implement the preceding
marketing, production, management plans, restructuring plans,
the elements of which are briefly discussed below. Financing
arrangements under the ERC would take two forms: (a) subloans
contracted  through  subloan  agreements  would   finance
rehabilitation of enterprise fixed assets, spare parts,
working capital and technical assistance; while (b) financing
for restructuring purposes would be contracted through an
investment agreement.   The restructuring proposal, would
typically include: (a) the sale of unnecessary assets; (b)
a reduction in the enterprise's financial burden, accomplished
through the use of any of the instruments suitable for
restructuring, or a combination of several of them.   The
restructuring program will include, a review of the current
ownership of the enterprise and justifiable proposals on
whether the enterprise should remain a public enterprise, or
be divested to operate as a joint venture with the private
sector (involving both local and foreign investors); (c) other
measures to improve the firm's financial situation (extended
maturities, for instance);  (d) an issue of new shares to
mobilize fresh capital, whenever possible, (e) a request for
a subloan that could include financing for free-standing
permanent working capital, fixed investment, or a combination
of both; and (f) financial projections showing the expected
results of all these planned measures.   Subloan requests
should also include an independent legal opinion, on terms
satisfactory to ERTU, confirming that the beneficiary
enterprise is a legal entity, that no further claims can be
leveled against the firm in connection with its previous
ownership or liabilities at the moment of restructuring, and



- 105 -
ANEXD 4-2
Page 5 of 9
that the ownership of the enterprises's controlling interest
is clearly defined (or it will be so as a result of the
restructuring).   Enterprises may request ERTU to provide
technical  assistance  and  finance  for  preparing  the
rehabilitation plans and corporate workout.
(b)   In reviewing subloan requests, ERTU should receive from the
applicant enterprises  a complete  disclosure  of  all  the
information relevant for the appraisal of the subproject,
including information about the identity and history of the
company's owners.   To proceed with the appraisal of an
application, financial statements satisfactory to ERTU, will
be   requested,   and  beneficiary   enterprises   will  be
contractually   obliged   to   appoint   external   auditors
satisfactory to ERTU as a condition of individual enterprise
subloans.
(c)   A precondition for restructuring enterprises will be that the
banks, Government, and enterprise management agree on a base
balance sheet that reflects the real net worth of an
enterprise, taking into account an adequate revaluation of
assets and confirmed outstanding liabilities. Creditors to
the enterprise should commit themselves, in principle, to
consider reducing their claims on the enterprise's cashflow
by foregoing all outstanding penalty charges and fees relating
to the debt in default, and converting part of the
unserviceable debt into equity or quasi-equity.
(d)   In appraising a subproject, ERTU and BM will ensure that:
(i)       The owners are bona-fide entrepreneurs, committed
to  the  success  of  the  enterprise.    If  the
enterprise's ownership is controlled by local banks
or Government, or the status of ownership is
uncertain, provide justifiable proposal on how to
restructure the enterprise and resolve the ownership
question within a specified time period (generally
about six years). For intervened enterprises, the
proposal  will  provide  for  the  review  and
regularization or reorganization of their legal
status as a condition of the subloan.
(ii)      The  managerial  abilities  of  the  enterprise's
executives are sufficient to undertake the tasks
required by the plans included in the rehabilitation
plan.
(iii)       The administration and organizational setup of the
enterprise are adequate to carry out the proposed
rehabilitation plan and salaries and wages are



- 106 -
Page 6 of 9
reasonable in accordance with pre-existing labor
practices in Mozambique.
(iv)     The enterprise has either already sold, or has
designed a plan satisfactory to IDA, or is planning
to divest itself of all assets not essential for its
industrial activities as spelled out in the
corresponding rehabilitation plan.
(v)      All expenditures proposed to be financed with the
proceeds of the IDA Credit are eligible in
accordance with the DCA.
(vi)      the enterprises's Financial Rate of Return (FRR)
and Economic Rate of Return (ERR) both are equal
to, or exceed, 12% in real terms, after taking into
account the proposed investment subproject. The ERR
will be estimated using border prices.
(vii)    The projected debt-service-coverage ratio  (cash
generation divided by financial charges plus
principal repayments), of a restructured enterprise
is no less than 1.0 in each and every year of the
life of the project, and averages not less than 1.5
during the period.
(ix)     The projected current ratio (current assets divided
by short-term liabilities) is not lower, at any
time, than 1.2, unless IDA agrees otherwise.
(x)      As a guideline for determining the amount of debt
to be serviced by the enterprise, a determination
will be made of the principal amount outstanding
which can be serviced over 10-12 years, taking into
account the projected cashflow of the enterprise.
Prior to defining the debt, the banks, Government
and the enterprise must agree on the treatment to
be given to depreciation, a dividend policy, and the
amount of funds the firm would retain to increase
working capital and asset replacements. The target
should be to achieve a long-term debt-to-equity
ratio  not  to  exceed  3:1.  Provisions  for  the
repayment of the debt would be included.
(xi)     The enterprise has considered in its financial plans
the contingent liabilities that could arise from the
restructuring  process.      In  particular,   if
subordinated convertible instruments were used to
restructure the enterprise's debt, a sinking fund
should be established in order to cover the cash



- 107 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 7 of 9
outlays that would take place if the holders of
these instruments decided not to convert at
maturity.
(xii)     For the purposes of estimating the current and long-
term-debt-to-equity ratios, the term "debt" will
include all outstanding and contingent liabilities
of the enterprise with respect to persons or
entities other than its shareholders, excepting only
those that are subordinated in both service and
repayment of principal.   The term "subordinated"
will be used to identify those debts that are senior
only with respect to the claims of the shareholders.
A debt will be "subordinated in the service of
debts" when it is serviced only after all normal
debts have been serviced, and then, only if the
liquidity of the enterprise is enough to service it
while keeping it within the limits agreed on in the
Subloan or Investment Agreement.  A debt will be
"subordinated in repayment of principal" when, in
case of failure of the enterprise, repayment of its
principal is effected only after all normal debts
have been fully repaid.  The term "capital' will
include all net claims of the enterprise's
shareholders, plus those of the holders of
subordinated debts.
(e)   ERTU will also make sure that the Subloan and Investment
Agreements are in accordar.ce with the provisions of the IDA
Credit and DCA.
V.  Conditions of Disbursement
(a)   All relevant agreements should have been entered into by the
competent authorities and be binding upon them, including,
inter   alia,   existing   debt   restructuring   agreement,
shareholders agreements whereby shareholders agree to offer
the necessary pre-emptive rights needed to implement possible
conversions, new equity issuance, etc., as well as possible
security agreements and shareholder undertakings regarding
actual or contingent commitments to provide financial support.
(b)   All other disbursement conditions established in the Subloan
Agreement should have been complied with.
VI. General Subloan Conditions
BM and ERTU will ensure that:



- 108 -
AWM% 4-2
Page 8 of 9
(a)   Beneficiaries  will  present  to  ERTU  quarterly  financial
statements and annual financial statements audited by
independent auditors.
(b)   All transactions effected by the beneficiary enterprise with
any individual or enterprise related to it through ownership
should be clearly explained.
(c)   All or any revenue-sharing arrangements entered into by the
beneficiary should be subordinated to payments to senior
creditors.
(d)   The beneficiary enterprise will not declare nor pay dividends
if such payment is likely to impair its liquidity or ability
to meet its debt service obligations.
(e)   Limits will be imposed upon investments and indebtedness not
included in the rehabilitation plans and as determined by BM
according to prudent commercial banking practices.
(f)   No prepayments of long-term debt will be effected unless
proportionate payment is also made to the subloan.
(g)   No change in the beneficiary's by-laws will be authorized
during the age of the subloan without BM approval.
(h)   All other conditions contained in the DCA.
VII. Supervision
3.       ERTU will be responsible for overseeing the disbursements  of
subloans. To this end, ERTU will review the documentation for disbursement
before it is submitted to BM for disbursement and together with BM will. pay
periodic visits to the beneficiary's facilities to confirm that the
rehabilitation plan is being implemented in accordance with the Subloan or
Investment Agreement. During the period of disbursement, these visits will
be realized quarterly, and, after disbursement, once every year. ERTU and
BM will carry out at least one major formal review of each subproject per
year, and will send a copy of its results to IDA. BM will be required to
maintain adequate records reflecting the operations financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, and to submit to IDA (with a copy to the ERTU),
quarterly reports on the performance of the portfolio financed out of the
IDA Credit.
VIII. Procurement
4.       ERTU will monitor closely the procurement of items to be financed
under the Credit, in order to. make sure that the items are reasonably priced



- 109 -
ANMMt 4- 2
Page 9 of 9
and appropriate for their intended use. Particularly, ERTU will ensure that
enterprises receive quotations according to the procedures and conditions set
out in the DCA.
IU. Amendments and Clarifications
5.       Amendments to this policy statement may be made upon agreement
between the authorized representatives of the People's Republic of Mozanbique
and IDA. In addition, the procedures to be used by BM or ERTU in dealing
with any subloans or investments of a type not previously subject to
agreements between the IDA and Government would be clarified through an
exchange of letters.



INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
PROPOSED PROJECT IMPLEHENTATION ORGANIZATION CHART
Steering Com_ittee for Resolveing
COOMITTEE FOR EXTERNAL    r-! Project Policy Issues:
IECONOMIC RELATIONS (CREE)                                        (Policy Reforms, Restructuring of
Enterprises - debt & ownership issues)
Sector Mlnistries      IANK on  NOF MZ IQUE       KINISTRY OF FINANCE          Responsible for Overall
Project Execution.
SNTZRPRUSL 3RSTtUCTURING         R.sponsibilities Inclodes
Intertinisterial            TECUNICAL UNIT (UTtU) 21            - Sub-project Appraisal
Working Group (IW3)lI                                           - Project Imples natlon
& Managemnt
- Liaison with 3M
-Procurement Advice to
Enterprises
ENTERPRISES                                                               - Technical Assistance
Coordination
Policy and Economic     Training,          Support to              Consultancy
Analysis; Consultant    Reporting and      Enterprises fors        Services
Supervision             Monitoring         Pre- & Feasibility
Studies & Preparation
of Rehab. Plans
11 IUG co prises representatives of.           21 Staff Compositions
-Ministry of Finance (ERTU)                       Internationally Recruiteds           Local Staff
-Bank of Mozambique                               -Lead Industrial Advisor (PARTEX) - Project Director
-Ministry of Industry and Energy                  - Economist (PARTEX)                 - Economist
-Ministry of Construction and Water               - Engineer (PARTEX)                  - Accountant
-Ministry of Agriculture                          - Procurement Advisor                - Seconded or Assigned
-Ministry of Transport and Communications         - Short-term Consultants                 Staff
-BEs (co-opted when necessary)



- 111 -                                                          Annex 5-2
MOZAMSIQUE
INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Bank ot Mozambiqu* - Summary Accounts, 1980-87
(In Millions of Mbtloels)
......... .............. ,........ ............. _  ......... .............................. _ .  ......._ . _......_..
1984      19:s     1986      1987                19" 898
Hhrch     June    Sept.       Dec.    nhrch       JUne
foreign assets                 3%2       2921      3140    6tO05    7386    60126   105131   12849
Clains on 6Svernment          72075    7432    53089    69569   102110   101103   11199   121671
Clains on the economy         78734    91905   109301   13642t  145531   151569   166053   1BM?
(laiMs on the banks            1766      1500       673       873      673       873      2671      2679
Unclassified assets           77426    74351    77519  1765708  2057310  2i12015          ...   2932656
fixed and stocks              213       211       201      276       267       1OO      ...       692
Rdju3tment accounts           334        -                1274      1160      1439      ...      5544
Trmnsitorv accounts         76801    74140    71474   63071   719375   733737           ...   100737
Other assets                    2         -      2844  1133385  1336268  140639         .      111683
3ssets * babilities          233963   244959   243222  2053579  2379102  2466286                3377692
leservt noney                 62863    73813    66167   133037   145060   15755           ...    202466
Currency issued             28751    31157    33904    38640    39382         5365    471S3    6459S
ners' deposits               6064    12698    16001    25511    317    31737            ...     41529
Ossand deposits             26048    21198    36262    66653    74391         0453      ..      16340
lTine and foreign
currency deposits             .         ...       437     7011    137I8    13040        ...     16315
Hedir and long-
tern foreign                                       v
liabilities                 27227    34248    36791   413660   43444    4351S2   555437   61204?
Short-ten foreign
liabilities                  3030      2264      3139   14169    s766    57370    61557    62550
of uhich: Sof                 -         -         -       6021    15666    19230    23417    24410
6owerment deposits            49510    47789    20576    38075    41432    50112    54317    62607
Capital accounts               91472    10485    12374    25861    27577    28900    30744    26036
Unclassified liabilities    81831    76330    63738  1391458  165971  1746157             ...   2393569
Restricted deposits          2000      2000      20    20 20        20 2      2000      2000     2000
Ndjustnent accounts            -       1015      1465    12514    8KIS        924       ...     40016
Transitory accounts         781%      71541    ?11 79    22C094   26Z214    26666?      ...    347629
Cashier's check              1635      1774      2664     7499      9272    10522       ...     13843
Continget liabilities
(net)
Other liabilities              -         -       571  1140951  137039  145752           ...   1910021
Source:  bta provided by the aW    of Mozanbique.



- 112 -
Ann x 5-8
MOZAMBIQUE
INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Moneotry and Credit Development., 1980-87 I/
(In Millions of Meticals)
Dec      Doc      Dec     Dec.    Dec.
CATEGORY                     l910      1911     1982     1938    1964       1915     1991     1907       193
__- - --- -- -- -- -- -- -- - -- - - -- - -- - - - -- - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -U- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - - - - - - - - - - -
Net Foreign Asset. 2/         6,173    6,484    1,441   (1,682)      987       615      86o   21,941  6e,482
Assets                      8,397    7,407    2,769    2,478    4,017    2,860    8,600  61,090  122,58a
Liabilities                   (724)    (923)  (1,31b)  (4,140)  (3,030)  (2,265)  (3,140) (89,149) (69,151)
Domestic credit              49,599   62,316   72,988  102,915  124,243  144,190  168,912  217,493  290,642
Claims on Governmnt, Net       1,678    6,39    8,8653   13,671   22,266   27,028   82,948   47,262   62,907
Clalim  on Government      25,954   87,498   W0,823  86,763   80,006   82,817   61,524   91,565  142,154
Government Deposits        24,278   81,169   46,965   52,192   67,740  56,789   28,576   51,818   89,247
Claims on the Economy        47,928   65,979   69,130   69,344  101,977  117,162  186,964  170,241  287,785
Money and quasi-mtony         86,817   46,880   59,481   72,$91   83,622   96,627  111,407  170,868  288,891
Currency outside banks       9,137   12,227   17,811   23,632   27,02'   29,791   32,216   36,572   57,076
Demand Deposits             28,525   30,854  38,454   46,028  65,s18   62,827   75,142  128,951  169,868
Time Deposits                2,656    8,079    3,218    3,931    2,777    3,909    4,049    9,888    9,947
Foreign Borrowing 8/          6,627    5,995   10,426   26,725   27,227   84,248   36,791  419,909 621,780
Other Items, net              15,828   17,147    4,523    3,037   14,381   14,030   21,074 (851,831)   n.n
Capital Accounts           11,226   11,869   11,028   10,496   11,589   12,745   14,718   28,6831   28,6831
Interbank Claims, net                       ..                  (1,350)    (821)    (878)   8,877    n.a
Unclassified Items net      4,608    5,78e  (6s,50)  (7,459)   4,142    2,106    7,284 (389,839)   n.a
Memorandum Item:
Not Domestic Credit 4/     27,144   89,176   58,040   74,153   82,685   95,912  111,047  149,416    n.a
Source: Bank of Mozambique
1/ Data for 1900-93 are not strictly comparable with those for following years.
2/ Includes foreign eurrency demand deposit. at Bank of Mozambique.
8/  Bank of Mozambique mdi um- and long-torm foreign liabilities (set. A approx through Sept. 1986).
4/  Domstic Credit lso foreign borrowing and other Items, net.



-113 -                       AN= S-4
Page 1 of 3
MOZANDIIUE
INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
ENTRPRISE RESTRUCTURING TECHNICAL UNIT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Date of Establishment: February 19, 1988
Location and Funding:
As a follow-up to the Arthur D. Little Study of 40 industrial
enterprises, Government, with support from the World Bank, established an
Enterprise Restructuring Technical Unit (ERTU) located in the Ministry of
Finance, to act as a catalyst in the enterprise rehabilitation program and
to invigorate the indtustrial sector. The cost of setting up the ERTU and
costs of consultancies would ultimately be financed from the Industrial
Enterprise   Restructuring  Credit,   but   to  expedite   the   industrial
rehabilitation process, Government received an IDA Project Preparation
Facility (PPF) to finance the start-up of the ERTU and relevant studies.
COMPOSITION
The ERTU is headed by a Project Director, who is currently the
National Director of Treasury in the Ministry of Finance and is staffed as
follows:
(a)      Internationally Recruited Staff:
(i)   One Project Advisor;
(ii) One Economist/Financial Analyst;
(iii) One Engineer;
(iv) One Procurement Advisor (vacant).
(b)   Local Staff will be supplied, as needed, to undertake specific
assignments, by the Prices and Economic Analysis Department
(PEAD) of the Ministry of Finance. The core local staff will
consist of:
(i)   Project Director -National Director of Treasury
Head of PEAD;
(ii)  Economist  (currently occupied by an economist from
PEAD); and
(iii) Accountant (Vacant).
(c)  Additional  local staff would be  temporarily seconded or
assigned to the Unit from other Government departments as
needed, to work on particular projects or enterprise plans
which come within their responsibilities or expertise;



- 114 -
ANNEX 5-4
Page 2 of 3
(d)  Foreign consultancy staff will be recruited as needed for
specific assignments.
ERTU is expected to be entrepreneurial and to play an important
role  by  providing  guidance  for  the  timely  implementation  of  the
rehabilitation program and the IERP.
RSZQSIJILLIKTI
Gen ral:       The main task of the ERTU will be the preparation and
implementation of the enterprise rehabilitation program.  On behalf of the
Ministry of Finance, the ERTU, shall be responsible for the overall
coordination, management and supervision of implementation of the IERP. This
will include collaboration with and supervision of consultants appointed to
carry out Phase II of the enterprise review.    In carrying out  this
responsibility, the ERTU will liaise closely with and help coordinate other
Government agencies' involved in the Project. It will develop capability to
provide operational support to enterprises under rehabilitation. The ERTU
will also undertake ad hoc tasks, including sector and sub-sector studies,
as may be assigned to it by Government through the Ministry of Finance. Due
to the general shortage of qualified staff, the ERTU will initially depend
on external consultants to carry out its responsibilities. However, with
time, it is expected that the Unit would strengthen its own capabilities and,
where available, recruit local consultant expertise under this program.
Soecific
The immediate task of the ERTU will be to:
(i)      Select, with the assistance of the consultants undertaking
the review, enterprises for in-depth study using criteria
agreed to in the terms of reference for the enterprise
reviews; and
(ii)     Supervise the work of the consultants undertaking the
enterprise  reviews.    The  ERTU will  coordinate  other
Government departments' actions in relation to the
rehabilitation  program,   and  backup   the  efficient
implementation of agreed reforms. Implementation support
includes refinement of the studies, identification of
technical partners, sources of knowhow and sources of
finance both within and outside the country, and agreeing
on a timetable for the rehabilitation program;
Responsibilities under the IERP
In the context of the IERP, the ERTU shall:
(i)      assist beneficiary enterprises (BEs) to identify and select
cowultants to carry out prefeasibility, feasibility and
design studies in accordance with World Bank guidelines for
the use of consultants;



- 115 -
ANNEX 5-4
Page 3 of 3
(ii)     assist  BEs  in  the design  and  implementation  of  the
Rehabilitation Plans;
(iii)    in collaboration with the Bank of Mozambique, carry out
appraisals of subprojects to be financed under the Project;
(iv)     jointly with the BEs, develop and irplement co-financing
plans; and
(v)      strengthen the capacity of local project  insticutions
through training, especially in project appraisal and
enterprise restructuring;
(vi)     provide policy advice to Government through analysis of
the impact of specific policies on the performance of
enterprises, inter alia taxation, pricing and price
controls, production quotas, credit and foreign exchange
allocation, industrial licensing, trade (import, export
and domestic) policies and policies relating to asset
revaluation;
(vii)    ensure completion of sub-sector studies according to the
timetable set in the terms of reference; and
(viii)   ensure effective implementation of the IERP.



- 116 -
ANI[[ 5- 5
Page 1 of 6
MOZANBIOUE
INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING TECRNICAL UNIT
JOB DESCRIPTIONS
The Enterprise Restructuring Technical Unit (ERTU) was set up in the
Ministry of Finance to facilitate the preparation and timely implementation of
the Government's enterprise rehabilitation program. On behalf of the Ministry
of Finance, the ERTU is also charged with the responsibility for the overall
coordination, management and supervision of the implementation of the IERP.
The Unit will initially consist of a core team of five (two local and three
internationally-recruited staff) and be supported by external consultants and,
additional temporary, local staff seconded when needed from other Government
agencies.   The ERTU will liaise closely with other Government agencies and
supervise consultants appointed to carry out work relating to enterprise
rehabilitation or restructuring.  The setting up of this '.t has created the
need for the following positions.
1. Proiect Director
The ERTU shall be headed by a Project Director (currently National
Director of Treasury responsible for Economic and Price Analysis Department in
the Ministry of Finance), who shall report directly to the Minister of Finance.
He will be responsible inter alia for:
(i)   overall efficient coordination, management and supervision of
Project implementation, including providing the link with
Government agencies and other institutions;
(ii)  the Project Director will be responsible for the day-to-day
management and supervision of the ERTU in accordance with the
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement (paragraph 2
of Schedule 6); and
(iii) serve as chairman of the Interministerial Working Group (IWG).
In his capacity as Project Director, he will also ensure that the ERTU
collaborates closely with other Government agencies and the enterprises involved
in project implementation.
Project Advisor
2.          Reporting to the Project Director for the proposed Industrial
Enterprise Restructuring Project (IERP).



- 112 -
Annox 6-8
MOZAUBIQUE
INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Monetary and Credit Developmonts, 1980-87 1/
(In Millions of Moticals)
Dec      Dec      Doc     Doc.     Dec.
CATEGORY                     198c      1981     1982     1993     1984      1986     1988     1987       1988
_-- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - -- - ---------- --------- -  - - --------- - ---  _- -- -- -- -- ------ - - - -- - - - - -- - - - -- - - - 
Not Foreign Assets 2/         8,173    8,404    1,441   (1,682)      087       816      860   21,941   63,432
Assots                      8,897    7,407    2,769    2,478    4,017    2,890    8,600   61,090  122,658
Liabilitios                   (724)    (923)  (1,819)  (4,140)  (3,030)  (2,265)  (8,140) (89,149) (69,161)
Domestic credit              49,699   82,318   72,98a  102,916  124,243  144,190  188,912  217,493  290,642
Claims on Oovernment, Net      1,678    6,339    3,858   13,671   22,288   27,028   32,948   47,262   62,907
Claims on Government       26,964   37,498   60,923   65,783   80,006   82,817   81,524   90,685  142,154
Governmnt Deposits         24,278   31,169   48,986   52,192   57,740  65,789   28,576   61,313   89,247
Claims on the Economy        47,923  56,979   69,180   89,344  101,977  117,182  185,984  170,241  287,736
Money and quasi-money         85,317   45,680   59,481   72,491   83,622   96,627  111,407  170,36e 286,391
Currency outside banks      9,187   12,227   17,811   23,632   27,027   29,791   82,216   88,672   57,076
Demand Deposit.            28,525   80,364 a8,464   45,028   63,818   62,827   76,142  128,951  169,3S
Time Deposits               2,866    8,079    3,218    3,931    2,777    3,909    4,049    9,883    9,947
Foreign Borrowing 8/          6,827    6,995   10,426   26,726   27,227   34,248   86,791  419,909  621,780
Other Ytems, not              15,828   17,147    4,523    3,037   14,881   14,030   21,074 (851,881)   n.a
Capital Account.           11,226   11,889   11,028   10,496   11,589   12,745   14,718   28,681   28,681
Interbank Claim*, net         ...      ...                      (1,360)    (821)    (878)   8,877    n.e
Unclassified Item, net      4,803    5,778   (86,60)  (7,4s9)   4,142    2,106    7,284 (889,839)   n.a
Memorandum Item:
Net Domestic Credit 4/     27,144   89,176   58,040   74,158   82,e36   95,812  111,047  149,416    n.e
Sources: Bank of Mozambiquo
I/ Data for 1980-83 are not strictly comperable with those for followlhg years.
2/  Includes foreign currency demnd deposits at Bank of Mozambique.
8/  Bank of Mozambique medium- and long-tarm foreign liabilities (set. A approx through Sept. 1986).
4/ Domestic Credit leo  foreign borrowing and other items, net.



- 118 -
ANNEX S-5
Page 3 of 6
Additional Duties will be:
(i)   assisting the Project Director with the recruitment of staff
for the Unit and training local professional staff;
(ii)  reviewing and proposing to the Project Director a detailed
work program, priorities, and budget for the efficient
performance of the ERTU;
(iii) coordinating and supervising policy or sectoral studies
undertaken by the Unit on behalf of Government;
(iv)  advising on the regulatory framework as it affects enterprises
under the Project; and
(v)   undertaking any other duties, relevant to the operations of
the ERTU, as may be assigned to him from time to time by the
Project D4rector.
OUALIFICATIONS
Higher level degree(s), MBA/CPA or Finance or Economics. A solid
understanding and clear record of management level accomplishments in industry,
especially in finance, strategic planning and information systems. A key is the
ability to monitor a wide range of diverse activities and enterprises and ensure
that timely rehabilitation or corrective action is taken to attain desired
results. Since the position will have an unusually wide span of responsibility
over such areas as investment decisions, foreign participation, enterprise
financial restructuring, economic policy, and possibly divestitures, a highly
flexible professional is sought who functions effectively in a delicate
leadership role without close supervision. He will be expected to work within
tight schedules, thus, timeliness and quality work are of essence in this
assignment.
LANGUAGE
Fluency in English and Portuguese/Spanish essential.
Engineer
3.          Will work under the supervision of the Project Advisor.
He will ensure that all the technical aspects of Project
implementation are well integrated into the general work of the ERTU.
The Engineer shall be responsible inter alia for:
(a)   coordinating   ERTU's   technical   activities,   reviewing
rehabilitation and restructuring plans for soundness of their



-  119 -                  ANNEX 5-S
Page 4 of 6
technical designs. During project implementation, assisting
the beneficiary enterpris3s to ensure that implementation
schedules are adhered to and, when necessary, identify any
technical or production bottlenecks and suggest appropriate
solutions;
(b)   evaluating rehabilitation needs  and corresponding design
activities, and assessing the technical and production
implications of capital expenditures to determine their
consistency with project objectives and eligibility criteria;
(c)   reviewing and assisting the BEs in establishing technical
specifications for design, construction, and equipment
procurement to be undertaken under respective enterprises'
rehabilitation plans;
(d)   reviewing  technical  proposals  and  recommending  eligible
suppliers for contracts to be awarded under the Project; and
(e)   undertaking any other duties as may be assigned by the Project
Advisor.
Qualifications and *:erience
Postgraduate training in engineering (industrial, mechanical,
electrical, or chemical). Extensive relevant work experience in industry, part
of which should have been in a position not below that of chief engineer,
technical director,  factory manager,  or the equivalent.   In addition,  an
economics background or experience in general management, and project appraisal
will be an added advantage.
Economist
4.          Will work under the supervision of the Project Advisor.
He will be responsible for developing the ERTU' s capacity in economic
and financial  analysis, project appraisal, debt restructuring, etc.  These
responsibilities will include inter alia:
(i)   Planning, coordinating and supervising the economic activities
of the ERTU; undertaking subproject appraisals to determine
their financial and economic viability;   restructuring and
divestitures; reviewing the economic and financial aspects of
enterprise rehabilitation plans;
(b)   He shall be responsible for providing training to local
counterparts in the economic and financial aspects of project
appraisel and enterprise restructuring; and
(c)   the Economist shall undertake any other financial and economic
activities that may be assigned to him by the Project Advisor.



- 120 -
ANNEt 5_-5
Page 5 of 6
Oualifications and Exoerience
A professional accounting certificate plus an advanced economic
degree. Extensive experience in industry, consulting, accounting and project
appraisal.
The four staff listed above would be supported by other staff
appointed to the ERTU or staff from other Government Ministries thlat would be
seconded on a temporary basis as needed to work on particular assignments which
come within their areas ot responsibility or expertise.
Accountant
5.          The Accountant shall work under the supervision of the Project
Advisor. The Accountant shall be responsible inter alia for keeping financial
records and accounts for all project components; preparing withdrawal
applications for signature by the authorized representative of the BM;
reconciliation of the Special Account in coordination with BM and in accordance
with the Association's disbursement procedures and annual financial plans and
budgets; and preparing Project accounts for audit. The Accountant shall also
be responsible for providing training to local staff in basic accounting,
sufficient to efficiently carry out their duties.
Procurement Advisor
6.          The Procurement Advisor shall be responsible inter alia for:
(a)   providing training, monitoring and supervising all relevant
procurement procedures for the acquisition of equipment
vehicles, supplies and services, including the preparation of
tender documents; and
(b)   reviewing bids and contract awards in accordance with the
Association's guidelines and guidelines of other parallel co-
financing agencies.
Other Technical Staff
7.          To complement its full-time staff,  the ERTU shall employ,  in
accordance with the World Bank guidelines for the use of consultants, consultants
to provide technical assistance to BEs and the Government.
Interministerial Wording Group (IWG)
8.          (a)   in discharging his responsibilities, the Project Director
shall seek the advice of an interministerial working group
composed of senior-level officials representing, inter alia:
the Ministry of Industry and Energy; the Ministry of
Construction and Water; the Ministry of Agriculture; the



- 121 -                      5-S
Page 6 of 6
Ninistry of Transport and Communications; and the Bank of
Mozambique;
(b)   the IWG may, at its discretion, request the participation of
representatives of the BEs involved in Project implementation
to discuss issues relevant to the respective BEs; and
(c)   the IWG shall ensure that: (i) the relevant sector ministries,
BM and the BEs have an opportunity to participate in the design
and implementation of the Rehabilitation Plans;  and (ii)
interministerial agreement is reached with reference to policy
issues before subloan and investment proposals are submitted
to the Minister of Finance for approval.



- 122 -
Annex 5-6
SINDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE RESTRUCURING PROJECT
Eetimated Disbur_sent Scheule for tho IDA Ceilt
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Africa-Region
Disbursement Profile
Profile for Industrial
Projects.
(Cumulative X           Disbursements        Cumultive
IDA Fiscal Year    Disbureemnte) a/      during the Period    Disbursemente
(USS   mi lIIon) _ _    _
FY90 - 12/31/69                  OX           0.0                   0.0
- 06/30/90                  ax           1.6                   1.5
FY91 - 12/31/90                 10X           2.9                   4.4
_ 06/80/91                 17X           3.1                   7.5
FY92 - 12/31/91                 27X           4.4                  11.9
- 06/30/92                 40X           5.7                  17.6
FY98 - 12/31/92                 s0X           4.4                  22.0
- 06/30/93                 71X           9.2                  31.2
FY94 - 12/31/93                 s1X           4.4                  35.6
- 06/30/94                 671           2.6                  36.3
FY95 - 12/31/94                 921           2.2                  40.6
- 06/30/95                 95X           1.3                  41.8
FY96 - 12/31/95                 99X           1.6                  43.6
- 06/30/96                100X           0.4                  44.0
/ Estimates based on recent disbursement experience on IDA projects in
Mozambi quo
AFSIE
Jun. 1989



- 123 -                      hZ..
t                                  ~~~~~~        ~       ~      ~~~- 123 -  ANNEX 5-7
Page 1 of 4
hOZANBIOUE
NvUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING PROJECT (IERP)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT (PCR)
PRPARATION ARRANGEXEN
A.       Introduction
1.       Project Completion Reports (PCRs), which provide a retroactive
assessment of the project, are prepared for all investment and adjustment
lending operations financed by the World Bank (IBRD/IDA), wittin six months
of the Loan/Credit Closing Date. The content of the PCR and allocation of
responsibility between the Bank and the Borrower under an IDA Credit for the
proposed Industrial Enterprise Restructuring Project (IERP) are briefly
outlined below.
B.       Scpoe and Content of PCRs
2.       The PCR will provide a comprehensive but focussed account of the
project's objectives, design, implementation, and impact. These objectives
are in Parts I through III, as outlined below.
PART X
(a)   A brief description of the implementation record of the
operation and analysis of key issues (to be prepared by the
Bank within three months of the Credit Closing Date).
PART II
(b)   There should be an analytical review of the project from the
Borrower's perspective and should be prepared within three
months of the Credit Closing Date.   The Project Director
would, on behalf of the Borrower, be responsible for preparing
Part  II of the PCR.   A  format to meet  the  reporting
requirements would be prepared by IDA in advance of the first
supervision mission  for  the  Project.    Essentially,  the
Borrower would prepare this section with the purpose of:
(i)   evaluating IDA's performance during the evolution and
implementation of the project, with special emphasis on
lessons learned that may be relevant for the future;
(ii)  evaluating the Borrower's own performance during the
evolution and implementation of the project;



- 124 -
ANNEX 5-7
Page 2 of 4
(iii) assess the effectiveness of the relationship between
IDA and the Borrower during the evolution and
implementation of the project; and
(iv) confirm the adequacy and accuracy of the information
contained in Parts I and III of the PCR (if these have
been sent to the Borrower by IDA).
i
PART III
3.       The ERTU will be required to prepare and furnish to IDA supervision
missions statistical data and background information necessary to prepare
Part III of the PCR.  The information would include the following:
(a)   Progect Implementation.   Basic documents for this purpose
would consist of annual Project work programs, budgets, and
progress reports prepared by the ERTU, approved   by the
Ministry of Finance, to be submitted to IDA and reviewed
during supervision missions. The work programs and budgets
will include monitorable targets on Credit approvals,
commitments, disbursements, and implementation schedules to
be compared against the targets set at appraisal. This
would include information on the Enterprise Restructtring
Component, and Technical Assistance Component. Before each
supervision mission, IDA would submit a set questionnaire for
collecting additional information that may be necessary.
(b)   Reporting Requirements
Proiect Costs.   The information will be derived from: the
rehabilitation plans prepared for each enterprise; ERTU's
supervision reports on each enterprise which would indicate
actual costs incurred during implementation; and enterprise
annual reports. All of these reports will be made available
to IDA in accordance with the reporting requirements described
in the SAR. Basic information will be presented as follows:
(i)    type  of sub-project:    rehabilitation,  expansion,
working capitel, or financial restructuring;
(ii)   enterprise size by assets, production capacity, sales
and employment;
(iii)  sector/sub-sectors;
(iv)   location of sub-project;
(v)    financial intermediary;



- 125 -
ANNEX 5-7
Page 3 of 4
(vi)   investment costs with breakdown of foreign and local
costs;
(vii)  amount of sub-loan committed with breakdown of the
IDA credit, equity contributions from enterprise's
own sources, or by Government;
(viii) total investment for each sub-project, classified by
investment item (machinery and equipment, civil works,
technical assistance, consultancy, training, etc.)
B.    Project Financing.   Information will be derived from the
rehabilitation plans; sub-loan agreements; and from ERTU's
enterprise supervision reports.
4.       In both (A) and (B), the actual results would be compared against
the appraisal estimates.
5.       Prxoiect Results.   The information on each enterprise and on the
Project in general, will include data on:
A.    Direct Benefits:
Mi)    employment;
(ii)   exports and consequent imports (market development
and performance);
(iii)  manpower development;
(iv)   structure of ownership;
(v)    percent use of local inputs, and value added; and
(vi)   capital labor and capital/output ratios.
B.    Economic Benefits:
Mi)    economic rate of return;
(ii)    economic benefits and spin-offs;
(iii)    environmental effects; and
(iv)    overall  economic  justification  (at  sub-project
appraisal vs. actual results)
C.    Financial Impact:
(i)    financial rate of return
(ii)    financial results (including working capital analysis)



- 126 -
AM=t 5-7
Pago 4 of 4
(iii)    financial covenants and targets (including  results
of financial restructuring); and
(iv)    financial and structural ratios.
D.    Studies:
Assess purpose as defined at appraisal, status durin.g
implementation, and impact of the studies.
6.       Status of compliance or non-compliance with the covenants.  These
will be reviewed for compliance during IDA supervision missions.
7.       The basic data sheet overleaf will be prepared for each enterprise
rehabilitation financed under the Project.
BASIC DATA SHEET
Key Project Data
Original   Current/Actual
ITEK                                     Estimate        Estimate
Total Sub-project Cost (US$ Million)
Overrun or Underrun (%)
Cost of Fixed Assets (US$ Million)
Working Capital (US$ Million)
Financing (US$ Million)
Internal Cash Generation
External Aid Agencies (specify)
Other Sources
Sub-loan Amount (US$ Million)
Disbursed
Cancelled
Repaid to
Outstanding to
Completion of Physical Components (date)
Start-up of Operations (date)
Achievement of Full Production (Date)
Full Production Level (Units)
By Product (Units)
Financial rate of Return (%)
Economic Rate of return (%)



- 127 -
Annex 6-1
NOZANDIODE
INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE ON PROJECT FILE
A.   Phase I   Reports prepared by consultants for the Ministry of Finance
(MF) "Review of Agricultural and Industrial Enterprises" in
Seven Volumes, May 1988: Vol. 1 - "Factual Summaries of 40
Industrial and Agroindustrial Companies in Mozambique";
Vol. 2 - Analysis of Issues; Vols. 3-7 - Prefeasibility
Studies on Five Enterprises.
B.   Phase II  Pre-feasibility  Studies  on  Ten  Enterprises  prepared by
consultants for MF, "Industrial and Agricultural Enterprise
Review" in 10 volumes, July 1989. - CIM, IMA, MADAL, CARMOC,
PROSUL, FACOBOL, VAN LEER, FASOL/SABOREL, ECOME and CIMENTOS.
C.   Contact and Terms of Reference for above studies.
D.   Contract and Terms of Reference between GOM and PARTEX to provide
Technical Assistance to the ERTU.
E.   Legislation Relating to Depreciation and Amortization, of January 27,
1968.
F.   DECREE No. 13/88 of November 11, 1988, relating to Asset Revaluation.



