Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
AGREEMENT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2081 MOZ
Agreement
(Industrial Restructuring Project)
between
GOVERNMENT OF SWEDEN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
for
the Administration of Certain Funds
to be made available by the
SWEDISH INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION AGENCY
Dated December 20, 1996
AGREEMENT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2081 MOZ
AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 20, 1996, between GOVERNMENT OF SWEDEN (Sweden) 
represented by the SWEDISH INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION AGENCY (SIDA) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) to provide for the 
administration by the Association of certain funds to be made available by Sweden to 
the Republic of Mozambique (Mozambique).
WHEREAS (A): Sweden wishes to make available to Mozambique a grant not exceeding 
an amount of fourteen million Swedish Kronor (SEK 14,000,000) (the SIDA Grant) to 
assist Mozambique in financing part of the Industrial Restructuring Project, (the 
Project), described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement (Credit Number 
2081-MOZ), dated February 7, 1990, (the Development Credit Agreement) between 
Mozambique and the Association; 
(B)
Sweden wishes that the proceeds of the Grant should be incremental to the 
proceeds of the Development Credit Agreement and extended for the same purposes by the 
Association pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement; and
(C)
the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing to 
administer the Grant upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Section 1.01. The Association, as Administrator on behalf of Sweden, shall 
review and approve requests submitted by Mozambique to finance the reasonable costs of 
goods and services required during the execution of the Project in accordance with the 
relevant provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement, except that the 
amounts to be withdrawn shall not be repaid and shall bear no interest or other 
charges.
Section 1.02. The Association, as Administrator on behalf of Sweden, shall have 
the sole responsibility for the supervision of the Project.
Section 1.03. The Association shall exercise the same care in the discharge of 
its functions under this Agreement as it exercises with respect to the administration 
and management of its own affairs and shall have no further responsibility to Sweden 
in respect thereof.
ARTICLE II
Section 2.01. (a) For the purpose of this Agreement, Sweden shall, upon request 
from the Association, deposit the Grant amount equivalent to fourteen million Swedish 
Kroner (SEK 14,000,000) into the IBRD’s Account “T” IBRDSEK 2 which is maintained with 
Sveriges Riksbank (the T-Account).
(b)
When making deposits, Sweden shall:
(i)
instruct Sveriges Riksbank to:
(A)
advise the Association’s Cash Management Department 
as to the amount received; 
(B)
specify it is for Mozambique Statistics Capacity 
Building Program, Project No. TF 020947; and
(C)
specify the date of the deposit; and
(ii)
Fax a copy of any payments instructions to Sveriges 
Riksbank to the Office of the Trust Funds Administrator in 
the 
Association utilizing Fax No. 202-522-3397.
(c)
The funds in the T-Account shall be freely exchangeable by the 
Association with other currencies as may facilitate their administration.
Section 2.02. The Association shall disburse from the T-Account such amounts as, 
from time to time, shall be needed to meet the reasonable costs of goods and services 
financed, or to be financed, pursuant to Section 1.01 of this Agreement. Such 
disbursement shall be effected on the basis of withdrawal applications for eligible 
expenditures submitted by Mozambique to the Association, in accordance with the 
Association’s normal procedures for withdrawal of proceeds of credits made by the 
Association.
Section 2.03. In order to assist the defrayal of the costs of administration and 
other expenses incurred by the Association under this Agreement, the Association may 
invest and reinvest the Grant funds pending their disbursement. The Association shall 
credit all income from such investment on a monthly basis to a separate Swedish 
investment income trust fund, which the Association may also invest. Except as SIDA 
and the Association may otherwise agree, the Association may deduct from such 
investment income trust fund and retain for its own account an amount equivalent to: 
(i) two percent (2%) of the amount of the Grant; and (ii) such amounts as are required 
to reimburse the Association for the cost of any audits requested by SIDA. Except as 
SIDA and the Association may otherwise agree, the Association shall pay to SIDA the 
balance of the funds in such investment income trust fund on an annual basis no later 
than September 1 of each year. If the amount in such investment income trust fund in 
any year is less than the amount the Association is entitled to retain under this 
agreement, SIDA will, upon request from the Association, pay such remaining amount to 
the Association.
Page  3
ARTICLE III
Section 3.01. (a) The Association shall maintain separate records and accounts 
in respect of the funds in the T-Account disbursed by the Association pursuant to the 
provisions of this Agreement. Within 30 days of each March 31, June 30, September 30 
and December 31, the Association shall prepare a financial statement with respect to 
the funds deposited by Sweden with the Association pursuant to this Agreement and 
forward a copy to SIDA. Each such financial statement shall be expressed in the 
currency in which the funds are maintained by the Bank. The funds deposited may be 
commingled with other Trust Fund assets, but shall be kept separate and apart from the 
funds of the Association.
(b)
The Association will provide SIDA annually with a management assertion 
together with an attestation from the Association’s external auditors on the 
satisfactory performance of the procedures and controls used by the Association in 
administering trust funds. The costs of such attestations shall be borne by the 
Association. In addition, upon the request of SIDA, the Association shall cause the 
financial statement for the Project to be audited by the Association’s external 
auditors and shall forward a copy of the auditors’ report to SIDA. The cost of such 
audit shall be deducted from the Swedish investment income trust fund in accordance 
with Section 2.03 of this Agreement. The financial reporting and auditing under this 
Agreement shall be carried out in accordance with the Association’s normal practices.
ARTICLE IV
Section 4.01. SIDA and the Association shall consult from time to time at the 
request of each other on all matters arising out of this Agreement.
Section 4.02. The Association shall keep SIDA informed of the progress of the 
Project. To that end, the Association shall furnish to SIDA all relevant progress, 
performance and assessment reports related to the Project.
Section 4.03. The Association shall inform SIDA of any forthcoming major 
missions and meetings in connection with the Project and shall afford representatives 
of SIDA the opportunity to participate in such missions and meetings.
Section 4.04. The Association shall inform SIDA of any proposed significant 
modification to the Development Credit Agreement and shall afford SIDA a reasonable 
opportunity to exchange views with the Association before effecting any such 
modification.
ARTICLE V
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon signature and, subject 
to the provisions of this Article, shall continue in effect until December 31, 2000 or 
until all funds made available under this Agreement have been disbursed from the 
T-Account to Mozambique and all other formalities incidental thereto have been 
completed.
Section 5.02. If at any time it appears to either party that the purposes of 
this Agreement can no longer effectively or appropriately be carried out, this 
Agreement may be terminated at the initiative of such party on ninety (90) days notice 
in writing.
Section 5.03. Upon termination of this Agreement, unless the parties agree on 
another course of action, any funds of SIDA held hereunder by the Association 
including all investment income thereon, shall be returned to SIDA, and the 
Association’s administration shall be considered terminated. Subject to the foregoing, 
promptly after termination of this Agreement, the Association shall furnish SIDA with 
a final report and a final statement with respect to the funds.
ARTICLE VI
Section 6.01. The Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency, shall be 
competent to represent Sweden for the application of this Agreement.
Page  4
Section 6.02. This Agreement may be amended only by written agreement of the 
parties hereto.
Section 6.03. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand, mail, fax, cable or telex to 
the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's 
address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such party shall have 
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The 
addresses so specified are:
For Sweden:
Swedish International Development
  Cooperation Agency
S-105 25 Stockholm
Sweden
Telephone:
   (46) 8-698 5000
Telex:
11450 SIDA S
For the Association:
Macro Economics Division 1
Africa Region
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
USA
Fax:
Telex:
(202) 473-8301
         197688 (TRT)
  248423 (RCA)
   64145 (WUI) or
   82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned duly authorized hereto, have signed this 
Agreement.
GOVERNMENT OF SWEDEN
By  
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  5
By /s/ Phyllis Pomerantz
