Page  1
September 11, 1996
His Excellency Tomaz Augusto Salomão
Minister of Planning and Finance
Ministry of Planning and Finance
Maputo
Mozambique
Re:
Credit No. 2081-MOZ (Industrial Enterprise Restructuring Project)
Amendment to Development Credit Agreement
Dear Sir:
We refer to the Development Credit Agreement, dated February 7, 1990, and the 
second amendment to the Agreement, dated June 24, 1994, (collectively referred to as 
the Agreement) between Republic of Mozambique (the Borrower) and International 
Development Association (the Association).  Further to your letter No. 839/GM/MPF/96, 
dated July 29, 1996, we are pleased to inform you that the Association proposes the 
following amendments to the Agreement:
1.
The following new sub-paragraph is added in Section 1.02 of the Agreement:
"1.02 (w) "INE" means the National Statistics Institute, the autonomous office 
established to produce and disseminate statistics in the territory of the Borrower."
2.
The item in Category 4 of the table in Schedule 1 to the Agreement is amended to 
read: 
"Consultants’ services, training, equipment, and office supplies for Part B.8 of the 
Project."
3.
Paragraph 8 of Part B of Schedule 2 to the Agreement is amended to read:
"Strengthening of the Borrower’s capabilities to collect and process statistical 
information, including, but not limited to, national accounts data, the consumer price 
index, trade data, a business registry, production data and employment figures, 
through support to INE."
4.
Paragraph 1 of Schedule 6 to the Agreement is amended to read:
"MOF shall be responsible, through UTRE, for coordination, management and supervision 
of Parts B.1, B.2, B.3, B.4, B.5, and B.6 of the Project and the INE shall be 
responsible for the coordination and management of Part B.8 of the Project."
5.
Paragraph 3 (A) (a) of Schedule 6 to the Agreement is amended to read:
"UTRE, established as an autonomous unit within the MOF, shall be responsible for 
planning, managing, and supervising implementation of Parts B.1, B.2, B.3, B.4, B.5, 
and B.6 of the Project, particularly for assisting the Borrower to develop and 
implement a privatization and parastatal reform program."
6.
The following new paragraph 7 is added in Schedule 6 to the Agreement:
"7.  National Statistics Institute (INE)
(a)
INE, established as an autonomous unit, shall be responsible for 
administering and overseeing implementation of Part B.8 of the Project.
(b)
INE shall:
(i)
maintain separate, and up to date, accounts related to Part B.8 of 
the Project, which will be independently audited; and
(ii)
prepare quarterly reports for the Project and furnish said reports 
to the Association;"
Page  2
Please indicate your agreement with the foregoing by countersigning and dating 
the form of confirmation on the two original copies of this letter provided to you and 
returning one original as countersigned to us.
Sincerely,
By /s/ Phyllis Pomerantz
Country Director, Mozambique
Africa Region
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
By /s/ H.E. Tomas Agosto Salomao
Authorized Representative
Date:  September 16, 1996
