Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15172
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
COTTAGE ENTERPRISE FINANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 3312-PH)
DECEMBER 14, 1995
Infrastructure Operation Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = PesoP
US$1.00  =P   24.5 (at Appraisal, July 1990)
US$1.00  =R   24.3 (Average 1990)
US$1.00  =P   26.7 (Average 1991)
US$1.00  =P   25.0 (Average 1992)
US$1.00  =P   27.8 (Average 1993)
ABBREVIATIONS
CEFP      -    Cottage Enterprise Finance Project
DBP       -   Development Bank of the Philippines
GOP       -   Government of the Philippines
IGLF      -    Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund
KfW       -    Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
MGA       -   Mutual Guarantee Association
PFI       -    Participating Financial Institution
SBGFC-    Small Business Guarantee and Finance Corporation
SMI       -    Small and Medium Industries
TA        -    Technical Assistance
FISCAL YEAR
GOP  -    January 1 to December 31
DBP  -    January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
Decmnber 14, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Philippines
Cottage Enterprise Finance Project (Loan 3312-PH)
Attached is the Project Completion Report for the Philippines Cottage Enterprise Finance Project
(Loan 3312-PH, approved in FY91) prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office. Part 11,
contributed by the Borrower comments on project implementation and lessons learned.
The objective of this US$ 15 million loan was to channel funds to cottage industries, essentially
micro enterprises, with major employment generation capabilities (including women) outside the Manila
area. The Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) was chosen as the apex institution for onlending
through participating financial institutions (PFIs), mostly commercial banks. This objective was only
marginally achieved. At the request of the Government, US$ 13.5 million (90% of the loan amount) were
canceled in August 1993, about two years after approval. The cofinancier, KfW, canceled its loan at the
same time.
Most of the loan was not disbursed, mainly because the commercial banks were not interested in
lending to cottage industries. The banks took issue with the high costs of processing the subloans and
continued to regard cottage enterprises as high risk borrowers. Other circumstances that had a negative
impact on the project included: (i) an increase in subsidized loans to the sector from other sources, and (ii)
the creation of a new government guarantee program which further reduced the need for the project.
Bank and Borrower performances were wanting in several respects. The project design included
cumbersome legal arrangements for onlending, and the Bank overestimated the willingness of commercial
banks to participate in the project. The Borrower showed a high degree of cooperation in general, but
proved reluctant to initiate a complicated arrangement without a pilot project.
The project outcome is rated as unsatisfactory, its sustainability as unlikely, and its institutional
development impact as negligible.
The PCR is of reasonable quality but does not include the views of the cofinancier. Part 11 from
the Borrower rightly focuses on fundamental issues in project design, asking whether banks are the right
financial intermediaries for lending to cottage industries.
An audit is planned in parallel with an audit of a Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan 3049-
PH).
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
nmay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
COTTAGE ENTERPRISE FINANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 3312-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface ..........................................................
Evaluation Summary ..............................................
Part I:  Project Review from Bank's Perspective ....................... 1
Project Identity ................................................. 1
Project Background ............................................... 1
Project  Objectives  and  Description   .............................. 2
Project  Design  and  Organization   ................................. 2
Project Implementation ........................................... 3
Project  Results .................................................. 5
Project Sustainability ........................................... 6
Bank Performance ................................................. 6
Borrower Performance ............................................. 7
Project Documentation and Data ................................... 7
Main  Lessons ..................................................... 7
Part II:  Projec4 Review from Borrower's Perspective .................. 9
Part III:   Statistical Information ................................... 19
Table 1   Related Bank Loans ......................................... 19
Table 2    Project Time Table ......................................... 20
Table 3   Loan Disbursements ......................................... 21
Table 4   Use of Bank Resources and Missions ......................... 22
Table 5   Status of Legal Covenants .................................. 23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
| official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.                               l






- i -
PHILIPPINES
COTTAGE ENTERPRISE FINANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 3312-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Pretace
The Cottage Enterprise Finance Project (Loan 3312-PH) was
approved by the Board on March 26, 1991, and is the subject of this
Project Completion Report (PCR). While the Bank has made a number of
Loans in support of the industrial sector, this is the first Loan
specifically for cottage industry, and uses a concept that has not
previously been adopted by the Bank in its lending to cottage and micro
firms. The Loan funds were channeled through the Development Bank of the
Philippines (DBP) for relending to participating financial institutions to
be loaned to cottage industry entities. The Loan is guaranteed by the
Government and has a scheduled closing date of June 30, 1996. There was a
single disbursement of US$1.5 million made on August 3, 1992 under the
Loan and the remaining US$13.5 million was canceled on August 11, 1993 at
the Government's request. The Borrower's repayments are current in
accordance with the amortization schedule.
The co-financier was the Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau, who
provided DM 20 million (US$13.4 million) of which DM 17.5 million was
earmarked for lending to cottage industry and DM 2.5 million represented a
grant to fund technical assistance. In line with the Bank Loan, the co-
financier also canceled its Loan in August 1993.
The PCR (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) was
prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division of Country Department
I, East Asia and Pacific Regional Office. DBP, the apex institution,
provided Part II and data for Part III.
The PCR draws on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan,
Guarantee, and Japanese Grant Agreements; Supervision Reports,
correspondence between the Bank and DBP, internal Bank memoranda and
economic/sector reports, supplemented by the staff interviews; DBP's
financial and audit reports; and subproject data provided by DBP.






- ii -
PHILIPPINES
COTTAGE ENTERPRISE FINANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 3312-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Evaluation Summary
1.        The Board approved a loan of US$15 million on March  26, 1991.
The Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau (KfW) provided co-financing for DM 20
million (US$13.4 million) of which DM 17.5 million was on terms similar to
IDA and DM 2.5 million as a grant to finance technical assistance. The
objective of the project was to channel funds to cottage industries, using
the Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) as the apex institution for
onlending through participating financial institutions (PFIs) (para 3.1).
2.        The project contained three basic components:  (a) subloan
financing for cottage enterprises belonging to MGAs available through
accredited PFIs; (b) technical assistance in the supervision and training
of MGAs, the implementation of pollution abatement measures, and training
of PFIs in evaluating cottage enterprise projects; and (c) formation of
guarantee funds comprising subscriptions by MGA members, supplemented by
matching loans from DBP (para 3.2).
3.        While the project was designed essentially to surmount obstacles
on collateral faced by cottage firms and improve their access to bank
credit, the project design was flawed, inevitably cumbersome and involved
considerable inter-institutional collaboration. Legal documentation
within the project was overly complex and time consuming (paras 4.1-4.4).
4.        Project implementation was problematic.  Of the total US$15
million loan approved for the project, US$13.5 million or 901 was
canceled. The principal bottleneck proved to be the overall attitude of
the PFIs towards cottage enterprise lending. The MGAs were not all
effective. There were also extraneous circumstances which had a
significant impact on the project. First, there was an influx of new
funds to the cottage and small and medium industries (SMI) sectors as
government financial institutions began funding directed credit
(subsidized) programs and as banks. Second, the establishment of a new
government institution, the Small Business Guarantee and Finance
Corporation (SBGFC), replaced the underlying need for the project.
Project appraisal failed to take into account the impact of this GOP
guarantee program on the project (paras 5.1-5.6).
5.        The principal objective of channeling funds to cottage firms was
marginally achieved. By the end of 1993, the Bank had disbursed onlyP
41.9 million, a quarter of theR 176.4 million that had been expected at
appraisal. A total of 912 subprojects amounting toP 72.6 million were
financed, of whichP 62.6 million (86%) went to the cottage sector andP
10 million (14%) to small enterprises. About 48% of project lending went
to women entrepreneurs.   Some 7,805 jobs were created as a result of this
lending. Total estimated project cost amounted toP 3.5 billion orP
448,000 (US$16,000) per job. Although the number of MGAs which were
established is in some sense satisfactory when compared with the project



- iii -
goal, their strength and performance were not adequate. By September
1993, when the registration of new MGAs ceased, 39 MGAs had been
established, against the 4-year target of 60 MGAs by the end of 1994
(paras 6.1-6.5).
6.        With the cancellation of the project, DBP's involvement in the
cottage industry sector is likely to be phased out fairly rapidly. The
key factor will be the lack of funds accumulating in DBP's credit risk
protection fund (protecting DBP against the credit risk arising from its
matching loans to MGAs), which was to be funded through the interest rate
differential on the KfW loan. With the termination of the KfW loan, the
DBP protection fund cannot increase and, as a result, DBP is unlikely to
provide additional matching loans. In any event, the function of these
loans has been superseded by the SBGFC. To date, discounting of the PFIs'
cottage industry loans by DBP has already ceased and the DBP component of
the project has been terminated. The sustainability of MGAs' operations
is now uncertain as the needed institution building is not forthcoming and
since their loan guarantee role has also, to some extent, been replaced by
the public sector SBGFC (paras 7.1-7.2).
7.        There were lessons learned from the project.  First, thorough
project preparation reduces the likelihood of difficulties during project
implementation by anticipating some of the problems that may arise and
devising methods to deal with them. In this project, an in depth review
of MGAs would have revealed their lack of sophistication and training and
the need for lengthy institutional building. A review of the registration
procedures for MGAs would have revealed that substantial simplification
would be essential. An analysis of financing project cost, in terms of
commitment charges, staff time and travel expenses, and the use of higher
priced consultants would have revealed the inappropriateness of Bank
lending for very small projects in the informal sector. In addition, the
institutional arrangements with the financial intermediaries should have
been established and reliably worked out well in advance. The project
could have benefitted from assurances obtained from the PFIs, while the
project was in the preparatory stage, of their firm commitment and close
partnership (para 11.2).
8.        Second, realizing the complexities of the new approach, the Bank
should have insisted on the run-through, first of a pilot project,
regardless of the resulting delay in getting a full-scale project underway
(para 11.3).
9.        Third, a project of this type, with cottage entrepreneurs, the
informal sector, a new organizational structure, and a whole new approach
to lending requires on-going, intense and effective TA (para 11.4).
10.       Finally, given the scarcity of trained staff, managerial skills,
and administrative capacity of MGAs, special efforts to simplify project
objectives and to select technologies and approaches that have a high
probability of working in the particular environment would have paid off
better for the project. The use of grass roots and already existing
organizations such as NGOs in the field and the provinces would have been
a more effective approach in implementing the project. The MGA concept
adopted was an innovative lending approach and in the long run, through
the use of more effective conduits, would have been more beneficial to
the cottage industry than the public sector approach adopted by the GOP
(para 11.5).



PHILIPPINES
COTTAGE ENTERPRISE FINANCE PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3312-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Part I:   Project Review from Bank's Perspective
1.        Project Identity
Project Name         Cottage Enterprise Finance Project (CEFP)
Loan No              3312-PH
RVP Unit             East Asia & Pacific
Country              Philippines
Sector               Industry
Subsector            Private Investment
2.        Project Background
2.1       The Philippine industry had grown under an import substitution
regime, marked by protection, heavy foreign borrowing and by infusions of
creaits and transfers from the Government of the Philippines (GOP). This
uncompetitive structure could not be sustained and, as a result,
industrial output declined by 25% between 1982 and 1986. Although the GOP
began a process of gradual removal of major distortions in 1980, the
economic and political downturn of 1982-86 gave a strong impetus to the
pace of these reforms. By 1990, major progress had been achieved in the
key areas of tariffs, incentives, foreign exchange management and
privatization of public industrial assets. The degree of transformation
represented a remarkable economic achievement for the country.
2.2       The cottage industry segment of the cottage, small-scale and
medium-scale industries in the Philippines is defined as enterprises with
total assets between P 50,000 and P 499,999 (about US$2,000-20,000), or
with less than 10 employees. This segment, which excludes the large
informal household sector, is particularly important in terms of
employment; accounting for over one million individuals or 40% of formal
non-agricultural employment. Another positive feature is the segment's
countrywide dispersal; about two-thirds of the industries' value added is
derived from outside Metro Manila, compared to only one third for larger
industries. The cottage industry, therefore, has the potential for
improving the regional dispersal of industries and employment.



- 2 -
3.        Proiect Obiectives and Description
3.1       Project Obiectives.  The Board approved a loan of US$15 million
on March 26, 1991. The Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau (KfW) provided
co-financing for DM 20 million (US$13.4 million) of which DM 17.5 million
was on terms similar to IDA and DM 2:5 million was given as a grant to
finance technical assistance. The' objective of the project was to channel
funds to cottage industries, using DBP as the apex institution for
onlending through participating financial institutions (PFIs) accredited
by DBP. The project was targeted at:
(a) establishing 60 Mutual Guarantee Associations (MGAs) with about
4,200 member enterprises; and
(b) providing funds with a wide geographical distribution, and to a
significant proportion of women entrepreneurs.
3.2       Project Description.  The project contained three basic
components:
(a) subloan financing for cottage enterprises belonging to MGAs
available through accredited PFIs;
(b) technical assistance in: (i) the supervision and training of
MGAs; (ii) the implementation of pollution abatement measures by
MGA member cottage enterprises; and (iii) training of PFIs in
evaluating cottage enterprise projects by DBP; and
(c) formation of guarantee funds comprising subscriptions by MGA
members, supplemented by matching loans from DBP also to be used
for guaranteeing MGA member subloans.
4.        Project Design and Organization
4.1       To surmount obstacles on collateral faced by cottage firms and
improve their access to bank credit, the project aimed at setting up
guarantee funds to be derived from two sources. First, groups of cottage
firms (each group consisting of 40 to 100 members) would join together to
establish MGAs. The groups' equity subscriptions, averaging R 20,000,
would be pooled as guarantee funds. Second, these pooled funds would be
supplemented by matching loans to the concerned MGAs by DBP, at an initial
ratio of three times the amount of each particular MGA's guarantee fund.
The matching loans would be held by DBP while the MGA funds by the PFI
selected by the MGA. The MGAs would be able to issue guarantees covering
up to 80% of each loan, with the total amount of MGA guarantees limited by
a ratio of total loans to guarantee fund, agreed between the MGA and the
PFI. The arrangement was expected to attract PFIs since the guarantee
funds would be on their books, and could be drawn upon as needed without
complex recourse procedures. Since members would be liable if a guarantee
were called, MGAs were expected to exercise considerable moral suasion on
delinquent members.
4.2       A particular feature of the project was the emphasis on women
entrepreneurs who dominate the cottage sector. The MGA management unit



made specific efforts to promote the project to women entrepreneurs and
managers.
4.3       Overall supervision of the project was undertaken by a review
committee in DBP, consisting of GOP agencies concerned with cottage
industry and the PFIs' representatives. DBP acted as a wholesale bank,
rediscounting subloans made by accredited PFIs and monitoring their
performance according to agreed criteria. DBP also financed and
administered the guarantee fund of about US$10 million provided by MGAs'
subscriptions and DBP's matching loan fund. The MGA management unit
monitored the MGAs and reported to the review committee.
4.4         The design was inevitably cumbersome and involved considerable
inter-institutional collaboration. Legal documentation within the project
was overly complex and time consuming, consisting of separate agreements
between DBP and the PFIs, the MGA management unit and the MGAs. Legal
documentation for incorporation of MGAs and their registration with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, legal agreements between MGAs and
their selected PFIs, including the trust and guarantee agreements,
subsidiary loan agreements between DBP and the PFIs, and the memoranda of
agreement between DBP and the MGAs for regulation of matching loan funds
were also required during project implementation. Given the education
level of cottage industry entrepreneurs, the legal arrangements were
complex and difficult to understand. DBP estimated that the process of
full Securities Echange Commission's registration took about a year and,
in retrospect, realized that considerable simplification would have been
possible and would have benefitted the project.
4.5       The technical assistance (TA) component, considered vital to the
project's success, was channeled through DBP to a central MGA management
unit responsible for implementing the program and assisting individual
MGAs. The TA funds were made available for four years from loan
effectiveness date (August 1991).
5.        Proiect Implementation
5.1       Of the total US$15 million loan approved for the project,
US$13.5 million or 90% was canceled. During appraisal, US$50 million was
initially planned for the project, subsequently reduced to US$25 million,
and finally to US$15 million because of GOP's concern over the commitment
fee for the uncommitted portion of the loan, and because, according to
Bank staff, the borrowing capacity to the cottage enterprises did not
warrant more than US$15 million Bank loan. The reduced loan amount was
agreed upon between the Bank and GOP on the understanding that a follow-up
loan could be made after the initial Bank/KfW loans had been fully
committed.
5.2       Project implementation was problematic.  At the outset, both DBP
and the Bank were dissatisfied with the performance of the initial foreign
consultants.  Although a change was made at the early stage of project
implementation, the change resulted in a delay of about one year in
establishing and registering MGAs. The performance of the subsequent
consultants was also not satisfactory.



-4-
5.3       The principal bottleneck, however, proved to be the overall
attitude of the PFIs towards cottage enterprise lending. Not only was it
difficult to select qualified PFIs, but once accredited, these PFIs acted
with great conservatism, applying exacting credit criteria for financing
cottage loans. Many branches of accredited PFIs had no cottage lending
staff, for the most part, these branches functioned only to accept
deposits. The PFIs also took issue with the high cost of processing
cottage subloans and proposed that the MGAs undertake more of the
administrative work on subproject processing, reducing PFIs' time and
cost. Therefore, despite the guarantee mechanisms in place, the PFIs
continued to regard cottage enterprises as high risk borrowers and did not
vigorously pursue cottage borrowers.
5.4       Realizing this deficiency in the lending link between DBP and
the final borrowers during project implementation, several alternatives
were considered. The idea of using rural banks, who have close affinity
with the cottage industry, as active collaborators with nFIs, was
considered. Another alternative was to have a two-tiered system in which
PFIs would be responsible to DBP, but essentially on-lent through rural
banks. Both alternatives were not considered because rural banks were
regarded as financially weak institutions. However, some rural banks were
eventually accredited by DBP in utilizing their own funds for cottage
enterprise lending.
5.5       The MGAs were not all effective.  They displayed a lack of
homogeneity and cohesiveness and, in the process, diluted their basic
advantage--the force of peer pressure, an essential element in the
regulation of member firms. In order to increase the MGAs' cohesiveness,
various initiatives were undertaken such as grouping MGAs by no more than
three industries in each MGA; splitting large MGAs; drawing in more
sophisticated, educated leaders to provide better management and attract
smaller entrepreneurs; and increasing the minimum asset size from P 1.0
million to P 5.0 million.
5.6       There were also extraneous circumstances which had a significant
impact on the project. First, there was an influx of new funds to the
cottage and SMI sectors as government financial institutions began funding
directed credit (subsidized) programs and as banks, in accordance with
legislation in 1991, were required to allocate 10% of their loan
portfolios to the cottage and SMI sectors. Second, the establishment of a
new government institution, the Small Business Guarantee and Finance
Corporation (SBGFC), replaced the underlying need for the project. SBGFC,
whose general objective is to promote, develop and assist small- and
medium-scale enterprises, was established by law in January 1991, prior to
loan signing for the project. Project appraisal failed to take into
account the impact of this GOP guarantee program on the project. With
guarantees from the SBGFC, cottage entrepreneurs could borrow directly
from PFIs without the need for MGAs. The creation of SBGFC therefore
represented a simpler (although also probably riskier --its structure was
criticized by the Bank) alternative to the complicated MGA structure.
Consequently, the project's actual contribution to the cottage sector
became negligible.
5.7       Although the Bank made constructive suggestions to allow for
more flexibility in subproject lending, the project was designed so that



- 5 -
each MGA became a small, intermediate institution in the process of
developing expertise, relationship, and credibility with the PFIs. While
the cottage sector benefitted from the MGA concept, it became clear that
developing successful cooperatives or MGAs requires time, experience, and
training. It became apparent that a more successful approach would have
started with already existing organizations,, in which members knew each
other and had worked together. It also became apparent that TA to the
MGAs should have been provided by local (regional and provincial) non-
governmental organizations (NGOs). Using higher priced (even though
local) consultants located in Manila prevented the TA from being cost
effective. The long term nature of successful institution building was
not recognized early enough. Also, in project formulation (in spite of
interviews with bankers during the appraisal process) bankers' risk
aversion and distaste for non-collateralized lending was underestimated.
In fact, some PFIs went so far as to insist that their lending to cottage
firms only be on the basis of a 1:1 ratio with the guarantee fund. As a
result, the risk-sharing objective of the project was suObstantively
diluted.
6.        Project Results
6.1       The principal objective of channeling funds to cottage firms was
not sufficiently achieved. By the end of 1993, the Bank had disbursed
only P 41.9 million, a quarter of the P 176.4 million that had been
expected at appraisal. A total of 912 subprojects amounting to P 72.6
million were financed, of which P 62.6 million (86%) went to the cottage
sector and P 10 million (14%) to small enterprises. About 48% of project
lending went to women entrepreneurs.   Some 7,805 jobs were created as a
result of this lending. Total estimated project cost amounted to R 3.5
billion or R 448,000 (US$16,000) per job. All loans were made for working
capital resulting in an expansion of the sector's inventory and
production. While the collection rate of 77% was undesirable, the default
rate involving drawdowns on the guarantee and matching loan funds remained
at a moderate 4.3%. The situation indicates that most of the arrears
(18.5%) should be collectible, and represents slow repayments rather than
eventual losses. DBP paid the PFIs i 1.5 million as its share of defaults
by certain MGA members. The amount for the defaults was drawn from the
KfW interest rate subsidy; DBP's matching loan funds for principal,
however, remained intact. Although the losses are not likely in any event
to be serious, the PFIs and DBP continue to monitor the situation.
6.2       Although the number of MGAs which were established is in some
sense satisfactory when compared with the project goal, their strength and
performance were not adequate. By September 1993, when the registration
of new MGAs ceased, 39 MGAs had been established, against the 4-year
target of 60 MGAs by the end of 1994. The established MGAs are dispersed
over seven regions with 19 of them receiving matching loans from DBP,
while other MGAs' applications are still being processed. Apart from two
MGAs, the rest were able to contain loan defaults at modest levels. The
overall default ratio, as of December 31, 1993, stood at 4.3%.
Nevertheless, in spite of the apparently satisfactory numbers, the MGAs
were not strong enough to help members with loan applications and legal
documentation, and to convince the PFIs to lend to them.



- 6 -
6.3       DBP accredited 18 financial institutions under the project.
Although difficulties were experienced in securing suitable PFIs, those
accredited have not suffered any loss on their lending to cottage firms.
6.4       DBP adequately performed its role in project implementation.  It
accredited PFIs in accordance with established procedures and carried out
the required semi-annual reviews, managed the Bank and KfW,loans,
undertook the oversight of the TA component efficiently, and conducted the
necessary verification of subloans.
6.5       Despite the hiatus in the TA component due to a change from the
originally-appointed consultants, the consultants gave important
assistance to the formation of the MGA scheme. Although the consultancy
services were terminated on September 30, 1993, such training as had been
provided to the management unit had been of appreciable benefit to its
management and staff.
7.        Project Sustainability
7.1       With the cancellation of the project, DBP's involvement in the
cottage industry sector through the MGA approach of this project is likely
to be phased out fairly rapidly. The key factor will be the lack of funds
accumulating in DBP's credit risk protection fund (protecting DBP against
the credit risk arising from its matching loans to MGAs). These funds
were to be funded through the interest rate differential on the KfW loan.
With the termination of the KfW loan, the DBP protection fund cannot
increase and, as a result, DBP is unlikely to provide additional matching
loans. In any event, the function of these loans has been, to some
extent, superseded by the SBGFC with the GOP now taking the risk on
cottage enterprise loans. Indeed, discounting of the PFIs' cottage
industry loans by DBP has already ceased and the DBP component of the
project has been terminated.
7.2       Although it is possible that successful MGAs could continue
operations, if they are satisfactorily integrated into the new
arrangements designed for the cottage industry, they are no longer
necessary under the SBGFC scheme. Therefore, the MGA's overall prospects
appear dim. The sustainability of MGA operations is now uncertain as the
needed institution building is not forthcoming and since their loan
guarantee role has also, to some extent, been replaced by the public
sector SBGFC.
8.        Bank Performance
8.1       Overall, the Bank's performance was found wanting in many
respects. While it was especially keen on the innovative nature of the
project (lending to cottage firms using the MGA concept and an apex
institution for distribution of Bank funds) and exercised flexibility
during project implementation in constructively addressing the
difficulties with the PFIs, potential problems with project design and
issues that may impact the project were not sufficiently anticipated. The
Bank was also overly optimistic and aggresively marketed the project.
Greater consultation with other institutions during appraisal would have



- 7 -
been beneficial to get a better reading on their attitude towards this
innovative lending approach.
9.        Borrower Performance
9.1       There was a high degree of cooperation, during project
preparation and implementation, between the concerned GOP agencies, DBP,
KfW and the Bank. DBP kept itself closely involved with the PFIs and
MGAs, and contributed significantly to the progress of the project.
9.2       While initially there was strong support for the project from
the PFIs, DBP and the concerned GOP agencies, there was also some
reluctance on the part of the GOP to initiate a complicated arrangement
without a pilot project preceding the main lending thrust. However, the
opinion at that time was that running a very small pilot project would
have derailed the Bank project, as nervousness over the difficulties
needed to be overcome might have rendered the institutions reluctant to
commit themselves to the later, full-scale project. According to Bank
staff, there was a sense that the TA required could ably be justified if
the project were done on the scale proposed. With hindsight, it would
have been preferable to confront problems head-on in a smaller pilot
project.
10.       Project Documentation and Data
10.1      All required papers were available for the assessment of the
project.  The periodic reports prepared by DBP and the consultants were
found to be helpful in following the developments of the project. The
reports and data recorded as a result of the Bank supervision missions
were helpful and formed an adequate basis for the assessment of the
project.
11.       Main Lessons
11.1      The main lessons learned are:
11.2      Thorough project preparation reduces the likelihood of
difficulties during project implementation by anticipating some of the
problems that may arise and devising methods to deal with them. In this
project, an in depth review of MGAs would have revealed their lack of
sophistication and training and the need for lengthy institutional
building. A review of the registration procedures for MGAs would have
revealed that substantial simplification would be essential. An analysis
of financing project cost, in terms of commitment charges, staff time and
travel expenses, and the use of higher priced consultants would have
revealed the inappropriateness of Bank lending for very small projects in
the informal sector. In addition, the institutional arrangements with the
financial intermediaries should have been established and reliably worked
out well in advance. The project could have benefitted from assurances
obtained from the PFIs, while the project was in the preparatory stage, of
their firm commitment and close partnership.



-8-
11.3      Realizing the complexities of the new approach, the Bank should
have insisted on the run-through, first of a pilot project, regardless of
the resulting delay in getting a full-scale project underway.
11.4      A project of this type, with cottage entrepreneurs, the informal
sector, a new organizational structure, and a whole new approach to
lending requires on-going, intense and effective TA.
11.5      Given the scarcity of trained staff, managerial skills, and
administrative capacity of MGAs, special efforts to simplify project
objectives and to select technologies and approaches that have a high
probability of working in the particular environment would have paid off
better for the project. The use of grass roots and already existing
organizations such as NGOs in the field and the provinces would have been
a more effective approach in implementing the project. The MGA concept
adopted was an innovative lending approach and in the long run, through
the use of more effective conduits, would have been mo-e beneficial to
the cottage industry than the public sector approach adopted by the GOP.



Development Bank of the Phil-
WHOLESALE 30MNKrING GROUP        }          -
'May 4, 1994
Ms. REBECCA CANDOY-SBKSE
I & E Operations Division
DopartmQnt I, East Asia Region
THE WORLD BANK
li8e H. Street, N. W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
Dear Me. Sekse:
SubJect: Cottage Enterprise Finance Project (CEFP)
-  Loan No. 3312 PH
We  are transmitting herewith two (2) copies of the  Proj,ct
Completion Report, Part 1I for subject loan.
'4e shall be pleased to provide additional information and/or
cl.arification, if necessary.
Our bect regards.
Very truly yours,
E* +DO  f P  GAJ^
Son or Vlice P cstdont
Enclosed a a/S
0N4h l MMC 66JA%&7I. CW"OMua  MP#~                            j ~
", Q. orE ir oW. |1 Z_ ms                                    amv  E   9
7* Nt&11.N _N                                                SNI   _I 



- 10 -
Development Bank of the Philippines
COTTAGE ENTERPRISE FINANCE PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Part II
I, GENERAL EVALUATION OF THE PROJECT
Tho CEFP has a very good obJective: to assist the
informal sectors of the Philippine economy (the cottage
and the lower segment of small enterprises) which can
not gain access to the lormal banks and avail of their
credit facilities lor lack of collateral. The success of
the project hinged on the guarantee mechanism to be
established by the cottage entrepreneurs/enterprises
themselves.
Despite  its  good  Intentions,  the  projoct   sulffred
certain flaws and setbacks as follows:
1. Only few PFIs participated in and accepted the
project;
2. Slow formation and operationalization of the MGAs --
too many activities and documentation to accomplish
before a MGA can operate;
3. There was pressure to form the MGAs simply for the
purpose of getting loans and providing guarantee;
4.  Improper   promotion   of  the  CEFP   to   intended
beneficiaries  which  led to defaults  of  some  MGA
members.
The above factors led to the cancellation of the undrawn
balances of the CEFP loans which we foresaw can not be
fully disbursed until the closing date on June 30, 1996.
In spite of the said cancellations, the balance of the
Special   Accounts  and  second  Generation  funds   are
considered enough to continue with the project.



- 2.1-
CEFP Project Completion Report, Part II
II. PERE0RMANCE OF AGENCIES CQNCERNED
A. I B R D
Project Evolution
CEFP was initially designed utilizing the services of
Garson & Partners, a French-domiciled firm, which was
responsible for gathering data in the Philippines ne-eded
for the project design and the initial p-omotion and
formation of the Mutual Guarantee Associations (MGAs).
This was in Juno, 1989 until November$ 1990. The
consultancy services was financed through an IBRD-
administered grant to the Department of.. Trade and
Industry (DTI), which was then the main proponent of the
project.
The  Bank's  intention in launching the  project  is  to
answer the needs of the informal sectors (cottage
enterprises) which are not covered by other wholesale
landing programs such as IRP, JEXIM, IGLF, and other
-tail  lending  program such as DTI'S  Micro  Financing
Program for micro enterprises.
The project was later transferred to DSP as the CEFP
loan borrower. Being the original proponentp DTI was
made   a member of the CEFP Review Committee  (CEFP-RC),
the  policy-making  body  for  the  project,  with   its
Undersecretary   as  Chairman  of  CEFP-RC.   The    MGA
Management   Unit  (MGAMU),   manned  by  DSP  and   DTI
officers,  was created to cversee day-to-day  operations
of the MGAs. The MGAMU reports to the CEFP-RC.
As  IBRD  was  aggressively   marketing  the  CEFP,   it
requested the DSP In late 1990 to already implemont the
project prior to the project approval by NEDA and the
loan approvals by IBRD and KfW.
ProJect Imolementatign
IBRD  very  closely supervised the CEFP.   Ms.  Margaret
Hanson  Costan was on top of the project  and  regularly
came over to the Philippine- to discuss and consult with
the  officers  of  DSP,  DTI, .PFIs,  MGAs,  and   other
institutions involved in the CEFP as well an with the
CEFP   consultants   on  the   progress   and   problems
confronting the project. The Bank was also supportive in
approving changes in the project to simplify some
policies and procedures of the project.



- 12 -
CEFP Project Completion Report, Part II
----_----------------------------------
ZBRD, however, did not agree to the request of PFIc to
grant subloans to the MGA, instead of the individual
members, to simplily PfIrm administration of the loan.
This is understandable since the projects objective is
to   establish  the  banking  relationship  and   credit
worthiness of individual members with the PFI which will
not  be  achieved by lending to the MGA.  On  the  other
hand,   IBRD's   emphasis  was  always   on   the   slow
disbursement of the CEFP loans.
IBRD was also in constant communication with the D8P,
DTI, and KfW to follow up on the project implementation
and was quick to react and give its views o'n some issues
confronting the project.
S.  DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES tD1Pl
Prolect SvolutnZL
DTI was initially the implementing agency of the CEFP.
Later on,   IBRD saw it fit for DBP to be the CEFP  loan
borrower. DBP agreed to take on the project in view of
its developmental impact ano support for the small,
informal, and marginalized entrepreneurs/enterprises.
DDP's  wholesale lending programs were made complete  by
CEFP  as  these  now  covered  the  whole  spectrum   of
borrowers from cottage to large enterpricos.
To show its support for CEFP, the DBP Board approved  an
allocation of P100 MM for rediscounting loans to PFI1
and back-up for the matching loans to ba granted to the.
MGAs  while  there was no accrual yet  o-f  the  interest
differential from the KfW lo#ns.
Although the loan agreements with IBRD and KfW were
respectively signed in April, 1991 and Septemter, 1991,
the loan agreements were declared effective only in
July, 1992 and the first disbursements were made in
August, 1992. In order to sustain the momentum of the
project as some MSAs were already formed and have their
PFIs, DUP started granting the matching loans to MGAs
and the rediscounting loans to PFIs in September, 1991
using DBP's own funds.
Before the first IBRD/KfW loan disbursements were  made,
total rediscounting loans of P24.9 MM were grantod to 7
PFIs for 12 MGAs and total matching loans of P13.36 MM
to 14 MGAs. As of 31 March 1993, total matching loan.
granted to 24 MGAs amounted to 019.4Z MM although the
back-up  IDF is only P1.54 mm.  Of thi- accrued IDF,  an
amount of P1.47 MM was paid to PFIs due to defaults of
some MSA members lleaving a balance of only P70,000.00
in the IDF).



- 13 -
CEFP Project Completion Report, Part II
---------------------------------------
Project Imolementation
In  order  to  oversee  the  CEFP  implemehtation,   DBP
assigned three (3) officers to the MGAMU on a full time
basis for the following functions:
1.  Regroup the MGA% formed by Sarson consultants as the
core    group   beneficiaries   for   the    initial
implemontation of the CEFP.
2. Conduct orientation briefings to the MGAs concerning
the pollcies, mechanics and procedures uf CEFP.
3.  Assist  the  MGAs in   accomplishing  documents  for
registration   with  the  Securities  and   Exchange
Commission (SEC), looking for and matching them with
prospective PFIs, licensing by the CEFP-RC as a MGA,
and granting the matching loan fund (MLF).
4. Promote the proJect to as many PFIs as possible.
5.  Prepare   the  rediscounting  procedures   and   the
operating procedural guidelines for DBP's diflerent
units involved in CEFP.
6.  Managa/monitor the consultancy services with  Africa
Asien Bureau (AAS).
7.  Handle  tho  rediscounting loan  and  matching  loan
applications of PFIc and MGAs, respectively.
e.  Assist  the  MGAs in resolving problems  within  the
association or with their PFIs.
9. Act as secretariat of the CEFP-RC.
10.  Coordinate the activities  of the WB-KfW supervision
missions,   arranging  for  meetings   and    random
subproject   visits   undertaken  by   the   mission
representatives.
C. DEPARTMENT OF TRADE AND INDUSTRY CDTI)
Prolect ImoleMentati2n
DTI was very supportive of the CEFP. It assigned 2 full-
time staff in its head office and I staff each in the
regional and provincial offices to the CEFP. Their
valuable assistance are in the following"
l. Identification of groups of entrepreneurs for the
formation into MGA%l



CEFP Project Completion Report, Part Ir
---------------------------------------
2.  Formation   of   the   MGAc   and   assistance    in
accomplishing documentation for the MGAs;
3.  Coordination   of   meetings   with   the    cottage
entrepreneurs/ enterprises  during promotion of  the
project; and
4.  Follow up supervision of operating MGAs.
The  DTI Undersecretary as Chairman of the  CEFP-RC  was
also very active in giving advice% and finding ways to
improve the project and solicit PFIs participation.
D. CONSULTANTS
GARSON & PARTNERS
As mentioned above, IBRD and DTI hired the services of
Garson & Partners for assistance in the project design.
The consulting services of Garson were found to be
wanting in many aspects. The Garson consultants were not
able to anticipate potential problems which might arise
during the project implementation, for which they could
have recommended measures to reduce or eliminate said
problems. They did not even review the initial project
concept and prepared a critique on it.
The  initial  promotion  of  the  CEFP  by  the   Garson
Consultants  was focused on the amount of loan  the  MGA
members can get compared to their initial contribution -
--  P90,000 loan for P10,000 contribution.   Evan  those
who have no businesses yet during, the MGA formation were
accepted although the CEFP required that members should
have businesses existing already for at least I year.
The consultants were not very conscious of the project's
eligibility  criteria and had no selection  criteria  in
choosing the MGA members.
AFRICA ASIEN BUREAU (AAB)
AADBs Project Manager for CEFP, Mr. Jan D. Bol, came  to
the Philippines on August 10, 1992. It took time for him
to familiarize himself with the-CEFP concept and the
Filipino culture in order to work with the MGAs.
Mr. Sol introduced some selection criteria in the
formation  of  succeeding MGAs.  The  local  consultants
assisted in the development of the CEFP system for
information monitoring and the training courses for the
MGAS. They also assisted the MGAMU in training the  MGA
offieors/members and supervision/monitoring of the MGAs.



CEFP ProJect Completion Report, Part II
Although   AAS  consultants  had  done  their  best   in
improving the CEFP implementation, the project was
still hampered by PFIs participation and MSA formation.
III. PROBLEMS ENCOUNTERED
Two   (2)  major  problems  were  identifieds   a)   PFI
participation and b) MGA formation.
A. PFI PARTICIPATION
Many banks were unwilling to participate in the CEFP
for the following reasons:
1.  Subloan  sizes  of  P90,000  to  0270,000   were
considered  too  retail,  especially   by    the
commercial banks.
2.  High   administrative  costs    for   individual
lending considering the subloan size..
3.  Lack  of  personnel  to handle  many  but  small
accounts which involve considerable man-hours.
4.  Provincial  branches  of  many  PFIs  are   only
deposit  takers and have no  lending  functions;
thus,  some  MGAs can not find PFIu  to  service
them.   Out   of 39 MGAc formed  and  registered
with SEC, only 20 became operational due to this
problem.
5.  Many  smaller  banks (thrift  and  rural  banks)
which are expected to be the natural conouits of
CEFP failed to hurdle the DBP's pro-qualifying
requirements to become. PFIs because of their
high   past  due  levels  (over  1/%  of   total
portfolio) and/or inadequate paid-up capital
(below  P5 0  to P10.0 MM for rural  and  thrift
banks, respectively).
6.  PFIs  are  not comfortablo with the  concept  of
credit gearing ratio, i.e., granting subloans at
certain multiples of the MGA's Guarantee Fund
(GF)  which-was initially set at 3x.  While  the
MSA is allowed to guarantee up to a maximum 80Y
of the members' subloans, the GF in affect
covers only 33% of the subloans while 47'. is
clean at the maximum gearing ratio of 3x.
7.  News of default from some  MGAs discourage other
PFIs   in  participating  or  continuing   their
participation with the CEFP.



- 16 -
CEFP Project Completion Report, Part II
---------------------------------------
B. USA FORMATION / MEMBERSHIP
Problems  inherent in the formation/organization  of
the MGAs are as followst
1.  No selection criteria.
The  formation of MGAs was  focused on  quantity
instead of quality since the consultants were
required   to establish certain numbers of  MGAs
with  certain numb-r of entrepreneurs per  Terms
of Reference (TOR). i
2.  Lack of cohesiveness.
Members of the MSA came from a wide area,  i.e.,
from different municipalities in a province.
Ideally, members should come from tho same
community  and  know  each other  so  that  peor
pressure will work.
3.  Long     gestation      from      promotion      to
operationalization of the MGAs.
It  took as long as one (1) year with a  lot  of
documentation to accomplish before a MGA can  be
operated.
4.  Formation   of   MGAs   in   areas  .where   PFI
participation is doubtful or obviously absent.
5.  The  project  was  improperly  promoted,   i.e.,
emphasizing on the amount of subloan a member
can   obtain  (9x  his  initial   contribution).
Initially, this resulted in several defaults
(members were looking at short-term gains).
6.  Albeit some members have valid reasons for their
defaults, many member-subborrowors are of the
usual thinking that government-assisted projects
such as CEFP are dole-outs and need not be
repaid. This thinking was aggravated by a wrong
promotion: "a P90.0 M loan can be obtained for a
PlO.OM investment" which was emphasized and
repeated too many times.
7.  MGAs were formed simply to get loans and provide
guarantee   instead  of  emphasizing   long-term
band its to the association, other than getting
loans,   such   as  assisting  each   other   in
materials procurement and product marketing.



CEFP Project Completion Report, Part II
IV. LESSONS LEARNED
1.  The   project   design  glossed   over   the   PFI's
conservatism, especially the commercial banks which
wQer the initial targeted PFIs. Their reluctance
especially in accepting the credit gearing ratio was
not foreseen. This aspect should have. thoroughly
been discussed with them before the project was
implemented, i.e., "pre-selling" the idea first.
2. Smaller banks which are the natural conduits of this
kind of financing were also overlooked in the study.
3.  The   long  gestation  in  the  MGA  formation   and
operationalization should also have been considered.
In order lor the MGA to be successful, they should
have gone lirst to a lengthy institution building to
make them cohesive and institutionalize controls and
poer pressure before the subloans were given. This
could not be done in a very short period of time.
4. Emphasis in MGA formation should be more on quality
and not quantity to establish easier management and
quality accounts.
5. The creation of other guarantee corporations such as
the Small Business Guarantee and Finance Corporation
(SBGFC) which overtook the MSA guarantee scheme, was
not anticipated.
V.  IBRD - DSP RELATIONSHIP
The relationship between IBRD and DBP was very cordial
and frank. Everything was done in transparent manner.
There was constant communication between the 2 financial
institutions. Problems and changes/amendments sought
were brought to the attention of the funders who
promptly gave their comments/advices on such matters.
The  rapport  established  with  the  funders  gave   an
enriching experience for the DSP staff.
VI. SUGGESTIONS
If we have to do another CEFP, we suggest the followings
1. The closing date of the loans should be longer and
the commitment fees waived to remove pressure on the
loan disbursements.



CEFP Project Completion Report, Part II
2.  The project should be supported with more  technical
assistance   (TA)  in  the MGA  formation.  In  this
connection, only local consultants may be considered
to  maximize utilization of the TA  grant.  Besides,
tho local consultants are already familiar with the
local conditions of the country.
3. Expand the coverage to eligible members of existing
producer associations, NGOs, cooperatives, etc. and
increase the maximum subloans for the project to be
more attractive to PFIs.
4.  Institutional  strengthening of the M6As  should  be
given more time before the members can avail of tho
CEFP credit facilities.



- 19 -
PHILIPPINES
COTTAGE ENTERPRISE FINANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 3312-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART III.   STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1.   Related Bank Loans
Year of
Project Description                Approval    Status
0998   Industrial Investment Credit Project               1974      Closed
1120   Small & Medium Industries Dev. Project)            1975      Closed
1190   2nd Industrial Investment Credit Project           1975      Closed
1572   3rd Industrial Investment Credit Project           1978      Closed
1727   2nd Small & Medium Industries Dev. Project         1979      Closed
1903   Structural Adjustment Loan                         1980      Closed
1984   Industrial Finance Project                         1981      Closed
2127   Textile Sector Restructuring Project               1982      Closed
2169   3rd Small & Medium Industries Dev. Project         1982      Closed
2266   2nd Structural Adjustment Loan                     1983      Closed
2787   Economic Recovery Program Loan                     1987      Closed
3038   4TH Small and Medium Industries                    1989      Closed
Development Project
3049   Financial Sector Adjustment Program                1989      Closed
3084   Manila Power Distribution Project                  1989      Active
3123   Industrial Investment Credit Project               1989      Closed
3287   Industrial Restructuring Project                   1991      Active
3523   Telephone System Expansion Project                 1993      Active



- 20 -
PHILIPPINES
COTTAGE ENTERPRISE FINANCE PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3312-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 2.   Project Time Table
Item                   Date Planned           Date Actual
First Presented to the Bank                                  May 1989
Preparation                                                 March 1990
Appraisal Mission                                            July 1990
Negotiations                         October 1990          December 1990
Board Approval                       December 1990          March 1991
Loan Signature                                              April 1991
Effective Date                        January 1991          August 1991
Project completion                                          August 1995
Loan Closing                           June 1996



- 21 -
PHILIPPINES
COTTAGE ENTERPRISE FINANCE PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3312-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 3.   Loan Disbursements
(US$ million)
Annual Basis                 Cumulative Basis
Estimated        Actual        Estimated         Actual
1991                 1.5                             1.5              -
1992                 1.2             1.5             2.7            1.5
1993                 3.6                             6.3            1.5
1994                4.2                             10.5            1.5
1995                 2.9              -             13.4            1.5
1996                 1.6              -15.0                   1     1.5



- 22 -
PHILIPPINES
COTTAGE ENTERPRISE FINANCE PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3312-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 4.   Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (Staff Weeks)
TASK          FY86      FY87      FY88      FY89       FY90       FY91       FY92        FY93        FY94      TOTAL
Project Pre-
Appraisal                                                   24.5                                                     24.5
Project
Appraisal                                                              26.7                                          26.7
Negotiations                                                           10.3                                          10.3
Supervision          .3                                                 3.0         3.8         8.4        2.0       17.5
TOTAL                .3                                     24.5       39.9         3.8         8.4        2.0       78.9
B.  Missions
Stage of                     Month/           Number         Days in          Staff         Performance
|_Pro.lect_Cvcle                  Year         of Persons         Field           Days            Ratinv
Through Appraisal                           03/87              1               2               2
06/89              3               1              3
10/89             2                2              4
03/90              2              12              24
Appraisal through Board
|Approval                                    07/90              3               14             42
Supervision                                10/91              l               3               3                2
09/92              1               5              5                2
05/93              1               8              8                2
J                                 ~~~~~       ~      ~       ~       ~~08/93  1  1   1



- 23 -
PHILIPPINES
COTTAGE ENTERPRISE FINANCE PROJECT
LOAN 3312-PH
Table 5.   Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement                                   Description of Covenants                  Status and Proposed
Section                                                                               Action
WITH DBP
Loan Agreement Section          Adherence to the Operating Policy Guidelines,    Compliance.
1.02Cc) and Schedule 4,        which incorporate agreements reached with the
para. 3                         Bank regarding project structure, legal
arrangements and guidelines for project
operation and management.
Loan Agreement Section          Surplus funds to be used as agreed, for               Compliance.
3.04                            further lending to eligible subprojects.
Loan Agreement Section          Be audited yearly by independent auditors,            Compliance.
4.02                            including audit of Special Account and
Statement of Expenditure, and submit audit to
Bank within six months of year end.
Loan Agreement Section          Require PFIs and cottage enterprises to               Compliance.
Schedule 4, paras. 1 and    maintain operating and financial records.
2
Loan Agreement Section          Effectivity of the KfW loan agreement with            Compliance.
5.01                            DBP.
Loan Agreement Section          Agreement on a mechanism for offsetting the           Compliance.  Agreement
4.03                            foreign exchange risk assumed by Government.          on the FX premium to be
paid to Government was
reached in mid-1991 and
approved by the Bank.
WITH GOVERNMENT
Guarantee Agreement             Adherence to the Policy Manual, which                 Compliance.
Section 3.02                    incorporates agreements reached with the Bank
concerning the operations of the Review
Committee and the MGA Management Unit.
Guarantee Agreement             Agreement on a mechanism for payment from DBP    Compliance.  Agreement
Section 3.01                    to offset the foreign exchange risk assumed           was reached in mid-1991
by Government.                                        and approved by the
Bank.









IMAGING
Report No:       15172
Type: PCR



