Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFl(IAI. lSE ONLY
., ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .    
Report No. 9() WU-1'1H
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PHILIPPINES
COTTAGE ENTERPRISE FINANCE PROJECT
DECEMBER 21, 1990
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department II
Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and mas be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents rnay not other%ise be disclosed without %%orld Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of November 20, 1990)
Currency          - Peso
US$1.0            - P 28
P 1.0             - US$ .036
P 1 million       - US$ 36 thousand
P 1 billion       - US$ 36 million
US$1.0            - DM  1.5
ABBREVIATIONS
CB            - Central Bank of the Philippines
CSMI          - Cottage, Small and Medium Industry
DBP           - Development Bank of the Philippines
DOF           - Department of Finance
DTI           - Department of Trade and Industry
ESAL          - Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
FX            - Foreign Exchange
GF            - Guarantee Fund
IGLF          - Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund
IICP          - Industrial Investment Credit Project
IS            - Initial Subscription
KfW           - Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MGA           - Mutual Guarantee Association
MOU           - Memorandum of Understanding
NEDA          - National Economic and Development Authority
OPG           - Operating Policy Guidelines
PFI           - Participating Financial Institution
SMI           - Small and Medium Industry
TA            - Technical Assistance
TOR           - Terms of Reference
FISCAL YEAR
Government: January 1 to December 31
DBP:         January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
COTTAGE ENTERPRISE FINANCE PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
-rower:         Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP)
irantor:        Republic of the Philippines
ieficiaries:    Accredited participating financial institutions (PFIs) and
private sector cottage enterprises
)unt:           US$15.0 million equivalent
-ms:            20 years including 5 years of grace at the Bank's standard
variable interest
Lending Terms:  The Development Bank of the Philippines would use the
proceeds of the Bank loan to rediscount subloans made by
PFIs to members of approved Mutual Guarantee Associations
(MGAs).   Loans from DBP to the PFIs would be made in
domestic currency at market based rates. Government would
bear the foreign exchange risk in exchange for a market-
related fee payable by DBP.  The PFIs would onlend the
funds to their borrowers at prevailing market interest
rates.
Financiers:     Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW)
? 1ect
iectives:       The Project's objective is to help improve access to credit
by cottage enterprises that typically employ 10-20 persons
and have total assets of about US$15,000.
)iect
3cription:      The proposed Project would involve onlending by DBP to PFIs
to rediscount subloans made to cottage enterprises to
finance their investment and working capital needs during
the 1991-94 period. The central feature of the proposed
Project is that groups of cottage firms voluntarily would
set up MGAs to whiich they would contribute to form a
guarantee fund.  This guarantee fund would be deposited
with a participating bank, which would then lend some
multiple of the fund to the individual members of the MGA.
To initiate the scheme with adequate leverage, the members'
subscriptions to the MGAs would be supplemented with a
matching loan advanced and held in trust by DBP. As the
MGAs' resources increase from new member subscriptions and
-his document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
*f their official duties Its contents maN not otherwisC be disclosed %ithout World Bank authorization



- ii -
from interest earned on their equity, the matching loan
would be repaid and the funds used to assist new MGAs. The
average size of subloans to indivLdual enterprises is
expected to be about US$10,000.
Technical assistance under the Project would be provided to
help establish and monitor the MGAs, train key staff of the
MGAs, provide advice on waste minimization and treatment,
oversee the implementation of the program; and help train
personnel in the retail banks to deal with the MGAs under
the program.
Benefits:          The Bank loan would increase the volume of credit for
lending to cottage industry and would reduce its cost. The
Project would assist DBP and the PFIs in gaining experience
and knowledge about lending to cottage industry and in
establisning an effective finance facility over the long
term  to  improve  the  access  of cottage  firms  to bank
lending.   It is expected that about 4,200 cottage firms
would be financed under the Project with subproject costs
of about US$33 million.   The Project would cover every
region in the country and the vast majority of loans would
be outside Metro Manila.   It is also expected that the
project  design  would  enhance  the  ability  of  women
entrepreneurs to obtain formal credit.
Risks:             The program is an innovative one which does not currently
exist in the Philippines.  Accordingly, there are the risks
associated with any new program.  One risk is that there
will be significant defaults under the program that will
reduce the guarantee funds. This risk will be dealt with
by starting with moderate levels of leverage, by careful
selection and licensing of the MOAs and by the exercise of
peer pressure to repay, inherent in the project design.



- iii -
Estimated Cost:                              Local      Foreig    Total
-----  (US$ million) 
Subproject Cost                               21.4        11.6      33.0
Technical Assistance (Project Support)         0.9         0.8       1.7
Guarantee Fund                                10.0           -      10.0
Total                       32.3       ILA_      44.7
Financing ]SLgn:                              Local    Foreign   Total
------(US$ million)-----
MGA Subscriptions and Fees                     4.4                   4.4
Subborrowers (Equity)                          3.4                   3.4
Participating Financial Institutions           2.9           -       2.9
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau                12.6         0.8      13.4
IBRD                                           3.4        11.6      15.0
DBP                                            5.6                   5.6
Total                   2 3        12 4      44.7
Estimated
Disbursements        IBRD FY         1991    1992   1993   1994   1995   1996
-----(US$ million)------------
Annual              1.5    1.2    3.6    4.2    2.9    1.6
Cumulative          1.5    2.7    6.3   10.5   13.4   15.0
Rate of Return:   Not Applicable



- iv -
PHILIPPINES
COTTAGE ENTERPRISE FINANCE PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  SECTORAL BACKGROUND   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
A.  The Industrial and Financial Sectors  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
B.    The  Cottage,  Small  and  Medium  Industries  (CSMI)
Sector    .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .  2
C.  Access to Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
D.  Financing Requirements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5
E.  Bank Objectives and Role in the Sector  .   . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
II.  THE DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
A.  DBP's Background and Function   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
B.  Organization and Management   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
C.  Operations    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  8
D.  DBP's Financial Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
III.  MUTUAI, GUARANTEE ASSOCIATIONS   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
A.  The Concept   ..............                         .....        ......    .      .   10
B.  Mechanics of the MGA Scheme   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
C.  Actual MGAs   ..............                         .....       ......     .     .   13
IV.  THE   PROJECT   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    15
A.   Project Objectives  ........                ...    ..   ...     ..  ...     ..    .   15
B.  Project Description   ........  ..                  ...     ..  ...  ..      ..   .   15
C.  Beneficiaries and Subloan Size . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
D.  Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
E.  Overall Project Costs and Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
V.  THE PROPOSED BANK LOAN . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  23
A.   Features of the Bank Loan   ......  ..  .               ..  .   ..  ..  .   ..     .   23
B.  Relending Mechanism, Terms and Conditions   . . . . . . . . . . . .  23
C.  Procurement   ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  24
D.  Disbursements   ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  24
E.  Monitoring, Reporting and Auditing ...  .              .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  25
F.  Environmental Aspects   ....  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  26
G.  Benefits and Risks ....  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  26
VI.  AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS AND RECOMMENDATION . . . . . . . . . . .  27
A.  Agreements and Understandings   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
B.  Conditions of Effectiveness   ......  .                .  ..  .  ..  .  .  ..  .    .  27
C.  Recommendation ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  28



-V
ANNEXES
1. Enterprise Characteristics by Sector
2. Regional Distribution of Enterprises
3. Employment by Cottage Enterprises
4. DBP Historical Financial Statements
5. Firm Characteristics of Initial MGAs
6. Consolidated MGA Guarantee Fund and Loan Accounts
7. Cost Estimates of Technical Assistance Component
8. Accredited Participating Financial Institutions
9. Disbursement Schedule
.0. Supervision Plan
1-. Documents in the Project File
Ha;< IBRD No. 22459R
This report was prepared by Mr. K. Young, Ms. M. Hanson (AS2IE), and Mr. T.
Masuoka (YPP) following a field appraisal of the Project in July 1990. The
Peer Reviewers were Ms. L. Webster (IENIN) and Mr. C. Magnus (AS5IE). The
Project was cleared by Mr. G. Kaji (AS2DR) and Mr. I. Sud (AS2IE).



PHILIPPINES
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
COTTAGE EFTERPRISL FINANCE PROJECT
I. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A. The Industrial and Financial Sectors
1.01     Rapid changes in the international environment since 1980, as well as
high interest rates and a foreign exchange crisis in the Philippines, led to
forced austerity measures which hit hard an industrial base that was brittle and
largely uncompetitive. Non-traditional manufacturing exports had been narrowly
concentrated in product mix (semi-conductors and garment-s) and destination (the
USA). The remainder of industry was dependent on domestic demand, which was
artificially inflated by protection, by heavy foreign borrowing and by infusions
of credit and transfers from the government. The scope for further expansion
of import substitution under heavy protection had been exhausted in the late
70's and technological weaknesses and other inefficiencies fostered by the lack
of competition had begun to take their toll. Industrial output declined by 25%
during 1982 through 1986. Many firms ceased operation and declared bankruptcy.
Even firms in operation limped along at 50-60% capacity utilization.   Since
1987, however, there has been a significant recovery in industry which has been
growing on average at 8% a year.
1.02     Since 1980,  the Government has undertaken a process of gradually
removing major sources of distortions within the system. Although the reform
process has been far from smooth, much has been accomplished during the period.
Paradoxically, the economic and financial crisis which derailed the trade
reforms during 1983-85 provided the momentum for drastically reducing some of
the more intractable government interventions in the industrial sector.
Following the change in government in February 1986, the pace of reform
quickened and, with the resumption of import liberalization in 1986, significant
progress has now been achieved in all of the key areas of needed reform
including tariffs, incentives, foreign exchange and exchange rate management and
privatization of public industrial assets. although policy-induced distortions
still remain, the degree of transformation is striking and represents a major
achievement of the policy reform process.
1.03     Industrial policy reforms in the Philippines have been accompanied by
financial sector reforms.   Following the 1983-85  recession and resulting
distress in the financial system, the Government successfully undertook measures
to rehabilitate The Philippine National Bank and DBP, in the context of the
Bank-financed Economic Recovery Loan (ERL; Loan No. 2787-PH, 1987). Since 1989
the Government has embarked on a comprehensive program of financial sector
reforms to strengthen further the banking system and make it more competitive
and responsive to the needs of the real sectors.   These reforms are being
supported by a Bank Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL; Loan No. 3049-PH,
1989).  The main objectives of the reform program are to: (a) strengthen the
supervision and regulatory framework for commercial banks; (b) improve the



institutional arrangaments for deposit protection; (c) reduce intermediation
costs in the banking system; and (d) improve the institutional framework for
mobilization and delivery of term credit.
B. The Cottage. Small and Medium Industries (CSMI) Sector
1.04     The CSMI sector in the Philippines includes cottage, small-scale and
medium-scale industries, which may be def'ned either in terms of asset size or
number of employees. The asset-based definition is used by the banking sector
in determining eligibility for finance; the Census of Manufacturers, however,
categorizes industries based on number of employees. Thus, cottage industries
may have total assets before financing ranging between P 50,000 - 499,999 (about
US$2,100-21,000), or less than 10 employees; small industries may have total
assets ranging between P 500,000-4,999,999 (about US$21,000-210,000), or 10-99
employees; and medium industries have total assets ranging between P 5-20
million (about US$210,000-830,000), or 100-199 employees. Based on fixed asset
data provided in the Census of Manufacturers, there appears to be strong
correlation between the asset- and employment-based CSMI definitions; average
fixed assets of the various CSMI subsectors, defined in terms of employment,
fall well within the total asset cut-off points for CSMI.
1.05     The Cottage Industries Subsector.  Cottage enterprises comprise a large
and important subsector, especially in terms of employment impact. The "formal"
cottage sector, as reported in the 1983 Census of Establishments, constitutes
some 300,000 or 94% of all formal enterprises. These cottage firms employ over
1 million people and accounted 'or 40% of formal non-agricultural employment and
10% of value added (See Table 1.1 below and Annex 1 for greater detail).!,
Table 1.1
NUMBER, EMPLOYMENT AND VALUE ADDED OF COTTAGE AND LARGE FIRMS: 1983
(Values in 1989 US$)
Cottage Firms      Small/Medium &            Total
Large Firms             Firms
Firms:Number                 301,009               20,738            321,747
% of total                 94%                   6%              100%
Employment: Number         1,020,786            1,543,018         2,563,804
X of total                40%                   60%              100%
Value Added (billion $)         1.4                   12.7              14.1
% of total               10%                    90%              100%
1/   It should be noted that this definition includes only formally
established enterprises and does not include the large informal
household sector.



1. 06    Rezional  Dispersal.  A  significant  characteristic  of  the  cottage
enterprise subsector worldwide is its substantial regional dispersion
reflecting small firms' ability to locate in areas where infrastructure is poor
and markets are small. This pattern hold3 crue in the Philippines where almost
two-thirds of the cottage enterprises' value added comes from outside Metro
Manila while for small/medium/large firms only about a third of value added
emanates from outside Metro-Maniila  (see Chart 1.1 and Annex 2).   Given the
very large income disparities among regions in the Philippines, the regional
dispersion of _ottage enterprises suggests they can be used as important
vehicles for improving incomes and employment in the regions.
Chart 1.1 ENTERPRISE VALUE ADDED
By Region 1983
SMA LL/MEDIUM/
COrTAGE ENTERPRISES              LAROL ENTERPRISES
Me,ro Manl!a (NCR)
34%       +            Matro Manila (NCR)
Other Regions                    Other Re9lons
66%                          3tR%
1.07     Capital/Labor Ratios.  Cottage enterprises in the Philippines are much
more labor intensive than large firms.   The capital/labor ratio for coctage
firms is about one-tenth that of larger firms. This may in part be due not to
size per se but to different product areas in which large and small firms
specialize. However, to the extent that the cottage subsector is disadvantaged
by industrial policies favoring larger, more capital intensive firms or is
impeded from obtaining credit by structural rigidities in the financial sector,
the labor intensity of the economy is lower than it otherwise would be.



1.08     Sectoral Distribution.  In terms of employment, about 57% of cottage
inidustry jobs are in wholesale and retail trade; 18% are in manufacturing; 21%
in personal arid financial services; and the rest, about 4%, scattered in
construction, mining and transport.   About 25 product areas (at the 4 digit
level) account for three-quarters of cottage enterprise jobs. Of these, food
and beverage rctailing is by far the largest, accounting for about one-third of
cottage employment (see Annex 3).
1.09     Female  Participtaion.    A  noteworthy  characteristic  of  cottage
eniterprises worldwide is that women comprise a significant share of employment,
ownership and management. This also seems to be true in the Philippines, where
about two-thirds of the labor force in manufacturing in rural areas, where
cottage firms predominate,  is female.   Interviews with firms and producer
associations suggest a significant female participation in the cottage sector.
1.10     Firm Expansion.  Studies on other countries suggest that cottage firms
are an important and possibly the main source of small and medium firms.
Interviews in the Philippines also confirm that a significant share of labor
absorption in larger scale firms is due to expansion of small firms.91 At the
same time, the relative lack of small and medium firms in the Philippines
suggests that there are important barriers to the expansion of cottage and very
small firms. Some of the important macro barriers imposed by a protectionist
trade policy, a capital intensive and large scale bias in fiscal incentives and
regulated incerest rates and a protective approach to cottage firms were greatly
reduced during the 1980s. At the same time, the ability of cottage firms to
expand is still severely constrained by lack of access to adequate finance
(paras 1.10 to 1.13).
C. Access to Financing
1.11     Interviews with cottage firms, industry associations and banks indicate
that cottage firms have almost no access to credit through banking channels.
This includes both working capital as well as term financing. The commercial,
rural, development and thrift banks interviewed generally indicated that the
relatively sm.ill loan size together with a high perceived risk and lack of
commercially acceptable collateral deterred them from lending to cottage firms.
1.12     Collateral Deficiency.   The main issue in this regard is that most
cottage firms lack real estate titles other than for their own homes, which are
usually already mortgaged. Thus they frequently have only chattel mortgages to
offer banks. In common with banks worldwide, chattel mortgages are considered
greatly inferior to real estate mortgages. This inferiority is substantially
compounded for cottage sized firms where the chattel may be small machines which
can easily be moved and/or substituted, difficult to value and to repossess.
Further, such firms usually lack established premises, reputations and banking
1  "Small Enterprise Development Policy in the Philippines:  A Case
Study", Dennis Anderson, World Bank Staff Working Paper No. 468,
1981.



track records.   Hence  the smallness of the firms  is an important  reason
deterring banks from accepting their assets as collateral.
1.13     Lack of Special Programs.  Existing special credit programs supported
hy Gove-nment do not reach  the cottage  industry  sector.   The  Industrial
>uarantee and Loan Fund (IGLF) program, which in principle provides refinancing
of term credit for cottage as well as small and medium sized firms, in practice
has been ineffective in getting credit to cottage firms.   For example, only
US$210,000, or two-tenf:hs of one percent of total IGLF loans made over the past
6 years, has gone to cottage firms.V The 'Tulong Sa Tao" program operated by
the Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) through private voluntary
organizations is focused on micro and livelihood activities.  With a maximum
loan size of about US$1200 and operating through non-formal credit channels,
this program is not able, nor intended, to address the credit needs of the vast
majority of cottage firms.
1.14     Other Sources.  One result of cottage firms' being shut out of the
formal financial system is that they turn to the informal moneylenders.
However, interest costs in such markets are extremely high, ranging from 3% up
to 17% or more per month. The high cost of such credit clearly limits its use
for normal expansion or working capital requirements.   Alternatively, firms
limit their operations to what can be financed with internally generated funds
and fail to expand and seek out new opportunities.
D. Financing Reguirements
1.15     The annual iinancing requirements of the cottage sector are quite
large. Even with conservative assumptions about turnover period and expansion,
it is estimated that cottage enterprises would require ovcr US$500 million per
year, comprised of about US$150 million term credit for replacement and
expansion and about US$350 million for working capital needs.
1.16     The Financing G a.  Presently, the sources of funds are mainly own
funds plus short term high interest loans from moneylenders, which are both
expenrive and limited.   The data on this are scarce but the 1983 Survey
indicates that gross additions to fixed capital by cottage firms were only about
a quarter of estimated depreciation, indicating that capital was not even being
adequately maintained let alone expanded. In contrast, larger firms were fully
offsetting depreciation and expanding their fixed assets at the rate of 9%. It
.i.  The design of the IGLF program appears inappropriate to address the
needs of the cottage enterprise group in that it fails to address
the problematic lack of "bankable" collateral of the cottage firms.
Furthermore, the IGLF program fails to be effective in the regions,
where cottage firms are located. In 1987, only 27% of IGLF loans
went to the regions. Tables showing the characteristics of IGLF
subloan approvals by size, purpose and maturity, as well as the
regional distribution of IGLF subloans, are included in the Project
File.



is not suggested that these informal sources be fully replaced with credit
provided through formal bank channels.   Certainly,  for start-up firms with
minimal track records, reliance on own funds is reasonable. However, for the
top 5-10% of cottage firms which show promise of expansion, continued reliance
on informal sources of credit constitutes an effective barrier to their growth
which should be remedied. In this regard, a reasonable mediuid term indicative
target might be to expand bank credit to this sector by about US$50 million.
1.17     In summary, cottage firms have relatively large financing requirements
for both working capital and investment.   The banking sector is essentially
closed to cottage firms.  A significant part of their needs is probably not
being met as evidenced by a very low rate of capital formation.   What is
available has to come from high cost moneylenders on short term and from their
own funds. While data are not available to provide precise estimates of the
financing gap, it is clear that there is a large role for the banking sector to
play to meet the financing requirements of a select group of promising cottage
firms at commercially viable rates.
E. Bank Objectives and Role in the Sector
1.18     The Bank's emphasis in the financial sector will continue to be on
strengthening the supervisory and regulatory framework, and institutional
arrangements for depositor protection.  The Bank will also help to establish
financial markets and instruments to ensure that priority areas of the economy
have access to funds at competitive rates, appropriate duration and on a timely
basis.
1.19    While the proposed Cottage Enterprise Finance Project is the first Bank
project in the Pnilippines to introduce a scheme for cottage industry finance,
it would complement four previous projects (Loans 1120-PH, 1727-PH, 2169-PH and
3038-PH) designed to promote the development of the SMI sector. These loans
supported the IGLF program which provides mainly term finance for small and
medium industry, and provided additional funding for SMI through DBP. The first
three of these loans have been fully disbursed, and Project Performance Audit
Reports (PPAR# 3696 dated June 16, 1982, PPAR# 7940 dated June 30, 1989 and PPAR
#8781 dated June 21, 1990) were distributed to the Board. Under these projects,
the Bank approved US$304 million for assistance to the SMI sector. Apart from
the reduced demand for IGLF funds in 1986 and 1987, the IGLF components of the
SMI projects have generally performed well and achieved their objectives in
terms of channeling substantial credit to SMIs, increasing the number of
financial institutions participating in the program and operating with low
arrears and high collection ratios from both the PFI and end-users. The DBP
component of the third loan was largely canceled due to DBP's organizational and
financial difficulties.   The fourth loan to support IGLF (SMI IV) became
effective July 14, 1989. Loan demand has been strong and disbursements exceed
projections.   Despite an overall good performance, one weakness of the IGLF
program has been its inability to address the credit needs of cottage size firms
and to extend credit to the various regions of the country (para 1.13).



II. THE DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
2.01     The Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) would be the borrower of
the proposed Bank loan and would relend the funds in local currency to
participating  financial  institutions  (PFIs)  for  onlending  to  cottage
enterprises.
A. DBP's Background and Function
2.02     Although DBP was established in 1958, it has existed in its present
form only since the late 1980s, following an extensive rehabilitation and
restructuring program. Due largely to dislocations in the industrial sectors
in the early 1980s (para 1.01) and a concomitant disarray in the financial
sector, and also to problems specific to DBP -- including outside interference
in DBP's lending decisions; the undertaking of costly government credit programs
through DBP without reimbursement; a lack of internal controls and auditing;
poor management practices in terms of lending decisions and portfolio
management; and excessive size and diversity of functions -- DBP had serious
financial difficulties  in the mid-1980s.   Its rehabilitation in 1986-1989
included: (a) a new charter and policy statement; (b) installation of a new
management team and Board of Directors; (c) transfer of P 74 billion of non-
performing accounts to the Asset Privatization Trust created by the government
to sell those assets; (d) implementation of a drastic cost reduction program
through staff reduction and sale of branches; (e) an internal reorganization and
strengthening program focusing on credit policies, legal procedures, financial
controls, accounting and internal controls, and personnel management; and (f)
phasing out of subsidized government deposits. It left DBP healthy and self-
sustaining, with market-oriented lending policies and a new mandate as a
predominantly wholesale bank for onlending funds to retail financial
institutions rather than to end-users. The proposed Project is consistent with
the evolution of DBP as a wholesale lending institution in that it provides
funds for relending by DBP to PFIs.
B. Organization and Management
2.03     The DBP organizational structure is appropriate for implementing its
wholesale banking strategy. DBP has an upgraJed Capital Markets Group (headed
by a Vice President) adequate to meet DBP's resource mobilization needs, and has
a Wholesale Loans Department headed by an Executive Vice President for
Marketing. DBP has a total staff of about 2000, and has in place a job and
performance evaluation system as well as a merit oriented financial reward
system.   DBP supplements its salaries with productivity bonuses in order to
offer compensation competitive with the private financial sector. In the last
three years, DBP has attracted nine senior officers from leading private sector
banks to head its departments.
2.04     DBP has  trained its staff in corporate  finance,  loan packaging,
financial analysis and legal issues. To er.sure adequate staff preparation for
DBP's new activities in wholesale banking, DBP is undertaking a training program
covering (a) its capital markets, merchant banking and resource mobilization



- 8 -
actlivities, and (b) wholesale lendir.g, focussing on the criteria, systems and
procedures required for dealing with PFIs as clients.
2.05     The accounting and management information system is adequate for DBP's
new role as a wholesale bank.  Liquidity and reserve summaries are generated
daily; financial statements of branches and the head office are consolidated
monthly.   The general ledger is computerized and closed daily.   Subsidiary
ledgers for loans have been centralized in the Transactions Processing
Department. A central mainframe computerized information system, acquired from
Citibank, is expected to be operational in 1990. This state-of-the-art system
will provide an integrated management information system that allows immediate
access to all transaction information which is scored in a centralized data
base. The system will integrate on-line authorization and printing of customer
advices, and contract administration for loans, placements, bonds, deposits,
commitments, receivables and sundries until final maturity.  The system will
also incorporate an automated accounting service.
C. ORerations
2.06     DBP's operations are governed by a set of policies designed to ensure
that it avoids the mistakes of the past. On April 5, 1989, DBP's Board approved
a new Policy Statement (included in the Project File) which reflects its
wholesale lending orientation and which deals with, among other things, DBP's
investment policies, financial prudence limits and capital structure. Salient
features of the Policy Statement provide for: (a) private sector orientation
with autonomy in decision-making; (b) an interest rate and fees policy that is
consistent with prevalent market rates and that ensures full recovery of all its
direct and indirect costs, including provisions as required, plus an adequate
profit margin; (c) prudent interesc rate and maturity match between its assets
and liabilities; and (d) a debt-equity ratio not exceeding 5:1. These market-
oriented policies should enable the integration of DBP into the market-based
financial system of the Philippines.    DBP is now ready to undertake more
substantial lending activities.
2.07     DBP's  transformation  to  a  primarily  wholesale  bank  is  being
accomplished through a gradual reduction of its retail loan approvals and
outstanding retail loans to enterprises, relative to the wholesale loan
approvals and outstanding wholesale loans to financial institutions.   DBP's
wholesale lending has been enhanced since late 1989 with the Industrial
Investment Credit Project (IICP) and the IGLF, whose transfer from the Central
Bank occurred on July 31, 1990.   In addition,  the following programs are
expected to increase DBP's wholesale lending activities substantially in 1990-
1991:   the Asean Japan Development Fund; an Asian Development Bank line of
credit  similar  to  the  IICP;  and the proposed  IBRD-financed project  for
Industrial Restructuring. The strategic transition to wholesale banking also
entails gradual disinvestment from DBP's retail operations. This involves the
separation of the retail and wholesale operations by end-1990, to be followed
by privatization of at least 30% of the equity base of the retail operations by
March 1991. By 1993, DBP's equity stake in retail operations would have been
reduced by 70%.



-9-
2.08     DBP's lending in the coming years will consist of (a) wholesale loans
to PFIs, (b) retail loans to enterprises in areas where the commercial banking
system may still be hesitant to enter fully and (c) syndicated loans wherein it
will play a catalytic role in mobilizing the participation of private sector
banks. Given DBP's predominantly wholesale orientation, with the transfer of
the IGLF program to DBP and with DBP's expected role as the main AJDF wholesale
conduit, wholesale loans outstanding are projected to grow substantially, from
P 5.6 billion in 1990 to P 34 billion in 1995. The bulk of these loans will be
for the industrial sector. Retail lending is projected to grow at a more modest
pace, from P 6.5 billion in 1990 to P 13 billion in 1995.
D. DBP's Financial Performance
2.09     DBP has been solvent and profitable since its reorganization (see Annex
4).  Its indicators of capital adequacy, earnings performance and liquidity are
sound.    Its debt/equity ratio  is a conservative 0.85:1 and its earnings
indicators are sound: its return on assets is 9.5%, and its return on average
net worth is 17.5%. DBP's performance compares favorably with that of leading
private financial institutions in the Philippines. DBP is in a sound liquidity
position with liquid assets representing 163% of deposits. In the coming years,
liquidity will decrease somewhat as (a) interest-free government deposits are
reduced and (b) wholesale lending activities grow. The current average maturity
of funding liabilities is about 4.3 years, against an average loan maturity of
6 years.
2.10     It should, however, be pointed out that DBP's 1989 earnings performance
is not fully indicative of DBP's long-term earning capability on a going concern
basis. Of the total operating revenues of P 1.9 billion, only 52% is interest
from loans, whereas 25% comes from investment in securities, primarily
government issues, 5% from the sale of assets, and the remainder from trust
funds, foreign exchange gains and other miscellaneous sources. As for expense,
until December 19, 1989, P 1.4 billion of interest-free Government deposits were
on DBP's books, comprising 12% of its total funds. On December 20, 1989, these
funds were converted into a special time deposit costing DBP 15.8%.  As DBP
mobilizes higher cost funds, it should expect lower, though still positive, net
returns.



- 10 -
III. MUTUAL GUARANTEE ASSOCIATIONS
A. The Concept
3.01     The main obstacle to improving the access of cottage enterprises to
banks is collateral (para 1.12). Banks consider cottage enterprises to be high
risk clients because of their weak financial structure and management dependence
on  a  single  founder.    To hedge  their  risks,  banks  require  significant
collateral, even when that demand amounts to over-covering their exposure to
risks. Not being able to meet such collateral requirements, cottage enterprises
are often barred from bank credits.
3.02     It would be counterproductive  to bridge  the gap between cottage
enterprises and banks by trying to convince banks to soften their demands. Bank
managers are responsible for the financial situation of their institutions.
Rules of management, no matter how over-prudent they may appear to outside
observers, cannot be influenced without triggering a dangerous interventionism
that would be detrimental  to the financial sector.   The Mutual Guarantee
Association (MGA) concept being supported under the proposed Project attempts
to narrow the gap between banks and cottage enterprises by trying to meet
(rather than ignore) banks' legitimate concern for acceptable collateral. It
provides a system that offers banks unquestionable, independent and financially
sound guaiantees, with prompt payment whenever a guarantee is called.   The
credibility of the system is enhanced by the fact that the beneficiaries
themselves (i.e. the cottage enterprises benefitting from the system) would have
their own money at stake.
3.03     In the MGAs, potential borrowers would group together to establish
local, self-managed associations that would issue guarantees to lending banks
on their behalf. An MGA would group 40 to 100 members that would contribute
financially to a liquid Guarantee Fund (GF) owned by the MGA. The GF would be
placed in an account in a bank and pledged as collateral for future individual
borrowings by the MGA members.   The GF thus would provide  a liquid and
immediately available guarantee to the bank, should one of the members default
on his or her loan. A written agreement authorizing the bank to debit the GF
account upon occurrence of specifically designated events would insure the
lender that a called guarantee would be payable and paid at first demand. The
capacity of the MGA to serve its members would be dependent on the size of its
GF: in aggregate, the MGA would safely guarantee loans up to a given multiple
of the GF.
3.04     The MGA concept has evolved differently in different countries.  Some
MGAs have been set up to guarantee individuals (and not only enterprises) when
the individuals (such as dentists and radiologists) have professions that demand
heavy investment in equipment. Other MGAs guarantee borrowings from individuals
who want to set up their own companies or invest in existing companies (venture
capital).   In Germany,  MGAs have even become full commercial banks,  thus
providing both guarantees and capital to their members.
3.05     The MGA approach differs fundamentally from the traditional approach
to collateral in the Philippines. Unlike the "co-maker" system, the MGA does



- 11 -
not provide the bank with alternate recourse against other persons or companies;
the recourse is against a safe liquid fund held by the lending bank itself.
Unlike other cooperative arrangements, the MCA guarantees the individual
borrowings of individual members even though it has put personal money of all
its members at stake by pledging the GF as collateral. This insures the bank
that the traditional relationship with its client will not be disturbed and, at
the same time, that due care will be taken by the association of timely
repayments of loans by the borrower.  Finally, the approach differs from the
centralized approach in which all banks are provided with guarantees issued by
one centralized guarantee fund.
B. Mechanics of the MGA Scheme
3.06     Guarantee Funds and Matching Funds.  Under the proposed Project, MGAs
would reach agreement with individual banks in which they would deposit the
Guarantee Fund (GF), which would serve to guarantee member borrowings.   A
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) and supporting legal documents signed by the
MGA and the bank would state the conditions under which the bank would be
authorized to draw from the GF.
3.07     The personal subscriptions of the MGA members to their GF are key:  the
guarantee capacity of each MGA depends on the overall size of its GF, and the
members' subscriptions represent their financial commitment to the program. In
the long term, GFs would increase in size through the inflow of interest income,
fees, and subscriptions.  At the inception of the proposed Project, however,
most GFs would be too small to facilitate significant borrowing if they
consisted only of the subscriptions of the initial members of the MGA. In this
regard, the proposed Project includes a Matching Loan Fund which would be lent
to individual MGAs. For initial members of MGAs established during 1991-94, the
matching loan would be twice the members' own contributions. For additional
members to existing MGAs, the matching loan ratio would be reduced to 1.5 in the
second year and to 1 in the third and fourth years. The Matching Loan Funds
would be held in trust by DBP. The share of the Matching Loan Fund in the GF
would decline with increases in equity resulting from new members, fees and
interest income, and with increases in the banks' lending multiple as they gain
experience under the program.
3.08     MGA Revenue.   MGAs would require  from their members  an  initial
subscription (IS) fee on joining the MGA.   Under the proposed Project, the
initial subscriptions are expected to average P 20,000. Being set up as limited
liability stock companies, MGAs require entering members to pay for a share of
the capital of the company: the capital contribution accordingly buys shares
in the corporation for the members. Each member would be required to buy one
common share, entitling him/her to a corresponding vote.   Members, at their
option, may also buy one non-voting preferred share. After a 12-month waiting
period, members would be free to sell their shares at their discretion, if they
have no outstanding default on an MCA-guaranteed loan.   After five years,
members would be entitled to sell back their shares to the MGA. In addition to
the IS, each member is assessed an annual fee of 15% of the amount of the IS.
The structure of the MGA and the level of fees and share valuation are outlined



- 12 -
in Articles of Incorporation and By-laws, which were agreed at negotiations
(para 4.12). The funds flow of the MGAs is reflected in Chart 3.1 below.
3.09       The MGA would also derive income from commissions paid by members on
the actual guarantees issued by the MCA on their behalf. Under the proposed
Project, the guarantee fee would be set initially at 2.5% p.a. of the
outstanding guaranteed portion of the MCA members' loans. Further income for
the MGA would be generated from interest earned on the deposit with the local
bank.
3.10     Specific rules regarding the use of the GF and member subscriptions are
expected to differ from one MGA to another.   Each MGA would be expected to
define its own precedence order regarding use of the GF among its members. MGAs
would also determine for themselves the relationship between the size of a
member's equity and his or her use of the GF.
3.11      Guarantees.  When an MCA member wants to borrow from the bank, the
enterprise will submit a request to the guarantee committee of the MGA. The
MGAs would be able to issue guarantees covering up to 80% of each loan granted
by the bank to individual members, with the total amount of MGA guarantees being
limited by the total loans to CF ratio agreed between the MCA and the bank.
Although long-standing MGAs in other countries are highly leveraged (e.g. with
loan to GF ratios of 8-10), reflecting the confidence gained from the program's
track record, discussions with banks during preparation of the proposed Project
suggested that a multiplier of 3 was a likely starting place for the proposed
scheme in the Philippines.   It is expected that with time this initially low
multiplier would be increased as the credibility of the MGA increases.   The
guarantee issued by the MGA would cover both the principal and interest of the
bank loan.
Chart 3.1 GUARANTEE FUND:
Sources and Uses of Funds
Annual Fees
Initial Subscriptons                               Leaving Members
~~~~~ ~~~~Loan Defaults
Matching                 tching 
Fund                    Fund                    Repayment of
Loan                                            Matching Fund
Operating Expenses
Guarantee Fees   Interest Revenues



- 13 -
3.12     A guarantee would be payable at first demand, when the bank calls it.
This differs significantly from other types of guarantees which are not payable
at first demand but only after the beneficiary has shown that it has the right
to call the guarantee.   Experience in the Philippines under other guarantee
programs has shown that this is frequently a highly protracted legal affair
ultimately undermining the credibility and effectiveness of the guarantee.
3.13.    If a borrower defaults on a payment, the bank would call the guarantee
issued by the MGA. Once called by the bank to pay the guarantee, MCAs would pay
only the overdue amount for the first three defaulted payments; only after three
payments are missed by the borrower would the bank have the right to call the
entire loan.   This approach would give the MGA time to try to convince the
defaulting member to resume payments to the bank or even propose a restructuring
of the loan.  Once the MGA assumes the full obligation of the loan, it would
take action against the defaulting member to recuperate its money. The legal
documents of each MGA would provide a detailed procedure to be followed in such
occurrences.
3.14     The MGAs when issuing a guarantee on behalf of one of their members
would have the member simultaneously issue a counterguarantee to the MGA.  This
would enable the MGA to recover part of the claim in the case of default. This
use of formal legal instruments entitling the MGA to take legal action against
the member would be complemented with peer pressure from within the MGA. Since
a defaulting member endangers the viability of the whole association, such a
member would come immediately under the strong encouragement of his fellow
members to repay.
C. Actual MGAs
3.15     During project preparation, 25 MCAs, each with at least 40 members,
were formed in six regions.   These MGAs typically originated as producer
associations and were selected for the Project after a review of their
management and the degree of discipline existing among members.  The MGAs were
established independently from the associations: not 811 of the members of the
producer associations were interested or qualified to become members of the
corresponding MGAs. MGAs elected their own management teams which often were
different from those of the producer associations.
3.16     In line with project objectives, the MGAs formed to date have a wide
regional distribution covering 15 provinces. Only one MCA is located in Metro
Manila.   The average firm has assets of P 350,000 (about US$15,000) and 17
employees.   The MGAs have a wide  sectoral distribution with significant
representation among the furniture, food, handicrafts and metal manufacturing
subsectors. A summary of key characteristics of the initial firms is presented
in Table 3.1 and Annex 5.  Detailed firm-by-firm data is available in the
Project File. The regional distribution is indicated in the attached map.



- 14 -
Table 3.1
CHARACTERISIICS OF THE INITIAL fGA-MEMBER COTTAGE ENTERPRISES 8
Average Asset Size                           ! 350,000
Average Number of Employees                          17
Share of Female Owners/Managers                     43%
Share of Female Employees                           53%
Share of Firms Outside Metro Manila                 99%
Sectoral Distribution
Furniture                       11%
Food Preparation                15%
Garments                        13%
HandicraftW'                    21%
Metal Manufacturing'/           17%
Cut Flowers                      5%
Footwear                         3%
Servicesd/                       9%
Other                            6%
TOTAL                          100%
a/     Based on questionnaire  of  initial  1,064  cottage  firms  (excludes
applicants with assets above
n 3 million)
Includes shellcraft, woodcraft, embroidery, and jewelry
C/     Includes machinery and electronics
/      Includes retail



- 15 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Oblectives
4.01     The object of the proposed Project is to facilitate the extension of
credit to cottage enterprises through formal   banking channels.   Under the
Project, about 60 MGAs would be established with about 4200 member enterprises
with a wide geographical distribution and a significant proportion of women
entrepreneurs. The regional phasing is shown in the attached map.
B. Project Description
4.02     As discussed above (para 2.01) the proposed Project would involve
onlending by DBP to participating financial institutions (PFIs) to rediscount
subloans made to cottage enterprises for investment and working capital needs
during the 1991-94 period.   The proposed Project would have three components:
(i)    subloan financing to fund projects of MGA member cottage
enterprises through accredited banks;
(ii)    technical assistance to assist the MGA Management Unit to
set up, monitor, train and supervise MGAs   and provide
pollution-abatement assistance to MGA member cottage
enterprises; and to assist DBP in providing training to
financial institutions; and
(iii)    a guarantee fund comprised of MGA member subscriptions and
supplemental matching loans used to guarantee MGA member
subloans.
4.03     Subloan Financing.  The line of credit under the proposed Project would
provide financing for MGA members whose loans are guaranteed by the MGA. The
amount of subloans would be related directly to the size of the GF and the loan
multiplier  agreed with the bank.   The base  case assumptions  and project
parameters discussed in Annex 6 indicate loan demand by 1994 of about US$30
million on an outstanding basis. DBP would act as wholesaler through a network
of accredited retail banks.
4.04     Subloan Size.  It is expected that the typical individual subloan size
would be about P 250,000 (about US$9 thousand), with a minimum of P 50,000
(about US$2 thousand) and a maximum of P 1,000,000 (about US$36 thousand).
Loans could be short term (for working capital) or medium term (for capital
investment), with the proportion medium term/short term defined by each MGA on
the basis of its members' needs. Based on prevailing practice, it is likely
that at the outset of the program, about 60 percent of outstanding loans would
be short-term working capital and about 40 percent longer term for fixed assets.
The longer term share is expected to increase as the program progresses and the
MGAs gain experience in allocating access to guarantees among short and longer
term users. The terms of the subloans would not exceed 5 years. The minimum
equity participation by the subborrower for investment projects would be 20% of
total project cost.



- 16 -
Technical Assistance.   Technical assistance (TA) would be essential
,lement the project. TA would be channeled through DBP to a central MGA
zment Unit responsible for developing and ovetseeing the program.
The TA would include the following tasks:
-     establishing  the  MGAs.    This  would  involve:  identifying
enterprises that could serve as core members for proposed MGAs;
working with these core members to help them structure the MGAs
and determine, for example, the initial equity required from
each member, minimum and maximum subloan sizes, the rules for
allocating  guarantees  among  members,   the  penalties  for
delinquent or defaulted loans, and so forth. It would involve
helping the members to incorporate their MGA -- assisting with
legal documents and registration with the Philippine Securities
and Exchange Commission, and drafting contracts for use with
banks;
-    promoting the program among potential women entrepreneurs and
providing them training in banking requirements and procedures
(para 4.10);
-     training the executive and guarantee committee members of the
MGAs. This would comprise training on: a) their specific duties
and responsibilities; b) rules and regulations of the program;
c) financial and accounting procedures and record keeping; and
d) bank procedures and negotiations;
-     training staff of the PFIs in the operation and mechanics of the
program;
-     providing technical advice and assistance on waste minimization
and waste treatment for firms in threrA subsectors where
pollution might be a significant factor -- electroplating,
leather tanning, and food processing;
-     assisting the MGAs to resolve ad hoc problems as they arise
during the initial period of operation; and
-     providing  overall  project  monitoring,   auditing  and  co-
ordination.
To accomplish these tasks the TA component would include expert foreign
ocal  consultants,  a small  amount of computer,  communications    and
)ortation equipment for the Management Unit, and training expenses. About
iths of foreign consultants would be required to provide overall management
Unit over 4 years on a declining basis and to organize and structure the
rnmental assistance; 226 months of local consultants would be needed to
le legal and auditing assistance, training, promotion and development,
rision and co-ordination of the program, and technical advice to selected



- 17 -
firms on environmental matters.   TORs for the technical assistance were agreed
during negotiations. Copies are provided in the Project File.
4.07     The MGA Management Unit would be provided external assistance for four
years after World Bank loan effectiveness. After that, it is expected that the
program will be well established and that the flow of funds with'n the program
should provide for funding the Unit on an ongoing basis.   Cost estimates for
the technical assistance provided under the Project are presented in Annex 7.
08     Guarantee Fund.  The Guarantee Fund (GF) comprises the funds used by
tt,e MGAs to guarantee loans to their members. The GFs would be establi.s"ed with
initial member subscriptions (averaging about P 20,000) and supplemented with
a matching loan fund (para 3.07). DBP would extend the matching loans as well
as administer the corresponding accounts The MGAs would earn interest on their
own funds but would neither pay interest on the matching loan nor earn interest
on the corresponding deposit.   They would keep the matching loan without
repayment for an initial grace period of five years, after which they would
repay the principal of the matching loan over a fifteen year period. The GF
would earn operating income from members' annual fees and guarantee fees and
from interest income, and would reimburse the retail banks for the guaranteed
portion of loan defaults.  Significantly, the GF wouild continue to grow even
after DBP stops making matching loans for new member subscriptions (in 1994).
The base case assumptions and parameters are discussed in Annex 6.
C. Benefi.ciaries and Subloan Size
4.09     Beneficiaries.   The target beneficiaries of the MGA scheme would be
enterprises belonging to the cottage industry sector. The typical firm would
have assets of about P 350,000 (aLout US$15,000) and about 10-20 employees.
However, in order not to constrain the growth of MGA enterprises or to force
premature exit from the program, firms with assets up to P 3 million
(US$107,000) and full time employees of not more than 50 would be allowed to
participate in the program. This size of firm roughly coincides with the lower
end of firms financed under the Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund (IGLF), the
major source of financing for small and medium firms.  The minimum size firm
allowed under the Program would be firms with assets (before financing) of P
50,000 (about US$2 thousanu).   The firms may be involved in any commercial
activity  in  industry  or  services,  including  agribusiness  but  excluding
agriculture.
4.10     Access by Women.  The proposed Project would help to meet a need for
credit by women entrepreneurs in the Philippines. A Bank Report (Philippines:
Women in Development: Issues for the World Bank; August 23, 1989) indicated that
women in the Philippines have a more difficult time than men getting credit
because of the (albeit subtle) superiority of husbands' rights as they pertain
to family held-property. Since the proposed Project is specifically designed
to provide a collateral substitute to collateral-weak firms, it would help to
alleviate this important constraint on women entrepreneurs' access to credit.
This tends to be borne out by the relatively high female involvement in the
initial 1000 cottage firms participating in the Project. Among these firms, 53X
of the labor force is female. This compares with overall female participation



- 18 -
in the labor force of 47% in 1988. More significantly, 43% of these cottage
firms are headed by women either as owners or managers.   While there are no
overall data on the national average of women entrepreneurs, the 43% share is
clearly high by any international  standard.   To ensure  that  this unique
collateral substitute feature of the Project is used fully to the advantage of
women entrepreneurs,  under the Project  the MGA Management Unit will  make
specific efforts to promote the program to women owners and managers of cottage
enterprises.
D. Project Implementation
4.11     Overall Structure.  The Project would be managed and funded through a
two-tier structure.   The loans would flow through DBP to accredited retail
banks, and then to MGA member firms. The Matching Fund loans would be advanced
and administered in trust by DBP. The overall program would be governed by a
Review Committee with members from DTI, DBP, DOF, NEDA and the retail banks.
Reporting to the Review Committee would be the MGA Management Unit, which would
oversee the MGA portion of the Project.
4.12       The structure  of the Project,  the legal arrangements,  and the
guidelines for project operation and management are included in policy manuals
and legal documents which were agreed at negotiations.   Chart 4.1 shows the
institutional structure of the Project.   The legal documents comprise the
following:
Operating Policy Guidelines outline the relationship of DBP with
the PFIs and the MGAs under the program.
The  Policy  Manual  and  Licensing  Agreements  govern  the
relationship between the MGA Management Unit and the MGAs.
Legal agreements under which the MGAs would be incorporated,
governed, and registered with the SEC are the Articles of
Incorporation,   the  By-laws,   and  the  SEC  Registration,
respectively.
Legal agreements regulating the relationship between MGAs and
their selected retail banks are the Hemorandum of Understanding,
with the underlying Trust and Guaranty Agreement (spelling out
the agreements regarding the deposit of MGA funds in the retail
bank, the issuance of the guaranty by the MGA to the retail
bank, the procedure for the retail bank to call the guaranty,
and the actual text of the guaranty).
Subsidiary Loan Agreements between DBP and the PFIs would govern
refinancing arrangements and Memoranda of Agreement between DBP
and the MGAs would regulate Matching Loan Funds.



- 19 -
Chort 4.1
CEFP INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/e
REVIEW commirrEe T  __'i
OTI      I ~   1       ': -DBP
Staff                    S ..i....Staff
I~~~~~    MANAQElfM r.. 
X    UNIT r:    1      Subloan Refinancing
Regional Office            .. .. ... /          and rraining
Suppod t                  ..   . ...
.. . . . ..4
Au   Montoring
_ censing, rraining
/         pfechnical Assistance  CoordInatIon    RE TAIL
MGAs  i                                       BANKS
2     O Deposit of Guarantee Fund
/_________ -Guarantee of Loans  _         . -
Guaranteeas                               Loans|
4.13     Financing Institutions. DBP as wholesale bank would rediscount subloans
made by retail banks to MGA members. DBP would accredit the individual retail
banks for participation in the Project according to agreed accreditation
criteria (para. 4.17), and wotuld take the credit risk on the retail banks. The
retail banks would be active in the towns where the MGAs were located and would
be chosen by individual MGAs after appropriate negotiations.
4.14     The  Guarantee  Funds  would  be  deposited  in  the  selectec'  retail
institutions, which would lend against the GF in some multiple to individual
members of the MGAs.   The retail banks would take the credit risk on the
individual subloans to the entrepreneurs.
4.15     Before granting accreditation status DBP would undertake a thorough
review of the institution (para 4.17). The retail banks identified by DBP for
possible participation in the proposed Project comprise commercial banks, rural
banks, and thrift banks; these institutions are described in the Project File.
Financial intermediaries already accredited by DBP for other ongoing Bank-
financed projects (IGLF and IICP) would be eligible for participation in this
Project as well.    These banks  are  financially  sound and experienced  in
rediscounting and term lending, and as such, provide a good initial list of
accredited institutions. As of June 30, 1990, DBP had accredited 18 financial
institutions, which operated a total of 792 branches throughout of the
Philippines (Annex 8). It is expected that accreditation of at least two banks
in each MGA area would enable competition effectively to regulate the program.



- 20 -
4.16     DBP   would   delegate   all   subloan   appraisal   and   supervision
responsibilities to the accredited banks. Neither the World Bank nor DBP would
duplicate the credit or project analysis of the retail banks and pass upon
individual subloan applications.    Full subloan credit risk rests with the
retail bank, with the risk to DBP being limited to insolvency or inability to
repay of the retail bank; it does not include default by the end-user, which
would mean a loss to the PFI but not to DBP.
4.17     Criteria for Accreditation.   Financial  institutions  interested In
participating in the MGA Program would be accredited by DBP using criteria
essentially the same as those agreed under other Bank-financed projecLs (IICP
and the proposed Industrial Restructuring Project)4'. The criteria include: (a)
a track record of profitable operations and sound capitalization; (b) an ability
to maintain a sound and healthy portfolio as demonstrated by the PFI's level of
arrearages; (c) a qualified management team of good reputation; (d) adequacy of
trained staff, and (e) established systems and procedures. Since it is expected
that most of the banks accredited under this Project would already be accredited
under other Bank-financed projects (IGLF, IICP and Industrial. Restructuring),
monitoring the overall status of the PFIs would be covered in DBP's general
wholesale activities.   Failure to continue to live up to the accreditation
criteria would disqualify PFIs from further participation in the Project. If
an annual examination reveals that accreditation should be suspended or if,
apart from the annual supervision, it becomes apparent that the PFI has an
unacceptable arrears position with DBP, DBP will rescind the accreditation and
stop rediscounting loans to the institution.
4.18     Basic policies concerning the operations of DBP with regard to the
Project, its relationship with accredited institutions, as well as the
administrative details on its lending policies, are incorporated in Operating
Policy Guidelines (OPG), which were agreed with the Bank at negotiations (para
4.12).   A copy of the OPG is included in the Project File.   Key operating
policies and procedures covered by the OPG include, among other things, the
following: accreditation criteria for PFIs (para 4.17); exclusion of DBP as a
retailer of funds under the proposed Project (para 5.03); firm eligibility
criteria and minimum and maximum subloan sizes (paras 4.04 and 4.09); minimum
loan participation by PFIs and minimum equity participation of subborrowers
(paras 5.07 and 5.08); relending terms, conditions and rates to the PFIs (para.
5.04); onlending terms, conditions and interest rates to subborrowers (paras.
5 06 and 5.07); and establishment by DBP of a matching loan fund, funded through
the interest differential on the KfW loan and held in trust for the Project
(para 4.26). Adherence to the OPG will be a condition of the loan. Approval
of the OPG by DBP's Board will be a condition of effectiveness.
4.19     MGA Management and Supervisio . Supervision of MGAs under the proposed
Project would be undertaken by a central Management Unit established for that
purpose. This Unit would report to an interagency Review Committee, which will
i/In addition to the standard criteria, the proposed Project would add
minimum/maximum financial ratios for rural banks and would also require that
the PFI have a borrowing capacity of at least P 10 million from DBP for the
Cottage Enterprise Finance Project.



- 21 -
be chaired by DTI and would include DBP, DOF, NEDA and a representative of the
retail banks; it would coordinate the various institutions involved in the
Project.  (An organization chart for the Unit is included in the Project File).
4.20     The Unit would be responsible for developing new MGAs, supervising,
assisting and monitoring existing MGAs, and recommending new MGAs for licensing.
It would oversee the audit of the program, checking for compliance with program
guidelines.   It would provide training to help the MGAs with the financial
aspects of the program, and it would provide ad hoc assistance and
troubleshooting to the MCAs as problems develop. The Unit would help coordinate
technical assistance provided under the Project. It would review the MGAs and
subborrowers under the program to ensure eligibility and compliance with program
principles and licensing criteria, and would recommend suspension of
participants if necessary. It would provide information to DBP, KfW and to the
World Bank regarding Project implementation. The scope of this audit and review
function was agreed at negotiations.
4.21     While the Unit would include staff from both DTI and DBP, it would
function autonomously and would report directly to the Review Committee. The
Unit would include staff in both the regions and in Metro Manila. Headquarters
staff would consist of seven full-time employees, including two consultants and
five staff on secondment from DTI and/or DBP.  A lawyer would be hired on a part
time basis, as needed. In addition, one DTI staff person would be located in
each regional office, beginning with five and increasing to eight with full
national coverage. A consultant pool of short term local experts would also be
available to the Unit.
4.22     Basic policies concerning the operations of the Review Committee and
the MGA Management Unit and its relationship with the MGAs are incorporated in
a Policy Manual, which was agreed with the Bank at negotiations. Approval of
the Policy Manual by the Review Committee will be a condition of effectiveness
of the proposed Bank loan.  A copy of the Policy Manual is included in the
Project File.   Key policies and procedures will include:  implementation of
licensing criteria for MGAs (para 4.17); review of MGA member firm size and MGA
subscriptions (paras 3.08 and 4.09);  monitoring and suspension arrangements
(para 4.20); six-month report on status of MGAs (para 5.14); auditing
arrangements for MGAs and members (paras. 4.20 and 5.15); environmental
assistance program (paras 4.05 and 5.16); and promotion to women entrepreneurs
(para 4.10).
E. Overall Project Costs and Financing
4.23     Total project cost is estimated at US$44.7 million,  of which the
foreign exchange component would be US$12.4 million or 28X of the total.  A
summary of project costs is given in Table 4.1.
4.24     The cost estimates  for advisors/experts  are based on the Bank's
experience in similar projects. In total, the Project includes 45 staff-months
of expatriate assistance and 226 staff-months of local assistance. In addition
to consultant costs, the technical assistance component includes equipment --
vehicles, computer hardware/software, and facsimile machines -- and training



- 22 -
expenses.    As  is  the  usual  practice,  subprojects  costs  do  not  include
conitingencies.   Contingencies are not included in the TA costs because the
consultant contracts would be confirmed in the initial year of the Project.
4.25     Overall, the Bank loan of US$15.0 million would finance 34% of project
costs. KfW would provide DM 20 million (US$13.4 million) of which
DM 17.5 million would be on terms similar to IDA and DM 2.5 million would be a
grant to fund the technical assistance. Subproject sponsors would contribute
US$3.4 million of their own funds to assure a minimum equity level of 20% of
subproject costs for investment subprojects.  The PFIs would contribute US$2.9
million to assure a minimum participation of 10% of subloan amount. MGA members
would provide US$4.4 million in subscriptions and fees.   DBP would provide
US$5.6 million to finance the Guarar.tee Fund in the form of matching loans lent
to the MGAs on a long-term basis.
4.26     The interest subsidy on the KfW loan (the differential between market
rates and the 0.75% fee charged by KfW) would be held by DBP in a special trust
account and would accrue to the Matching Loan Fund.    Interest differential
income remaining after reimbursing DBP for default payments would be used to
help establish additional MGAs beyond the project period. These arrangements
are set fortn in the Operating Policy Guidelines and were agreed during
negotiations.  Projections in Annex 6 indicate that the value of the permanent
matching fund would amount to about US$4 million by the end of the decade. The
financing arrangements for this Project are shown in Table 4.1.
Table 4.1  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
Estimated Costsa
Local    Foreign    Total
------  (US$ million)-----
Subproject Cost                        21.4        11.6     33.0
Technical Assistance/b                  0.9         0.8      1.7
Guarantee Fund                         10.0           -     10.0
Total                                  32,3        12.4     44.7
Financing Plan
Local    Foreign    Total
------(US$ million)-----
MGA Subscriptions/Fees                  4.4           -     4.4
Subborrowers (Equity)                   3.4           -     3.4
Retail Banks                            2.9           -     2.9
KfW                                    12.6         0.8    13.4
IBRD                                    3.4       11.6    15.0
DBP                                     5.6           -     5.6
Total                                  32.3        12,4    44.7
*/   Exclusive of duties end taxes, which are negligible.
b/   Project implementation support



- 23 -
V. THE PROPOSED BANK LOAN
A. Features of the Bank Loan
5.01     The proposed loan of US$15.0 million equivalent would be made to the
Development Bank of the Philippines at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate and would have a term of 20 years including 5 years of grace. The loan
would be fully committed within four years after effectiveness.
5.02     The proposed Bank loan would cover 34% of a total financing package of
US$44.7 million and 94% of the estimated foreign exchange costs. The balance
would be provided by KfW, the PFIs, DBP, and the subborrowers (Table 4.1 and
paras. 4.23 and 4.25). That the KfW loan agreement with DBP would be effective
by September 1, 1991 would be a covenant of the Bank loan.
B. Relending Mechanism. Terms and Conditions
5.03     Relendine Mechanism.  Under contractual arrangements satisfactory to
the Bank, DBP would pass on the proceeds of the loans from the Bank and KfW to
the PFIs, which would onlend the funds to eligible cottage enterprises. During
negotiations, agreement was reached with DBP that -- in line with its wholesale
banking function -- it will not lend the project funds directly to MGA member
cottage enterprises. The signing of Subsidiary Loan Agreements with at least
five PFIs will be a condition of effectiveness.
5.04     Relending Rate to PFIs.  The relending arrangements from DBP to the
PFIs would follow the same arrangements as established under other Bank-financed
projects (IICP and Industrial Restructuring).   DBP would relend the project
funds in mnsns to the PFIs at market rates of interest. It is expected that the
relending rate would approximate the cost to the PFIs of borrowing funds of a
similar maturity in the market. During negotiations, agreement was reached with
DBP that it will maintain relending rates which are market-based and provide it
with adequate spreads over its costs.
5.05     Foreign Exchange Risk.   The government would assume  the  foreign
exchange (FX) risk for a market-based variable fee payable by DBP. The FX fee
on the World Bank loan would be set equal to the difference between the World
Bank lending rate and the estimated interest rate on mobilizing peso deposits
of a similar maturity minus an administrative fee of 1.0% for DBP and the Gross
Receipts Tax. The FX fee would be adjusted every six months in line with the
movements in the two rates and would be paid to the Bureau of Treasury. The FX
fee for the KfW loan would be similarly calculated except that the Deutschemark
benchmark bond rate would be used instead of the World Bank rate.   During
negotiations, an understanding was reached with the government and DBP on the
above arrangement for FX risk.
5.06     Onlending Terms to Subborrowers.   PFIs will also be free to charge
market rates of interest, allowing them flexibility in setting rates according



- 24 -
to current market conditions. The PFIs will take the credit risk on their loans
to end users.   The PFIs may lend at either fixed or floating rates, or any
combination of the two. Because the MGAs would have the choice of a number of
accredited banks in their market, interest rates should be competitive. Loans
will be made to entrepreneurs for both fixed assets and for working capital,
with the terms of the subloans varying accordingly.
5.07     To ensure a wide distribution of the Project's funds, the minimum and
maximum subloan size would be P 50,000 (about US$2 thousand) and P 1,000,000
(about US$36 thousand), respectively (para 4.04).   For all subloans made to
finance investment, a minimum equity participation of 20% of the total project
cost would be required from the entrepreneur. The maximum maturity allowed will
be five years.  About 55-60% of the subloans are expected to be for working
capital and to have relatively short maturities.
5.08     PFI Share of Loans.   Under the proposed Project, the PFIs will be
required to finance at least 10% of each subloan with their own resources; DBP's
rediscounting of term loans will therefore be limited to 90%. Representatives
of the PFIs have indicated that this level of internal funding should be
feasible.
5.09     Loan Amortization.  Loans from DBP to the PFIs would be in the form of
a credit line.   PFIs would withdraw funds using cheques in the amount of
approved subloans.   Repayment to the credit line would coincide with the
repayment of the PFI loan to the cottage enterprise.           To the extent DBP
receives an excess of repayments from subborrowers over its repayments to the
Bank, it was agreed at negotiations that these surplus funds will remain with
DBP to be utilized for further lending to subprojects eligible to receive
financing according to the criteria established for the Project.
5.10     DBP Accreditation and SuDervision of the Banks.  DBP will carry out
performance reviews for each active PFI, looking at the collection ratios of the
PFIs and also assessing staff qualifications and overall bank lending
procedures.   DBP will require that all accredited institutions have independent
auditors review annually their Cottage Enterprise portfolio and report their
findings to DBP.
C. Procurement
5.11      As items procured by cottage enterprise subborrowers are too low in
value to justify international competitive bidding, DBP will permit the
continuation of existing procurement practices by which subborrowers choose
suppliers based on the suitability of equipment, local availability of spare
parts/service, efficiency and reliability, compatibility with existing equipment
and price.
D. Disbursements
5.12     The Bank would disburse against 90% of each subloan assigned for Bank
financing (expected to be about 56% of subloans under the Project). KfW would



- 25 -
disburse against the remaining 44X of subloans.  In order to ensure balanced
disbursement from the loan accounts of KfW and the proposed Bank loan,
disbursements from the respective loan accounts shall be made in batches of
subloans with DBP ensuring that the withdrawals from the respective loan
accounts are in conformity with the proportionate shares of those loans.  A
Special Account (revolving fund) of US$1.5 million would be established in DBP
to finance the Bank's share of subloans, thus helping to expedite project
execution.  Withdrawals from the loan account would be made on the basis of
Statements of Expenditures, and DBP would ensure that all supporting
documentation is being adequately maintained and that it would be available for
review upon the Bank's request.   DBP would submit to the Bank a monthly
statement of the transactions of the Special Account.  Retroactive financing
would be permitted to the extent of US$1 million equivalent for subloans made
prior to the date of the loan agreement but after January 1, 1991. The loan is
expected to be disbursed in 5.5 years: disbursement estimates are based on the
Bank's standard disbursement profile for small industry projects. The closing
date of the loan would be June 30, 1996. The disbursement schedule for the Bank
loan is given in Annex 9.
E. Monitoring. Reporting and Auditing
5.13     A Supervision Plan is presented in Annex 10.  Both DBP and the MGA
Management Unit would prepare semi-annual progress reports on project
implementation.   The DBP reports would include an assessment of progress in
implementing the financing component.  The Bank's monitoring would relate to
DBP's implementation of the Project regarding (a) the accreditation of PFIs by
DBP; (b) adherence to the OPG; (c) financing of subloans and matching funds; and
(d) the repayment of loans from the PFIs and the MGAs to DBP.   The MGA
Management Unit semesterly report would focus on (a) the establishment of new
MGAs and the monitoring of on-going MGAs; (b) adherence to the Policy Manual;
(c) monitoring of relationships among the various institutions under the
Project,  and (d) technical assistance provided under the Project.   These
reporting requirements were agreed with DBP and with Government at negotiations.
Since the Project will be an innovative one, it is expected that there will be
a need for flexibility and fine-tuning during project implementation.
Accordingly, a more intense supervision effort in the first year of the Project
is planned.
5.14     The accounts of DBP,  including those kept for the purpose of the
Project, the Special Account, and Statements of Expenditures, would be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.  The audit reports,
including an opinion regarding the supporting documentation for disbursements
based on Statements of Expenditures, would be submitted to the Bank within six
months after the end of DBP's fiscal year. In addition, audit reports of the
PFIs would be submitted to DBP within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
During negotiations agreement was reached with DBP on these reporting and audit
arrangements.   In addition, the accounts of MGAs organized under the Project
would be audited and reports would be submitted to the MGA Management Unit.
These reporting and auditing arrangements were agreed with Government at
negotiations.



- 26 -
F. Environmental Aspects
5.16      The enterprises benefitting from the Project are generally small
family-operated operations. Individual loan sizes are expected to be small,
averaging about P 250,000 (about US$9 thousand). A significant proportion of
the cottage enterprises are expected to be commercial and service establishments
that would not have environmental implications.   However,  there are a few
industries - - specifically electroplating, leather tanning, and food processing
-- which could cause some pollution, primarily through inadequate disposal of
waste.  Given the small size of the enterprises and their limited financial
capacity, it would not be feasible to require the businesses to make significant
expenditures towards pollution abatement. However, since such enterprises could
benefit from technical assistance in raising their awareness of the impact of
their waste disposal practices and of process technology methods to reduce the
environmental damage, the Project would include technical assistance for this
purpose (para 4.05).
G. Benefits and Risks
5.16     Benefits.   The Bank loan would increase the volume of credit for
lending to cottage industry and would reduce its cost. The Project would assist
DBP and the PFIs in gaining experience and knowledge about lending to cottage
industry and in establishing an effective finance facility over the long term
to improve the access of cottage firms to bank lending. It is expected that
about 4,200 cottage firms would be financed under the Project with subproject
costs, including sponsors' equity, of about US$33 million and an average subloan
size of about US$10,000.
5.17     The proposed Project would strengthen the capacity and interest of the
financial system to provide lending to a large number of cottage enterprises
located throughout the country.  In this regard, the Project would cover every
region in the country and the vast majority of loans would be outside Metro
Manila.   Given the  large regional  inequities  in the Philippines  and the
inability of existing industrial credit programs to reach the countryside, this
is an important benefit of the Project. It is also expected that the project
design would enhance the ability of women entrepreneurs to obtain formal credit.
Furthermore, the technical assistance would constitute an important first effort
to address the problems of environmental pollution by many small firms.
Experience gained under this Project would be important for designing future
programs to address pollution by small firms.
5.18    Risks.  The program is an innovative one which does not currently exist
in the Philippines. Accordingly, there are the risks associated with any new
program. One risk is that there will be significant defaults under the program
that will reduce the guarantee funds. This risk will be dealt with by starting
with moderate levels of leverage and by careful selection and licensing of the
MGAs.   Since MGAs will play a major role in approving the subloans to their
individual members, it is expected that they will monitor and encourage subloan
repayment.



- 27 -
VI. AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements and Understandings
6.01      During negotiations,  agreements or understandings were reached as
follows:
(a) with DBP:
(i)     on its Operating Policy Guidelines (OPG) (paras. 4.12 and
4.18);
(ii)     on  the  utilization  of  repayments  and  surplus  funds
accruing to DBP (para 5.09);
(iii)     on reporting and auditing requirements  (paras 5.13 and
5.14); and
(iv)     that the KfW agreement would be effective by September 1,
1991 (para 5.02).
(v)     on a mechanism for offsetting the foreign exchange risk
(para 5.05).
(b) with the government:
(i)     on  the  Policy  Manual  governing  MGA  licensing  and
operations (paras 4.12 and 4.22);
(ii)     on reporting and auditing requirements (paras 5.13 and
5.14); and
(iii)     on a mechanism for assuming the foreign exchange risk
(para 5.05).
B. Conditions of Effectiveness
6.02     Effectiveness of the proposed loan will be conditional on:
(a)   approval of the Operating Policy Guidelines for the proposed
Project by DBP's Board (para 4.18);
(b)   approval of the Policy Manual by the MGA Management Unit Review
Committee (para 4.22); and
(c)   Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed between DBP and at
least five PFIs (para. 5.03).



- 28 -
C. Recommendatio
6.03      With the above agreements and understandings, a Bank loan of US$15.0
million equivalent for a term of 20 years, including five years of grace at the
standard variable interest rate, is recommended to be made to the Development
Bank of the Philippines to finance the Cottage Enterprise Finance Project. It
would be guaranteed by the Republic of the Philippines.



PHILIPPINES
COTTAGE ENTERPRISE FINANCE PROJECT
Enlcrpr,se Characieriitics by Scclor
(Values in 000 Pesos)
COTTAGE ENTERPRISES
Book Value Fgxcd AsscIs
Wages         Cost     Addilion
Number of    Employ-        Outpts       Value          and          of    to Fixed    Dcprecsa-                                                       Tanporn
No  SECTOR                Forms          memn         Value      Added      Salanes    Matenals        Asscis        lion       Total        Land        Bldgs   Mahincry   Equipenrt
3  Manufactunng           50.313      186.733    2.812,787    1.380.737    439.674    1.432.0S0      37.153     19St.73    1.611.411     326.068      3S3.145     737 889      164 290
S  Construction              360        1.972      77,398      43.702       14,934       33,696         (12)      5.364       38.805       4.942        9.599      IS 397        8 807
2  Mining                    271        1,649      44.639      24,944        8.682       19.695       1.987       4.493       48.949      16.251        4.596      17,138      10 094
9  Soc/Per Services       62.509      216,741    4.204.281    1.740.251    470.445    2.464,030      7S,453      178 215    2.165 893    S16.518      825.088     001 485      1n2 805
8  Fm ince Sras            6.034       24.687    1.329.173    463.572      249.372     865.601      100.548      60.848      917.058     246.218      405 056     182 4i4       82 S2s
7  Transpor                3.020       11.943     441.241     232.962       62.487     208.279        2 100      42.522      371.585      13.239       30 646      39 484      282 216
6  Trading               178,S02      577,061   43.619,219    8.369 227    1.483.343   35,249.992    41.244     464.541    4.319.318     934.993    1.705.176     833.163      794 180
TOTAL COTTAGE        301.009    1.020.786   52.528.738   12.25S.395    2.728 937   40.273.343   258.473      954.856    9.473.221    2 058 229    3.309 306    2 489.010    1,50S 587
OTHLER ENTERPRISES
Wages         Cost     Addsiion                         BooA Value Fixcd Asscis
Number of    Employ-        Ouiput       Value         and           of    to Fixed    DCpreCia-                                                      Transport
No  SECTOR               Firma           mena        Value       Addcd      Salaries    Malcnals      Aaseis        lion        Total        Land        Bldg.   Machunery   Equiprncn
3  Manufaciunng            5.733     700.895  163,957.498   55.477.503   11.024.426  108.479.995    7.432.887    4.881.41,  49.218.630    3.311.912   11.489 130   32.613.443    1.804 145
S  Construction              696     148.853   14.238.624    6.479.289    2.730.164    7.759.335    53S.562    2.180.012    5.697.001    467.242     014.363    3.871.634     743 822
2  Mining                    218      61,926   11.731.853    7.468.513    1.242,309    4.263.340    5.994.229    1.407.691   18.922.394  189.691    2.434.784   14.897,163    1.40w 755
9  Soc/Pcr Services        5.151      243.402   11.038.344    5.714.333    3.207.966    5.324,011   632,688     667,580   12.915.490    2627.980    7.751.283    2.299,567     236060
S  Finance Srva            2.940      112 931   60.774.947   20,067,891    3.731,436   40.707.056    1.113.877  790.639   11.472.299    2.U37.487    6.479 683    1 802.345    292.785
7  Transport                 886      117,709   15.988.091    4.859.606    2.385.062   14.128.485    7,570.272   97.8'21   24.158.714    651,821    1.451.39S   12.507.190    9 548 300
6  Trading                 5.114      157,302   87 832.013   16.901.552    2.540.970   70.930.461   625.187     640.595    S.U43,218    1.031.112    2.88.735    1.247.144    676.227
TOTAL OTHER           20,738    1,543,018  368.561.370  116.968.687   26.862.393  251.592.683   23.904.702   10.665.753  12S.227,806   11.117.245   33.109.376   69.298.4S6   14702700



TOTAL ENTERPRISES
Wai1cs         t *si     AdJawln
Number of      Employ-        Oii4pU4        Value          and            of      tw F,xcd    Dcprecco-                                                          141
No  SECTOR                 Farrnu            mcnt        Valuc        AJdcd        Salartcs    MaieruIls       Asis           i-.n         Tutal        Id           B1ls   Ma, mnc:,   l.4c
3  Manufactung              St) 046      887 628  J&6.770.285   56.858.240    I 1464.100  109 912 045    7470 040       5080288   50830041         36379803   il 872 27S   13 351 312        9
S   Conslna.tio               1056 O      SO 825   14 310 022    6 522.991     2 745.098    7 793031        S35 50    2 185.370    5 735 goo       472184        c41 902    3 887011 '1
2   Miani                      489        63.575   11.776 492    7.493.457      1.251 051    4 283 (35   599021o    1 412 184   i8971 143          '05 942    249 38u    14 914 V01       14
9   Soc/Per Scrviecs        67 660       460.143   IS 242.1>25    7,454,584     3 078.411    7.7S8 041      708.141       845 7Y5   1) 081 38S    3 144 498    8 S70 i-I    2 901 0S2        1'
IS   Fknancc Srvi            88974       137 618   62 iO4.120   20,531 403    3 9So 808   41 S72 657    1 214 425         85 487    1' 389 3S7   3I81 'uS    o 884 "39    ! U44 'yy         3
7   Transport                3906        119052   19429.332       5,092.158    2 447.549   14.336e704    7572372          14 343   24 530 299 S      t0 ooO     I 4S8u44    12540 6'4    98
6   Trading                183 616       734 363  131.451.232   25,270.779    4 024.313  106 ISO453         o66 431     1 10S 130   10U loZ 730    1 900 15    4 593 911    2082 30'    1 4
L     GRAND TOTAL             321.747    2.563.804  421090 108  129 224 082   29.591.330  291.8b Z06   24 163 175   11 620 009  137 701027   13 17S 474   3o 4 8 682   71 78 490   lbh
Source 1983 Census of Establhshnenls



PH ILIPPINES
COTTAGE ENTERPRISE FINANCE PROJECT
Regional Distribution or Enterprises
Sector               NCR      Region 1                  Region 3     Region 4   RegionS        Region 6     Region7   Regogi 3     Regi,, 9    Regiwlon0    Rn-g.on
Cottag Femrs Total
Firms             57637        24,947       11.154       39608        53.034       12.875       13834           130        7937        14401        19018       23758
Employees        224.821       74621        34735       124 086      158.882       40 838       49814       47 463       27862        50657        6798D        86935
Value Added    4.185,029      717.196      366 954    1 304.062    1615.614       368 339      670.295      481706       348 162     490 292      668 787      822 538
Other Firme Tdlal
Firms              9.006          978          400        1 665        2.018         621         1 223        1 554         345          875         1 181         430
Employees        866.861      529.225       18.890       92 057      126 864       20.347       70 962      107 021       11 632       19 445      73 658       25 952    1
Value Added   72 375.898    3.318 584      509 001    5 514 613   13 557 879      823 306    2 758 391    6 699 159     256 153      929 934    3 91 390    3 402 365  116 
GFAND TOTAL
Firms             66.643       25.925       11,554       41.273       55052       1.496        15057        14562        8282         14853        19893       24939
Employees      1 091.682      172 592       53.625      216 143      285 746       61 185      120 776      154 484       39 494      70 102       118 323     '56 593
Value Added    76 560 927    4035 780      875 955    6818.675   15 173 493    1 191 645    3428686    7 180 865        Cj4 315    1 420 226    3 5z0 802    4 743926    3



PHILIPPINES
COTTAGE ENTERPRISE FINANCE PROJECT
Employment by Cottage Enterprises
by Secto, and Main subsecloisil
% OF TOTAL                   OF TOTAL
EMPLOYED IN                EMPLOYMENT                   COTTAGE
SECTOR and Main Subsectors                                                                      COTTAGE FIRMS            SECTOR/SUBSECTOF               EMPLOYMENT
MANUFACTURING                                                                                        186;733                      210                        15.3
of which
Rice & Con Milling                                                                   20.B85                      7718                        20
Mlr Bakery Products                                                                  28.527                      57 1                        2 F
Cusdom Tailoring & Dressmaking Shops                                                 540903                      96 3                        54
Mir   Repair ot Wood Furn (including Upholstry)                                      7.381                       so09                        07
Mlr of Cutlery. Hand Tools and General Hardwafe                                       7 591                      906                         0 7
CONSTRUCTION                                                                                          1,972                       1.3                         02
tMININGr                                                                                              1,49                        2.6                         0.2
SOCIALJPERSONAL SERVICES                                                                             216,741                     47.1                        21.2
of which
Pmt Med Dent & Other H11h Srvcs                                                      17.067                      33 6                         1 7
Amusement & Rec Seivices. N E C                                                      7.159                       45 1                        0 7
Motor Rpr Shops br Vehicles                                                          10.020                      71 e                         10
Elecl Rpr & lnstallalion Shops                                                       5.180                       956                         05
Barbet Shops & Beauty Shops                                                          22.826                       40                         22
Photographic Studiose and Related Services                                           5.736                       895                         06
Restaurants a Cafes                                                                 115 460                      77 2                        11 3
HolelsMotels & Other Lodging Places                                                  5 912                       20 1                        06
1



PHILIPPINES
COTTAGE ENTERPRISE FINANCE PROJEC!
Employment by Cottage Enterprises
by Sector and Main subsectorsVl
FINANCE SERVICES                                                                                  24,167                     1t.0                       2.4
of which.
Legal Seir'ces                                                                     5.282                     100 0                       05
TRANSPORT                                                                                         t11043                      02                         1t2
TRADING                                                                                           77,00t           _     J      A                       505.
of which.
Farm. Forest & Marine Prod WSALG                                                  18.574                      67 6                      18
Machinery & Eqpt Including Transport Eqpt                                          5.176                      29 8                      05
Wholesale Trade N. E C                                                             5,133                      24 0                       05
Food & Beverages FttRg                                                            334.740                     959                       32 8
Dry Goods. Textile & Apparel. RtIg                                                68.234                      75 8                       6 7
Construction Materials & Supplies Rtig                                            24.051                      64 7                       24
Office & Household Furn & Fixtures & Appliances                                   22.821                      74 8                       22
Transport Machy & Supplies. Rtlg                                                  20.139                      71 5                       20
Med. Supplies & Eqpt Stores                                                       15.237                      71 6                       1 5
Petroleum & Other Fuel Products                                                   14.208                      714                        14
Retail Trade. N E.C                                                               24.436                      85 3                       24
TOTAL EMPLOYEES                                                                  1,020,966                    39.8                      100
lot WhiCh Maki Sub"Wars                                                           888,728 *                    76A                       440
1/ All 4-digit subsectors with employment of 5.000 or more in small industries
Based on 1983 Census ot Establishments definition for 'small establishments'
Source 1983 Census of Establishment



PHILIPPINES
COTTAGE ENTERPRISE FINANCE PROJECT
Development Bank of the Philippines
Balance Sheets 1984 - 1989
(Pesos Million)
1984     1985      1986    1987        1988      1989''
Assets                                   -----------Audited- -----------Est. --
Cash and deposits with banks         2,478    2,459    1,169         858    1,195    1,143
Loans and advat,ces                 38,802   27,451    5,271    4,395    5,005    5,696
Investments in securities           14,185   12,186    2,186    4,856    4,664    2,993
Fixed assets                         5,467    8,324        459       332       276      288
Other assets                         4.528   21.624        418        90       297     1449
TOTAL ASSETS                        65,460   72,044    9.503   10.531   11.431   11.569
Liabilities and Stockholders Equity
Liabilities
Short-term borrowings                8,742   12,817        585       727       221      364
Time and savings deposits              978    1,519        561       532    1,853    2,642
Interest due and other payables    5,477    4,728    1,199    2,184    1,556    1,963
Deferred credits                     1,283    1,374        308       341       276         -
Long-term borrowings                43,808   45,001    2,026    1,340          998      332
National Gov't funds                  2,000    2,000    2,000    1,800    1,400             b/
Other liabilities                        88      134        46       146        19    _
Total Liabilities          62.376   67.573    6,825    7.070    6.323    5.301
Paid-in Capital                      9,935   18,208    2,500    2,500    2,500    2,500
Retained earnings                  (6,851) (13,737)        178       961    2,608    3,768
Net Worth                   3.084    4.471    2.678    3,461    5.108    6.268
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH   65,460   72,044    9,503   10,531   11,431   11,569
Guarantees outstanding              20,032   18,254   20,757   24,412           8
Trust Funds Administered             1,534    1,923    2,119    3,040
a/    As part of the DBP rehabilitation program, contingent liabilities arising from the
guarante3s issued by the Bank were transferred to the government.
S./   Included under deposits
/    Accounting categories and definitions were changed in 1989, which may explain
apparent discontinuities in individual sub-items in that year.



Page 2 of 2
PHILIPPINES
COTTAGE ENTERPRISE FINANCE PROJECT
Development Bank of the Philippines
Income Statements 1984-1989
(Pesos Million)
YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31
1984     1985      1986      1987      1988    1989k
----------------Audited-------------------Est --
CperAting Resources
"nLerest on loans and advances        1,131    1,296        724      587        795    9 9
Earnings on securities investments   356          532       563       687      470    466
Other income                          1.183    1.312        852       503    1,303    428
Total Operating Income             2  2.670    3.140    2.139    1.777    2.68  1873
CjerauinR Expenises
Interest and other financial          7,995    8,007    4,095        253       214    227
expenses
Salaries and Personnel                  290       321       353       265       292    294
Other administrative expenses           323       449       229       304       371    253
Taxes and licenses                        -         -        50         9         7     59
Provision for losses 1'                   0         0    3.050        135         0      0
Total Operating Expenses         8.608    8.777    7,777         966       884    833
OPERATING INCOME (LOSS)             (5,938)  (5,637)  (5,638)         811    1,684  1,040
Capital gains (losses)              (1,841)  (1,235)        (1)         1       (1)     92
from Equity Sales
GROSS INCOME (LOSS)                 (7,779)  (6,872)  (5,639)         812    1,683  1,132
Provision for Taxes                     (8)      (14)         -      (30)      (37)   (33)
NET INCOME (LOSS)                   (7,787)  (6,886)  (5,639)         782    1,647   1099
Gov't Contribution 1f                 5,400    7,445          -                   -       -
Net Income after Gov't              (2,387)       559                   -         -       -
Contribution
~j   In 1984 and 1985, funding responsibility fer DBP's non-performing accounts (NPAs)
was assumed by the government by way of equity contributions equal to the total
losses on NPAs over the preceding year. Consequently, no provisions for losses
were made in those years; the item "Government Contribution" represents the
Government's equity contribution and is, in effect, an extraordinary adjustment
to the 1984 and 1985 accounts made after computation of net income. In 1986 and
1987, DBP made loan loss provisions. DBP did not make additional provisions in 1988
because the very substantial provisions made in 1986 and 1987, combined with the
work-out of non-performing loans, has left DBP with a high level of provisions which
is fully adequate: as of December 31, 1988, provisions for doubtful accounts
represented 28.6% of total loans outstanding.
b/   Accounting categories and definitions were changed in 1989, which may explain
apparent discontinuities in individual sub-items in that year.



PHILIPPINES
COTTAGE ENTERPRISE FINANCE PROJECT
Firm Characteristics of Initial MGAs
Province/    Number         Employment      Female
Region         MGA         Firms      Female   Total    Mngr/         Assets
Owner     P ('000)
Metro Manila          14       1,293    1,952         a       19,446
3   Pampanga               47         212    1,034        7        51,449
3   Bulacan                20         169      296       11        23,800
4    Laguna 1              25         240      446        14       22,554
4    Laguna G              74       1,895    2,206       56        50,020
4    Laguna 3              26         213      442         3       14,605
4    Laguna 4              41         598    1,209        18       36,856
4    Cavite                31         669      965        17       21,696
6    Ilolo 1              24         175      360       11        14,202
6    Iloilo 2              35          81      412       11        17,981
6   Negros Occ. 1          54         778    1,079       37        36,608
6   Negros Occ. 2          53          83      386       10        35,020
6   Antique                49         335      496        18       10,809
6   Aklan                  54         474      783       34        21,297
6   Capiz                  32         270      414       22         6,210
7   Negros Oriental        58         403      911       21        17,898
7   Cebu 1                 41         276      757        16       19,916
7   Cebu 2                 50         734    1,358       29        23,596
7   Cebu 3                 26         115      490         7       10,659
7   Cebu 4                 39          44      125         8        7,010
7   Cebu 5                 24         118      474         7        7,069
7   Bohol                  56         358      821        18       33,664
10   Bukidnon 1             30        130       341       12        6,204
10   Bukidnon 2             46        215      325        29        4,513
10   Bukidnon 3             70        250      628        28       19,839
10   Cagayan de Oro 1    49           228      512        18       18,637
10   Cagayan de Oro 2    45           134      601         8       32,435
Total                      1,113      10,490  19,823       478       583,993
Average per firm                           9       18     0.43           525
of which firms
w/assets<P 3 mln.    1,081          8.5        17     0.43           326



PHILIPPINES
COTTAGE ENTERPRISE FINANCE PROJECT
Consolidated MGA Guarantee Fund and Loan Accounts
1991-2000
This annex provides the financial projections ior the consolidated MGA
Guarantee, the Matching Fund Trust Account, the estimated loan demand, and the
DBP Matching Fund loan account. The base case assumptions are described
below. A sensitivity analysis for the default rate was also undertaken and is
discussed briefly below. These projections are based on a detailed set of
projections available in the Project File.
ASSUMPTIONS FOR THE BASE CASES FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS:
The key assumptions are discussed below.
Initial Subscription:          The initial subscription is set at P20,000
which is the average estimate provided by
the first 1000 firms. The initial level
increases by inflation plus the rate of
increase in the MGA/loan multiplier.
Annual Fee:                     Initial level set at 15% of the prevailing
subscription fee.
Guarantee Fee:                  2.5% of the amount guaranteed pro rata
temporis
MGA Operating Expenses:         0.5% of the MGA Guarantee Fund (GF)
average during period.
Interest on Guarantee Fund:   Initially 17X falling to 16% by 1992.
This reflects a projected 10% inflation
rate as well as a small decline in the
real rate of interest following government
efforts to reduce intermediation costs and
interest rates. Interest is paid only on
the members, share of the GF and not on
the Matching Fund portion.
MGA Association Fee             0.5%, to be phased in over 5 years, if
average GF annually paid to MGA Management
Unit for services provided.
Loan Multiplier:                3 to be increased to 5 over 10 years. This
is a conservative assumption given
experience elsewhere.
Guarantee Coverage:             80% of each individual loan and would
cover principal and interest.



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 4
Time elapsed before              None (immediate payment of called
payment of guarantee             guarantees is a worst case scenario.)  In
practice, the legal agreements would
require payment of defaulted payment after
10 working davs (all of guarantee or full
loan upon third defaulted payment).
Default Rate:                    8.0% of existing commitments default:
declining gradually to 5% by 1994. The
initial default rate is relatively
pessirnistic but it is assumed that with
experience MCAs can get rate down to
reasonable sustainable level within about
5 years.
Recovery Rate:                   20% of lost money.  This figure is
conservative based on experience in the
guarantee business.
Matching Fund Ratio:             Matching fund ratio of 2 times initial
members subscriptions during 1991-94. For
additional members to existing MGAs, the
ratio would be reduced to 1.5 in second
year, and 1 in third and fourth years.
Contribution would apply only to net
additional members through 1994. lt would
not cover share sales of existing members.
Matching Fund                    15 years including 5 years grace at
Loan Terms                      no interest.  Loan proceeds held in trust
by DBP in a non-interest bearing account.
Membership:                      Maximum MGA membership set at 70 members
and 60 MGAs to be covered under the
program. Defaulting/leaving members are
at the same rate as the loan default rate.
Inflation:                      10% per annum throughout the period.
Refinance rate:                  90% of loans to be refinanced with DBP.
Retail banks to contribute 10% from own
funds.
KfW Interest Differential:    The difference between the KfW rate of
0.75% and the Deutschemark benchmark bond
rate. This differential would accrue to
the Matching Fund Trust Account. It would
be used first to repay DBP for any loan
defaults on the Matching Fund loans and
the balance would be to establish a
permanent Matching Fund for additional
MGAs.



ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 4
Thle outcome of the assumptions for the consolidated MGA Guarantee Funld
anid Matching Fund Trust Account is summarized in the attached table. This
projection indicates that under the above assumptions, the MGA Program is
financially sound and offers each participating firm very substantial
leverage. For an initial contribution of P 20,000, the average outstanding
loan per member that could be supported by the MGA is about 8 times higher on
average during the project period. By the year 2000, the leverage would
increase to over 15. Further, the MGAs are fully able to repay the matching
loan while continuing to increase average loan size and maintain the overall
MGA Guarantee Fund. After 10 years the Guarantee Fund would have increased to
about P 900 million and with loans outstanding    members increasing to about
P 5 billion. Membership would stand at 4200.
The Matching Fund Trust Account also is financially sound. It is able
to pay off the DBP loan in full and build up a sizeable cash surplus to be
used for new MGAs beyond the initial 60 covered by the Project. By the year
2000 this additional and permanent pool would amount to P 187 million.
Sensitivity analysis indicates that the model is highly sensitive to:
the initial contribution per member, the loan multiplier, the matching fund
ratio and repayment terms and the default/recovery rates. Specifically, the
model shows that:
(a)   To insure both a reasonably quick take off of the MGA and a reasonable
coverage of the members' needs, the members have to be helped at the
beginning by an external contribution to the Guarantee Fund. This is
confirmed by the history of the MGA movement: no case exists of members
being able alone to set up their MGA. In fact, the external
contribution is needed only to accelerate the development of the MCA.
An MGA could well be set up without external help, but would then cover
only partially the needs of the members and would require much more time
to be self-sufficient.
(b)   With the assumed matching fund ratios used in the above projections, the
MGA is in a position to provide significant guarantee support to the
members as well as to begin to repay this contribution after 5 years.
(c)   Even with significant increases in the default rate, up to 11%, the MCA
Guarantee Fund is self-sustaining at the present fee and interest rate
assumptions. Beyond this some increase in guarantee/ annual fees would
be required to offset the outflow from loan defaults. Alternatively the
guarantee coverage could be reduced temporarily.
(d)   The management of an MGA can be done only through close monitoring of
all these parameters combined; no decisive conclusion can be drawn from
the fixation/value/evolution of only one parameter separated from the
others.



( 6 6'h  .0v0s0b8T
PHILIPPINES                                                      ANNEX 6
COTTAGE ENTERPRISE FINANCE PROJECT                                                  Page 4 of 4
CONSOLIDATED MGA GUARANTEE FUND AND LOAN ACCOUNTS
1991-2000
(Values in Current '000 Pesos)
1991     1992       1993        1994       1995        1996       1997        1998       1999       2000
CONSOLIDA TED MGA GUARANTEE FUND
FUND Beginning of Period               0     60562    104698    189189    344590    390605    456740    531478    625598    742542
LOWS                               63067       59986    110018    197604    124253    153880    184693    225294    278658    348700
ttal Subscription                  20000       15371      28393      59096        7789       9019       10169      11731       13805      16506
.al Fees                                0       3520       6480       11979      23367      27057       30506      35194       41414      49517
ching Fund Contribution            40000       25520      45940      70277            0          0           0          0           0          0
crest on Equity                      1611       5129      10629      21599       34474      46420       60235      76158       94735    116580
raritee Fees                        1000        7467      13842      26967       45621      55552      65201       79541    100159    129259
Recoveries on Loan Defaults              456       2980        4734       7686       13002      15832      18582       22669      28545       36839
(Equity Portion)                  157       1203       2237        4078       7943      11245       14940      19805       26362      35286
(MF Portion)                      299       1776       2497        3608       5059       4588        3642       2864        2184       1553
OULrFLOWs                               2505      15850       25526      42204      70238       95745    109955    131174    161714    204794
I.<uan Default Write-off                2280      14898       23670      38428      65010       79162      92911    113347    142726    184194
(Equity Portion)                  785       6017      11185       20390      39715      56223       74700      99025    131808    176430
(MF Portion)                     1495       8881      12485       18038      25296      22939       18211      14322       10918       7764
Repayment of Watching Fund                  0          0          0           0          0      10531      10184        9891       9648        9460
MOA Assn Fee                                0        121        314        757        1723       1993        2284       2657        3128       3713
Operating Cost                           225         832       1543        3019       3505       4058       4576        5279        6212       7428
MCA Fund End of Period                 60562    104698    189189    344590    398605    456740    531478    625598    742542    886449
MA TCHING LOAN FUND ACCOUNT
Bdlance Beginning of Period                 0     41813       62991    105266    166445    162864    158442    161585    170951    185763
INFLOW                                44206       35387      62251       90040      36892       42812      42465      42171       41929      41740
DIIP Contrlbution to Account           40000      22511       40168      58182           0           0          0           0          0          0
KIW Interest Differential               4206      12876       22083      31858      36892       32281      32281       32281      32281       32281
Repeiyment from MGAs                       0           0          0           0          0      10531      10184        9891       9648        9460
tFLOW                                2392       14209      19976      28861       40473      47234       39322      32806      27116       20750
Disbursement on Loan Default            1196       7104        9988      14431      20236       18351      14569       11458       8734        6211
Repayment to DBP                        1196       7104        9988      14431      20236       28882      24753       21348      18382       14539
lance End of Period                 41813       62991    105266    166445    162864    158442    161585    170951    185763    206753
which:
committed to Initial 60 MOAs    38804            57219      93171    149017    128781          99898      75145       53797      35415       19744
Available for New MGAn                 3009       5772       12095      17428      34083       58544      86440    117153    150348    187009
MEMO ITEMS
Sub-Loans Outstanding                  38000    2837F2    525992   1024755   1733608   2110988   2477621   3022575   3806023   4911839
DB3P Loan to MF Outstanding            38804      54210       84390    128141    107905         79022      54269       32921      14539           0
Average Sub-Loans
Outstanding per Member            38        180         210        244        413         503        590         720        906        1169
Member Leverage (Loan /
InitLial Subscription)            2          8           8          8         11          12         12          13         14          15



PHIULPPINES
COTTAGE ENTERPRISE FINANCE PROJECT
Cost Estimates of
Technical Asistace ComponAts ./
(PbO Millions)
Foleim        Locs         Tote]
Consultants
Foreign
Project Manager                      13.86                     13.86
Environment                           2.94                      2.94
Locl
Training                                           3.86        3.86
Legal                                              1.51         1.51
Auditing/Accounting                                2.35         2.35
Promotion/Development                              3.53         3.53
Co-ord/Supervision                                 3.02         3.02
Environment                                        3.02         3.02
Subtotal Consultants                  16.80        17.30        34.10
Equipmen                                 3.05                      3.05
computers                              1.12                      1.12
Faxes                                  0.25                      0.25
vehicles                               1.68                      1.68
Trainins                                 1.18         8.34        9.52
Per Diems                                           7.14         7.14
Materials                              1.18         1.20         2.38
Grand Totl                              21.03        2.64         46.67
US$ Equivalent (Millions)                0.75         0.92         1.67
of which:
Foreign Consultants (45 mm)            0.60                      0.60
Local Consultants (1 73 mos)                        0.62         0.62
al  This component will be finaned on a grant basis by KfW.
The technical assistance is categorized as 'project
implementation support. ,



PHILIPPINES
COTTAGE ENTERPRISE FINANCE PROJECT
ACCREDITED PF18 AND REGIONAL DISTRIBUTION OF BRANCHES
Regions ' FC TTI _l X~RI Ill  IV    V   VI  VIl IVilII              x I X     xixii bcl5A1NOrO-q! TTh -AL'
..Z1,IMERCtAl- BAN4KS                                                   ______
1*'aBarno3roaI18    1    6T '                                             1- 1-1  I    31  0  1         1i   2 lOf    0    0    0        30-
2  - y,BrKnCfofto                                    5    2    0    0                    0    2 1       0               0  ~0      0   0   40
3   4-iatrie ark-njCorporatlon                    29.  0    2    01  Ii  0    0    0    2-        1         iii        0'   0
4 l'Fr IEast Bank aridi riust Company              65    7         0     7  _410                                                               1
5 Pr'...pr.eCo-rrm,ercaliInternational Bank        88   16    2    01 1g    8    e ~20   1                   1 1 
6   iar CormrcWioal BanKing Corpofation         2      3        0     3    3.I 1 2                                   8  12        I0  1     4l
7 The nreinalronal Corporate Bano0                                  0  7            iT  -1 i    31  01  0_   I    1    1        -o    0 T 36 -
8s .~  Bark of ine Ph.l.ppines                     1 2    0                                   31        1    1I   31  0       01 25
9 , L.eC ocon~t Pian1ers Bank(                    49    3    1'  0                                                                             84 5   1 1f4 4     
-L8 OT A L                                     3Y28   33T  8   -0  48   28   20  3~7_T35 I1I1    8 j27J 34   15    107  37   6    649
SAVINGS AND LOANS I SAVINGS AND MORGAGE
Ibancodje 6roSavn'gs and Mortgage Bank            29    0    01   0    0.  0    0    2       1   0    0    0    0        0  01 0       0, 3
FSJBT3~TAL                                     I29    0    0    0 j0    0    0    2    1         0    0    0    0    0      0    0 j  0      32
PRIVATE DEVELOPMENT BANKS
I ~As~tfusz Development Bank                      1      0    I    7       ]       0 T       0    0    0    0* 0K~     0             
2 Luzon Development Bank                            0    0    ofijTi  12    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0              01   0 j  0    13~
3 NTAorthern Mindanao Development Bank              0  00 0Oj0  00  0OiO0 i1   0    0                                                 0         3
4 ~PIaniers Development Bank                         210  0   I 1 4  000  0 00  0  00   0                                                      2
6  Second Laguna Development Bank                    3    0    0    0]0o                0    0    0    0     0    0    01      OOj0 
7 :lr ban Development Bank                          I 5 0   0    0        0   0      0     0 O       O     000                U0 [1 5
[SUBTOTAL                                        34111  10  1 9 22 00 1011 0  0   11 1  010101I 1l8 1
SPECIAL GOVERNMENT BANKS
1 Liand Bank of the Philippines                  16    41 21 21  4    11  _2    1   I 11 1  1   1 i21 01   11 0    11    30
ISUBTOTAL                                      I8    4    21 21  41   1  21  1               111   1  1   1  1   21 01    1  0    I         3015f
IGRAND TOTAL                                   1395   38  1 11   21 711  511  22   40 3    1             29  371 15  1 11   3    8 179
NOT ES
1 As ofJune 30. 1 990
2 Addit,onal 5 commercrat banks. 6 thrift banks. 10 rural banks, and a special government bank are
in process of being accredited as of June 30. 1990.
3 Regions
NCR   National Capital Region
I    Ilocos
11    Cagayan Valley
CAR   Cord,ilera Autonomous Region
Ill   Central Luzon
IV    Southern Tagalog (except Aurora, Quezon. Plawan, Romblon. Marinduque &Mrndoro)
V     Brcol
Vt    Western Visayas (except Aktan, Antique & Capiz)
VII   Central Visayas (except Bohol, Siquilor & Negros Occ)
Vill  Eastern Visayas
Ix    Western Mindanao
X     Northern Mindanao (except Camiguin)
xi   Southern Mindanao
XtI    Central Mindanao
OPCA Quezon. Palawan. Caprz & Aklan
NO    Negros Oriental
0TH   Antique. Ptombton, Marinduque. Aurora. Siquilor, Camiguin. Mindoro & Bohol



PhIlLIPPINES
COTTAGE ENTERPRISE FINANCE PROJECT
Estimated Disbursements of the Proposed Loan
Cumulative
Bank Fiscal Year/Cumulativel   Disbursements  Disbursement Profile
Semester          US$ million          Z                IDF-Small Scale
Enterprise
FY91  Second          1.5             10                     3
FY92  First           1.5             10                    10
Second         2.7              18                    18
FY93  First           5.1             34                    34
Second         6.3             42                    42
FY94  First           8.7             58                    58
Second        10.5              70                    70
FY95  First          12.3             82                    82
Second        13.4              90                    90
FY96  First          14.7             98                    98
Second        15.0            100                   100
The estimates reflect the standard disbursement profile after the
first year, which exceeds the profile amount because US$1.5 million
is disbursed into a Special Account.



PHILIPPINES
COTTAGE ENTERPRISE FINANCE PROJECT
Supervision Plan
I Bank SuPervision Input: The staff input indicated in the table below is in addition 
regular supervision needs for the review of progress reports etc. estimated at four
staff-weeks during the first project year, three staff-weeks during the two following
project years, and one staff-week per year thereafter.
Skill                     Staft
Approximate Date       Activity                           Requirements                  Weeks
April 1991                Supervision Mission             Financial Analysis              5
-  Expedite start-up            Economic Analysis
- Review implementation of
organizational
arrangements and
establishment of MGAs
- Provide direction to
consultants on technical
assistance
September 1991            Supervision Mission             Financial Analysis             5
-  Review DBP's 1990            Economic Analysis
performance and
implementatian of
Cottage Enterprise
Project and related
training program.
- Review performan^e of
PFIs.
- Verify adherence to
Operating Policy
Guidelines of Project
and DBP's Policy
Statement.
- Reveiw implementation of
consultancy Studies.



Januarv 1992              Supervision Mission              Financial Analysis           3
-  Review progress on           Economic Analysis
subloan commitments and    Environmental Specialist
disbursements.
- Review activities of MGA
Management Unit,
including   rmation and
monitoring of MCAs.
- Discuss follow-up on
consultancy studies.
- Review environmental
activities under the
Project
June 1992                 Supervision Mission             Financial Analysis           2
- Review: DBP's 1991
performance and 1992
work plan;
- Review subloan
commitments and
disbursements.
November 1992             SupervisiLn Mission             Financial Analysis           2
1993            2 Supervision Missions           Financial Analysis           2
1994            2 Supervision Mission            Financial Analysis           2
1995            1 Supervision Mission            Financial Analysis           I
June     1996             1 Supervision Mission            Financial Analysis          2
Economic Analysis
2. Borrower and Implementing Unit's Contribution to SuRervion:
(a) During project implementation, DBP will provide the Bank with the following
informacion at the end of April and October of each year:
- Operational and Financial Performance of DBP.
- Operational and Financial Performance of PFIs.
- Lending operaitons: Commitments and Disbursements by
Financial intermediary (PFI)
(b)   The MGA Management Unit will provide the Bank with the following information at
the end of April and October of each year:



- Operational and Financial Statements of the MGA Management Unit
- Operational Unit and Financial Statements of participating MGAs
- Technical Assistance Program
Progress report on TA to MGAs
Progress report on environmental consultancy
- Technical Assistance Program
. Progress report on consultant assistance Lo DBP
. Progress report on consultant assistance to the PFIs
(b)   DBP will be  asponsible for coordinating arrangements for Bank supervision
missions, and for providing information required by missions.
(c)   Mission briefing meetings on arrival will normally be chaired by the Chairman of
DBP. Mission wrap-up meetings will normally be chaired by the chairman of DBP with the
participation of an UnderSecretary from Department of Finance, an UnderSecretary from the
Department of Trade and Industry and representatives of the PFIs.



PiRo  -274 '9R
A  , f" A' ITh I PROV*INCES                                                 iPHILIPPINES
i,,  P'i( A' RE(,'ONS                                                                              COTTAGE ENTERPRISE
B8soo(                     FFINANCE PROJECT
Phase I M(GA Regions
.I  .    ,                 ;                                              ATANESF
A-,                                      SATANES .  ;  i'.v; .   D.... r)oPhase 11 MC-;A  Regions
i  '  . A, . AsAS                                                                             P Orovince Ca pitols
*6    ;  v       a  *egil.50De -                                                                   *        NSational iCoiptal
i4  .                                                                                                                         co 5 ,,  +
L .o.og                                                Province  Boun,daries
Ioo  So                                Ba -*l                                         Region Boodiis
|  , . .'t   >r se'' So"'o'                                  ,'              txg.goio
14   . .  .   .                   " .r0e                       V.gofd       Tobokt                                     Internatiorial Bauiidoo ies
'S ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ LoOg de '      ~             S. FS..d .('pb  -eq-
tI   t''~                        . t                                   .      ffs
* '* " .            15       I ZtJ4t  lnOUANA                                          iiogoo ogur
0's _                      ''-i  -0*J                                        togoox..
A'.A ^.  A; 'A.  K   NOR'HERN ki;NOAAO
IV _ t- k .'A.,is._i g5-. ei Oae Non-e blyn*'0o
V A   .,                  6' A;ro" do'Noe 'Ot*... tTori'
2.'  .e  Oxi                r.' iASo'n sO.ent'ol                                        L W-  L U ZO  rN
.'2  1f'         .             e i45'i lv.. Occontf   ) ol t   I)    Sa
'2'i *o,   o                6"  A00$04 do S,.                BIe lo   a       2 " 
2(  S                Xl  SOUTHERN MINDANAO                        ii
' v,O  o.o_e             f66  SI'goo del Soi                    Ti5                     j
vtI U A., cO' r'o          6h   Do-oo G.eniol                                                         Doe
'29  M  ,- Co jO-e^.        68  Doyo del Nod'e
30  R-s-                    6e9  Doloodcl so'                                                                            CATAtrDUANES
3I P                        '; S-o,oCotoboto               /            _    Botng.           4           Pil
V   B CO.                XII  CEN'RAL MiNDANAO                    /                          'N                                nti
32      c '(s No"e          / I Lo-oo del Node
3 t  O"L"s S.'              /2  10000 del Soi             Monburoo
3 4C  '4"d_'O esi N5onh Coioboio                                 I
A boo.                      74  Mogu.ndon                                7|'
3 5 c'sgo                   7'B  Su.tow K.dorcit             mlNDORO                        R bl
3 / MoS1oie                                                         >                         a'' r                            f on
.i                         j       ~~~~~~~~Mosboic!  :SI !I AR
>1            /    >   >;~~~~olibol                           oraoo
.'0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
il~~~~~~~"l
{ C!   4-1'   4 1         F     
tvv ~   ~       ~       PA  A            ' '7   -' : J d/    
PALAWAij                                                           '      E  J
A  IVS SAYA,,YA'4   "                  \MoJ               .
,~~~~~~~~~ 31                               Ii           'S        / BOH'
x;su-:;f~   ,/  M^amoroo  )<      'Tondog
'                                             /$             o;5,qu.Z_         m            ;Oshesfedod~Or~u.ei
R                                                                         //'         E         /  ' aOlOwl  alatbala;>,                           R'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  '  4
//           M . ts Ce,(; A MN -k C)(                 7q
's  -.U, I C, b ' 00NooMN~AN.0 
v^,                                                  /        Q    .      Zamboonga    |    a /     o            }          Ingot"
g   r,. . . . .1 s                              /          Jola                                               San-or~~~~/  4 
I b
.    !,<S                                             \~~~~~~~~~,   SULLJ
, 2*    ._                                                                                                                   -     I                   7'12,
DEC CEboR  990



