Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CR. /R > -'C
Report No. P-4218-ET
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIOENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
LN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDP 5.0 MILLION
TO ETHIOPIA
FOR A
PORT ENGINEERING AND CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
March 11, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT I/
Currency Unit = Ethiopian Birr (Br)
US $ 1.00 = Br 2.07
Br 1.00   = US $ 0.48
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
Government: July 8 - July 7
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 meter (m)            =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)        =  2.20 pounds (Ib)
I metric ton (m.ton) = 2,205 pounds (lb)
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ASC       : Audit Services Corporation
EA        : Ethiopian Airlines
ESLC      : Ethiopian Shipping Lines Corporation
.TA          Marine Transport Authority
MTC       : Ministry of Transport and Communications
NATRACOR  : National Transport Corporation
NCCP      : National Committee for CentraL Planning
1/ The currency equivalent between the US dollar and the Ethiopian birr
has been constant from 1973 to the date of this report.



FOR OFCAL USE ONLY
ETHIGPIA
PORT ENGINEERING AND CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            Ethiopia
Beneficiary:         Marine Transport Authority (MTA)
Amount:              SDR 5.0 million (US$5.5 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard
Re-Lending Terms:    Total credit will be on-lent to MTA for 15 years
including 5 years of grace at 10 percent interest per
annum. MTA would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project Objectives
and Description:   The proposed Project would finance part of the
original Phase I of the Assab port development
designed to provide a modest increase in port
capacity; it would also carry out preparatory work for
a major port expansion under Phase II. The proposed
project would: (a) relieve congestion at the Assab
port through the construction of a tug berth;
(b) alleviate bottlenecks at Assab by improving
productivity in port operations; (c) carry out the
detailed engineering and other studies of Phase II to
pave the way for the major port project in Assab to be
considered for IDA financing; and (d) finance studies
of NrA's staffing, training, cost accounting and
tariffs.
The proposed Project would include the following
components: (i) tug berth construction; (ii) port
cargo handling and workshop equipment; (iii) site
investigation and detailed engineering for Phase II
Development of the Assab port; (iv) a study to update
economic analysis of Phase II together with financial
analysis; (v) a study of MTA's manpower development,
cost accounting and tariffs; and (vi) training of MTA
staff. The construction of the tug berth will release
an existing berth for general cargo use. No major
risks are anticipated in implementing the proposed
small and simple project; for the construction
component there are no particular risks beyond those
that are normally expected in the construction of a
project of this type and for which provision for the
use of consultants has been made.
sThu document hau  restricted distribution and may be used by recpients only in the performance
oftheirofflca duzes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoizatbon.



- ii -
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS:                            -  in US$ Milllons -
Foreign Local Total
1.  Tug Berth - Phase I                               1.7     1.4    3.1
2.  Port Cargo Handling Equipment                     1.1     0.4    1.5
3.  Port Workshops Tools and Equipment                0.7     0.3    1.0
4.  Studies for Phase II of Assab Port Dev.           0.9     0.3    1.2
5.  Study of MTA Manpower Development                 0.1     -       0.1
6.  Cost Accounting and Tariff Study                  0.2     0.1    0.3
7.  Training MEA's Staff                              0.1     -       0.1
Total Base Cost                               4.8     2.5    7.3
8. Contingencies
(a)  Physical                                     0.3     0.2    0.5
(b)  Price                                        0.4     0.3    0.7
Subtotal                                0.7      0.5    1.2
GRAND TOTAL                                       5.5     3.0    8.5
Total Project Net of Taxes and Duties                 5.5     2.1    7.6
Financing Plan
Sources:
IDA                                                 5.5     -      5.5
HTA                                                 -       3.0    3.0
Total Project Financing                               5.5     3.0    8.5
-
ESTIMATED DISBUJRSEMENTS                                in US$ Millions
IDA FY     1987   1988   1989
Annual                                           3.8    1.4    0.3
Cumulative                                       3.8    5.2    5.5
Economic Rate of Return: About 23 percent.
Maps                       IBRD 19429 and 19430



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPNENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO ETHIOPIA
FOR A PORT ENGINEERING AND CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to Ethiopia for SDR 5.0 million (US$ 5.5 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a port engineering and
construction project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic report on Ethiopia (No. 4683a-ET) entitled
'Ethiopia, Recent Economic Developments and Future Prospects,' was
circulated to the Executive Directors on May 31, 1984. The report's
findings, and the preliminary conclusions of an economic mission that
visited Ethiopia in March and April 1985, are reflected in the following
paragraphs.
Structural Characteristics
3.        The boundaries of Ethiop,a embrace a wide diversity of cultures,
and have contained a long and vivid history. Centuries of tradition have
been recently overtaken by fundamental social and political change.
With a population of about 43 million in 1985, Ethiopia is the third most
populous country in Africa (after Nigeria and Egypt). It is also one of
the poorest, and in terms of social indicators, one of the least
developed. About 89 percent of the total population is rural. The
country's land area extends over 1.2 million square kilometers and may be
broadly divided into two main geographical zones, namely: the highland
plateau of central Ethiopia, and the surrounding lowlands. Its capital
city, Addis Ababa, located in the central highlands, has a population
estimated at around 1.5 million.
4.        Agriculture accounts for about 50 percent of GDP, 90 percent of
exports, and 85 percent of total employment. Crops account for about 80
percent of the gross value of production and livestock most of the
rest. The main food crops are tef (a locally consumed cereal), maize,
barley, sorghum, wheat, pulses, and oilseeds. Coffee, the principal export
crop, generates over 60 percent of the country's export earnings. Other
export crops include oilseeds, pulses, cotton, sugarcane, fruits and
vegetables. The country's livestock herd is the largest in Africa; the
export of live animals has begun to increase in recent years.   Ethiopia's
known natural resources include gold, platinum, copper, soda ash, and
potash. Some petroleum exploration has taken place in the past, but no



petroleum reserves have yet been proven. None of these minerals has been
exploited on a large scale, and in most cases the potential for commercial
exploitation remains to be established. There are prospects for the
exploitation of geothermal energy. The country's main potential lies in
agriculture, for which the natural conditions of several areas are
favorable.  Nearly 95 percent of the land under cultivation is operated by
individual farmers who have user rights to landholdings averaging two
hectares or less.  Manufacturing industry, which accounts for about 10
percent of GDP, is heavily dependent on agriculture; agro-based industry
constitutes around 70 percent of large- and medium-scale industry.  Public
sector control and ownership covers almost all of large and medium-scale
manufacturing, all of banking and insurance, shipping, railway, airways,
utilities, and a large proportion of construction. Handicrafts and small
industry are operated by private owners. Domestic trade, especially retail
trade, and road transport are still largely in private hands.
5.        GNP per capita is estimated at around US$110 (1984) and an
estimated 60 percent of the population lives below the absolute poverty
level. Health services are limited and require major improvements to
combat high rates of morbidity, and infant and maternal mortality, worsened
by the drought. Life expectancy is still only about 46 years. Housing and
sanitation facilities, especially in the towns, are poor and need urgent
attention. Despite Ethiopia's rich endowment of fertile land and
substantial agricultural potential, its wide variation in topography and
extremely rugged terrain have been serious obstacles to internal
transportation, and economic development in general. Nearly three-quarters
of Ethiopia's farms are more than half-a-day's walk from all-weather roads.
The Drought
6.        The drought and famine have caused human suffering on an
unprecedented scale. The number of people needing assistance soared to
nearly 8 million. In response to the Government's appeals for assistance
and its efforts in dealing with the crisis, UN agencies, bilateral donors,
multilateral agencies and non-government organizations have provided a
record US$470 million in relief assistance, compared with the past (para.
8). The Government's hopes for some respite from the drought situation
were also raised by improved rainfall in recent months albeit with
less-than-normal intensity. It is too early to say whether the increased
interest of donors in Ethiopia, due to the drought disaster, will be
successful in generating significantly increased concessionary aid for long
term development. The drought relief effort has severely strained the
Government administration, and temporarily directed manpower and other
resources away from development.
Recent Macroeconomic Developments
7.        Since the 1974 revolution, Ethiopia has made considerable social
progress, as reflected by significant increases in literacy and school
enrollment and a modest rise in life expectancy. The literacy rate rose
from 7 percent in 1973 to over 40 percent in 1981 and the primary school
enrollment rate increased from 19 percent to 47 percent over the same



period. These achievements have not, however, been accompanied by
commensurate economic growth. During the decade ending 1983/84, GDP grew
at an average annual rate of only 2.5 percent in real terms.
8.        Following the aftermath of the revolution marked by internal
political upheaval and armed conflicts the economy had began to recover,
with GDP growth averaging 5.5 percent per annum during 1978/79 and
1979/80. Annual development campaigns (or Zemetchas) paved the way for
this recovery through a target-setting and monitoring process, combined
with increased budgetary allocations to agriculture and industry. The
economy witnessed a set-back during the following three years i.e. from
1980/81 to 1982/83, with GDP growth declining to an average rate of around
3.4 percent per annum. This adverse trend became more pronounced during
the past two years owing to the recent drought. GDP declined by 2.4
percent in 1983/84 and by 6.8 percent in 1984/85. The principal causes for
the set-back in economic growth in recent years were droughts and
inappropriate policies (para. 16) which affected agriculture, and capacity
constraints (notably in industry), owing to low rates of investment in the
past. The ratio of total investment to GDP has remained for many years at
around 11 percent, due largely to constraints on domestic as well as
external resources. Domestic savings have averaged around 3.4 percent of
GDP during the four years ending 1983/84, partly reflecting the basic
consumer needs of a low income country and the high expenditure on defense
and security. Domestic savings turned negative in 1984/85 with total
consumption exceeding output. Apart from the recent increase in emergency
aid arising from the drought disaster, official development assistance
averaged only around US$9 per capita per year as compared to over US$20 per
capita for developing countries in Africa.
9.        The balance of payments situation has continued to worsen.  The
external current account deficit reached US$416 million, equivalent to 9.4
percent of GDP in 1983/84. The situation further deteriorated in 1984/85
with depressed exports and increased imports and the current account
deficit reached the equivalent of about 13 percent of GDP - the highest in
the past decade. Meanwhile, net external reserves turned negative during
1984/85, owing to heavy drawdowns but ended with a positive balance in June
1985. The external debt service ratio increased significantly to about 22
percent.
10.       Notwithstanding these recent adverse trends, government fiscal
and monetary management has been generally prudent.   The country has a
relatively competent public service and in general, its ministries,
departments and most public enterprises are reasonably well managed. The
overall budget deficits remained below 5 percent of GDP for the period
1978/79 to 1981/82 and modest current account surpluses were achieved in
these years. But since then the fiscal deficit has followed an uneven
path. During 1982/83, the overall budget deficit rose to a level
equivalent to about 9 percent of GDP, principally due to a near doubling of
capital expenditure and an increase in current expenditure, reflecting in
large part a government decision to settle arrears due to parastatals in
one year. The overall deficit was brought back to a level equivalent to
4.5 percent of GDP in 1983/84. But the budgetary situation suffered a



- 4 -
set-back in 1984/85 owing to mounting drought related expenditures; despite
cutbacks on current expenditure and special drought levies to increase
revenues, the fiscal deficit reached the equivalent of about 8 percent of
GDP. The fiscal deficit can worsen unless the Government slows down its
population resettlement program to a manageable pace and reconsiders its
proposed villagisation program.
11.       The inflation rate (as measured by the Addis Ababa retail price
index) dropped from an average of 13 percent during 1978/79 and 1979/80 to
about 5 percent during the five year period ending 1983/84. But during
1984/85 it rose to an annualized rate of about 16 percent, largely
reflecting food price increases, following food shortages, which became
more pronounced since July 1984, owing to the drought.
12.       Notwithstanding the overall socialist policy framework, official
pronouncements have stressed from time to time the importance of
revitalizing agriculture through increased investment, guaranteed producer
prices and diffusion of improved technology to farmers; the need to restore
confidence amongst entrepreneurs engaged in small scale industry; and the
need to attract foreign investment and technology to develop the country's
resources. But actual progress in these directions has been very slow.
Other noteworthy steps include a Joint Venture Code introduced in January
1983 to promote joint ventures between foreign investors (public or
private) and Ethiopian public enterprises, and the formulation of proposals
to simplify and rationalize the system of direct and indirect taxes and to
make the tax system more income-elastic. In June 1984, the Central
Planning Supreme Council (CPSC) was reorganized into a National Committee
for Central Planning (NCCP) with a view to carrying out the central
planning function on a more systematized basis. The main organs of the
NCCP are a National Committee (chaired by the Read of State), an Executive
Committee, a Secretariat and Regional Planning offices.
13.       Although the above-mentioned initiatives by the Government are
steps in the right direction, there are a number of issues which require
attention. It is yet unclear whether the projected levels of investment
can be financed, given the low domestic savings rate, the claims of the
drought and other priorities for recurrent expenditure, and the limited
inflow of official development assistance (para. 8). While overall
budgetary deficits reflect prudent financial management, they also indicate
failure in attracting external concessionary assistance. Likewise, with
the value of merchandise imports running at double the value of merchandise
exports, a major expansion in exports and/or import substitution, and
restraints on imports ar- called for, in order to reach a more sustainable
external current ac__ount deficit. According to the IMF, Ethiopia's real
effec:ive exchange rate appreciated by over 50 percent against the trade
weighted basket of currencies during the five years ending October 1985.
The overvalued exchange rate and the lack of an effective package of export
incentives have tended to reduce margins for producers of export
commodities ir local currency and have inhibited the growth of exports.



14.       As regards sectoral issues, several other factors apart from the
drought appear to have impeded agricultural growth. Although some
initiatives have been made towards improving the Government's agricultural
and marketing policies, a serious dialogue with the Bank has only just
begun. Other constraints include the low use of improved seeds and
fertilizer, inadequate agricultural extension and research, and
restrictions on inter-regional grain movement by private operators. The
precise role of the private sector is yet unclear - the business climate
does not appear to be conducive to savings and investment, particularly in
industry. Although. there has been a remarkable improvement in literacy and
general education, all sectors are affected by the shortage of managerial,
technical and professional staff, indicating the need for stepping up
higher education.
Medium-Term Prospects
15.       The Ethiopian economy remains hampered by its weak infrastructure
(notably roads), low productivity in agriculture, heavy dependence on one
export commodity (coffee) subject to international export quotas, a small
industrial base, and shortages of skilled manpower. Apart from this set of
unfavorable initial conditions, the availability of domestic resources for
investment is constrained by the Government's outlays on internal security,
while import capacity is constrained by stagnating exports and by low
levels of external resource transfers. The drought has caused a major
setback, driving an already vulnerable economy to the current crisis.
16.       Ethiopia's rapid population growth also poses severe problems for
the future. Population growth, currently estimated at around 2.9 percent
per annum, implies a doubling of Ethiopia's population in 26 years or less,
and threatens to absorb most of the gains in economic growth and social
welfare foreseeable in the next decade. The demand for food, energy and
social services would increase dramatically and will lead to adverse
consequences in the ecological balance. The net impact could be
stagnation or possibly a decline in the living standards of the Ethiopian
people. Unless steps are taken to reduce fertility through an expansion of
family planning services, there could be little significant improvement in
per capita income nor of living standards. Ethiopia needs a multisectoral
population policy - which implies an expansion and strengthening of hasic
maternal and child health services into which family planning must be
integrated.
17.       The current economic crisis calls for urgent measures to achieve
short-term recovery in the first instance. Three areas which warrant
immediate attention are: improvement of agricultural pricing and marketing
policies, an adjustment of the exchange rate to reduce external imbalance,
and financing the fiscal deficit through non-inflationary sources as far as
possible. Ethiopia needs to orient economic policy towards expanding the
directly productive sectors, particularly agriculture and industry, and to
increase economic efficiency in the use of resources. The incentive
structure in the agricultural sector needs to be improved in order to step
up agricultural growth, and the business climate for private small-scale
enterprises, particularly in industry, should be made more favorable for



-6-
increased investment, output and exports. In general, the authorities
should make greater and more flexible use of macro-level policy instruments
(e.g. exchange rate and price policies) and less use of direct,
administrative controls. The attainment of higher growth rates would also
depend on raising the operational efficiency of public enterprises and on
alleviating skilled manpower shortages. There is also a need to develop a
more realistic macroeconomic framework for the Government's forthcoming
three year plan (beginning mid 1986) and to present a well balanced
portfolio of viable projects.  The financing of increased public investment
would call for greater efforts in domestic as well as external resource
mobilization.  Despite several constraints and limited room for
maneuverability on the part of Ethiopia's economic policy-makers,
conditions exist for a GDP growth rate of about 3 percent per annum over
the medium-term after achieving some measure of short term recovery,
provided the Government makes a concerted effort to increase savings and
investment and to pursue policies which foster accelerated growth.
External Assistance
18.       Unlike many other African countries, Ethiopia has no major
traditional bilateral source of technical and financial assistance. The
Bank Group was for some years the largest source of loans and credits, but
in recent years the European Economic Community, the African Development
Bank, the Soviet Union, the German Democratic Republic, and Czechoslovakia
have expanded their support, while development assistance is continuing
from Sweden, and Italy. As noted earlier (para. 6), in response to the
drought which received much international attention, there has been an
unprecedented increase in relief assistance both from official sources as
well as non-government organizations. But the level of concessionary aid
to Ethiopia for long-term development has been very low (para. 8).
Ethiopia is in need of substantial resource transfers to support
investments that will enable a reasonable rate of growth to be achieved,
particularly in view of the country's poverty, low level of savings and
weak balance of payments position.  Within the limits imposed by its
perceived security needs, over the past few years the Government has
directed available resources towards economic and social development; it
has restrained salaries, squeezed the import of non-essentials, and
increased taxes significantly.
19.    According to debt information provided by the Government to the
Bank's Debt Reporting System, the total debt outstanding and disbursed was
about US$1.4 billion as of December 31, 1984. The ratio of Ethiopia's debt
service to export earnings remained low (para. 9) up to the last two or
three years because of the relatively low level of external loan
commitments, and the tendency of some donors to shift to support on grant
terms. In addition, Italy, Finland, Sweden and Japan have concluded debt
forgiveness arrangements with Ethiopia. The U.S. Exim-bank made a loan in
1979 for aircraft purchases. The IMF has provided Trust Fund loans and
assistance under the Compensatory Financing Facility (CFF). As of December
31, 1984, Ethiopia's net borrowings under the Trust Fund stood at SDR 24
million and drawings outstanding under the CFF stood at about SDR 14
million. In May 1981, an IMF stand-by arrangement for Ethiopia in an



-7-
amount equivalent to SDR 67.5 million was approved to support an 18-month
program designed to strengthen overall fiscal performance and help improve
the balance of payments. This standby was fully disbursed and its
performance criteria were met. Repurchases of drawings under that stand-by
are now taking place; the amount outstanding as of December 31, 1984 stood
at SUR 62.6 million. Obligations under this standby are being met by the
Government. An IMF mission visited Ethiopia in December 1985 to discuss a
new CFF. In February 1986, the IMF Board approved an SDR 35.3 million CFF
for Ethiopia.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPIA
20.       Bank Group lending to Ethiopia since 1950 totalled about US$852
million (less cancellations) as of October 31, 1985, consisting of 36 IDA
credits totalling about US$743 million, 12 Bank loans totalling about
US$109 million, and five IFC commitments totalling US$15.7 million. Much
of the lending (US$228 million) was committed between fiscal years 1974 and
1978.  Subsequcntly, the compensation issue led to a two-year interruption
in new lending (para. 25).  Since FY1973, lending has been on IDA terms
only.  IBRD's share of total public debt outstanding and disbursed as of
December 31, 1984 is estimated at about 3 percent, and IDA's at 23
percent. Their shares of total debt service in FY1983 are estimated at
about 12 percent and 9 percent, respectively. Lending focussed on the
construction of trunk roads, power and telecommunications facilities until
the late 1960s, when its emphasis shifted to agriculture and education.
Since 1973, twelve credits totalling US$238 million have supported
agriculture and some attracted co-financing or other complementary
assistance. Credit 1088-ET of February 2, 1981, together with co-financing
from Sweden and the International Fund for Agricultural Development, is
assisting the agricultural minimum package program, which represents the
core of the Government's efforts to assist peasant agriculture. Recent
credits, approved during 1984 and early 1985, were to support coffee
processing and marketing, telecommurdcations, education, agricultural
research, technical assistance, and a short term program for drought
recovery.
21.       Project implementation in Ethiopia, although subject to some
difficulties, is generally quite satisfactory. Ethiopia's overall record
compares favorably with other countries in the Eastern Africa Region. In
recent years, security problems affected three IDA financed agricultural
projects, but two of them eventually made satisfactory progress. Some
projects, especially in agriculture, suffered from management problems.
But projects in the highways, education, and telecommunications sectors
continue to have strong management. Financial problems, rising labor costs
and occasional shortages of construction materials have also detracted from
efficient project implementation on occasion. Efforts to recover from the
drought, and the resettlement program, have recently placed a particularly
heavy burden on the administration. However, the Government and the
project managements have generally been successful in resolving these
problems. In addition, the economic and social reforms introduced since
1974 necessitated structural and operational changes in a number of



-8-
projects. In some cases, the changes were beneficial and in others
detrimental. For example, the scope of the first Coffee Processing Project
was widened as a result of the land reform and the take-over of washing
stations, whereas the Addis Ababa Dairy Development Project experienced
production losses following the take-over of some farms by peasant
associations. Ethiopia's disbursement performance on projects assisted by
the Bank Group has also been reasonably satisfactory. The ratio of
disbursements to undisbursed funds in Ethiopia for FY85 was 22 percent,
about equal to the average for the Eastern Africa Region and the Bank as a
whole.
Assistance Strategy
22.       We propose to continue to assist the Government to devise and
implement policies and programs to (i) improve the policy framework for
increased production and exports through economic and sector studies,
advice on agricultural pricing and marketing policies and assistance to
implementation of the Government's Drought Action Plan; (ii) improve the
policy framework and institutional structure for domestic and external
resource mobilization and allocation through advice on tax reforms, and on
better planning and monitoring of foreign aid; (iii) improve the policy
framework and institutional structure for public and private sector
efficiency, through advice on price policy reforms, and on a clearer role
for the existing private sector; and (iv) accelerate human resource
development through advice on population policy, education and skilled
manpower development. In our economic work, we intend to focus on resource
mobilization issues, public investment reviews, export incentive issues,
and human resource development. We have completed a study of the energy
sectorl/. We have been carrying out studies of the agricultural sector,
including a joint study with the Government on farmers' incentives and
marketing efficiency, and also studies of the industry, education, and
population, health and nutrition sectors. An Export Act'-on Prograu mission
has been completed. In our lending work, we plan to continue emphasizing
the productive sectors and essential infrastructure, including high
priority investments in transportation to help address the country's
capacity constraints and deteriorating terms of trade. A project is in
preparation to help develop domestic energy resources to meet the needs of
Ethiopia's growing economy and help relieve pressure on the balance of
payments. A peasant agricultural development project is being considered
to help increase the productivity and incomes of small farmers. A
livestock project and a forestry project are being prepared. We are making
concerted efforts to arrange co-financing for proposed projects. Informal
discussions are underway but no decision has been taken concerning a
possible donor conference on Ethiopia, either a UNDP Round Table or a
resumption of the Consultative Group.
Compensation
23.       In recent years, the Government has made good progress in
resolving compensation claims for assets nationalized in 1975. It has
1/ Ethiopia: Issues and Opions in the Energy Sector, July 1984.



- 9 -
negotiated a share-purchase agreement with IFC in respect of the latter's
shares in the Metahara Sugar Company and in the Textile Mills of Dire
Dava. The Government's Compensation Commission has settled with IFC's
partner in Metahara, a Dutch firm which had a large claim, and with IFC's
major enterprise partner in the Textile Mills, a Japanese company. A
settlement with IFC's individual partner in the Textile Hills has also been
reached. The Commission has settled with a major British claimant. An
agreement was recently signed by the Governments of Ethiopia and the United
States for the resolution of all outstanding U.S. claims. The Commission
has also settled with five or more smaller German, and Japanese claimants,
and has entered into negotiations with a number of others. In addition,
the Ethiopian Government and the Italian Government have agreed on an
arrangement to settle all Italian claims.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
General
24.       Ethiopia's transport system comprises approximately 40,000 km of
roads (including 13,300 km of all-weather roads of which about 4,000 km are
paved), two ports at Assab and Massawa, one 780 km railway line linking
Addia Ababa and the port of Djibouti, small maritime and coastal shipping
operations, river and lake transport (of little significance), three
international airports at Addis Ababa, Asmara and Dire Dawa and about 30
airfields and airstrips. Roads comprise the country's dominant mode of
transport. Away from the major roads, animals are the primary means of
transport. With road, port and rail transport facing serious bottlenecks
including lack of infrastructure and operational problems, civil aviation
and air transport is the best organized transport mode.
25.       The transport system is inadequate to support an efficient
production and distribution system. It is particularly poorly developed in
the agriculturally rich west, in the south and south-east, and is in need
of rehabilitation in many areas. Moreover, adjacent regions often lack
links between them, hindering the development of a strong, integrated
national economy. The provision of transport services in Ethiopia,
however, is made difficult and expensive by the country's large
geographical area, rugged topography, severe climatic conditions, and
widely-dispersed population.
Highways and Road Transport
26.       Ethiopia's road network is one of the least developed in Africa,
with a density of only 10 km per 1,000 km2 and 0.4 km per 1,000 people.
The main network extends radially from Addis Ababa with few interconnecting
links; large areas still lack an all-weather link to the capital or to
other economic centers. The road network has expanded, however, in recent
years. The length of paved roads and the total length of the networks have
increased 2.4 times in the last sixteen years. Nevertheless, much of the
main road network needs extensive rehabilitation and upgrading. The



- 10 -
country's main road connects the capital with the port of Assab.
Maintenance of the main road network (13,300 km ) needs improvement and
assistance is provided under the ongoing Second Road Sector Project. The
rural road network, which is inadequate in both its condition and
coverage, is the subject of a pilot project under the Second Road Sector
Project which, inter alia, emphasizes the use of labor-based construction
and maintenance methods. The results of this pilot project, which is being
implemented with the help of ILO, will be reviewed by the Government and
the Bank in 1986.
27.       The road transport industry is dominated by private truckers,
mostly individual owner/operators who own over 80 percent of the country's
trucking fleet. Entry into the trucking industry is subject only to
compliance with a certain personal, safety and financial requirements;
truckers for-hire must be associated with the Government-owned National
Road Transport Corporation (NATRACOR), a parastatal road regulatoAy and
transport company under the aegis of the Ministry of Transport and
Communications (MTC). In 1984/85 the total public road transport fleet in
the country amounted to about 6,880 trucks, 830 tankers, and 3,160 buses
(870 large). Of these, NATRACOR owned and operated 1,050 trucks, 160
tankers, and 270 buses. There has long been a shortage of trucking
capacity in the country despite the importation of a large number of new
trucks in recent years. In particular, there seems to be a shortage of
medium and small size trucks for urban/suburban and short-haul services.
The situation is exacerbated by the general shortage of foreign exchange
for repair and maintenance of the fleet on the one hand and the aging
character of the fleet on the other - 9 years for the private sector and
about 4 years on average for NATRACOR. Due to the shortage of spare parts
and tires about 20-30 percent of the trucking and busing fleet is always
out of service. IDA is providing vehicles, spare parts and tires through
the Drought Recovery Program.
Railways
28.       The Ethio-Djibouti railway, jointly owned by the two countries
(50 percent each), is old with worn out tracks and aged rolling stock. As
a result the capacity of the railway has been declining and in the last
three years (1982/83 - 1984/85) it handled about 300-400,000 tons per
annum. Its financial position has deterioriated and in the same period the
railway lost about $1.0 million equivalent per year. The management of the
railway has been trying to improve its operations and to modernize its
infrastructure. In 1984 the railway financed an organization and
management study whose recommendations are now being reviewed by
management. Since 1983 EEC and French bilateral aid started a limited
rehabilitation program of the railway by providing new engines and wagons
to replace the old ones and by renewing part of the track.
Air Transport
29.       Air transport is the most successful and best organized
subsector. There are 30 airports/airfields thr3ughout the country of which
4 have paved runways. The modernization program of the infrastructure



- 11 -
carried out by Department of Civil Aviation and the Ministry of Transport
and Communications is underway. The national carrier,Ethiopian Airlines
(EA), has been operating successfully since 1946; its growing operational
network, both domestic and international, is carried out with 29 aircraft
of which 12 are jet, EA has been operating profitably and does all aircraft
maintenance including engine overhauls. EA also carries out training
programs for staff of other African airlines. Air traffic has been rising
steadily, reaching 427,000 passengers (147,000 on domestic flights) and
31,000 tons of freight in 1984/85.
Ports and Shipping
30.       Ethiopia is served by three major ports:  Massawa and Assab on
its own territory and the port of Djibouti. Massawa (a long established
port) serves the northern part of the country, while Assab was developed as
a major part in the late 1950's to provide a national alternative to the
port of Djibouti. Massawa is connected with Asmara by a 95-km paved road;
operations on a railway line connecting Massawa with Asmara and other
cities in the north ceased some years ago. Addis Ababa is linked with
Assab by a paved highway (880 km) and with Djibouti via the old and
inefficient Ethio-Djibouti Railway (780 km) as well as by a highway (820
km). The Djibouti port is, however, of limited use mostly due to: (i)
Ethiopia's intention to use primarily its own ports; and (ii) difficulties
encounterel when using the port (para. 34).
31.       The present commercial port of Assab was completed in 1959 and
consists of two jetties which extend south-south east from the shore
forming a relatively sheltered basin 300 m wide. There are three berths on
the inner face of the northern jetty and four berths on the inner face of
the southern jetty. All of the berths are designed to be roughly aligned
with the predominant wind direction to ease the problems of berthing. An
offshore breakwater effectively prevents wind generated ocean waves from
entering the basin. The breakwater is in good condition and has been
well-maintained. Five of the seven berths were designed to accept
ocean-going vessels of 150 m average length, the sixth for vessels of 120 m
and the seventh is regarded as a berth for coastal vessels of 70 m average
length. Unfortunately, this coastal berth has been exclusively used by the
port's tugs, service vessels and also the coastguard and thus it has not
been available for cargo traffic. Limited handling and cargo storage is
available on the jetties as open storage and in four transit sheds and
three open sided sl'eds. Recently, as part of the Phase I development of
the port, a rationalization of the available land areas within the port was
carried out. Many old buildings and sheds were demolished to provide
better access and open storage areas. In addition, the MTA created a large
open storage area to the south of the jetties through land clearing and
reclamation. Total holding capacity in the port is 360,000 m3 of which
250,000 m3 is covered. The port is fairly well-equipped but much of the
equipment is now reaching the end of its useful life and requires frequent
repair. Annual average availability of the port equipment is declining and
is 1984/85 it fell to about 66 percent. The berths are equipped with
electric quayside cranes in good condition ranging from 6.3 to 20 tons in
capacity. Equipment for handling containers is very limited and will soon
become a constraint as the number of containers increases. As a direct



- 12 -
consequence of the assistance received during drought relief efforts, the
port has recently aquired bulk handling and other equipment for cereals.
The items include mobile conveyor units, a bagging plant, front end loaders
and trucks. Storage sheds have been built outside the port confines by the
Marine Tranuport Service Corporation, a parastatal in charge of freight
forwarding. There is good general anchorage to the north east of the
breakwater which is sheltered by the offshore islands. To the south of the
port is the Assab Oil Refinery and a number of marine oil terminal
facilities which can accomodate tankers up to 35,000 dwt.
32.       Massawa port is located in a good natural harbor and has five
berths all originally constructed for ocean-going vessels averaging 150
meters in length, plus a shallow draft berth of 175 meters. However,
because of lack of maintenance dredging and partial collapse of the quay
wall, only two of the berths can now accept such vessels. There are two
more berths for bulk-handling facilities for both petroleum products and
salt, and a cement loading berth. There are six electric portable quay
cranes, not all in working condition.
33.       In 1984/85 the total cargo export/import traffic of Ethiopia was
about 2.53 million tons of which Assab handled about 79 percent (2.01
million tons), Massawa 15 percent and Djibouti 6 percent; in the same year
total dry cargo was about 1.95 million tons; the share of containerized
cargo is less than 2.0 percent. It is estimated that in the next 5-10 year
period the traffic in Assab would grow at an average annual rate of about
4 percent. The port of Assab operates around the clock, close to
capacity. Productivity in the port has been improving and volume of cargo
handled per shift/hour increased from 21.8 tons in 1982/83 to 29.5 tons in
1984/85. Furthermore, average time alongside has been declining from 5.0
days (1982/83) to 4.7 days (1984/85). Nevertheless, the recent massive
grain imports increased congestion in the port calling for urgent action to
relieve the situation.
34.       With regard to the use of the Djibouti port for Ethiopian
external trade the Government policy is to increase the share of the
Djibouti traffic share from the present 6 percent to about 12-15 percent by
the mid-nineties. However, there have been difficulties in securing
agreement with the Government of Djibouti on fixed rates for Ethiopian
cargo on a semi-annual or annual basis. Furthermore, the management of the
Assab port has been trying, unsuccessfully so far, to discuss with the
Djibouti port matters of mutual interest and to compare costs. As a
result, Ethiopia has no guarantees on rates for the Djibouti port, which
has kept its options to increase rates at will. For example, recently the
rate per livestock unit exported from Ethiopia increased without prior
notice from Birr 7 to Birr 15. Notwithstanding difficulties with the
Ethio-Djibouti Railway, Ethiopia is also faced with unpredictable port
services at Djibouti. That, in turn, has strengthened Government strategy
to expand and modernize its own ports - the port of Assab as first
priority.
35.       The Marine Transport Authority (MTA) is responsible for the
management -if the two Ethiopian ports. An organization chart is at the



- 13 -
back of this report (Chart 301311). MTA has a legal personality, operates
with administrative autonomy, and reports to MTC. MTA appears to be
well-managed with generally competent staff. Its operations are
profitable; its financial performance is summarized in paras. 58 and 59.
Due to shortages of foreign exchange, there has been no extension of
operating capacity in the ports; also some skilled personnel are in short
supply. Total MTA staff in 1985 was 1,670; MTA headquarters staff in Addis
Ababa numbered 155 with about 20 vacancies mostly in the Technical Services
and Maritime Management Departments. Extra efforts made by port workers
and MTA staff tend to make up for this. With available resources MTA has
carried out significant development works in the port of Assab, and to a
lesser extent in Massawa. In the period 1983-85 the following works were
completed: (i) construction of 5,700 m2 of storage facilities;
(ii) construction of 4,800 m2 of covered sheds; (iii) asphalting of 65,000
m2 of port areas; and (iv) the construction of many apartments, houses and
recreational facilities for port workers.
36.       Recently, MTA completed a technical assistance program carried
out by consultants Public Administration Service (USA). The assignment was
to advise MTA on port and workshop operations, job descriptions, manuals
and on strengthening the MTA's management. However, following the
termination of the assignment and a review of the results the MTA realized
that the exercise was not complete and has requested that the proposed
project include a study to identify MTA staff development and training
needs.
37.       Ethiopian Shipping Lines Corporation (ESLC), a parastatal company
under MTC, started to operate in 1966. In 1985, its 11 vessels had a
capacity of 127,500 m3 or about 80,000 dwt.  In 1984/85 ESLC transported
about 503,000 tons or about 25 percent of Ethiopia's external trade. ESLC
operations are profitable and in FY85 its net profit was US$3.9 million or
9 percent of the company's total revenue.
Government Priorities and Needs in the Sector
38.       An established comprehensive strategy for the long-term
development of the transport sector is lacking. The National Transport
Study, being carried out by consultants Louis Berger (USA) under Cr. 1404
(para. 42) is expected to provide a basis for an integrated development
program for the sector. At present, the Government's priorities are laid
out by the National Committee for Central Planning (NCCP) in the ten-year
perspective plan (1984/85-1993/94). Projected investments for the sector
total about Ethiopian Birr 5.3 billion (US$2.56 billion) or about 18
percent of total investments for the economy; the share is in line with
experience in other countries in the region. The largest share within the
transport sector is envisaged for road construction and maintenance (38
percent), road transport development (25 percent), ports and marine
transport and air transport about 14 percent each and the remainder (9
percent) for the railway. The Government priority in the sector is the
development of the Addis-Assab corridor with limited reliance on the port
of Djibouti - up to about 15 percent of total export/import traffic.
According to MTC, the investment program should be considered as an
indicative one and it would be subject to necessary revisions once the



- 14 -
National Transport Study and a feasibility study on the new Addis-Assab
railway line are completed.
39.       The development of the port and marine transport subsector in the
ten-year period (total planned investments about US$350 million) is phased
with regard to the ports of Assab and Massawa, and acquisition of ships for
ESLC. Phase I in Assab, to be implemented over 1983-86 period, called for
construction of a tug berth, a roll-on/roll-off berth, storage facilities,
acquisition of equipment and ashpalting of the port area. Part of this has
already been accomplished, financed by the Government, while the proposed
project would finance the remainder of the priority Phase I program. Phase
II, to be implemented after 1986, comprises construction of two
multi-purpose berths for general and container cargo, port dredging, port
buildings, equipment and construction of new storage area. The plan also
includes limited investments for the development of Massawa port.
40.       With regard to other sectoral needs (other than ports), expansion
and modernization of the road transport industry (replacement of aged
vehicle fleet and new vehicle repair facilities) is an urgent need.
Shortcomings in road transport are recognized as a major issue in the
sector. In addition, rehabilitation and strengthening of main road network
together with extension of the rural road network are important priorities.
Bank Group Strategy
41.       The Bank's country assistance strategy is summarized in para. 22
above. Within the transport sector, this strategy will aim to
improve transport infrastructure and its operation for both external
traffic flow and for internal land transport which will support in
particular agricultural production.
42.       In the transport sector, the Bank Group has committed about
US$205 million for eight road projects in Ethiopia; one is still under
implementation. The first three concentrated on main roads, while in the
subsequent ones there has been emphasis on institution building and
construction of secondary and rural roads and on road rehabilitation and
maintenance. The last two have been sector projects that supported
Government road sector programs. Bank Group lending in the roads subsector
has been generally successful. Apart from physical achievemenfs,
significant institutional strengthening has been attained. The ongoing
project (Cr. 1404-ET) includes a sizeable program for roads to be
constructed or strenghtened; however, the program targets are being updated
to respond better to revised priorities and needs in agriculture arising
from the drought and to take account of reduced Government resources
available for the project.



- 15 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
43.       The MTA commissioned a National Ports Study in 1980 which was
carried out by consultants Bertlin and Partners (UK) and financed by the
Government. The final report issued in November 1982 analyzed the actual
port situation and made recommendations for the short term and longer term
development needs for both Assab and Masawa. In the case of Assab port the
recommendations for a Phase I development essentially consisted of works
which could be carried out by the MTA without recourse to foreign
contractors or external financing and would be completed by 1986, to be
followed by a Phase II development which basically consisted of the
construction of two new berths to the south of the present port on
reclaimed land. In accordance with the port study recommendations, the MTA
commenced the Phase I works in 1983 and was able to complete the shore
civil works using their own resources but was unable to proceed with the
construction of the proposed tug berth and Ro-Ro berth due to lack of
foreign exchange needed to purchase materials for construction and
technical assistance in supervision. Following Government's acceptance of
the National Ports Study, the MTA re-appointed the same consultants to
carry out the detailed engineering for the Phase I development at Assab.
Thus all of the specifications and working drawings for the tug berth have
been completed and are acceptable to the Bank.
44.       After the completion of the National Ports Study, the Bank Group
has had continuous dialogue with MTC and MTA on possible Bank Group
involvement in assisting the development of Ethiopia's port subsector.
Originally, the Bank Group involvement was planned for Phase II of the port
development. However, in view of the Government's shortage of foreign
exchange to complete Phase I and particularly because of the urgency of the
need quickly to reduce the congestion at Assab port, the Government and the
IDA agreed to an urgent port project which would be an Engineering and
Construction Credit.
45.       The Project was appraised in October 1985.  There is no staff
appraisal report. Negotiations were held in Washington from February 3-7,
1986. The Ethiopian delegation was headed by Mr. Asseged Wolde Amanuel,
Vice Minister of MTC.
Project 0bjectives and Description
46.       As the first Bank Group financed project in the subsector, the
proposed project, by improving the capacity of the port of Assab, would
help to address one of Ethiopia's major obstacles to development - that of
inadequate facilities in the port of Assab. Through the provision of a new
berth plus equipment in the port the available throughput capacity will be
quickly increased to handle the anticipated volume of traffic. Thus, the
project will provide a modest increase in port capacity without a major
investment in marine civil works. At the same time it will carry out the



- 16 -
preparatory work and detailed engineering for Phase II, involving a major
port expansion which the Bank will consider financing under the programmed
Transport Project (FY89s). In addition, the Project will address certain
deficiencies in MTA staffing, training, cost accounting and tariffs.
47.       Specifically, the proposed engineering and construction credit
would include the following components:
(i) site investigation and detailed engineering for the construction
of two berths including the necessary dredging and land
reclamation under the Phase II development of Assab port; the
full scope of the Phase II development will not be decided,
however, until economic analysis for construction of new berths
is carried out;
(ii) studies to update the economic and the financial analysis for the
Phase II development initially carried out in the National Ports
Study;
(iii) the construction of the tug berth to provide the needed berth
facilities for tugs and coastguard and thus liberate the existing
berth No. 8 for general cargo traffic;
(iv) the procurement of urgently needed port handling equipment mainly
for containers and bulk cargo;
(v) the procu:ement of port workshop equipment for the newly
constructed port equipment and crane workshops; although much of
the machine tools contained in the existing workshops will be
transferred to the new workshops there is a serious lack of many
essential items;
(vi) a study of MTA's manpower development to identify development and
training needs of MTA staff which could be addressed under the
forthcoming Transport Project;
(vii) a cost accounting and tariff study to introduce cost accounting
systems to the MTA to be followed by introduction of a tariff
system that is cost related; and
(viii) priority training for the MTA staff, particularly in port
accounting and finances, port planning and workshop technology;
the hrA staff require urgent training which can be undertaken
through this small component which will be followed up by a
larger training program under the forthcoming Transport Project.
Project Implementation
48.       The MTA will be responsible for the implementation of the
Project. MTA will be assisted by consultants for the procurement,
supervision of civil works for the tug berth construction, and for the
various studies to be carried out for detailed engineering, economic and



- 17 -
financial updating, cost accounting and manpower development. The
appointment of conqultants will be on terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA. The Project is expected to be completed by the end of June 1988. The
last audited MTA financial report reviewed by IDA was one for FY 1982. The
submission of the audit report for FYs 1983 and 1984 would be a condition
of Credit effectiveness.
Civil Works for Tug Berth Construction
49.       This work will be tendered through ICB procedures and supervised
during construction by consultants. The berth is to be a reinforced
concrete structure providing 87 m of berthface and has been designed to be
built using simple construction methods. The deck of the berth will be
built to resist similar loading to that of the adjacent general cargo
berths so that it can perform as a coastal vessel berth when space is
available. The berth will have a water depth of about 5 m alongside. The
structure consists of precast segmental reinforced concrete columns
supporting a reinforced concrete deck spanning from the existing shoreline
to the columns. MTA, assisted by the consultants, agreed on a construction
system that avoided the use of special plant; for that reason it is
expected that it will attract a larger number of contractors resulting in a
lower cost. The berth will be adequately fitted with bollards, fendering,
ladders and services such as water and power. MTA plans to complete the
tender documents, prequalify contractors, issue bids and evaluate them
prior to the expected date of the Credit effectiveness so that construction
can start as soon as possible.
Port Cargo Handling Equipment
50.       The proposed equipment to be procured under the Project consists
mainly of tractors and trailers and a 35 ton lift truck intended for
container handling, a tracked front end loader with bale and roll
attachments and radio communications equipment (Annex IV, Table 4). This
equipment is considered very high priority and will be used at Assab to
improve the efficiency of cargo handling in the port. The SSB Radio
equipment will connect the MTA's Addis Ababa office to both Assab and
Massawa ports. VHF communication equipment for ship/shore and within the
port area is for both Assab and Massava. The MTA has already begun
preparing bidding documents for the equipment.
Port Workshops Equipment
51.       The MTA is in the process of completing two extensive workshop
buildings in Assab. One workshop is to be used exclusively for the
maintenance of cranes and the other for the remainder of the port's
mechanical plant. MTA plans to transfer to the new workshops the existing
equipment, machine tools, hand tools, etc. as is considered realistic in
terms of age and condition. However, there is a need for additional
workshop equipment, the most essential of which would be included in the
Project, covering a range from machine tools and engine overhaul through
welding and painting. As in the case of the port cargo handling equipment
preparation of bidding documents has already commenced so that orders can
be placed at the time of the Credit effectiveness.



- 18 -
Studies for Phase II of Assab Development
52.       The MTA has re-appointed the consultants responsible for the
National Ports Study and the detailed engineering for Phase I to carry out
the work required for the Phase II development. These consultants and
their terms of appointment are acceptable to the Association. In addition
a site and sea-floor soils investigation will be subject to selected
international tender following the preparation of the necessary
specifications and tender documents which will be supervised and controlled
by the consultants. The consultants will then work up the engineering
drawings, tender documents, pre-qualify contractors, issue and evaluate the
tenders, and make recommendations concerning the contract award. Under the
National Ports Study, Phase II is to consist of the construction of two
berths each 225 m in length which would initially be used as general/cargo
container berths and later, as traffic developed, they would become
dedicated container berths. At this stage in the preparation of Phase II
it seems that only one berth, to be operational in 1991/92 is required
while the second one would be needed several years later. However, the
dredging work and land reclamation would be carried out for the two
berths. The decision on the scope of Phase II development would be
deferred until 1987 by which time, following economic and financial
analysis of port development, the port capacity needs can be clearly
defined; the analysis will also take the Djibouti port into account. The
berth design would be suitable for later use as a container terminal and
crane rails for quayside gantries complete with hold-downs would be
included.
Studies and Training
53.       The proposed Project would also include studies of MTA's
manpower development needs, as well as of cost accounting and tariffs.
TORs for the studies included in the Project were reviewed and agreed with
the Government. The Project would also provide for training of MTA staff
where it is urgently needed - in the Finance, Research, Planning and
Programming and Technical Services Departments. About twelve MTA staff
will be sent abroad for 6-9 months each for relevant training/courses.
These training programs will be on terms satisfactory to the Association.
Project Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
54.       The total cost of the Project, including physical and price
contingencies, taxes and duties (estimated at 0.9 million US$ equivalent),
is estimated at US$8.5 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange
component of US$5.5 million (65 percent). Cost estimates are made in end
1985 prices and are based on consultants' detailed engineering for civil
works and current manufacturer's quotations for port equipment. Total
physical contingencies of about 7 percent of the base cost have been
provided (for site investigation 15 percent, civil works and studies 10
percent and none for equipment, tools and training).
55.       Price contingencies on the base costs plus physical contingencies
have been provided for local costs on the basis of annual increases of
9 percent for 1986 and 1987, reflecting the expected domestic inflation.For
foreign costs, a rate of 7.0 percent per annum has been applied.



- 19 -
56.       The proposed credit of US$$5.5 million would finance the full
foreign exchange component of the civil works, equipment, consultant
services and training. The proposed Credit would be on-lent by the
Government to MTA for a period of 15 years, including 5 years of grace at
an annual interest rate of 10 percent and MTA would bear the foreign
exchange risk. The execution of a subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Government and MTA, satisfactory to the Association, would be a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed Credit.
57.       The proposed IDA credit would finance 100 percent of the foreign
cost of the Project (US$5.5 million) while the estimated local cost
including taxes and duties (US$3.0 million equivalent) would be financed by
MTA. In order to allow timely commencement by consultants of engineering
work and preparation of tender documents, provision has been made for
retroactive financing of up to US$200,000 to facilitate disbursement for
consultant services.
Financial Structure and Performance
58.       During the past five years (FY81 to FY85) MTA's performance has
been good. Because of increased traffic, revenues in FY85 of US$53.5
million equivalent more than doubled those in FY81 of US$24.6 million
equivalent while the financial ratios have been satisfactory. The average
operating ratio during the five year period remained constant at about
67 percent, the debt/equity ratio was 21:79, and the return on net fixed
assets in operations (at historic cost) was 3- percent. High profits,
about US$9.4 million equivalent (before taxes) annual average for FYs81-85
(Annex III, Table 1) and the fact that the assets have not been revalued
explain the high return. The assets will be, however, revalued in the Cost
Accounting and Tariff Study included in the project. The accounts
receivable in FY85 represented two months of total revenues while accounts
payable were 13 percent of total operating expenses. In recent years, both
ports (Assab and Massawa) have operated almost at capacity. The tariffs,
which are uniform for both ports, have not been increased for about ten
years. Although MTA conducts a profitable operation, the tariffs were not
set in a systematic manner in accordance with the operating cost structure
and the financial requirements of the ports. The tariff structure and the
level of tariffs require systematic analysis and revision based on a sound
cost accounting system to bring them in line with the current operating
structure of the ports. The study will provide the basis for the
introduction of a cost accounting system and for a systematic review of
tariffs; it will also review adequacy of MTA access to foreign exchange.
The Government agreed that by end of 1987 the cost accounting and tariff
study would be completed and that the copy would be furnished to the
Association for review. Thereafter, any revision of MTA tariff structure
and rates should take into account the recommendations of the above study.
Also, procedures would be established under the tariff study for periodic
reviews of tariffs based on actual costs of the various port operations and
for periodic reevaluation of assets. Appropriate tariff proposals will be
submitted to the Government promptly for approval. New tariffs should be
set at a level which ensures reasonable surplus adequate to finance
necessary capital investments approved by the Government. Toward this end
it was agreed that MTA and the Government would take all measures necessary



- 20 -
to produce, during each FY starting in FY 1987, an annual rcturn of not
less than 10 percent of the average current net value of MTA's fixed assets
in operation. In addition, since asset values are to be revatued during
the Project, it was agreed that MTA and Govenment would take all necessary
steps to ensure that MTA's net cash flow during any given FY shall be not
less than the local fund requirement of its approved investment program for
the following FY.
59.       MTA, like other public enterprises in Ethiopia, is subject to tax
regulations which levy income tax at the rate of 50 percent and a charge
equivalent to 5 percent of paid-in capital plus retained earnings. In
addition, the regulations limit the level of retained earnings to
30 percent of the paid-in capital; all surpluses exceeding this level must
be paid to the Government. MTA financial obligations to the Government are
paid promptly.
60.       Financial projections for FY86 to FY90 have been based on five
years actual accounting and operating data and the anticipated traffic
volume measured in tons of cargo handled by the ports. Revenues and
expenses are projected at the actual average rate per ton (of dry cargo)
for the last three years, based on following traffic - FY 1983; 1.25 mil-
lion tons: FY 1984, 1.32 million tons; FY 1985, 1.80 million tons. Tariffs
are assumed not to increase from their present level. Depreciation has
been calculated on a straight line basis using the commonly accepted
standard rates currently applied by MTA and on the assumption that the
assets of the IDA project will be put to use by mid-1988. MTA will receive
a loan from the Government for the amount of US$5.5 equivalent to implement
the IDA project. During the projection period, MTA is expected to
implement annually an investment program, approved by the Government, of an
average of about US$7.0 million equivalent. This investment program which
is in addition to the IDA financed project is similar to the average for
the last three fiscal years. About 80 percent of the investment program
will be for construction works (limited rehabilitation of Massawa port,
construction of small ships repair yard, construction of storage areas,
etc.) and 20 percent for purchase of port equipment. Details of the past
financial performance and financial projections are given in the attached
Annex IV, Tables 1, 2 and 3.
61.       The projections show that there would be sufficient operating
surpluses for each of the projection years and that MTA would not need to
borrow any funds beyond those provided from the IDA credit. MTA's annual
cash flow is more than adequate to service its debt and finance its
projected level of capital investmenrs including the local costs of the
proposed project. The average debt service coverage ratio for the period
FY86 to FY90 is about 20. This ratio is very favorable because the amount
of long-term debt is very low. In the latter part of the projection
period, when projected investments increase, the cash surpluses decrease
somewhat but continue to be satisfactory (Annex IV, Table 2).
62.       The projected balance sheet also shows a favorable position due
to the profitable operations, the satisfactory cash position, and the
relatively low level of capital investments and long-term debt service
requirements. The return on net fixed assets in operation (at historic



- 21 -
cost), despite increased level of new investments, declines only moderately
from the average historical level of 32 percent to about 24 percent, and
continues to be well above levels expected from similar entities in other
countries. MTA's debt to equity ratio continues to be low during the
projection period (an average of about 18/82) improving further from the
average ratio of 21/79 recorded during the FY81-85 period (Annex IV, Table
3). This is due to the fact that although MTA will incur some additional
long-term loans, one of which is the proposed IDA Credit, total equity
continues to increase with accumulated retained earnings.
Accounts and Audit
63.       MTA has an internal auditing department charged with the task of
preauthorizing payments; it reports directly to the General Manager. MTA's
financial statements have been audited by the Audit Services Corporation
(ASC), a Government owned corporation. Delays in preparing audited
accounts have been, however, experienced in recent years. The most recent
auditor's report available from MTA is for FY82. Delays were caused by MTA
and ASC. However, MTA's inability to close the accounts accurately and on
time appears to be the main cause of the delay. The training component of
the proposed project provides for key financial staff to be trained abroad
in accounting and financial management. This training, the planned use of
computers by MTA, and the study of cost accounting, are expected to produce
a significant improvement in MTA's ability to close the accounts accurately
and faster. In order to elminate the backlog of the audit reports a
gradual transition period was agreed upon. The accounts of MTA, including
the special account (para 65), would be audited by an acceptable auditor,
which in practice will most likely be ASC. MTA's unaudited accounts for
FY86 and 87 would be submitted four months and from FY88 onwards three
months after the end of fiscal year. The audited financial reports would
be submitted to IDA as follows: for FY85 by December 31, 1986, for FY86 by
February 28, 1987, and for FY87 and thereafter seven months after the end
of the fiscal year.
Procurement and Disbursement
64.       All civil vorks and equipment for the Project would be procured
under international competitive bidding procedures following the Bank Group
Guidelines; eligible domestic bidders would be granted a margin of
preference of 7.5 percent. The site investigation would be carried out
through selective international bidding on the basis of a short list of
suitably qualified specialist contractors. Consultants for the various
studies would be selected and recruited on the basis of the Bank's
guidelines and appointed on terms acceptable to the Bank. Overseas
training would involve the listing of candidates, training programs and
proposed institutions. These will be reviewed by IDA. For any contract
exceeding US$100,000 in value, full documentation (including list of
bidders, invitation to bid, draft tender documents, draft contracts, bid
evaluation and recommendation of contract awards - as applicable in each
case) would be sent to the Association for review prior to contract award.
The procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:



- 22 -
Procurement Plan
(US$ million)
Total
Project Component                        ICB 1/       Other        Cost
Tug Berth - Phase I
(a)  Civil Works                        3.45        -            3.45
(1.85)        -          (1.85)
(b)  Supervision of Works                 -         .25 2/        .25
-       (.16 T         (.16)
Port Cargo Handling                       1.65                     1.65
Equipment                                (1.20)         -          (1.20)
Port Workshop Tools and                   1.22          -          1.22
Equipment                                 (.85)         -          (.85)
Detailed Engineering for
Phase II
(a) Site Investigation
Including Consultants               -         .70 3/         .70
Supervision                         -        (.45f          (.45)
(b)  Consultants Costs to                 -         .50           .50
Tender Evaluation Stage             -        (.40)          (.40)
(c) Studies to Update
Economic and Financial              -         .14 2/         .14
Analyses                            -        (.11)          (.11)
Study of MTA's                              -         .13 21        .13
Manpower Development                        -        (.10)         (.10)
Cost Accounting and Tariff                  -         .31 2/        .31
Study                                       -        (.23)         (.23)
Training of MTA's Staff                     -         .15 2/        .15
-       (.15)          (.15)
TOTAL                                6.32       2.18           8.50
(3.90)    (1.60)         (5.50)
1/  ICB - International Competitive Bidding.
2/  Consultants to be recruited and appointed in accordance with World Bank
Guidelines.
3/  Site investigation - Limited International Competitive Bidding
procedure.
Note: Figures in parenthesis are amounts to be financed by IDA Credit.



- 23 -
65.       Disbursements under the Credit would be made against 100 percent
of foreign expenditures for civil works or 55 percent of local expenditures
if contracted locally, 100 percent of foreign expenditures for imported
vehicles, equipment and workshop tools and 70 percent for imported but
locally procured items, and 100 percent of foreign expenditures for
consultants services, studies and training abroad. Disbursements for all
above items would be fully documented except for contracts under the
Project estimated to be less than US$20,000 equivalent for which use of
Statements of Expenditures (SOE) would be acceptable. To accelerate
disbursement and facilitate the project implementation, a special account
in US dollars will be opened and maintained for MTA in the National Bank of
Ethiopia with an initial deposit of SDR 200,000 equivalent. The estimated
Project completion date is June 30, 1988; the proceeds of the Credit are
expected to be disbursed by June 30, 1989. In view of the urgent na-ure of
this project, the ongoing preparation work being carried out by MTA and
their consultants, the Governmcnt's commitment to the Project and
anticipated short time needed for its implementation, the standard
disbursement profile is not being applied. An estimated disbuisement
schedule is given in the Credit and Project Summary.
Project Justification
66.       The proposed Project addresses one of the highest priority needs
in the transport sector of Ethiopia, to relieve the congestion at the
country's main port. The importance of the Project goes, however, well
beyond the sector requirements - it responds to an urgent need of the
economy to facilitate export/import traffic flows particularly at a time
when draught relief goods are expected to continue to be transported to
Ethiopia over several years. In addition, the skills of technicians and
managers of MTA will be improved through training abroad. The main
quantified benefits for the project will be reflected In reduced ship
waiting time and improved efficiency in cargo handling in the port of
Assab. Furthermore, savings in cargo time in the port are also expected.
The economic rate of return (ERR) for civil works and equipment included in
the Project is estimated to be about 23 percent. The ERR for the
construction of the tug berth with economic life of 25 years is estimated
at 15 percent, and for the port equipment the ERR is about 46 percent
assuming an 8-year life. When the sensitivity of the overall economic rate
of return was tested, it was found that an increase in the capital cost of
the Project by 10 percent, brings the ERR to 19 percent, while decreasing
benefits by 20 percent due to lower traffic volumes, reduces the economic
rate of return to about 14 percent.
Risks
67.       There are no major risks associated with the Project.  It is
possible, however, that the modest growth rate in the traffic forecast may
not materialize as a result of future performance of the economy. A second
risk is that costs may exceed the estimates. However, that risk is reduced
since the cost estimates have been prepared by experienced consultants,
reasonable contingencies have been provided and the project implementation
period is expected to be short.



- 24 -
PART V - RECOMENDATION
68.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
March 11, 1986
Washington, D.C.



-25  -                                            -onex  I
TA -l *1 L3                     *                         I of  6
EtUOlll71              - SOIl IICIUS DATA UN
WItSS                   (306? hIST 1SU      AI)f1
weUr                    (on 11M  UT11X 
1103131   ~LOWl INCOME AFMICAL      NImtI
I 9d,ue    im~Ll KS?INrILb          SaWm  or uMA*a       AFRICA S. or UNIA
AMA (1USII( SQ. 0)
TOTAL                            1221.9      1221.9      1221.9
ACGICULIURAL                      576.9       591.5      393.3
CW  M  CA     CU)                      ..          ..        120.0             239.8                   1063.8
SOIE WM.Mwu pm CAirn
(KXLORAII Of OIL QUZVAL3T          6.0        20.0       20.0              62.3                    381.5
tonmuuam  VITAL STUTISEaC
POPULATION.MIU-TRAR CTNO I)  22538.0        937.0    40900.0
uRa  PopuLATxo  (2 or bomz          6.4         9.7        144              20.1 .320
POPULATION PROJCTrIOS
FULA21N muI aTM  2000 (NILL)                            43.7
STATZOIIART POPULATION CHILL)                          181.0
IoIUIATIO  lSWh1                                         1.9
POPULATION D3SIT
PFE Sq. KM.                      13.4        23.7       33.3              33.2                     45.1
PU sq. KM. ARI. LAID             39.2        68.9       17.1             112                      124.3
POPUATION AGE SIRUCTUUEZ (I)
0-14 Tis                        43.9        44.7       45.4              46.0                     45.6
LI-" 115                         53.4        52.6       3L.8              3o0                      51.5
65 AND AIE                        2.5         2.6        Z.6               2.9                      2.7
POPULATION c0wrll RATE (C)
TOTAL                             2.2         2.3        2.7               2.8                      2.9
URBAN                             5.6         6.7        6.2               6.4                      5.1
cRUDE 53 "TS (PER Til05)           43.7        43.3       40.5              47.2                     *7.0
CWUDR DEATH RATt (CM  TOWS)        20.2        17.J       20.3              17J                      IS.0
GROSS U     SFRW0CTOU tATE          2.J         2.9        3.2               3.3                      3.2
FAIILT PLAMMING
ACCSmR.  A        tWTHOS)         ..
usus CZ or NA       W )           ..          ..         2.0               3.3                       4
INOCK. o0 Foo PROD. P*  CIIITA
(1969-71-100)                     103.0       101.0       37.0              83.3                     82.9
R CAPITA SUPrLT OF
CALORIES (S or QU5IRDU )         84.0        77.0       77.0              87.7                     90.5
PU)ZNS (GRAMS P  DAT)            67.0        62.0       60.0              51.9                     53.
o.r 11110H AmDLAI AND PULSE     26.0        24.0       22.0 jc           18.7                     14.5
Cau CACEs 1-4) O111 RAT            31.5        33.0       30.0              23.1                     1U.6
LIME KKZCT. AT AL1 CViaS)          43.         47.1       42.3              47.8                     52.0
INANrT MrT. RATS (PEA THOlS)      175.0       158.5      162.0             119.3                    0l8.8
ACCESS TO SAnE WATER (EPOP)
TOTaL                             ..          6.0       16.5 /d            7.1                     42.4
URBAg                             ..         61.0        2.)              4 63.5                   67.3
UAL                               ..          ..         3.9 7            19.3                     33.8
ACCESS TO Eu?ar OISPOSaL
(C Ol POPULATION)
TOAL                              ..         14.0        ..               26.3                     28.9
URnaN                                       67.0          '6.4                                     37.7
RURAL                             ..          8.0        ..               20J                      20.7
POPULATION FE PUTSICtA         112680.0  06120.0    69390.0 /.           27901.7                  11791.7
POi. PE NURSING PERON0          16750.0      8960.0     5910.0 7          3306.4                   2459.8
PO. FMR OSPTAL 3CD
TOTAL                          3360.0      3510.0     3630.0 /          1273.6                    981.1
URD                             250.0       430.0      790.0 T           428.2                    368.8
RURAL                             ..      18110.0    10130.0 T          3292.5                   4371.9
AIaSSIONS PM HOSPITAL               ..         10.6        ..                ..                      27.2
AVERAGE SIZE or ouENwn
ToTAL                             ..         4. 
UN                                3.3         .2         ..2
RIURAL                            ..          4.5
AVERAGE 0o. OF 131S1se/RAW
TOrAL                             ..          ..
DURA                              2.7         ..         .
RURAL                             ..          ..
PtReorUm    OF EniNG vrm Ltcr.
TOTAL                             ..          ..
U13*                             38.211       ..                            ..
euLm                              .........
ROAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-26 -                                               Annex I
T A B L E  3A                                      PAC2 of  6
ETNtOPlA               - SOCIAL IMOKCATOES ODT SHU
mZKOPLU                              mmmci aWuPS cWuIGuR AVERAGE) /a
MOST                     CMOST RECE  ESTIMATE) l/b
IzgrsoL    anotk. RUECENT          LOW iDcOM  AFRCA          mL  INCOME
1960^  197QM  TINATd-b          SOUTH of SAKHR       AcI S. OF SAHAR
AwUSTCO   EUMOLU   RtATIOS
PI:NAR    TOTAL                    7.0        16.0       46.0               67.8                     95.7
HALE                   II.0        23.0       60.0               77.6                     100.0
FOLSc                   3.0        10.0       33.0               54.9                     63.2
SECONDARY: 7TOM                    0.4        4.0        12.0               13.5                     17.3
MAUL                    1.0         6.0        16.0              17.9                     25.0
FOALS                   0.1         2.0        8.0                9.1                      14.8
VOCaIOgaL CZ OF SEcOWAY)            20.3        4.5        44.0               13.2                      5.9
ruPm-mcl,a uAno
PIXILUY                           37.0       48.0        63.0               U.9                      41.1
SaOcODuA                          13.0        28.0       44.0               27.4                     25.5
CtlIu-I
PASSENGER CARSITmOUSD POP            0.7         1.4        1.8 /f             3.8                     20.8
RADIO RCEIVES/TtOoSAND ror           4.3        5.5         6.6.7             55.8                    107.8
TV  ECEIVERS/ITHUSA N                ..         0 .3        1.0                2.6                     20.8
IMRSPAPR ("DAILT GENERAL
ItNIEERZ') CaCLAION
PZR ToUsAM POPUIATiOM               1.9         1.0        1.0                5.0                     18.4
CIflK AEUAL AXIEIANCE/CAPITA         ..          ..         ..                 0.5                      0.4
TOTL LABOR YORC (SOUS)           10066.0    12459.0    14916.0
FiLUS (pacEr)                     35.7       35.2        32.9               34.2                     36.2
AUC(ILTURE (PRECUN)              8S.0        84.0        80.0 /d            77.5                     54.5
uwnn (iCmi)                        5.0        6.0         7.0 7              9.7                     18.3
PACICIPTO RATE (PERCtIT)
TOTAL                             44.7        43.1       36.5               39.3                     36.8
ILE                               58.6        56.9       50.5               50.9                     67.1
FENALE                            31.3        29.7       25.3               28.1          v          27.2
ECNOMIC DouPUwtNCr Ito               1.0         1.1        1.3                1.3                      1.3
Xim    DIBKoall
PEREN OF PiIVAT   K
RECZVEMD BY
IUCGE    SZ o0 HOUSEOLDS           ..          ..
RIGHEST 202 O HOUSEOLDS           ..          ..
LOWEST 20 OFrS                    ..          ..         .....
LOWEST 403 07 HUSUEOLS             ..          ..         ..
PNr    cum RO
ESTINAMED ABSOLUT POVeT IDCQt
LEVEL (USS PR COIT)
UA                                 ..          ..       190.0              165.5                    590.7
ML                                 ..          ..        65.0 If            95.0                    275.3
ESTIMAM  RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USs PER CA )
URUAN                              ..          ..        77.0 /f           113.1                    545.6
RURAL                              ..          ..        37.0 7F            67.6                    201.1
ESTDlTED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOll LEVEL (Z1
URBAN                              ..          ..        60.0 If            36.6
RURL                                            h. .. 77                    61.8
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
NOTES
/a ohe group average for each ticator are population-elgbhted aritimetIc ean. Coverae of couantrie
mng the indicators depends on avalubility of data and is not unifore.
lb   Unless ctbh.nra  noted. "Data for 1960" refer to any year betwee  1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" beteen
1969 and 1971; and data for 'aost aent Eartlete" betwen 1981 and 1983.
Ic  1977; Id 1980; Is 1978; /f 1976; kg Addis Absba only.
,JUN. 1985



-  27 -                                     Annex  I
Page  3 of 6
DEFINMONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes: Athough the data are dmwn from soures generly judpd the most authontauve and reliable. it should alo be noted ihat they may not be interationally
comparable b acai of the lac of standardi_d definitmoni and concepts usd by different countrIs m colkcung the data The dat are, nonethek useful to
de-cribe ordes of magnitue indicate treds snd darsaeracmaWu maior differncebs between countncs
The t minc groupsare * {I) tde sc country grup of the subject coutry and (21 a country group with somcwhat higer awerage cmcee than thecountry
groupo rc subjectcountry (ccpi foritgh Income Oil Expoerts group whce-Middc Income North Afrnca and Middlc Ea tischosen becausc o stronger
sococulurd afimIbS) In the recrence group dato the avenge are population weighted arithmetic mcan for cch indicator and shown only when mapnty
orf ecountriin * a group hs dat for that indicator. Sine th coverge ofcountnes among the indicators depends on the availability ofdata and is not umform
caution munbeezrcza in rieting avenge orone mdicator to notbet Theseaveragsar only ueful in conpanng the value of one indicator r taime among
thecounty and fnce groups.
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                            Cruk Birth Rite (per thsandj-Number of live births in the year
Toaal-Total surface are. comprising land area and inland waters;  per thousand or mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                        Cruk Deth Rate (per thoeazad)-Number of deaths in the year
Agricltle'lf-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or    per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
pennanently for crops. pastures. market and kitchen gardens or to  Gresr Rpredtion Rate-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                             will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates: usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current          in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prics.1 calculated by same conversion method as World      F.My Pl4u -Accp.trs Annul (thoandss-Annual num-
Bank Atlas (I981483 basis); 1983 data.                            ber ofacceptors ofbirth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                    family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.       Fanify Plannin-Use  (percen of malned nfnten)-The percen-
petrokum. natual gas and hydro-, nucear and geothermal dec-      tage of married women ofchild-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                       of child-bearing age are generally women aged 1549. although for
some countries contraceptive usagc is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                   groups.
TondlPoppatin. Mid-Year (tOhessnds-As of July 1; 1960. 1970.     FOOD AND NUTRMON
and 1983 data.
dex orf Feed Prodction Per Capita (969-71 = 100)-Index of per
Urba  Pbpwlwim (percet of retail-Ratio of urban to total         capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population. different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countries; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.      include primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
-OP111Oil Pejecioans                                             which are edible and contain nutrients le.g. coffee and tea are
Population an Year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.   excluded); they comprise cereals. root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on    vegetables, fruits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets. livestock. and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates. mortality rates. and  livestock products Aggregatc production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these paramneters  on national average producer price weights: 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.               Per Capita Sapply f Celeies (prcent ofireqa'ensenits)-Comput-
Statonary popularon-ls one in which age- and sex-specific mor-   ed from calorie equivalent of net rood supplies available in co untry
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  non. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate= l). In such a population. the birth rate as  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also  food processing. and losses in di.rnbution. Requircaieints were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacemcent level.                                       waste at household level: 1961. 19 T0 and 1982 data.
Population Momentum-ls the tendency for population growth to      Per Capa Supply of Protein (grass per day) -Protein content of
continue bevond the time that replacment-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net suppiv of food is defined
achieved; that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above Requirements for all countnes established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year r is measured as  providc for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total pntein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year t, given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should bc animal protein. These standards are lower than those of
ment level from year t onward. 1985 data.                         75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
P     _  Desfity                                                 average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqAkni.-Mid-ycar population per square kilomncter (100 hec-  Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                  Per Capita Proten Supply Rn Animal and riue-Protein supply
Per sq.km. agricurmal land-Computed as above for agricultural     of food derivrd from animals and pulses in grams per day: 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                             1970 and 1977 data.
Popuation Age Stnure (perces)t-Children (0-14 years). work-       CJi (ages I-4j Deat Rate (pe rtheu.adj-N umber of deaths of
ing age (l5-64years) and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                group in a given year. For most developing countries data denved
Popultin Growt Rate (perceufl-ata1--Annual growth rates of        from life tables: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950.60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.      HEALTH
Population Growth Rate (percriea4-urhav-Annual growth rates       Life Exrpectny at Birth (yars)-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.      infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



- 28 -                                       Annex I
Page 4 of 6
at the time of of its birth were to stay the same throughout its life;  Pupl-reacher Ratio - prmry, and secohdary-Total students en-
1960.1970 and 19B3 data,                                      rolled in primary and secondary levls divided by numbers of
IMfb  Mort aot (per themnndi-Number of infants who dic        teachers in the corresponding levels.
before reaching one year of age per thousand live births in a given
year, 1960.1970 and 1983 data.                                CONSUMPTION
Aces ta We W&W  (pan of Aep.kdur)--rdr whim. Ud               Pazue Cars (per thuesand ppslan)--Passaenger cars com-
area-Number of people (total, urban, and runl) with reasonable  prise motor cars seating less than eight persons; excludes ambul-
aoes to safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or  ances. hearses and military vehicles.
untreated but uncontaminated water such as that fronr protete  Readb Recevn  (per thousianpopulatim)-All types of receivers
boroles spiung and sanitary wes) as percentages of their respec-  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population;
tie populations. In an urban area a public tountain or standpost  excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
located not more than 200 meters from a house may be considred  registration or radio sets was in effect; data for recent years may
as being within rasonable amss of that house. In rural areas  not be comparable since most countries abolished licensing
reasonable acoess would imply that the housewife or members of the  To
housdbold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  rVReceheas(perthozdpp       i-TVreceivrsfor brost
in reteing the family's water needs.                          to geneal public per thousad populaton; exdudes unicnsed TV
iccen rtohi Excrem  rqpwd (Aycem of popalation)--rorurb      meceivers in counties and in years when registration of TV sets was
Acess to E zcet Dis;a (percent of pouato)-tote, urb.        in effect
sod real-Number of people (total, urban, and rual) served by  m efecL
exmuta disposal as percentages of their respective populations  Newspape Carcraao (ewr thouSad PepuknonI--Shows the aver-
Excrxta disposal may include the collection and disposal. with or  age circulation of -dail, eneral interst newspaper." defined as a
without treatment. of human excreta and waste-water by water-  periodical publication devoted primarily to recording gneral news
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be -daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
Poplauioajp Physkic-pbpubation divided by number of prac-     CUme   Arau  Atendane per Capita po' Yea-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.  number of tickets sold during the year inciuding admissions to
Pep111hica per Nesiag Persoe-Pbpulabon divided by number of   drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing malc and fcmale graduatc nurses. assistant nurses.
practial nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                      LABOR FORCE
ftp.lsiu per Hosal Bed-_t teal, ark. aNd roal-Pbpulation      Total Labr Fore (thousands)-Economically active persons in-
(totaL urbaiL and rual) divided by their respetive number of  duding armed forces and unemployed but excluding houseves
hospital beds avadable in pubUand privat-te. mertalcand  students. etc.. covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitalsbedsdavailabletiapubliceandrprivtespgeneralrands     various countries are not comparable; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
permanently staffed by at least one physician. Establishments prov-  Feala (perenr)-Fenale labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals.    force.
howcverz include health and medical centers not permanendy staffed  Agricultue (percent)-Labor force in farming. forestry. hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant, nurse, nidwife. etc.)    and fishing as percentage of total labor force: 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a linited range  data.
of medical facilities.                                       Instry (percent )-Labor force in mining, construction, mnu-
Ad..sions per Hospital Bed-Total number of admissions to or   facturing and electricity. water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.      force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
,      tParion Raze (pereeat)-4te  mak. meaudjkadr-Nti icipation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates are computed as total, male, and fmale labor force
Aver,.  Sb of H eaee  (prsn per houseolo)-rrna. whe.          as percentages of totaL maek and female population of all ages
andrra-A  household consiss of a group of individuals who share  respectively; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
hving quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflectingage-sex structureofthe population, and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are froi national sources.
Average Naiber of Persons per Room-totla when, and real-      Ecomic DePendency Rati-Ratio or population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban, and rurai    65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings. respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.               INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Percentage of Dweuns waih Electrico-e otral. urhn, an real-   Percemage of Total Disahk Inome (both in ca  ad kiadp-
Conventional dwellings with eklctricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively,       hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adjased EnUinsen Radios                                       The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Ptinary school - toald mate and female-Gross total male and  levels, and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of all ages at the prmary klvel as percentages of  Estimaed Absolte PoRerty Incenwe Leve (US per capntf)-eban
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  and real-Absolute poverty income level is that income kvel
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country praccs in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Estimsed Reldie Povert lnmw Leve (USS per cpkcu-ehe.n
education, gross enrollment may excd 100 percent since some  ad  a-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary sdcool - total. male ad female-Computed as above:    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Estimaed Pbpulion Below Absolte Poverty Incrs  Leve (per-
mary insruction; provides general. vocational, or teacher training  cem-rban and rum!- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age correspond-  who are "absolute poor.-
ence courses are generally excluded.
Vocatind Enfileni (percent of 5secondryj-Vocational institu-            Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technical, industriaL or other programs which operate  Economic Analysis and Projections Department
indpdendy or as departments of secondary institutions.                               June 1985



- 29 -
Annex I
Page 5 of 6
ETHIOPIA - ECONOMIC XNDICATORS
GNP Per Capita * 120.0 (l983)
ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH OF GDP
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN FY 1985        1/             AT CONSTANT FACTOR COST (Z)
(Fiscal Years)
USS MHM.               1981-83    1983    1984    1985
GDP at Narket Prices            4835.9   100.0         3.1         5.1    -2.4    -6.8
TIvestment                       522.5    10.8
Gross Dometic Savings          -251.5    -5.2
Resource Balance               -774.0   -16.0
Exports of Goods and IFS         557.9    11.5
Iports of Goods and NFS         1331.9    27.5
OUTPUT IN 1985 1/
Value Added
USS  ln.         Z
Agriculture              1921.6           44.3
Industry                  694.5           16.0
Services                 1722.7           39.7
Total at Factor Coit    4338.9              T
GOVERIC NT FINANC
Central Goverment
(Br.  ln)              Z of GDP
FT 1985 1/        FYl985     1982-84
Current Receipts                2401 WI1 -    Z Q
Current Expenditures            2364.5             23.6       21.2
Current Surplus                   36.6              0.4       -0.3
Capital Expenditures            1275.8             12.7        8.3
MON=. CREDIT AND PRICES                     1980     1981     1982      1983     1984
(Fiscal Years)                           (Yillion Br. outstanding end period)
Money and quasi-money                    2332.1    2377.6   2643.7   3040.5   3383.7
Bank Credit to Central Government         968.1    1107.9   1180.8   1980.8   2293.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector and
Financial Institutions                1644.2    1721.8   1944.3   1741.7   1861.9
(Percentages)
Money as Z of GDP                          27.3       26.7     28.5      30.4     33.7
Annual percentage change Sx:
CGneral Price Index                        4.5        6.1     5.6       -0.4      8.4
lank Credit to Public Sector               12.3       14.4      6.6      67.8     15.8
lBek Credit to Private Sector              34.5        4.7     12.9   -10.4        6.9
Note:  AlU conversions  to dollars in this table are at the official exchange rate
of USS1.00 - lirr 2.07
All Fiscal Tears are from July 8 to July 7.
1/     Provisional Data for 1985.



S
- 30 -
Annex I
Page 6 of 6
BALANCE OF PAYKENTS ESTIMATES
1983      1984       1985 1/                MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
(MilLons USS)                         (Fiscal Year Average W983-85)
LISS HIm.    Z
Exports Goods, NFS             551.8     511.9      557.9                  Coffee               246.4      Z.3
Imports of Goods, NFS         961.7    1115.8    1331.9                    Pulses                10.8      2.6
Resource Gap (deficit - -)  -409.9    -503.9    -774.0                     Oilseeds              9.9        2.4
Hldes & Skinr        48.4       11.9
Investmeut Iacom  (net)       -13.6      -19.2      -38.4                  OLlseed cake           5.5       1.4
Private Transfers (net)         84.9     107.2      169.1                  Other                 87.5      21.4
Balance on Current Acct.    -338.6    -415.9    -643.3                     Total'              x5:3 LgU 
Official Transfers (net)        92.5     161.9      472.0
Private HLT Capital (net)        0.0       0.0        0.0
Public MLT Borrowing (not)   203.5       204.1      169.1                  EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1986
Disburs emnts              (253.3)   (268.8)   (293.5)                                           USS KIn.
Amortlzatlon                 C49.8)    (64.7)   (124.4)
Short-term Capital              -9.5      10.9        7.2                  Total outstanding 6
Disbursed              1384.2
Changes in reserves
(- - Licrease)                71.5       42.3       53.1                  DEST SERVICE RATIO FOR FT 1984
Minor Items Cincl. errors)   -19.4        -3.3      -58.1                                               z
Net Forign Assets (end year) 107.3        64.8
Petroleum Imports              184.4     155.2        *                    Total Outstandlng &
Petroleum Product Imports       7.3       28.2        *                       Disbursed               16.1
Rate of Exchane Since 1973
USSl.00 - Br. 2.07
Br.L.OO - US50.48
7.RD/IDA LENDING. (March 31. 1985) (Killion US$S
IBRD     IDA
Outstanding and Disbursed           42.1    7W.-8
Undisbursed                          0.0    285.3
Outstanding Lucl. Undisbursed        2.1    911
= - not available
1/ Provisional
October 1985



- 31 -
Annex II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPIA
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of October 31, 1985)
Amount
(US$ Million)
(less
Loan or                                                  Cancellations)
Credit                                                                  Undis-
Number      Year  Borrower      Purpose                   Bank    IDA  bursed
Twelve loans and twenty one credits fully disbursed        108.6  264.3
Cr. 603-ET  1976  Ethiopia      Rangelands Dev.                    27.0    1.0
Cr. J07-E-T  1977  Ethiopia 1/  Revised Amibara                    25.0    3.3
Cr. 789-El  1978  Ethiopia      Grain Storage & Mktg.              24.0    0.8
Cr.1088-ET  1981  Ethiopia      Agric. Minimum Pig. II             39.2    2.8
Cr.1141-ET  1982  Ethiopia      Education V                        35.0    2.5
Cr.1275-ET  1983  Ethiopia      Agric. & Ind. Dev. Bank            30.0   22.2
Cr. 1366-ET  1983  Ethiopia     Urban Development                  20.0   17.0
Cr. 1386-ET  1983  Ethiopia     Petroleum Exploration               7.0    3.7
Cr. 1404-ET  1984  Ethiopia     Second Road Sector                 70.0   61.9
Cr.1429-ET  1984  Ethiopia      Coffee Process. & Mktg.            35.0   32.4
Cr.1509-ET  1984  Ethiopia      Sixth Telecommunications           40.0   41.4
Cr.1520-ET  1984  Ethiopia      Sixth Education                    70.0   71.7
Cr.1521-ET  1984  Ethiopia      Agric. Research                    22.0   21.9
Cr.1522-ET  1984  Ethiopia      Technical Assistance                4.0    4.2
Cr.1576-ET  1984  Ethiopia      Drought Recovery Program           30.0   19.9
Total                                   108.6  742.5
of which has been repaid               66.8    8.2  306.7
Total now outstanding                    41.8  734.3
Amount sold                      6.0
of which has been repaid       6.0             -      -
Total now held by Bank & IDA
(prior to exchange adjustments)       41.8  734.3
Total Undisbursd                          -      -    306.7
1/ US$1.7 million disbursed under former Cr. 418-ET, Amibara Irrigation,
has been repaid out of the proceeds of the new Credit.



- 32 -
Annex II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1985)
US$ Fillion
Fiscal                                              Type of              Amount
Year          Obligor                               Business    Loan    Equity    Total
1965       Textile Mills of Dire Dava I             Textiles      1.5      1.0       2.5
1966       Ethiopia Pulp and Paper Co.              Paper        -         1.9       1.9
1968       HVA Metahara, S.C.                       Sugar        5.5       3.5       9.0
1970       Textile Mills of Dire Dawa II            Textiles     0.4       0.2       0.6
1973       Textile Mills of Dire Dawa III           Textiles     1.5       0.2       1-7
Total Gross Commitments                               8.9       6.8      15.7
Less cancellations,
terminations,
repayments and sales                          8.9      6.8      15.7
Total Commitments now held by IFC                     -        -          -
Total Undisbursed
-         -_



- 33 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
ETHIOPIA
PORT ENGINEERING AND CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I - Tlmetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: Two months
(b)  Project Prepared by           : IDA staff and consultants
(c)  Identification mission        : July, 1985
(d)  Appraisal mission             : October, 1985
(e)  Negotiations                  : February, 1986
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:  (120 days after credit signing)
Section II - Special IDA Implementation Action:
Retroactive financing of up to US$200,000 (para. 57).
Section III - Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) Review by IDA of MTA's audit report for FYs 1983 and 1984 (para. 48).
(b) Execution of Subsidiary Loan Agreement, acceptable to IDA, between the
Government and MTA (para. 56).
Other Conditions
(a) The training programs for MTA staff will be on terms satisfactory to
IDA (para. 53).
(b) By December 31, 1987, MTA shall complete cost accounting and tariff
study; in any tariff revision MTA shall take into account the study's
recommendations (para. 58).



- 34 -
Annex III
Page 2 of 2
(c)  MTA will take necessary measures to reach during each FY starting in
FY 1987 an annual return on its net fixed assets of not less than 10%
(para. 58).
(e) The Government will ensure that MTA will have sufficient funds to meet
funding requirement of its approved investment program (para. 58).
(e) MTA's unaudited accounts would be submitted for FY1986 annd 1987 four
months after the end of the fiscal year, and three months after the
end of the fiscal year from FY1988 onwards. Audited accounts would be
submitted for FY1985 by December 31, 1986, for FY1986, by February 28,
1987 and seven months after the end of FY1987 and thereafter (para.
63).



ETHIIOPIA i PORT ENGINEERING AND CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
MARINE TRANSPORT AUTHIORITY
INCOME STATEMENT (IN Bir'00) at
__----       _  ___- _._.-_- ________________.____-,_______________-      _____________________________
ACTUAL                                               PROJECTED
1981      1982       1983       1986       1985      1986       198t       1988      1989       1990
REVENUES
=ttUUt==
SHIPPING                         4082       4538       4951       5113       5801      6055       6777       4937      5144       5304
WHARFAGE                         2128       1570       2860       3164       2593      2707       2135       2207      2300       2371
CARGO HANDLING                  25830      28186      34884      36961      53076     55401      43107      45169     47069      48531
STORAGE                          11538     11676      19998      22426     26555      27718      21867      22599     23550      24281
EQUIPMENT                        5295       65t.4     12139      16035      19251     20094      15853      16383     11012      11602
OTHER                             1488      1629       1624       2835       3468      3620       2856       2951      3015       3171
._  .   _   _   _____   _  ____   _____- - ----  __ --___--- _5___    _      _____ --- -____-
SUB-TOTAL                         50961      54143      76456      86574    110744    115595       91195      94245     98210    101260
EXPENSES
........
SALARIES & WAGES                21522      24208      29831      33086     41978      44680      35249      36428     37960      39139
CONTRACTUAL SERVICES              1766      2264       5066       3821       4467      4755       3751       3876      4039       4165
MATERIALS & SIIPPLIES            2534       4193       5951       9405      14901     15860      12512      12931     13475      13893
OTHER EXPENDITURES                 3.33      724        984        760       968       1030        813        840       875        903
SUB-TOTAL                         26155      31389      41832      47072      62314     663i5      52325      540i5     56350      58100
I NI'EREST                                                                               --         --         --      1243       1243
DEPRECIATION                     8004       6072       8R75      10170      10352     11155      12355      13455     15080      16055
TOTAl. EXPENSES                    34159     37461      50707      57242      72666     77480      64690      67530     12673      75398                 1
SURPLUS (DEFICIT)               16802      16682      25749      29332     38078      38115      26515      26715     25537      25862.               us
Ln
ADD ADJUSTMENT ON -
-PRIOR YEARS OPERATION                --      (217)       (25)   (1,755)   (2,278)         --         --         --        --         --
SURPLUS BEFORE TAX               16802     16665      25724      27577     35800      38115      26515     26715      25537      25862
PROFIT TAX                      6901       6390      10686      11296     15145      16009       9711      9433       8455       8233
PROFIT AFTeR TAX                 9901      10075      15038      16281     20655      22106      16804      17282     17082      17628
OPERATING RATIO                     0.67      0.69       0.66       0.66       0.66      0.67       0.71       0.72      0.73       0.73
FOOTNOTES t
a/ ACTUAL YEARS IN CURRENT PRICES; PROJECTED YEARS IN CONSTANT 1985 PRICES
,oDl



ETHIOPIA : FORT ENGINEERING AND CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
MARINE TRANSPORT AUTHORITY
PROJECTED CASH FLOW STATEMENT (IN CONSTANT 1985 BLrr'OO0)
SOURCES                                         1986       1987       1988       1989       1990
u.n...                           - - - -    - - - -    - - - -   - - -       - - -
NE   N.BEF. TAX &INT                      38135i    26515       26115      26780      27105
DEPRECIATION                                   11155      32355      13455      15080      16055
TOTAL INTERNAL CASH GIN.                 420        35870       07         16        43360
BORROWI NGS                                       --       8000       3300      10600      17000
TOTAL SOURCES                                  49270      46870      43470      52460      60160
urn...     mu..       ONU.S.    man....
APPLICATIONS
PRINCIPAL                                      993       2979       2760       2600       1693
INTEREST                                        --         -          -        1243       1243                                       i
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                          993      2979       2760       3843       2936                                       0
INVESTMENT                                     15000      26440      20562      34100      46700
TAX PAID                                       17474      16009       9711       9433       8455
INCREASE IN WOJRKINO CAPITAL                  -20675      -3167       1308       2331       1208
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                          32792     42260      34341      49107      59299
SURPLUS CASH                                   3648        M61        9129       275         861
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE RATIO                     49.6       13.0       14.6       11.2       15.1



EtHIOPIA t PORT ENGINEERING AMD COtlSTRUCTION PROJECT
t1ARINE TRANSe4RT AUTHORITY
BALMCE SHEET (IN  htlrOOO) *1
ACTUAL                                               PROJECTED
1981      1982       1983       1984       1985      1986       19-1 P      9J 8     1989       1990
ASSETS                              .          ....       ...-       ....      ....       ....       ....-    -...-       -.-.......
GROSS FIXED ASSETS              1l3650    143564    166060    178634    190444    202006    217006    233006    261008    276008
LESS ACCUIJLATED DEPR.        -66415    -127487    -81362    -91532   -1018R4   -113039   -125394   -138R49   -153930   -169985
NET FIXED ASSETS                 45265      iiO0l     84698      8ilO2      88560      88967     91612      94153    101016    106023
WORK IN PROGRESS                 11428      13103      14143     15915      17562      21000     32440      31002      43100      14800
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS               56693      84i80     9884i    103011    106122    109967    124052    133;59    ;501i9    iSoiS
fIURRENT ASSETS
STOCKS                            7870      15172      19270     20517    19533        17900      38000     18900      20100     21500
DEBTORS                           62R0       953J      12415      8866      19052      14103      11126     13698      119A2      32354
REPAYMENTS CHIN. FINANCE)           -                      .       331         -           .--                             --
CASH & BANK DEPOSITS             13533       9011      11615     11693      232i9      1111        B81i2     9101       9490      9185
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS               27661      33721      43420     42721      616R4      63173      37938     3950S      42312      43639
SURPLUS CASH                                                                             36478      41088     50217      52969      S3830
TOTAL ASSETS                       84354    117901    142261    145744    165006    189618    203018    220880    z45320    218292
Uuuur     Trll 'a    munuw      muanun     mu..      u.         wuuv.--    .u ws.r   tU..       NUN
LIABILITIES
ACCOIINTS PAYBALE                   2819       5321       6195      9644       7R30       9794       7727      7985       8321       85RO
TAXES PAYABLE                     5842       4354      14212      3195      17414      16009      9?11       9433       8455      8233
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES         8721       9675      20401      13439     25304      25803      11438     11418      16176      16813
LONG-TERM LIABILITIES                       18600      18362     11069      13962      12969      17990     16330      26530     41337
TOTAL LIABILITIES                   8721      28215      38769     30308      39266      387i7      35428     35948      43306      38630
STATE CAPITAL IORIGINAL)         54144      54870      54810     54810      54810      54870      54870     34570      54810      54810
RETAINED EARNINGS                19575      32143     44851      55359      61081      86983    102106    117660    133033    148899
GENERAL RESERVE                   1914       2613       3765      5007       6783       8994      10614     12402      14110      15R73
TOTAL CAPITAL                    i5633      89625    3034i2    113236    128740    i50Ri6    61630    184932    ioioi4    2ii64i
TOTAI. LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL   84354    111901    142261    145744    368006    189618    203018    220880    245320    276292
NUSU      SUNU       SW.N       U*WU   ......  ......U...... .....  UUUU  , *U  .,, W   ........U ..  *  . ..... ......
RETURN ON NET Ps A. HISTORIC          372    24,32          30          220                  3          9         8          4          4
DEBTIEU4UITY RATIO                 10190      24116      2713      21179      23177      20180      17183     16184      18172         19
FOOTNOTE 
a/ACTUAL YEARS IN CURRENT PRICES; PROJECTED YEARS IN CONSTANT 1985 PrICES
11



- 38 -
Annex IV
Table 4
ETHIOPIA: PORT ENGINEERING AND CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
CARGO HANDLING EQUIPMENT
(In US Dollar '000)
Item                                                       Unit 1/    Unit 1/
No.                 Description                 Qty        Price       Price
A.
1.      Tug/pusher unit/tractor                5          29.0      145.0
2.      Vehicles (pick-up trucks)              6          24.0       72.0
3.      Platform trailer 25-ton capacity       6          12.0       72.0
4.      35-con capacity container lift
truck                               1         290.0       290.0
5.      40-ton container trailer               2          26.5       53.0
6.      Front end loader operating
weight 6,877 kg.                     2         36.0        72.0
7.      Bale clamp attachment                  2           6.5       13.0
8.      Roll clamp at'.achment                 2          13.5       27.0
B.
1.      Radio communication equipment         set        338.0      338.0
Total                                                     1,082.0
1/ Net of taxes, duties and contingencies.



EHIOPIA
PORT ENGINEERING AND CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
MInistry of Transpofation and Communications
Madne Transport AuthorIty
AOftrgiltotMIA MEltms                    o
Swoce     Dopwr~~~Gnefo NMegxnot geeo
L it
[  POerweenn .  _ . _ Elnet>CUntahn
Dn..                                              _      ._ __       _     _      _
ltch Fbnnn 
MAteP~u _i                                 .             h lrn cud
ftdn~n-   --&o                   r         ~  
[  Procutnt  |  | n ~~~~flIfhIuO  | | Fuc     l       | Mnm                  .
l   }  rmnl           ment                 tZnmen             rnonl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Yi~idDi~-~13 



ETHIOPIA
PORT ENGINEERING AND CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Poft of Assob
Pat Mcnagw
Crrnifloe                                                              Audtl
I   ea                                                                 Sta?w1c
I                  ses
l ~      e    y __._         _ __   __  _ l                         l                 l
Swvices                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Re4atian
(Cwgo Hondtlhingst                             consinictos              Fxi ce                 Sorvces               & 54m
_.H                 -      H        L      ~        L      J           D       eIPloRt    l  Po1 Engirw  Dtm          ._ 
Wald Baik-30131.2
9-



IBRD 19429
k.                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ETHIOPI
TRANSPORT SYSTEM
r H       ' F   J,   -   ,   G   V I                                                                                 I A I E I
\                                 ''  ! OP:                                                                      X              , 
(                              S  F  A                             S \   A                       -        0  M  A  L  I A
UGANDA .   t   >   f                                                            N Y  A,c
UGANDA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



________ _______ _______ _______ _______ _______ ________ _______ _______ _______ _____IBRD    1949
ETHIOPIA
PORT ENGINEERING AND CONSTRUCTION PROJECT |
ASSAB PORT                                                  ZC)                        )
-                                                      g-
+/   X   X  SAXth1/ /4
__D                   /            <,.   s    .    wAb                                                   /Xt~~~~~/ ,
./                                                        V1o/'/. 
.1iX 
)U                                         
4,     -r                                                                                                            m1.c__                          -Di (



