Page  1
P
ROGRAM 
I
NFORMATION 
D
OCUMENT 
(PID) 
C
ONCEPT 
S
TAGE
 
34004 
 
Program Name 
Indonesia 
–
Second Development Policy Loan (DPL 2) 
Region 
East Asia and Pacific Region 
Sector 
Gen pub admin sector (50%); Gen finance sector (50%) 
Project ID 
P096594 
Borrower 
Republic of Indonesia 
Implementing Agencies 
Coordinating Ministry of the Economy and Ministry of Finance 
Date PID Prepared 
October 19, 2005 
Estimated Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
November 8, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
December 20, 2005 
Tentative Financing 
World Bank / IBRD: US$400 mn. 
Government of Japan: US$100 mn. (parallel financing) 
Asian Development Bank: US$200 mn. (parallel financing) 
1. K
EY DEVELOPMENT ISSUES AND RATIONALE FOR 
B
ANK INVOLVEMENT
 
In recent years, Indonesia has restored macroeconomic and financial stability through 
prudent fiscal and monetary policies that emphasized fiscal consolidation, reduced public 
debt, low inflation, and low interest rates.  Important strides were made to strengthen the 
financial sector and to intensify efforts to improve the investment climate by rebuilding 
infrastructure, bolstering the legal framework, enhancing governance, and combating 
anti-corruption.  These strategies, coupled with growing political stability and the 
consolidation of democratic processes, have helped the country to recover from the 
regional financial crisis of the late 1990s, and to return to strong economic growth.  The 
past year witnessed growing market confidence, with stock indexes reaching historic 
post-crisis highs; historic highs in exports and imports; and recovery in investments, with 
FDI positive at US$1 billion for the first time since the crisis.  Amidst the positive news, 
poverty levels have also declined to below pre-crisis levels. 
 
While the country’s underlying economic indicators exude optimism, poverty reduction 
remains a critical challenge and there are a number of risks that endanger Indonesia’s 
recovery.  About 7.5 percent of the population live below US$1 a day, while over 53 
percent – or 115 million people – live on less than US$2 a day, with many remaining 
highly vulnerable to falling under the poverty line.  Comparisons to other Southeast 
Asian countries show Indonesia continuing to under-perform its neighbors in access to 
quality health, education, and other basic services.  Moreover, the short-term 
macroeconomic volatility experienced in mid-2005 – caused by perceived inadequacies 
in the policy responses to global interest rates hikes and rising international oil prices – 
offers a poignant reminder of the need to push the reform agenda forward in order to 
achieve sustained growth and accelerated poverty alleviation.  Against this background, 
the World Bank, together with Indonesia’s other main donors – the Government of Japan 
and the Asian Development Bank (ADB) – view the proposed DPL 2 as an effective 
Page  2
vehicle for continued policy engagement with the government in its efforts to sustain the 
momentum of reform.   
 
2. P
ROPOSED 
O
BJECTIVES
 
The overall goal of the DPL program is to help the government achieve its medium-term 
growth and poverty reduction objectives
 amidst Indonesia’s dual political and economic 
transition.  The government’s medium-term strategy, the RPJM, highlights an ambitious 
target: to halve the poverty rate to 8.2 percent during the 2004-09 period.  An annual 
work plan, the RKP, lays out government priorities, indicators, targets, policy direction, 
and links to the state budget – in effect, to operationalize the RPJM on a annual basis.  
The Bank’s policy engagement, analytic work, and financing are all critical ingredients to 
implementing and fulfilling the targets set out in the RPJM.    
 
The proposed DPL 2 is the second of three annual, single tranche operations.  Like the 
first DPL, it supports a subset of the government’s strategy, focusing on a pro-growth 
agenda with three mutually reinforcing and cross-cutting policy objectives: (i) 
macroeconomic stability and creditworthiness; (ii) improved investment climate; and (iii) 
anti-corruption and improved governance.  The policy dialogue underpinning DPL 2 
covers a broad array of issues and reform measures – the most critical of which are 
highlighted as triggers or prior actions.  These prior actions are as follows: 
 
DPL Core Policy Area I:  Macroeconomic Stability and Creditworthiness
 
ƒ
Progress in reducing subsidies to the non-poor 
ƒ
Make tax revenue administration more efficient through expansion of modern tax offices 
ƒ
Develop and implement a debt management strategy 
ƒ
Implement law 33/04 by drafting government regulations.  This includes the re-design of KMK 35 and re-
allocation of deconcentrated central government spending to the DAK mechanism 
DPL Core Policy Area II:  Improved Investment Climate
 
ƒ
Complete draft amendment of Law 34 to move from negative to positive list for regional tax items and to 
restrict the creation of nuisance and/or economically harmful charges and levies. 
ƒ
Continue establishing a financial safety net including implementing the first phase of the removal of the deposit 
guarantee and clarify roles with respect to bank closing and emergency operations 
ƒ
Develop strategy to strengthen non-bank financial institutions 
ƒ
Develop a medium-term plan for infrastructure development that encourages public-private partnerships 
ƒ
Develop a medium-term action plan and effective framework to coordinate the development of SMEs 
DPL core Policy Area III:  Improved Public Financial Management and Anti-Corruption
 
ƒ
Issue additional implementing regulations for State Finance Law, Treasury Law and State Audit Law 
ƒ
Treasury single account timetable and activity plan adopted for the consolidation of bank accounts 
ƒ
Investigation unit is established and fully operational in the IG MoF, vested with the necessary legal powers to 
investigate all MOF employees 
Page  3
3. D
ESCRIPTION
 
The proposed DPL 2 seeks to address three key intertwining policy areas that are critical 
to accelerating and sustaining economic growth and poverty alleviation.  In the first 
policy area of macroeconomic stability and creditworthiness, DPL 2 will support reforms 
that help maintain a stable macroeconomic framework, with a focus on fiscal 
consolidation and debt reduction.  The second policy area addresses the high costs of 
investing in Indonesia 
–
including costs associated with uncertain regulations, poor 
contract enforcement, and unreliable infrastructure.  Reforms seek to improve 
institutional weaknesses in the regulatory framework for key sectors, particularly the 
financial and infrastructure sectors.  The third policy area involves the fight against 
endemic corruption and improving governance, with the focus on public financial 
management and the fiduciary environment.  
 
A
critical aspect of DPL 2 is the progress made in harmonization and collaboration 
among Indonesia’s three biggest development partners.  In addition to the US$400 
million committed for DPL 2 by the World Bank, parallel financing is expected from the 
Government of Japan (about US$100 million) and the Asian Development Bank 
(US$200 million).  All three donors have sought to closely harmonize policy dialogue 
and to ensure complementarity with each others’ projects, with the ultimate goal of 
reducing duplication and transaction costs to the government.    
 
4. E
NVIRONMENTAL 
A
SPECTS
 
While the Bank does not foresee any direct and significant environmental effects from 
the reform measures supported by DPL 2, continued analysis and monitoring of the 
reforms’ broader implications will be carried out.  The recent reduction in fuel subsidies 
provides a strong signal that the Government can deal with perverse economic incentives 
that undermine environmental sustainability and lead to disproportionate negative 
impacts on the poor. Fuel subsidy reductions can encourage higher energy efficiency, 
potentially lead to reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, as well as reductions in 
congestion and improvements in urban air quality.  Cash transfers and other measures 
targeting the poor will help to offset environmental impacts associated with increases in 
kerosene prices.  However, despite this assistance, a return to use of fuelwood is expected 
in some parts Indonesia with a related risk of increased deforestation.  Therefore, a strong 
and effective institutional framework and adequate local capacity to safeguard and 
manage environmental resources is critical.  In this regard, the Bank’s on-going and 
proposed activities support improved environmental governance, forest law enforcement, 
as well as decentralization and reform of AMDAL.  The Bank is helping to assess and 
strengthen the institutional and policy framework for environmental impact review 
process in provinces and districts, and supports the government in improving and 
strengthening their ability to use environmental impact assessment effectively.       
 
5. C
ONTACT POINT
 
P.S. Srinivas 
Page  4
Lead Financial Economist 
The World Bank Jakarta Office 
Jakarta Stock Exchange Bldg., Tower 2 
Jl. Jend. Sudirman Kav. 52-53 
Jakarta 12190, Indonesia 
Email: psrinivas@worldbank.org 
 
wb12009 
C:\Documents and Settings\WB12009\My Documents\Indonesia DPL 2 PID - Concept Stage.doc 
10/25/2005 9:15:00 AM
 
