Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1944 
Operation Name 
Second Development Policy Loan 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
General finance sector (50%);General public administration sector 
(50%) 
Project ID 
P096594 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA 
Implementing Agency 
Coordinating Ministry of the Economy and Ministry of Finance
 
Date PID Prepared 
November 9, 2005 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
November 10, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
December 20, 2005 
1. K
EY DEVELOPMENT ISSUES AND RATIONALE FOR 
B
ANK INVOLVEMENT
 
In recent years, Indonesia has restored macroeconomic and financial stability through prudent fiscal and 
monetary policies that emphasized fiscal consolidation, reduced public debt, low inflation, and low 
interest rates.  Important strides were made to strengthen the financial sector and to intensify efforts to 
improve the investment climate by rebuilding infrastructure, bolstering the legal framework, enhancing 
governance, and combating anti-corruption.  These strategies, coupled with growing political stability 
and the consolidation of democratic processes, have helped the country to recover from the regional 
financial crisis of the late 1990s, and to return to strong economic growth.  The past year witnessed 
growing market confidence, with stock indexes reaching historic post-crisis highs; historic highs in 
exports and imports; and recovery in investments, with FDI positive at US$1 billion for the first time 
since the crisis.  Amidst the positive news, poverty levels have also declined to below pre-crisis levels. 
 
While the country’s underlying economic indicators exude optimism, poverty reduction remains a 
critical challenge and there are a number of risks that endanger Indonesia’s recovery.  About 7.5 percent 
of the population live below US$1 a day, while over 53 percent – or 115 million people – live on less 
than US$2 a day, with many remaining highly vulnerable to falling under the poverty line.  Comparisons 
to other Southeast Asian countries show Indonesia continuing to under-perform its neighbors in access 
to quality health, education, and other basic services.  Moreover, the short-term macroeconomic 
volatility experienced in mid-2005 – caused by perceived inadequacies in the policy responses to global 
interest rates hikes and rising international oil prices – offers a poignant reminder of the need to push the 
reform agenda forward in order to achieve sustained growth and accelerated poverty alleviation.  
Against this background, the World Bank, together with Indonesia’s other main donors – the 
Government of Japan and the Asian Development Bank (ADB) – view the proposed DPL 2 as an 
effective vehicle for continued policy engagement with the government in its efforts to sustain the 
momentum of reform.   
 
2. P
ROPOSED OBJECTIVE
(
S
)
The overall goal of the DPL program is to help the government achieve its medium-term growth and 
poverty reduction objectives amidst Indonesia’s dual political and economic transition.  The 
government’s medium-term strategy, the RPJM, highlights an ambitious target: to halve the poverty rate 
to 8.2 percent during the 2004-09 period.  An annual work plan, the RKP, lays out government 
Page  2
priorities, indicators, targets, policy direction, and links to the state budget 
–
in effect, to operationalize 
the RPJM on a annual basis.  The Bank’s policy engagement, analytic work, and financing – particularly 
through the DPL program, are all critical ingredients to implementing and fulfilling the targets set out in 
the RPJM.    
 
The proposed DPL 2 is the second of three annual, single tranche operations.  Like the first DPL, it 
supports a subset of the government’s strategy, focusing on a pro-growth agenda with three mutually 
reinforcing and cross-cutting policy objectives: (i) macroeconomic stability and creditworthiness; (ii) 
improved investment climate; and (iii) anti-corruption and improved governance.  The success of the 
DPL program will hinge on whether medium-term objectives are fulfilled, as measured by a results 
framework that sets out specific and measurable outcome indicators. 
 
3. P
RELIMINARY DESCRIPTION
 
The proposed DPL 2 seeks to address three key intertwining policy areas that are critical to accelerating 
and sustaining economic growth and poverty alleviation.  In the first policy area of macroeconomic 
stability and creditworthiness, DPL 2 will support reforms that help maintain a stable macroeconomic 
framework, with a focus on fiscal consolidation and debt reduction.  The second policy area addresses 
the high costs of investing in Indonesia – including costs associated with uncertain regulations, poor 
contract enforcement, and unreliable infrastructure.  Reforms seek to improve institutional weaknesses 
in the regulatory framework for key sectors, particularly the financial and infrastructure sectors.  The 
third policy area involves the fight against endemic corruption and improving governance, with the 
focus on public financial management and the fiduciary environment.  It is the Bank’s assessment that 
progress on overall reform implementation has been made in all three policy areas to warrant Board 
consideration of DPL 2, though performance has been somewhat uneven across specific triggers.  
Reform measures supported by DPL 2 include: 
 
DPL Core Policy Area I:  Macroeconomic Stability and Creditworthiness
 
ƒ
Progress in reducing subsidies to the non-poor 
ƒ
Make tax revenue administration more efficient through expansion of modern tax offices 
ƒ
Develop and implement a debt management strategy 
ƒ
Implement law 33/04 by drafting government regulations.  This includes the re-design of KMK 35 and re-
allocation of deconcentrated central government spending to the DAK mechanism 
DPL Core Policy Area II:  Improved Investment Climate
 
ƒ
Complete draft amendment of Law 34 to move from negative to positive list for regional tax items and to 
restrict the creation of nuisance and/or economically harmful charges and levies. 
ƒ
Continue establishing a financial safety net including implementing the first phase of the removal of the deposit 
guarantee and clarify roles with respect to bank closing and emergency operations 
ƒ
Develop strategy to strengthen non-bank financial institutions 
ƒ
Develop a medium-term plan for infrastructure development that encourages public-private partnerships 
ƒ
Develop a medium-term action plan and effective framework to coordinate the development of SMEs 
DPL core Policy Area III:  Improved Public Financial Management and Anti-Corruption
 
ƒ
Issue additional implementing regulations for State Finance Law, Treasury Law and State Audit Law 
ƒ
Treasury single account timetable and activity plan adopted for the consolidation of bank accounts 
ƒ
Investigation unit is established and fully operational in the IG MoF, vested with the necessary legal powers to 
investigate all MOF employees 
Page  3
A
critical aspect of DPL 2 is the progress made in harmonization and collaboration among Indonesia’s 
three biggest development partners.  In addition to the US$400 million committed for DPL 2 by the 
World Bank, parallel financing is expected from the Government of Japan (about US$100 million) and 
the Asian Development Bank (US$200 million).  All three donors have sought to closely harmonize 
policy dialogue and to ensure complementarity with each others’ projects, with the ultimate goal of 
reducing duplication and transaction costs to the government.    
 
4. E
NVIRONMENT 
A
SPECTS
 
This is a Development Policy Loan (DPL) and is therefore not subject to OP 4.01, the Bank’s policy on 
environmental and social safeguards.  However, in accordance to good practice, the DPL 2 and the 
policy dialogue that underpins it have been prepared in keeping with the principles of environmental 
sustainability.  While the Bank does not foresee any direct and significant environmental effects from 
the reform measures supported by DPL 2, continued analysis and monitoring of the reforms’ broader 
implications will be carried out.  The recent reduction in fuel subsidies provides a strong signal that the 
Government can deal with perverse economic incentives that undermine environmental sustainability 
and lead to disproportionate negative impacts on the poor. Fuel subsidy reductions can encourage higher 
energy efficiency, potentially lead to reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, as well as reductions in 
congestion and improvements in urban air quality.  Cash transfers and other measures targeting the poor 
will help to offset environmental impacts associated with increases in kerosene prices.  However, despite 
this assistance, a return to use of fuelwood is expected in some parts of Indonesia with a related risk of 
increased deforestation.  Therefore, a strong and effective institutional framework and adequate local 
capacity to safeguard and manage environmental resources is critical.  In this regard, the Bank’s on-
going and proposed activities support improved environmental governance, forest law enforcement, as 
well as decentralization and reform of AMDAL.  The Bank is helping to assess and strengthen the 
institutional and policy framework for environmental impact review process in provinces and districts, 
and supports the government in improving and strengthening their ability to use environmental impact 
assessment effectively.       
5. T
ENTATIVE FINANCING
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 0 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
400 
 Total 
400 
 
6. C
ONTACT POINT
 
Contact: Subrahmanya Pulle Srinivas 
Title: Lead Financial Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-8939 
Email: Psrinivas@worldbank.org 
 
wb208889 
L:\John\Indonesia\DPL 2\Indonesia DPL 2 PID (Ops Portal).doc 
11/09/2005 5:08:00 PM
 
