FILE Copy
Report No. 570a-BR
Brazil
Appraisal of a
Second Railway Project
December 20, 1974
Latin America and Caribbean Projects Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility
for the accuracy or completeness of the report



Currency Equivalents
National currency is the Cruzeiro (Cr$) divided
into 100 centavos
US$1.00                  = Cr$ 7.00 (selling)
US$142.86                =  Cr$ 1,000 (August 1974)
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Weights and Measures
Metric System
Metric                      US Units
1 ton                    = 1.102 short tons
1 km                     = 0.621 mile
1 ton-km                 =  o.684 short ton-mile
1 pass-km                = 0.621 pass-mile
1 meter                  =  3.281 feet
1 kg                     =  2,205 pounds
Abbreviations
COSIPA                   -  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista
CSN                      -  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional
CVRD                     -  Campanhia Vale do Rio Doce
DNEF                     - Departamento Nacional de Estradas de Ferro
EFVM                     - Estrada de Ferro Vitoria a Minas
ENEFER                   - Engenharia  Ferroviaria
FEPASA                   -  Federacao de Estradas de Ferro Paulista, S. A.
GEIFOT                   -  Empresa Brasileira de Planejamento de Transportes
MBR                      - Mineracoes Brasileiras Reunidas
RFFSA                    -  Rede Ferroviaria Federal S.A.



BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT (RFFSA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMIARY AND CONCLUSIONS   ............................    i-iii
1.   INTRODUCTION   ...................................................        I
2.    BACKGROUND   ..........................................                  2
3.    THE FEDERAL RAILWAY SYSTEM   .................                           2
A.  Organization, Management and Staff ..                ............    2
B.  Railway Property ...... ............. .                             4
C.  Productivity of Operations  ................                        5
D.  Uneconomic Lines  .........            .......................      5
4.    THE PLAN AND THE PROJECT   ............................                  S
A.  The Five-Year Investment Plan, 1975-1979  ..........                 5
B.   The Project and the Program of Action ...........            .    6
C. The Proposed Loan ...................                                 7
D.  Execution, Procurement and Disbursement  ..........                 9
55.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION   ..          ...............................    ll
A.   General ..1........................................    l
B.  Traffic Forecasts            ................................    11
C.  Cost Benefit Analysis  .............................    12
6.    FINANCES   ............................................    16
A.  Accounts,, Budget and Audit ...................            ....    16
B.  Present Financial Position             .......................    17
C.   Tariffs and Costs           ................................    18
D.  Future Prospects  ...................................    18
7.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ................   22
This Appraisal Report has been prepared by Messrs. Karman (engineer), Jones
(financial analyst), Blanc and Taborga (economists) and Sander (financial
analyst consultant) and has been edited by Miss Foster.



Table of Contents (Continued)
TABLES
1.   Statistics 1969-1973 and Projection for 1979 (3 pages)
2.   Details of the Project (2 pages)
3.   Doubtful or Remote Items Excluded from the Project
4.   Items to be Financed by the Proposed Loan
5.   Intercity Freight Transport Statistics (1960-1972)
6.   Traffic Statistics (1968-1973) and Forecasts (1974-1979) (6 pages)
7.   Intercity Passenger Traffic
8.   Breakdown of the Project for the Economic Evaluation
9.   Truck and Railroad Costs (3 pages)
10.  Statement of Revenues and Expenses for the Years 1963 and 1968
through 1973 in Current Cruzeiros
11.  Statement of Revenues and Expenses for 1973 by Region
12.  Balance Sheets for the Years 1968 through 1973 in 1973 Cruzeiros
13.  Analysis of 1979 Forecast Income Account by Region
14.  Forecast Income Account
15.  Cash Flow and Financing Plan
16.  Summary Forecast Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1974 through 1979
ANNEXES
1.   RFFSA Organization Chart
2.   Action Taken on Uneconomic Lines
3.   Uneconomic Lines and Services to be Studied
4.   Brief Description of Items in the Project
5.   Doubtful Items Excluded from the Project
6.   Program of Action, 1975-1979
7.   Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
8.   RFFSA's Department of Human Development
9.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
10.  Traffic Forecasts
11.  Economic Justification of the Items in the Project
12.  Future Expansion of the Steel Industry
13.  Tariffs and Costs
14.  Assumptions Used in Making Forecast Income Account
15.  Details of the Financing Plan
MAPS
IBRD 11,109  -  Brazil Railroads
IBRD 11,110  -  Central Region System
IBRb 11,111  -  Southern Region System
IBRD 11,112  -  Rio de Janeiro Suburban Railroad System
IBRD 11,113  -  Sao Paulo Suburban Railroad System



BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT (RFFSA)
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The development plans of the Government of Brazil for the next five
years are based in part on a substantial increase in the mining and steel
industries and in agricultural production, both for local consumption and for
export. Higher oil prices and Brazil's dependence on imported crude for
75% of its needs give greater urgency to self-sufficiency schemes in which
the comparative advantages are in the country's favor; the steel industry
and agricultural development are examples of this situation. Railways will
play a very important role in this anticipated development since there is
no economic alternative for transporting iron ore, steel, and agricultural
products in bulk over long distances. The Government has therefore rightly
decided to give more emphasis to rall investments now than in the past.
ii.       This report appraises the Government's plans for the Brazilian
Federal Railways (RFFSA) and concludes that they warrant Bank support. It
is worth noting that RFFSA is one of the largest publicly owned corporations
in Brazil, but that its organization and management are weak. Its poor
financial position, although improving, has resulted in a continuous drain
on the Federal Treasury. It is believed that Bank lending, by being associated
with firm Government objectives for strengthening RFFSA's operational effi-
ciency, management and planning capacity, could support both important
institution-building and financial objectives.
iii.      A loan of US$175 million is recommended to help finance a five-year
(1975-1979) Investment Plan amounting to about US$4.5 billion, with a foreign
exchange component of US$2.2 billion equivalent. The present RFFSA Investment
Plan, as amended by the new Government which took office in March 1974, re-
flects the very high priority which the Government has placed on the improve-
ment and expansion of railway services but includes items for which economic
justification and optimum timing are still uncertain. Furthermore, implement-
ing the entire Plan would seriously strain RFFSA's project implementation
capacity. Therefore, in this report, the Plan has been divided into two parts:
(a) the Project, consisting of items to be started in 1975 or 1976 and showing
good justification; and (b) those items excluded from the Project because of
their doubtful or remote nature. An agreement was obtained during negotiations
that execution of any major item not in the Project will not proceed until
RFFSA has demonstrated satisfactorily to the Bank that the item is economically
justified and that satisfactory financing would be available. Agreement was
also obtained with RFFSA and the Government that implementation of certain
investments in the Project for new construction, for which final engineering
is not yet available, will not commence until final engineering is completed
and the economic feasibility is reconfirmed. The total cost of the Project



- ii -
is estimated at US$3.0 billi6n with a foreign exchange component of
US$1.5 billion.   The proposed loan of US$175 million would represent less
than 6% of the total cost of the Project.
iv.       This would be the second Bank loan to RFFSA.  The first, Loan 786-BR
(US$46 million), made in 1971, helped finance facilities required to trans-
port 12 million tons of iron ore annually under the MBR (Mineracoes Brazileiras
Reunidas) Project.  Traffic started on time in July 1973, but iron ore trans-
port was hindered by operational problems, mainly derailments on the existing
central line whose rehabilitation was not carried out as scheduled. Other
delays were encountered, e.g., for the bridge strengthening program and for
providing new workshops. The situation is improving, however, and traffic
reached the forecast level monthly by November 1974.
v.        As the industrial and agricultural sectors of Brazil developed,
especially during the last several years, it became obvious that the country
lacked capacity for transporting large volumes of bulk goods, particularly
in the Rio-Belo Horizonte-Sao Paulo region, which carried about 60% of the
net ton-km on 35% of the track in 1973. The development of a rail network
to support further growth in agriculture and in the steel industry is the
main objective of RFFSA's Investment Plan and comprises a major step toward
correcting what would otherwise be a growing imbalance in the Brazilian
transport sector. Improvement and expansion of railway services have lagged
behind what would be economically justified. Investments are therefore
planned to rehabilitate existing track, build new lines, strengthen bridges,
eliminate level crossings, improve signalling and communications facilities,
add motive power and rolling stock, concentrate and modernize workshops, and
expand stations and yards.
vi.       A part of the proposed investments is directed toward improving the
quality, and increasing the capacity, of the suburban passenger services in
Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo. In addition to effecting overall cost savings,
these investments will help reduce accidents and life losses, avoid further
urban congestion and additional air pollution, reduce travel time and improve
passenger comfort. In Rio, especially, commuters are almost exclusively
low-income people who have to live far from their place of work. The present
suburban services of RFFSA are overcrowded, antiquated and dangerous. Impro-
ving them is a long overdue measure.
vii.      Investments alone, however, will not be enough to achieve the
Government's goals.  Improvements in management, operations, and maintenance
procedures are essential, and are to be implemented in accordance with a
Program of Action, which sets physical and financial targets. To help RFFSA
implement the Program of Action, the Project contains an important element
of technical assistance and an extensive training program.
viii.     As in most Bank-financed Projects, a certain amount of risk is
involved in this Project, which is based on continued rapid growth of the



- iii -
Brazilian economy. Should there be an economic slowdown, some of the railway
investments might be premature, especially those not related to the steel
expansion program. Also, if the railways' management does not succeed in
implementing the operational improvements needed to carry the increased
traffic in the five years now enzisaged, the expected benefits of the invest-
ments would not materialize as early as forecast.
ix.       Nevertheless, the Government and the railways are determined to make
the necessary effort to come as close as possible to the ambitious targets of
the Plan. This determination seems assured, as announced publicly by the
President of the Republic and various Ministers.
x.        The proposed loan would help finance the procurement of rails,
switches, ballast crushers and maintenance equipment in support of the track
rehabilitation program, parts for freight car modernization and workshop
equipment, signalling and communication equipment as well as rolling stock
and signalling equipment for the suburban services of Rio and Sao Paulo. Tne
loan would also finance part of the cost of the technical assistance program.
xi.       All goods financed under the proposed loan would be acquired on
the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines on Procurement. Local bidders would be granted a margin of prefer-
ence by adding 15% (or the applicable customs duties, whichever is lower) to
the CIF value of the foreign bids. Brazilian firms are likely to compete
for most items and, since they are often competitive in the world market, it
is possible that as much as 50% of the orders may be awarded locally. The
actual percentage may be lower, however, because local manufacturers of rail-
way equipment are working close to full capacity and may not be able to meet
the required delivery periods. For imported goods, disbursements would be
made on the basis of CIF costs.  For bids won by local suppliers, disburse-
ments would be made on the basis of 100% of ex-factory costs.
xii.      An overall economic evaluation of all items in the Project gives
a rate of return of 19%. Because not all benefits could be easily quantified,
this is a conservative estimate, and a higher return can be expected, thus
underlining the economic significance of the Project.
xiii.     RFFSA's financial performance is expected to improve gradually as
traffic increases, tariffs are raised, operating efficiency improves and un-
economic services are reduced.   Including subsidies for the uneconomic
services which the Government wishes to retain for social and other reasons,
the operating ratio is expected to improve from 163 in 1973 to 105 in 1979
or, excluding the subsidies, from 185 in 1973 to 124 in 1979.
xiv.      The Project would provide a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$175
million for a term of 25 years, including a grace period of about five years.






BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT (RFFSA)
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Brazil and the Brazilian Federal Railways (RFFSA)
have asked the Bank for a loan of US$175 million equivalent to finance part
of the foreign exchange costs of RFFSA's five-year Investment Plan, 1975-1979,
with total costs estimated at US$4.4 billion equivalent and a foreign ex-
change component of US$2.3 billion equivalent. This Plan, however, includes
items for which economic justification and optimum timing are still un-
certain.  By eliminating investments of a doubtful or remote nature, a well
justified Project was devised, with total investments of US$3.0 billion and
a foreign exchange component of US$1.5 billion.
1.02      This would be the second Bank loan to RFFSA.  The first (Loan
786-BR, US$46 million), made in 1971, was to help finance the railway portion
of the MBR (Mineracoes Brasileiras Reunidas) iron ore project to carry 12
million tons of iron ore annually from the Aguas Claras mine to the Sepetiba
ocean port terminal. Traffic started on time in July 1973, but iron ore
transport was hindered by operational problems, mainly derailments on the
existing central line whose rehabilitation was carried out behind schedule.
Other delays were encountered, e.g., for the bridge strengthening program
and for providing new workshops. The situation is improving, however, and
traffic reached the forecast monthly level in November 1974. To date, about
US$39.7 million, or 86% of the loan, have been disbursed, and the full
amount is expected to be disbursed by early 1977.
1.03      "The Transport Sector of Brazil" (TSB), Report No. 571a-BR of even
date, is being circulated simultaneously with the Appraisal and President's
Reports for this project and for the Fifth Highway Project. The history of
Bank participation in the transport sector is documented in paragraphs 1 to 5
of that Report.
1.04      In addition to RFFSA, with 25,000 route-km, the Brazilian railway
network includes about 5,000 km of lines operated by a state-owned company,
FEPASA (Sao Paulo State Railways); 935 km of lines owned and operated by
EFVM (Estrada de Ferro Vitoria a Minas), a department of the Government
mining company, Companhia Vale do Rio Doce (CVRD), carrying mostly iron ore
traffic; and 718 km of lines operated by five small private companies. The
new Federal Government, which took office in March 1974, has indicated that
it is actively investigating means to merge FEPASA with RFFSA.
1.05      Under RFFSA's present Investment Plan, several new lines are to be
constructed, and an extensive rehabilitation program is to be carried out
in the fields of track, workshops, signalling and communications. New loco-
motives and rolling stock will be purchased, and a number of older freight



-2-
cars will be rehabilitated. Also, suburban services in Rio de Janeiro and
Sao Paulo will be improved with new rolling stock and improved track and
signalling equipment. As part of the Plan, an extensive technical assistance
program has been devised to help RFFSA implement the Project and to improve
RFFSA's practices in management, permanent way, workshops and operations.
1.06      This appraisal is based on information supplied by the Brazilian
Government, GEIPOT (Empresa Brasileira de Planejamento de Transportes), RFFSA
and its consultants ENGETRAN (Brazil) associated with SOFRERAIL (France), and
on the findings of three Bank missions-- in November 1973, and February and
June 1974, comprising Messrs. Karman (engineer), Jones (financial analyst),
Blanc and Taborga (economists) and Sander (financial analyst consultant). This
report has been prepared by them and has been edited by Miss Foster.
2. BACKGROUND
2.01      All background information on the transport sector and on the role
of the various modes in the past is given in TSB which also analyzes the im-
plications of the energy crisis on the transport problems facing Brazil.
Therefore, sector information usually included in the Background chapter is
omitted from this report.
3. THE FEDERAL RAILWAY SYSTEM
A.   Organization, Management and Staff
3.01      RFFSA was created in 1957 as a publicly owned corporation grouping
18 railways, formerly under separate management. As a federal enterprise,
RFFSA comes within the portfolio of the Minister of Transport. Government
approval is required for RFFSA's annual operating and capital budgets, for
increases in tariffs and for matters of public interest (line closure,
elimination of services, etc.). The Government also exerts a strong influence
in determining RFFSA's investments and salary policy. Management is under-
taken by a board of six members, chaired by the President of RFFSA. The
former railways continue to exist as "Divisions" under local management.
In 1968, RFFSA's organization was reshaped to provide for four regional
systems in order to obtain economies in administration by concentrating
responsibility in regional headquarters for financial and personnel matters
and statistics.
3.02      Until 1973, when a new organization structure was approved, railway
administration suffered from excessive centralization of authority. Partly
because of the newness of the regional structure, the regional managers merely
acted as intermediaries between the President and his staff on the one hand
and divisional managers (traditional management centers) on the other.



- 3 -
3.03      With the change of Government, a new top management was appointed
in March 1974. The new President is a dedicated and energetic man, as well
as a good manager, formerly in charge of the construction of the Rio subway
system. The Board is composed of capable high-ranking RFFSA officials and
several other Government-appointed Directors. The new management amended the
organization chart (Annex 1), a step in the right direction but which will
take some time to implement fully. The main changes are (i) a strengthening
of the coordinating and planning superintendency reporting directly to the
President; and (ii) a strengthening of the regional superintendencies, reduc-
ing the divisions to operating units responsible only for train operations
and maintenance.
3.04      Past weaknesses of the RFFSA management were mostly in the fields
of corporate planning and project execution. This was mainly the result of:
(a) little interest from the Government for the railway mode, most efforts
being directed toward highways; (b) a deficient internal organization; and
(c) an inadequate salary policy, which could not attract competent staff,
especially at the middle and upper levels.
3.05      There is evidence that the situation is now improving.  The Govern-
ment has understood the need for an efficient rail system and has taken steps
to implement necessary measures, especially regarding overall investment
policies and budget allocations. The railways' organization has been improved
(paras. 3.01 to 3.03). The strengthened planning unit, however, needs to be
adequately staffed and supported for some time by technical assistance (para.
4.13) in order to implement the ambitious five-year Investment Plan effec-
tively. Another positive step is the recent creation of Engenharia Ferroviaria
(ENGEFER), a mixed company subsidiary of RFFSA, in charge of all new construc-
tion works not interfering with traffic (para. 4.12). This executing agency
relieves RFFSA's management of the burden of organizing and supervising
a number of important construction sites, although RFFSA keeps overall control
of the investments. Measures regarding staff compensation have already been
taken, and more are presently under consideration (para. 3.07).
3.06      Staff numbers at RFFSA have declined steadily over the years from
154,000 in 1963 to 125,000 in 1970 to 114,000 at the end of 1973. At present,
some 300 employees are resigning or retiring per month, but suitable staff
should be hired and trained to cater for forecast traffic growth. By the
end of 1979, RFFSA staff is expected to be an adequate 104,000.
3.07      As mentioned in paragraph 3.04, a basic obstacle to successful
management generally has been RFFSA's inability to attract and hold competent
staff because of poor salary levels. In December 1973, RFFSA introduced a
new wage structure for all university level employees and for all so-called
commissioned staff (totaling about 8,000 staff members). The new scale should
enable RFFSA to retain experienced staff and attract university graduates,
although competition from the private sector and other public agencies will
remain strong. RFFSA also loses machinists and other trained staff, espe-
cially in areas of strong labor demand (e.g., Sao Paulo), because of its low



- 4 -
pay scales. A new salary structure for these staff categories is now being
prepared by RFFSA. The adequacy of these measures will not be known for some
time. During negotiations, RFFSA undertook to furnish to the Bank, by the
end of March 1976, its compensation studies for an exchange of views.
3.08      Each of the railroads taken over by RFFSA had its own union, and
these unions, each with its own jurisdiction, have survived to the present.
There have been no labor disputes in recent years.
B.  Railway Property
3.09      Total length of RFFSA's network is 24,546 route-km, 92% meter
gauge, 7% broad gauge (1.60 m) and 1% narrow gauge (0.76 m) (Map IBRD 11,109).
About 98% of the network is single line and about 1,000 km are electrified.
Due to the mountainous terrain, alignments are often poor, with many curves
and steep gradients. The track is generally in poor to fair condition. Sig-
nalling varies widely over the system, from simple "entry orders", where
traffic is light, to the most elaborate two-way CTC (Central Traffic Control)
on some high-density lines. Overall, it is adequate, but improvements are
needed locally. Telecommunication facilities are generally satisfactory.
3.10      Renewals and general maintenance of the track have not been carried
out lately at the appropriate level because the railways have been starved
of capital investments for many years. An important effort to erase the
backlog of track improvements will be needed to carry safely the traffic now
expected.  This work is included in RFFSA's Investment Plan, and, by end-1979,
over one-half of the lines (carrying most of the traffic) are expected to be
in good physical condition.
3.11      At present, 80% of RFFSA's fleet of about 1,300 diesel locomotives
is less than 15 years old. With new acquisitions and scrapping of older
types, it will be made up of only two main types, General Motors and General
Electric. RFFSA also has 75 electric locomotives. Most of the 168 steam
locomotives still in use for shunting and work trains are going to be scrapped
by 1976. The composition of the fleet is adequate for the present level of
traffic, but additional motive power will be needed to handle the growing
traffic expected. Purchase of 313 locomotives is contemplated in the years
1975 to 1979.
3.12      More than half of the 2,100 passenger cars used for intercity
traffic are over 30 years old and of obsolete wooden construction. Commuter
traffic, mainly over 80 route-km in Rio and 120 route-km in Sao Paulo, is
handled by electric train sets (313), diesel railcars and train sets (44),
and electric railcars (18). Since the demand for intercity passenger services
is expected to decline, minimum investments are required, but the suburban
services urgently need new stock: 70 train sets are to be purchased under
the proposed plan. Freight cars total about 34,000; 60% are in fair condi-
tion. The remainder are more than 30 years old; about half will be modern-
ized and the rest scrapped. The expected increase of traffic calls for
about 13,400 new freight cars to be purchased between 1975 and 1979.



-5-
3.13      RFFSA presently has an excessive number of main workshops, 66 for
locomotives and 49 for rolling stock, and about 150 running sheds (refueling
stations and light repairs).  This situation dates back to the time of steam          -
traction and of individual railways under separate management. Standardization
of diesel locomotives and scrapping of obsolete stock, now under way, should
enable RFFSA to concentrate its workshops significantly and probably to cut
their total number by half. This is, however, a long-term goal and involves
many social and economic implications. In order to define a general workshops
policy, and as part of the technical assistance program (paras. 4.13 and
4.14), a study is to be carried out with the help of consultants.
C.   Productivity of Operations
3.14      Operating performance in RFFSA varies widely between the divisions
according to the nature and volume of traffic and the shape of the route
network, and there is large scope for improvement in the productive use of
locomotives and rolling stock. Turnaround time for iron ore traffic (about
5 days) and general cargo (about 11 days) could both be reduced, while yearly
mileage of diesel locomotives in freight services should increase from the
present 70,000 km to about 100,000 km. These and other statistics (Table 1)
are expected to improve with the change in the traffic pattern forecast for
the coming years, mainly the increase in iron ore traffic and the use of more
unit trains, especially for steel products and agricultural exports.
D.   Uneconomic Lines
3.15      A program of study of uneconomic lines was started in 1966.  It
originally focused on 6,315 km, but was later extended to 8,065 km. The
study is now complete, and, as a result, a total of 7,109 km of uneconomic
lines will have been taken out of service by the end of 1974, or 88.1% of the
lines studied. More details on this subject are given in Annex 2.
3.16      Further studies should be initiated, particularly in the Northeast
and in the Leopoldina division. These studies should not only focus on total
elimination of uneconomic lines (as done in the past) but should also envisage
suppressing uneconomic services (i.e., passenger trains, stations. etc.).
RFFSA agreed during negotiations to undertake these studies as outlined in
Annex 3, by the end of 1976 and provide them to the Bank for an exchange of
views. The studies would be carried out with the assistance of consultants
(para 4.13).
4. THE PLAN AND THE PROJECT
A.   The Five-Year Investment Plan, 1975-1979
4.01      RFFSA prepared, with the help of consultants ENGETRAN (Brazil) and
SOFRERAIL (France), a preliminary five-year Investment Plan covering the



-6-
period 1974-1978. When the new Government took office in March 1974, the
Ministry of Transport revised the Plan, increasing its size and scope sub-
stantially and shifting the planning period forward to 1975-1979 to conform
with the Government's own preparation of a new National Development Plan.
It includes several new items and major increases in the scope of previously
included items and provides for capital investments of Cr$ (1975) 33.4
billion (US$4.5 billion) with a foreign exchange component 1/ of US$2.3
billion equivalent.
B.   The Project and the Program of Action
4.02      For the purpose of Bank consideration, RFFSA's Investment Plan has
been divided into two parts: the Project (Table 2 and Annex 4), consisting
of those items to be started in 1975 or 1976 and showing good justification,
amounting to about 66% of the Plan, and the remainder (Table 3), i.e., the
items excluded from the Project because of their present doubtful or remote
nature. The doubtful items are described in Annex 5, which also gives the
reasons for their exclusion. It was agreed during negotiations that major
items (new lines amounting to more than US$20 million or procurement of equip-
ment in a particular category amounting to more than US$5 million in any given
year) presently excluded from the Project be implemented only after their
feasibility has been demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Bank and a
financing plan for these items is presented to the Bank and found satisfactory.
4.03      The main objectives of the investments in the Project are to enable
RFFSA to meet the transport demand expected during the coming years, mainly
iron ore and steel products in the Central region, and agricultural products
in the South. To this end, it will be necessary to rehabilitate existing
track, build new lines (Maps IBRD 11,110 and 11,111), strengthen bridges,
eliminate level crossings, install signalling and communication facilities,
add motive power and rolling stock, concentrate and modernize workshops,
improve stations and yards, etc. Suburban services in Rio and Sao Paulo
(Maps IBRD 11,112 and 11,113) will be substantially improved by track rehabil-
itation, better signalling and the addition of 70 unit trains. The Project
also contains an important element of technical assistance (para. 4.13) and
an extensive training program (para. 4.14). It is supported by a Program of
Action (para. 4.09).
4.04      As in most Bank-financed Projects, a certain amount of risk is in-
volved in this Project, which is based on continued rapid growth of the
Brazilian economy. Should there be an economic slowdown, some of the railway
investments might be premature, in particular, those not related to the steel
expansion program. Also, if the railways' management does not succeed in
implementing the operational improvements needed to carry the increased
traffic in the five years now envisaged, thie expected benefits of the invest-
ments would not materialize as early as forecast.
1/   The foreign exchange component includes all direct and indirect foreign
exchange costs as well as the costs of materials of which Brazil is a
net importer, e.g., steeel.



-7-
4.05      Nevertheless, the Government and the railways are determined to
make the necessary effort to come as close as possible to the ambitious tar-
gets of the Plan. This determination seems assured, as announced publicly
by the President of the Republic and various Ministers.
4.06      The Project tentatively includes some items (Table 2) for which
the economic justification has not yet been firmly established. During nego-
tiations, RFFSA and the Government agreed that these investments will not be
carried out until their economic justification has been established to the
satisfaction of the Bank.
4.07      The total cost of the Project is estimated at Cr$ (1975) 22.3
billion (US$3.0 billion) with a foreign exchange component (see footnote in
paragraph 4.01 preceding) of US$1.5 billion equivalent (Table 2). A summary
of the main items included in the Project appears on page 8.
4.08      Physical contingencies have been individually estimated for each
item of the Project and vary between 0%, when the quantities of goods are
well defined, to more than 20% for some parts of the civil works program.
The average physical contingency allowance is 7.3%. Price contingencies
have been treated on the same basis for local and foreign costs because it
is the practice of the Brazilian Government to devalue the cruzeiro frequently
in order to maintain a constant relationship between Brazilian and external
prices. Price contingencies were based on cost increases for civil works
and equipment estimated respectively at 15% and 11% for 1975, 13% and 10%
for 1976 and 1977, and 12% and 9% for 1978. The average price contingency
allowance is about 23%.
4.09      Investments alone will not be enough to enable RFFSA to meet the
traffic demand expected in the coming years. Improvements in management,
operations, maintenance procedures, etc., are essential, and, without them,
the financial rehabilitation of the railways will not materialize. Physical
targets and financial objectives were developed and are listed in the Program
of Action (Annex 6). The Program of Action was reviewed during negotiations,
at which time the Bank received a commitment by RFFSA and the Government to
the effect that all necessary measures will be taken to achieve the agreed
targets.
C.   The Proposed Loan
4.10      As mentioned in paragraph 4,07, the foreign exchange component of
the Project cost is estimated at about US$1.5 billion equivalent. In order
to help implement the very high priority investments contemplated and to
lend the Bank's support to improved railway management, operations, planning
and finances, a loan of US$175 million is proposed. This would represent
less than 6% of the total cost of the Project. The proposed loan would com-
plement other financing arrangements made and being sought (para. 6.14).



-8-
SUMMARY OF MAIN PROJECT ITEMS
Pro-
posed
CO/(1975)L4                               Bank
Cr$ (1975) - million           US  million           Loan
Local  Foreign  Total   Local    Foreign   Total  US$ m
Headquarters /1        137      41       178    18.3        5.5      23.8    5.5
New lines, realign-
ments
(a) Industrial
corridors    3,225  1,739    4,964   429.7        232.0    661.7        -
(b) Export
corridors    1,410    846    2,256   187.9        112.9    300.8        -
Cc) Other          1,284    616    1,900   171.4         82.1    253.5       -
Stations and yards    226       54      280    30.1         7.2     37.3       -
Signalling and
communications        70    266       336      9.3       35.5     44.8   19.6
Motive power,
rolling stock /2    370  3,332    3,702    49.3         444.4    493.7    3.8
Suburban services      437    654    1,091    58.2         87.3    145.5   52.4
Modernization /3       954  1,271    2,225   127.1        169.5    296.6   54.0
Base cost estimate  8,813  8,821   16,934 1,081.3   1,176.4  2,257.7  135.3
Physical contin-
gencies (7.3%)       722    512    1,234    96.2         68.2    164.4    6.8
Price contingencies
(22.8%)            2,195  1,946    4,141   292.7       259.5    552.2   32.9
Total estimated
cost              11,030 11,279   22,309 1,470.2   1,504.1  2,974.3  175.0
/1   Includes technical assistance and training.
/2   Because of standardization (para. 3.11), locomotives will be purchased
under bilateral arrangements. For the procurement of freight cars,
financial arrangements are either made or being negotiated, in Brazil and
abroad. Therefore, the proposed loan includes financing only for parts
for freight car rehabilitation.
/3   Mainly of permanent way and workshops; also includes electrification
and gauge unification.
/4   Cr$ (1975) 7.5 = US$1.0.



-9-
4.11      As shown in detail in Table 4, about US$49 million would be in
support of the track rehabilitation program, about US$20 million would
be for signalling and communication equipment, and about US$52 million for
the suburban services (rolling stock for Rio and Sao Paulo, signalling and
electrical equipment for Rio only). These items are suitable for inter-
national competitive bidding and were selected because other sources of
financing at favorable terms are not available. Although other items would
qualify from these points of view, the total amount of the proposed loan has
been held down in order to limit initial Bank exposure in a Project which is
complex and requires a substantial institutional buildup. An amount of about
US$5.5 million is earmarked for financing 65% of the estimated cost of a
comprehensive program of technical assistance (para. 4.13). Physical con-
tingencies amount to 5% of the loan. Price contingencies were calculated as
explained in paragraph 4.08 and amount to about 23% of the basic estimated
cost plus physical contingencies.
D.   Execution, Procurement and Disbursement
(i) Execution
4.12      One of the Bank's main concerns is the capability of RFFSA to imple-
ment such an ambitious Investment Plan. This concern is shared by the Govern-
ment, which has recently created ENGEFER, a company subsidiary to RFFSA, acting
as an investment execution body for those aspects of the program (e.g., new
line construction) not linked with present operations. This alleviates the
workload of the superintendency of Coordination and Planning, which would
otherwise have to supervise the implementation of all investments.
(a) Technical Assistance and Higher Level Training
4.13      To increase the capability of RFFSA for implementing the Project
and to improve operational efficiency in general, an extensive program of
technical assistance involving about 980 man-months has been agreed with
RFFSA. It would cover direct assistance and training in: (a) management
(including corporate planning, data processing and costing); (b) workshops
(reorganization, centralization, equipment, and methods); (c) permanent way
(maintenance and renewals); (d) operations (including marketing aspects);
(e) supervision of construction; (f) uneconomic lines and services; (g) clec-
trification; and (h) suburban commuter services. The scope of this technical
assistance is described in more detail in Annex 7. It would extend until
1977 at a total cost of about US$8.5 million equivalent, and its foreign
exchange cost is estimated at about US$5.5 million. This is a priority item,
and it is therefore recommended that this amount be included in the proposed
Bank loan, of which it would represent about 4%. Because of the importance of
this external aid to RFFSA for the successful and timely implementation of
the Project, it was agreed during negotiations that the signature of technical
assistance contracts in the most important fields mentioned above be made a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed Loan (para 7.02).



- 10 -
(b) Lower Level Training
4.14      RFFSA's training activities are carried out through its Department
of Human Development (Annex 8), which works in close cooperation with SENAI,
a semi-official training organization sponsored by the Federation of Industry
and Commerce, which, in 1972, trained 300,000 technicians in 235 centers
throughout Brazil. RFFSA's training program was started in 1958. In 1972,
about 16,700 employees of the middle and lower levels, or 14% of total staff,
received some training at a cost of Cr$ 24 million (Annex 8, Table 2). Great
efforts are being made in all regions, mainly in the training of existing
personnel, through audio-visual methods. RFFSA's Department of Human Devel-
opment has the capability, given adequate financial means, to train the
additional locomotive operators and workshop and other specialists required.
The consultants have prepared a list of such personnel, which can be used as
a basis for planning and implementing the expanded training program.
(ii) Procurement
4.15      All goods financed under the proposed loan would be acquired on the
basis of international competitive bidding, in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines on Procurement.   Local bidders 1/ would be granted a margin of
preference by adding 15% (or the applicable customs duties, whichever is
lower) to the CIF value of the foreign bids. Brazilian firms are likely to
compete for most items and, since they are often competitive in the world
market, it is possible that as much as 50% of the orders to be financed by
the Bank may be awarded locally. The actual percentage may be lower, however,
because local manufacturers of railway equipment are working close to full
capacity and might not be able to meet the required delivery periods. Brazil
is a member of ALALC, the Latin American Free Trade Association, but pre-
ferential trade agreements are not applicable in the case of RFFSA because
it is exempt from duties on imported equipment.
(iii)  Disbursement
4.16      For imported goods, disbursements would be made on the basis of CIF
costs. For bids won by local suppliers, disbursements would be made on the
basis of 100% of ex-factory costs. The Bank would also finance 65% of the
total cost of technical assistance. Annex 9 gives the estimated schedule of
disbursements, assuming the loan is signed during the quarter ending March 31,
1975. Cost estimates are based on recent quotations obtained for similar
goods under international competitive bidding. If any savings result from
favorable prices in competitive bidding, the corresponding savings in the
loan account would be used to finance additional but similar project items
subject to review and agreement with the Bank.
1/   A local bidder is a Brazilian firm (or a consortium) offering goods
containing components manufactured in Brazil and representing at least
50% of the value of the complete goods.



- 1 1 -
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      The accelerated economic growth of Brazil during the last decade
has been supported by substantial investments in the transport sector (TSB,
Chapter III). Development efforts were mostly concentrated on road trans-
port. As the industrial and agricultural sectors developed, it became clear
that the country lacked capacity for transporting large volumes of bulk goods.
This situation currently threatens to slow down the process of economic
development and to undercut the future expansion of Brazilian exports. This
is recognized by the Government, and the long delayed institutional buildup
and channeling of resources to rail transport is beginning to take place.
RFFSA's Investment Plan is a major step to help prevent a growing imbalance
in the Brazilian transport sector.
5.02      Total intercity freight movement increased by almost 10% annually
between 1960 and 1972, and highway transport increased its share from 60% to
73% (Table 5 and TSB, paras. 17 and 18). Although the share of the railroad
decreased in relative terms from 19 to 16% during this period, rail freight
traffic increased in absolute terms from 13 to 33 billion ton-km, of which
about 16 billion ton-km are increased iron ore exports on the EFVM railroad.
The growth of RFFSA traffic averaged only 4% per year during this period but
was over 6% in the years 1969-1973 (Table 5). Much of this growth was in
iron ore, petroleum derivatives, cement, limestone, fertilizers, steel prod-
ucts, wheat, soybeans and sugar, which together accounted for 75% of the
total net ton-km transported by RFFSA. Traffic is concentrated mostly in
the Rio-Belo Horizonte-Sao Paulo triangle, which carried about 60% of the
net ton-km on 35% of the track in 1973, whereas the Northeast system carried
only 8% of the net ton-km on 30% of the track. The systemwide average haul
was about 400 km.
B.   Traffic Forecasts
(i) Freight
5.03      The export of iron ore under the MBR contract and the development
of the steei industry will dramatically increase the level of rail traffic.
Total rail traffic is expected to increase at an average annual growth rate
of 15% in tons and 18.6% in ton-km. Between 1973 and 1979, the iron ore and
steel related traffic will account for 71% of the increase in ton-km. The
Export Corridor Program (TSB, para. 11), will also affect rail traffic in
the Southern region, and the increase in bulk cereals traffic alone will
contribute another 8.5% to the total increase. Traffic of other commodities
is expected to grow at lower rates, about 6.4% in tons and 9.6% in ton-km
per annum over the 1973-1979 period.



- 12 -
5.04      These forecasts, based on consultants' projections for each region
and for each main product, have been revised on the basis of 1973 statistics
and take into account the latest industrial and agricultural developments.
They are to a large extent insensitive to tariff variations since iron ore,
steel-related products and bulk cereals--which will account for about 70% of
the 1979 traffic--constitute a captive traffic which can be carried at tariffs
above long run marginal cost (para. 5.09). For other commodities which are
mostly of bulk type (cement, fertilizer, limestone, salt, etc.), projections
have been made conservatively, assuming no traffic increase and even a decrease
for a few commodities which are presently carried at rates below marginal
cost and which are subject to road competition. Forecasts are detailed in
Table 6 and Annex 10.
(ii) Passengers
5.05      Suburban passenger rail traffic (mainly commuters) in Rio and Sao
Paulo is limited by the capacity of the present system. Forecast passenger
traffic is conservatively based only on the expected growth in commuter trips
using mass transportation in the area of influence of the railways up to
1979 (Annex 10 gives the analysis). Between 1965 and 1972, intercity passenger
traffic declined 50% from 5.4 to 2.7 million pass-km. This is due to the
very strong competition of bus and air transport which provides faster, more
comfortable and more reliable service. Except in limited cases, intercity
passenger traffic cannot at present be served economically by rail because
passenger numbers are small and the geometry of the line and condition of the
track do not permit the speeds that would make rail transport competitive
with other modes. Total intercity passenger traffic is expected to decrease
about 4% per year up to 1979 (Table 7).
C.   Cost Benefit Analysis
(i) General
5.06      There is room for increasing the capacity of the existing railway
system by improving its operational efficiency; however, this alone would not
allow RFFSA to meet its objectives. The Project and the accompanying Program
of Action provide, therefore, a combination of investments and measures for
improving operations to ensure that the expansion of the system is achieved
and that railroad assets are used efficiently.
(ii) Methodology
5.07      The economic evaluation focuses on the Project globally (para. 5.17)
and on particular items whenever possible. For evaluation purposes, the items
in the Project were grouped into five categories (details in Annex 11 and
Table 8). These categories were evaluated separately, and, from the results,
an overall evaluation of the Project was derived. The items which are subject-
ed to further review (Annex 11, section C) have been excluded from the econo-



- 13 -
mic evaluation for lack of appropriate cost-benefit data, although there is
enough evidence at this stage to support their tentative inclusion in the
Project.
(iii) Economic Evaluation of Categories
(a) Iron Ore and Steel-Related Investments
5.08      The investments required by the Steel Expansion Plan total Cr$ 7,401
million (US$987 million equivalent). Since economic development has outpaced
the growth in the steel industry (Annex 12), the Government has placed high
priority on the Third Phase of the Steel Expansion Plan, which should result
in self-sufficiency before the end of the decade. Furthermore, Brazil's
ability to depend upon imported steel to support future growth will be cur-
tailed by a greater fuel import bill which, together with strong comparative
advantages (steel production costs in Brazil compare favorably with costs of
producing steel in other countries), is an incentive for Brazil to expand its
steel production. The Bank is presently appraising the third Phase of the
Steel Expansion Plan. Two loans to support this expansion are scheduled for
Board presentation in FY 1975.   Annex 12 gives further details on the likely
prospects of the steel industry in Brazil.
5.09      Regarding the steel-related investments, the question is not only
whether they generate enough economic benefits, but also whether a sufficient
portion of the benefits is retained by RFFSA. A tariff setting policy for
iron ore and steel-related traffic based on the following principles (Program
of Action, Annex 6) is required: (a) long-run variable costs should be
completely covered; (b) a reasonable share of overhead costs should be
recovered; and (c) capital costs should be recovered fully over 25 years at
15% interest. The interest chosen reflects the high opportunity cost of
capital in Brazil (estimated at 10-14%) and the expectation that the Project's
return should exceed the opportunity cost of capital. Computation of a tariff
for transporting iron ore from Belo Horizonte to Volta Redonda (an expensive
new line to be built through difficult terrain) is shown in Annex 11, Tables
1-3. The tariffs required to yield a 15% return when the new line operates
at capacity are 35% above the current rates for domestic iron ore traffic.
Even with an increase in tariffs of 40%, the increase in the iron ore cost
at the plant would be less than 8%, and, since it represents less than 20%
of total steel costs, the impact on the cost structure of the steel industry
would be less than 1.6%. Tariffs for steel shipments from Sao Paulo for
various hauls are shown in Annex 11, Table 3, and would be about 13% above
current rates; this additional cost should be mostly offset by savings from
faster delivery made possible by the new equipment and yard investments in-
cluded in the Project.   All rates of return to RFFSA are smaller than the
expected economic and financial returns of planned investments for the steel
industry in Brazil.



- 14 -
(b) Motive Power, Rolling Stock and Permanent Way Program Not
Related to the Steel Expansion Plan
5.10      Catering for the 1978 forecast traffic will require a large increase
in transport capacity. The investment in locomotives and rolling stock needed
to meet the demand is discussed in Annex 11. Unless the proposed investment
is carried out, an additional 5.4 billion ton-km would have to be transported
by truck at higher cost (Table 9 and Annex 11). This excludes iron ore and
steel-related traffic for which truck transport would not be a viable alter-
native and which was analyzed separately (para. 5.09 above).
5.11      Track rehabilitation is an important component of the Project.  It
consists mostly of improving track condition by replacing rails, ties and
switches and by doing minor track realignments. The various benefits are
common to rolling stock and other investments (workshops, signalization,
communications) and have been evaluated globally (Table 8). An improved
track will carry a larger traffic with heavier cars at higher speeds more
safely and will generate substantial transport savings. Sizable savings in
future maintenance and renewal costs can also be derived from improved track
standards and an increased use of mechanized track maintenance equipment as
provided in the Project.
5.12      The investments in this category are therefore renewal type and
capacity increasing type. They generate savings in transportation costs for
the traffic above current level (which would have to be hauled by truck at a
higher cost if these investments were not made) and for the existing traffic
(which will be transported at a lower cost when the Project is implemented).
Considering only the 1975-1977 investments, the above savings yield a rate
of return of 33%. Even including the 1974 sunk investments, the rate of
return would still be 28% (Annex 11).
(c) Suburban Passenger Services in Rio and Sao Paulo
5.13      The Project includes Cr$ 1,453 million (US$194 million equivalent)
for investments in the suburban rail services in the two largest metropolitan
areas of Brazil for replacing over-aged rolling stock, improving signaliza-
tion, lengthening station platforms and fencing the right of way (Annex 4,
Section VI). These investments are not expected to decrease the current high
levels of urban congestion; instead, they are expected to help prevent the
situation from deteriorating. Most passengers of suburban rail services are
low-salaried workers wholly dependent on mass transport to reach their work
(Annex 11). The planned investments are intended to better utilize existing
infrastructure and right-of-way and to improve the generally poor level of
current service. Thus, the improvement will tend to ease mass transport
problems in Rio and Sao Paulo while Metropolitan Transport Studies are being
carried out in both cities. The complete results and policy recommendations
of such studies are, however, years away, and interim solutions are urgently
needed. Improving the suburban services is the only short term alternative



- 15 -
in Rio and Sao Paulo (Annex 11, para. 15). Furthermore, it has been
ascertained that the improvements contemplated in the Project are not in
conflict with the long-term solutions envisaged. Few car trips are expected
to be initially diverted to rail in either city since car ownership in the
area of influence of the suburban service is low. However, since the improved
suburban rail services will support and complement Metro systems under con-
struction, this combined operation may result in diverting more car trips to
rail in the future.
5.14      The benefits quantified are transport cost savings had the incremental
traffic been handled by buses and total rail cost savings for current traffic
levels. Nonquantified benefits include: (a) in Rio, reduction in the number
of accidents and life losses in railway services; (b) avoidance of further
urban congestion and its effect on city form and land use from increases in
bus traffic; (c) avoidance of additional air pollution from buses and cars;
(d) reduction in travel time for rail passengers; and (e) improvements in
frequency of rail services and passenger comfort. Under these assumptions,
the rate of return for this investment package is 34%, and the first year
benefit is 25% (Annex 11). These results clearly show that the investments
are justified, and the high first year benefit indicates that the upgrading
of the service is overdue. Pricing policy of suburban services is discussed
In paragraph 6.11.
(d) New Lines Related to Agriculture and Other Developments
5.15      Based on present cost estimates and traffic forecasts, most of
the new lines included in the Project have already been shown to be economi-
cally well justified, and their construction should be given priority. Annex
11 gives a summary of the cost benefit analysis for these new lines, for
which rates of return were found to range between 12 and 36%. The realignment
of the line leading to Brasilia and the widening of the meter gauge line to
Santos might be somewhat premature, but have been included for reasons of
safety, in the case of the latter, and because work is already well under
way, in the case of the former. For many of these lines, construction is
either under way or the economic case is clear enough so that construction
can proceed without further updating of the feasibility studies. In the case
of the Parana export corridor lines, however, RFFSA agreed, during negotiations,
to provide the Bank with the updated cost and traffic estimates to allow for
an exchange of views on the feasibility of the investments before construction
starts.
(e) Other Miscellaneous Investments
5.16      These are the remaining minor items that have not been incorporated
in the above groups. They include the building of new headquarters in Brasilia,
training centers, studies and technical assistance. They amount to CR$ 222
million, about 1% of Project costs, and are treated here as overhead expenses.



- 16 -
(iv) Overall Economic Evaluation
5.17      An overall economic evaluation of the total Project gives the
following results. For a total investment of CR$ 16,934 million, the esti-
mated rate of return is 19%. The rate of return would be reduced to 15%
or 14% if costs are 25% or 40% greater than expected and to 14% if benefits
are 30% lower than expected. These rates of return are the results of con-
solidating costs and benefits as defined in paragraph 5.07 and Annex 11.
All categories correspond to partial subsystems with little or no interaction,
so that no double counting of benefits results.
(v) Items Tentatively Included in the Project
5.18      Other items tentatively included in the Project have a good prob-
ability of being economically justified, but construction should proceed only
after an appropriate feasibility study clearly establishes their economic
viability on the basis of engineering cost estimates and revised traffic
forecasts (para. 4.06 and Annex 11, Section C).
6. FINANCES
A.   Accounts, Budget and Audit
(i) Accounts
6.01      With the assistance of consultants (SOFRERAIL), who designed the
schedule of expense accounts, RFFSA revised its accounting plan in 1972.
The plan is well suited for cost analysis purposes; however, balance sheets
are less satisfactory: fixed assets appear at historical cost, which bears
no relationship to present values. A revaluation of fixed assets, except
land and buildings, was carried out by RFFSA in 1971, but the results were
never incorporated into the balance sheets for the reason that the resulting
increase in related depreciation would have raised reported RFFSA losses and,
hence, the Government subsidy, considerably. Agreement was obtained during
negotiations that all depreciable fixed assets (excluding land, tunnels, etc.)
would be revalued'by the end of 1976 and depreciation would be charged in
RFFSA's accounts based on the revalued figures in 1977 and thereafter; other
fixed assets would be revalued by the end of 1977. There are also a number
of old uncleared balances between headquarters and divisions. Some assistance
is needed to improve balance sheet presentation and accounting procedures in
general, and agreement was obtained during negotiations that RFFSA will retain
consultants to design and install adequate financial reporting and budgeting
systems. Terms of reference for such assistance are given in Annex 7.



- 17 -
(ii) Budget
6.02      RFFSA has annual revenue and capital budgets which are approved by
its Board of Directors.  It receives financial support from the Ministries of
Transport and Planning for its capital budget; such support is part of the
Federal Budget and subject to Congressional approval. RFFSA also receives a
share of imposto unico 1/ taxes each year to support its investment program.
Normalization payments (para. 6.05) are authorized in the Ministry of Trans-
port's budget.
(iii) Audit
6.03      As required under Loan 786-BR, RFFSA's accounts are audited by the
General Inspectorate of Finance of the Ministry of Finance.  However, RFFSA
has now decided to retain a firm of independent external auditors and agreed,
during negotiations, that the firm would be acceptable to the Bank.
B.   Present Financial Position
6.04      Since RFFSA was created in 1957, its operations have been clharac-
terized by heavy financial deficits which reached a maximum in 1963. Between
1963 and 1970, considerable progress was made: the deficit was reduced 55%
in real terms, principally by reducing staff numbers by 23% and personnel
costs by 28% (by reducing fringe benefits, travel privileges, etc., and by
granting wage increases less than increases in the cost of living). These
measures, together with some real increases in suburban passenger fares,
reduced the operating ratio from 366 in 1963 to 185 in 1970 and the operating
deficit from Cr$ 2,129 million (US$350 million) to Cr$ 962 million (US$157
million) in constant terms (1973 Cr$). In 1971 and 1972, the situation
deteriorated somewhat as traffic declined and personnel costs rose- the
situation improved again in 1973 as freight traffic increased. Income and
expense figures for 1963 and for the years 1968 through 1973 are given in
Table 10, and 1973 results for each region are given in Table 11. In 1973,
the deficit amounted to Cr$ (1973) 981 million (US$161 million equivalent).
6.05      Operating deficits have been met out of the Federal Treasury.  In
1968, the Government instituted a program of normalization, consisting of
specific subsidies to supplement low suburban fares and freight rates, the
extra cost of employing former civil servants receiving higher compensation
than if employed under the Common Labor Laws (CLT staff) and the losses on
certain uneconomic services. The effect of the normalization is shown in
Table 10. In 1973, normalization payments to RFFSA amounted to Cr$ 204
nillion (US$34 million) and reduced the operating ratio from 185 to 163.
6.06      To give some idea of RFFSA's financial position, reconstructed
summary balance sheets (converted to 1973 Cr$ to facilitate comparisons) are
1/   Tax on fuel, oil and lubricants (see TSB, para. 47).



- 18 -
shown in Table 12. The working capital position of RFFSA has improved since
1968, and outstanding current obligations have been considerably reduced since
that year. Amounts due from Government have increased since 1970 due to delays
in making payments to RFFSA to cover its operating deficits. This is adversely
affecting RFFSA's ability to pay for its supplies and services as promptly as
it would wish, which, in an inflationary environment, increases the costs of
such inputs. The Government agreed during loan negotiations that normalization
and other Government payments would be made promptly in the future.
6.07      Materials and supplies inventories have been reduced by about 14%
from the high level reached at the end of 1969 and are now at a reasonable
level. Because of the shop concentration plan, inventories are not expected
to increase despite the increase in the wagon and locomotive fleet. Long-
term debt amounted to Cr$ 1,604 million (US$263 million) at the end of 1973,
of which Cr$ 939 million (US$154 million) represented obligations in foreign
currencies. All principal and interest payments are made directly by the
Federal Government or with its support. At the end of 1973, debt amounted
to 28% of total capitalization. This figure will decline significantly after
the fixed assets are revalued.
C.   Tariffs and Costs
6.08      Although freight rates have generally kept pace with inflation in
recent years, they are generally low relative to trucking rates and should
be increased as railway services are improved.  Freight rates on goods other
than those for export carry a 10% surcharge which goes to the Ministry of
Labor for social purposes. During negotiations, the Government agreed to
neutralize the effect on RFFSA's competitive position of the surcharge by
January 1, 1976. Except in the Northeast Region and Division 7 (Leopoldina),
freight revenues generally cover long-run variable costs; however, there
is very little contribution to fixed costs. For passenger services, only
on the suburban Sao Paulo and Santos services do passenger fares cover long-
run variable costs and make a contribution to fixed costs. A Government
subsidy is paid to supplement the low Rio suburban passenger fares. On
intercity passenger services, long-run variable costs are from two to four
times receipts. A more detailed discussion of tariffs and costs is given in
Annex 13.
D.   Future Prospects
6.09      Based on traffic forecasts discussed in Chapter 5, a forecast of
operating revenues and expenses was made for the years 1974 through 1979.
Figures are in 1974 Cr$ for 1974 and in estimated 1975 Cr$ for 1975 through
1979 to facilitate inclusion in the Finane-:ng Plan with Project cost figures
which are also estimated in 1975 Cr$. Allowance was made for increases in
fuel prices, reductions in personnel numbers in line with recent trends and
increases in personnel remuneration of 10% for unskilled, 25% for skilled
and 30% for administrative staff. No increases have been assumed in intercity
passenger fares, but an increase of 15% in Rio suburban fares was assumed at



- 19 -
the end of 1978 when service is improved (para. 6.11). A 20% increase in
average freight rates (except for MBR traffic) was projected in real terms
in 1976 to offset forecast fuel price increases while maintaining the rail-
ways' competitive position with highway transport. Further increases are
expected for certain commodities where the railways' competitive position
will permit, but the extent of such increases is not known. A detailed list
of assumptions used in making the forecasts is given in Annex 14.
6.10      An analysis of RFFSA's 1979 forecast income account by region is
given in Table 13, and the following analysis of the 1979 operating deficit
(excluding imposto unico taxes which RFFSA recovers through its capital
account) was made in millions of 1975 Cr$:
Intercity          Freight and
Pass. Service      Other Services      Total      _
Northeast Region
(Divisions 1 to 4)             43.2                 257.2          300.4     52
Leopoldina (Division 7)           13.4                153.4          166.8      29
Remainder of RFFSA System         88.8                 21.1          109.9      19
145.4                431.7          577.1    100
The Northeast is expected to carry only 4% of the freight traffic in 1979 but
will account for 52% of the deficit. Comparable figures for the Leopoldina
are 3% and 29%. Such losses cannot be eliminated by increases in freight
rates and passenger fares, although, because of the increases in fuel costs,
some rates (especially on night trains and fast day trains) should be increased
in real terms. The Government plans to keep the basic Northeast system in
service for social and other reasons. However, RFFSA agreed, during loan
negotiations, to study its uneconomic lines and services (Annex 3) by the end
of 1976, and the Government would review and use such studies as the basis
for reducing or eliminating such lines and services. The Government further
agreed that, where uneconomic lines or services were retained (or where
tariffs were set) for social or other reasons, the Government would extend
its subsidy system with RFFSA by the end of 1977 to cover the difference
between the avoidable costs and tariffs for such services.
6.11      At present, the Government is paying RFFSA a subsidy to cover direct
losses on the Rio suburban services. The Government and RFFSA agreed, during
negotiations, to increase Rio suburban passenger fares as services are improved
in order to eliminate the need for the subsidy by the end of 1978; an increase
of an estimated 15% in real terms over the average 1972 level would be required.
6.12      On the assumption that the above changes would be made in the
Government subsidy policy towards RFFSA, a forecast income account (in 1975



- 20 -
Cr$ million) for RFFSA was prepared (Table 14). Results are summarized
below:
Working   Depre-/1   Total   Operating
Year  Revenues  Expenses  ciation  Expenses   Deficit   Working Ratio  Op. Ratio
(a)     (b)   (a)   (b)
1975   2,275     3,066       647      3,713       1,438     135      146   163   177
1976   2,925      3,163      714      3,877         952     108      115   133   140
1977   3,149      3,249      778      4,027         888     103      108   128   134
1978   3,949      3,336      841      4,177         228      84      103   106   129
1979   4,203     3,460       948      4,408         205      83       98   105   124
/1   Bank estimate used in 1975 and 1976 for comparative purposes; a realistic
charge for depreciation will be required starting in 1977.
(a)  After normalization.
(b)  Without normalization.
The large improvement in the working and operating ratios in 1976 is due prin-
cipally to the 20% freight tariff increase in real terms projected for that
year (although this increase will be partly put into effect in 1975). A
further improvement will take place in the ratios (after normalization) in
1978 when the system of specific Government subsidies is extended to cover un-
economic services retained for social or other reasons. (It is unlikely
that subsidies, reflecting estimated losses in the Northeast Region,
Leopoldina Division and for intercity passenger services, will be as great
as forecast. As uneconomic services are reduced, RFFSA's operating expenses
and costs and the related subsidies will also be reduced.) Thereafter, there
would be a steady improvement in these ratios, and it is expected that the
operating ratio (after normalization) should reach 100 by about 1981. Steps
to be taken (tariff studies and rate increases, studies of uneconomic lines
and services) and targets to be achieved (operating improvements, financial
ratios, staff reductions) are given in the Program of Action, Annex 6, which
was agreed with the Government and RFFSA during negotiations.
6.13      A preliminary cash flow  and financing plan is given in Table 15 and
is summarized at the end of this paragraph. Details of financing arrahged
and assumed are given in Annex 15. Since project items extend into 1978, the
financing plan was made to cover the entire period of the Five-Year Investment
Plan, 1975 to 1979. The financing plan depends to a considerable extent (53%)
on appropriations from the Federal Budget and a continued growth in imposto
unico receipts, in accordance with past trends. The Government's future policy
for allocating these funds is under review. Commencing in 1977, depreciation
of RFFSA's fixed assets will comprise an important source of funds (the Plan
of Action requires that RFFSA charge reasonable depreciation in its accounts
commencing in 1977). During negotiations, the Government agreed to provide
funds or arrange financing to execute the Project satisfactorily and in a
timely manner.



- 21 -
1975 - 1979
Millions of 1975 Cr$      _
Requirements
RFFSA's operating deficits                               2,582             8
Estimated project cost and cost of
remote items in the Investment Plan                   22,850            71
Debt service                                             6,776            21
32,208          100
Sources of Funds
RFFSA depreciation                                        2,810            9
Imposto unico                                             3,507           11
Government budgets                                       13,605           42
Domestic loans                                            4,689           15
Foreign loans, including
proposed Bank loan                                      7,439           23
Other                                                       158             -
32,208          100
h,.14     Projected foreign loans account for only about one-third of invest-
ment costs, whereas the foreign exchange component is estimated to be some 50%.
RFFSA, however, intends to meet the possible foreign exchange gap either by
arranging additional foreign financing or by obtaining foreign exchange from
the Government through its budget allocations to RFFSA.
6.15      In view of the unsatisfactory nature of RFFSA's current balance
sheet, it is not possible to project future balance sheets in the usual manner.
Instead, forecast statements have been built up on the basis of an estimate
of the revised gross value of fixed assets, and of accumulated depreciation,
forecast acquisitions and the related financing plan, and forecast operating
results. Summary forecast balance sheets for the years ending December 31,
1974 through 1979 are given in Table 16. The increase in fixed assets in 1976
reflects the revaluation of depreciable fixed assets to be made by the end of
that year. (No further adjustments were made to reflect the revaluation of
land, tunnels, etc. to be made in 1977 since the amount of such adjustments
could not be estimated.)  Inventories and trade receivables are expected to
grow in line with operating expenses (excluding depreciation) and freight
revenues, respectively. Working capital should decline as the Government's
obligations to RFFSA are reduced (para. 6.06). The debt/equity ratio is expect-
ed to be only 37/63 by the end of 1979. However, this ratio may rise as fi-
nancing is obtained for additional Project items and those presently excluded
from the Project but which will be reinstated when their economic justifica-
tion has been established. The Bank should be satisfied that the terms of



- 22 -
such financing are acceptable before agreeing that they can be carried out
(para. 4.02). Furthermore, in order that RFFSA can achieve financial self-
sufficiency within a reasonable time period, a limit should be placed on
the amount of the borrowing. Agreement was obtained during negotiations
that, from 1977, when RFFSA's depreciable fixed assets are revalued, its
debt will not exceed 50% of total capitalization.
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following matters:
(a) RFFSA sending its staff compensation studies to the Bank
for an exchange of views by March 31, 1976 (para 3.07)
(b) RFFSA carrying out further studies by the end nif 1976
for the elimination of unremunerative lines and services
(paras. 3.16 and 6.10);
(c) consultations with the Bank prior to carrying out major
items outside the Project (para. 4.02);
(d) a review of the economic justification of items tentatively
included in the Project to the satisfaction of the Bank,
before starting the works (paras. 4.06 and 5.15);
(e) a commitment that all necessary measures would be taken to
achieve the operating targets of the Program of Action
(para. 4.09);
(f) the inclusion of revalued fixed assets in RFFSA balance sheets
by end-1976 and the charging of depreciation (based on re-
valued figures) in the annual accounts in 1977 and thereafter
(para. 6.01);
(g) the hiring of consultants to design and install adequate
financial reporting and budgeting systems (para. 6.01)
and of an independent auditor (para. 6.03);
(h) the prompt payment to RFFSA of normalization and other
Government payments (para. 6.06);
(i) the Government neutralizing the effect on RFFSA's competitive
position of the 10% surcharge on freight rates on goods other
than for export by end-1975 (para. 6.08);



- 23 -
(j)  the extension by the Government,bby January 1, 1978, of
the subsidy system to specifically cover the difference
between tariffs charged and avoidable costs on uneconomic
services retained for social or other reasons (para. 6.10):
(k)  RFFSA increasing Rio suburban passenger fares as services
are improved (para. 6.11);
(1)  the operating and working ratios and the other financial
steps listed in the Program of Action (para 6.12);
(m)  the Government providing funds or arranging financing to
execute the Project satisfactorily and in a timely manner
(para. 6.13); and
(n)  the commitment that, from 1976, RFFSA's debt will not exceed
50% of total capitalization (para. 6.15).
7.02      Signature of technical assistance contracts in the fields of (a)
workshops, (b) permanent way, (c) operations, (d) supervision of construc-
tion, (e) studies to improve Rio suburban services, (f) studies of uneconomic
services, and (g) marketing, are a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
loan (para. 4.13).
7.03      The Project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$175
million for a term of 25 years, including a grace period of about five years.
.ze,'ber 20, 1974






TAIHLZ X
Pag 1 of 3 pages
EBOAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A SE 3FD               (RY' JCT(FFSA)
Statistics 1969-l273 and Projection for 197S
1969           1970            1971             1972            1973             1979
Traffic
Passengers, no. (000) .suburban                         266,216          248,791         227,932         229,637          226,299        382 490
interior                          37,226           33,831          33,787           35,810          32,950         24,751
Passenger-im (million) suburban                         6,601.o          5,979.6         5,269.3         5,245.7           5,166        8,752.0
interior                          2,896.1         2,724.2         2,196.2          2,742.4           2,634        2,120.8
Freight, tons (000)                                      32,039          32,984           30,512          30,921          35,492       81,256.0
ton-lee (million)                             11,548.9         12,212.0        11,564.4        11,847.9          14,150        38,986.0
Train-ckm (000)
Psssnger, suburban - unit trains                         11,053          '11,586          10,528          10,996          10,909         15,636
diesel                              1,548            1,476           1,249           1,096            2,095          1,382
electric                               552              60              60              56               56             56
steam                                  92               20              -               -
Passenger, interior - urit trains                         1,500           1,500           1,300            1,259           1.328            979
dieael                              12,724          12,183          11,593           10,938          11,652          6,803
electric                            144.1            1,1491          1,231           1,238            1,306          1,186
auteote8ises                        2,o46            2,245           2,198           7,055            2,259          2,833
steam                                 169               88               7               1               1             -
Nixed -  diesel                                           8,877           8,139            8,258           8,1h1.          8,002          5,797
electric                                          238              145             144             148             184             77
steam                                           1,128             864              373             169             152
Freight - diesel                                         24,018          25,286           26,895          28,616          31,080         54,544
electric                                        1,922           2,186            2,026           1,918            1,759          3,429
steam                                           1,200             905              589             .89              94            327
Service - diesel                                          2,500           2,800           2,800            2,897           2,723          41095
electric                                           50            1i0                80              74              59             80
steam                                           1,000             801              600              91              36-
Total train-km                                           72,058          71,874          70,160           70,505          73,695         97,274
Other Looetivo-k. (000)
Assisting - carzes motores                               11,053          11,677          11,208           14,869          15,C13         28,740
diesel                                        9,913            7,001           5,388           6,093           5,688          26,073
electric                                        266              253              -              505             339              80
Yards    - diesel                                         9,000          11,000           12,000          13,603          13,057         23,280
steam                                         3,806            2,931           1,739             398             681              60
Tota1 Loc.omtive-km (000)
Diesel                                                   68,580          67,888           68,183          71,707          74,457        119,781
Electric                                                  4,469           4,235            3,665           3,939           3,703         41908
Steam                                                     7,395           5,609            3,308           1,148             964            387
Carros otomres                                           23,606          23,763           23,036          27,121.         27,250         45,355
Automotrizes                                              2.046           2,245            2.198           2,055           2,259          2.833
Total                                                   106,096         103,7140         100,390         105,973         108,663        183,214
Vehicle-km (million)
Passenger:
Carros motores                                          23.6            23.8             23.0            27.1            27.2           45.4
Tailers                                                 47.2            47.6            46.o             54.2            54.4           90.8
Astettrizes                                              2.0             2.2              2.2             2.1             2.3            2.8
Pmanger cars, day                                      100.0            91.5            87.6             87.1            88.9           60.7
Sl*epieg cars                                           14.2            12.8            11.6             12.9            13.1           12.9
Re*terant cars                                          10.1             9.9              9.7             9.1             8.7            8.5
Mail and baggage cars                                   32.5            27.0             24.0            20.5            19.7           15.5
Other                                                    2.9             2.5              2.1             1.8             1.4            1.8
Total, passenger trains                                232.5           217.3            206.2           215.1           215.7          238.4
Freight (revenue-earning):
Loaded                                                 100.0           4o5.0            384.0           386.7           h26.5          857.0
Fpty                                                   290.8           280.9            266.7           274.0           296.3          621.7
Total                                                  690.8           685.9            650.7           660.7           722.8        1;478.7
of which, railway wagons                                  526.8           523.9            496.7           504.1           551.5        1,308.5
private wagons                                  164.0            162.0           154.0           156.6           171.3           170.2
Gross Trailing Ton-km (million)
Passenger                                                 5,970           5,5T7            5,250           5,174           5,816          5,756
Freight - revenue earning                                22,564          23,19           21,940          22,383          25,522         57,167
service                                         1,5D0           1.600            1.650           1,669           1.877           3.769
Total                                                    30,034         3D,319            28,840          29,526          33,215         76,692
Gross Ton-kb (including Loeoe) (dllion)
Passenger                                                 8,530           8,090            7,630           7,996          8,495           9,016
Freight - revenue-earning                                25,617          25,052           24,775          25,391         29,063          73,168
service                                         1.800           1.900            1,950           1,983           2.231          4.389
Total                                                    35,9o7 35,042                    34,355          35,370          39,789         86,573
These figures differ slightly from those in Table 6 as the latter excludes animals traffic.






TABLE 1
BRAZIL                                                                          'age 7 of 3 pages
APPRAISAL OF A SEWOND RAILWAY PROJECT (RFFSA)
Statistices 1969-1973 and Projection for 1979
1969             1970              1971             1972              1973           1979
Locomtives in Stock
Diesel                                                         1,0o51           1,039             1,080            1,181             1,248          1,654
Electric                                                          85               79                76               75                75             73
Steam                                                            553              450               342              206               ii6            33
Carros motores                                                   342               344              3441             343               345            430
Automotriss.                                                      44               43                40               35                34             39
Locomotives in Traffic
Diesel -   Pnasenger, suburban                                    35               34                30               27                28            27
Passenger, interior                                  115               110              100                94                98            52
Mixed                                                100               100              103               106               110            58
Freight                                              409               387              435                899              512           804
Service trains                                        50                66               66                70                73            82
eards                                                200               220              210               296               308           466
Total                                                909               917              974 4           1,082             1,129          1,489
Electric - Pessenger, suburban                                     8                3                 2                2                 2              1
Passenger, interior                                   15                15               15                15                15            16
Mixed                                                  3                 3                2                 2                 2             1
Freight                                               40                43               42                40                43             47
Service trains                                         1                 2                2                 1                 1              1
Total                                                 66                67               63                62                63            66
Steam   - Freight                                                 60               50                40               25                19             18
Other services                                        295              224               201               60                44              4
T.t1l                                                355               274              241                85                63             22
Carros motoree - Passenger, suburban                             290              295               286              285                281           353
Pessenger, interior                             10                10                9                 8                 8            12
Total                                          300               305              295               293               289           365
Actonotrices   - P-saenger, interior                              32               31                2B               26                 25            31
Loconotive-lkn per Locomotive in Traffic
Diesel  - P.ssenger, euburban                                 44,200           43,400            41,600           40,60o             40,2co        50,000
Passenger, interior                              110,600           110,800          115,Q00           116,400           115,500        133,000
Kixed                                             88,700            81,1.00          80,200            80,000            79,400        100,000
Freight                                           83,000            83,400            74,200           71,000            70,500        100,000
Service trains                                    50,000            42,400           42,b00            41,400            41,100         50,O0O
Yards                                             45,000            50,000            50,000           46,00            45,6oo         50,000
Average, a11 services                             75,400            71,000           70,000            66,300            65,900         81,500
Average, all public traffic services              86,600            85,300           79,000            77,100            76,400        100,000
Electric       )                                             67,700            63,200            5e,200           63,500             58,800        75,000
Carros motores ) Average, all services                        78,700           77,900            7,100           9s2,600             94,300       124,000
Aatomtrizes   )                                             63,900            72,400            789500           79,000             75,200        92,000
Freight Wager. and Train Performance
9 loaded to total wagon-km                                                                                           9.5               58.5          58.0
iho. of wagons in use, revenue-earning traffic                30,100           29,100            29,100           28,29F             29,1420       41,965
Xagon-days in use  000):
Railway osetd wagons                                         NA               RA                NA            8,4bb.9            8,778.5      13,430.1
Private wagons                                               NA               RA                NA            1,883.7            1.958.7       1.887.1
Tetal                                                      30,990           10,620            10,620         10,328.6           10,751.2      15,317.2
Average wagon-load, loaded wagons only (tons)                   28.9             30.2              30.1             30.6               34.6          45.4
Ac. of wage.e loaded                                       1,109,600)       1,092,200)        1,013, '00       1,010.190          1,024,302     1,789,711.
Wagon-ba pwr  ago-day in use                                    62.9             64.6              61.3             61.0               66.5          96.0
Net ton-ba per wagon-day in use                                1,051            1,150             1,089            1,147              1,319         2,528
W6ago  turnaround (days)                                         9.9              9.7              10.5             10.2               30.1           8.6
Wagon-km between tornaroond                                      623              628               6I,2             654                686           827
Average no. of wagons per train,
freight and fre'ght propartion of mixed:-
Loaded                                                    11.8             11.7              10.9             10.5               11.3          13.8
Empty                                                     8.5               8.2              7.5               7.b                8.0           9.8
Total                                                    20.3              19.9             18.1.             17.9               19.3          23.6
Average train-icad (tone)
N.s                                                           31,0             3514              327              321                39C           627
Gross                                                         664              671               620              607                695         1,080
Average train-load, ecludding 1ER traffic:
Jet taa.                                                     31o               3c4              327               321               376            475
Gross tons                                                    664              671               620              507                686           839



TABLE 1.
SIAZIL                                                                                      P     of i pages
APPRAISAL OF A SECOOD RAILIAY PROJECT (RFPSA)
Statistic. 1969:1973 and Proaectlon for 1979
1969              1970               1971              1972               1973                  1979
Passenger Car and Train Performance
Passesger cars in traffic:
Passenger_carrying, day cars                              1,421              1,38              1,766              l,9               1,143                 770
Sleeping cars                                                169               167                155               138               126                 118
Restaurant cars                                              113               112               101                 83                88                  77
Oail atd baggage cars                                        331               326                301               261               255                 196
Other                                                        274               281                269               763               257                 200
Total                                                      2,308             2,234             2,092              1,933             1,869               1,361
Car-Im per car-day in traffic:
Passenger carrying, day cars                                193                186               190                201               204                 216
Sleeping cars                                                230               210               205                256                271                300
Rcstaurant cars                                              245               242                263               300                313                302
Mail end baggage cars                                        269               227                218               215                210                217
OtAer                                                         29                24                 21                19                 18                 25
Average, all cars                                            190               176               177                187                181                200
Average nc. of passengers per train,
passenger and passenger proportion of mixed:
Suhubabc trains                                             498                155               h15                432               40951
Interior trains                                              136               133               138               149                 128                154
Average no. of cars per train:
Unit trains                                                  5.6               5.5                5.8               6.6                6.6                 8.2
Locomctlve..hauled trains                                    7.1                7.2               7.9               8.1                7.8                 8.8
Average no. of passengers per
passenger carrying car:
Unit trains                                                  88.9              82.7               76.7              65.5               65.6                61.0
L ... mti-h..baI.d trains:-
Sleeping c-ar  (say)                                       10          -      10                10                 10                 10                  10
Dlay cars                                                26.9               27.3              26.0               29.1               28.1                29.1
Average so. of seats per car                                     59                 59                                   59                 59
Seat occupancy ratio                                          45.6%             46.3%              44.1%             49.3%              48.9%               49.3%
indices (1969 - 100)
General price index, Brazil                                     100               120                111               167                 192
Railway staff costs par ma  employed                            100               117                14416                                 188
Average revenue per:-
Passenger-_m, interior                                       1o0               122                119               160                 190
Passenger-k1s, suburban                                      100               151               193               210                 190
let ton-km, general goods                                    100               121               117                167                 186
livestock                                       100               125               144                119                 141
July 1974
Source: RFFSA and Sank statistics



:t;'rn                                                                           000000000  - -   a2    I
0000-0.    *0' -. -.00.0         .  . 030     000000                      .r0.to                      o.
0  00    0                  0  "' 00  p000                0  0   0      00.00   00    00.0'
00000000-0000                                                               0000 00000000 (.00000,0  I
0o000  0   OOOOoOotooOo 0000000.    '000000...00o 00  000000                00000.0000' 0                0000    0
000'000       OOtOOO0.0000000oOOOOoo                                        00(300
00000         00.0000  0000000000            000'' '000o0. 0000  00           0  0  00000  00  00         0  0
0   0.00  000   00,000000           0000000000   000000    00    0 0  00.000
00000  0'   0'  0000000000.Oooo'             0  000-0  000  ."oO'00.0. 0030000.00000000   -              000
oOoo,r',-OOo  0        0 0o0000o0-00 0'    00    000000000'00'0   00   0'
00000         oOOOo'00.oOo  0.03  00         0'00  0000  'OoOo.OOOoO    oo.ooooooo  0  -                 00.00
-o0000  ,o    ooS,7oo400O0                0.0,...  0000.0.OoZO0.   00  0000000  00  0.    000.
0000                           '0'0  0                                      o'  '' a  0  00          0000
000.00                 0.0000000               00  000  0.0000   000    0.0000   'oo'0'-0  0             0000
00                                           000 000                        00'oO  0030000000  -.    00000
-                     0. O00,;       0  00' 0000000000   0           '00   '000.0-0
000000        0.000000    0  0  00              o.00ooooo.--000oo          00'  00000                      01
0'0000         '000    00      otOono           0' 0000  00000.0  0         000  00.000,0                0   0
0  000        0'0     000  0  -0-coo         0  0  000.0  <0  0             0000  00000000          0.       0
o  <0-        0.0'0.'o  0000  -.  00  0      0     0  0   no' Oo'0  to    0.00  0   00'                     0
000-0   0.0  0   Oo  0         0  0  0'      00      0  0     000    3-'Oo
0      0  00    0         00           0  0  0 '0      0     0  0     000  0.000000         03
0      000.0       0      0.  '0          0  0  0            0  0       0   000.0-0000        0
0  0        '-no      '0      0   0       0  0     0      0        0             0000  0
0  0           o      -.          ,,                      0        0            -.0. oo'o
-                  -                                                        0      000-
o                                                                                                         -            00
000000       00        00000000000             0000000000000000000000000     ' ' 0-300-  0-0-000.300     00'000        00
00.0000     '0 000030'0.00000000000          , 000'0000 0 00'000000'00 -0.0  ' ' 0000000  0000000      0'..00000     0,0.
'00-0000-0    '000  0    0000000000-0000   000          0-      03000  0-0  00         0  000000         00003  000
00 000-000    0'  00   (00000  00 0-00.'  000           0'      0000  0000   0         '0 '0 00000       0' 0-          '00-
'0  0-000     00   0     00000.0.00000                  '0      000-03  0-0  03        0  0  00'00       '0 '0          0-
000000000'    000 0      0000000000000000000   0'0              0-0'0  0000  00        0  00000000       00000  000       3.
00-000000     0000 0-    000-0000000-0000    000       .0       0000000000             0  00000          '0000  000       0
00  00       0-00 0  0   0  0                                         0      0  000'    000.0000         000     0
000- "'000    000000-000000-000              0  0-00000000000000000-00000    000-0000000-0-00000000      000300000
,o0-000       0-0'000"Oo'000000'             0000000000'000000000000    00000-00000000000                0000000
00            0   0-         0'             '0 000    0000  0000000   '00,000           Oo     00        0  0            0
000,000      00 0-00-00000000                00000000000-0000000 000000   (3000.000-00000000  0-000      000            0
00000000      000000.00000.0000              00 000000000000-00-0000000    00000000-00000  0-000         000000         00
.0  0'        000000000000                   0(30000000000*0000-00300    0000000000000000000            0000   0
000000-       000000000000000000             0  00-000000               0   000000000000000000           0000000000
000000000     00-000000-0000                 0' 0000000*33000000-0000000    00-0000000000000'000         00000000
0'         -   -               0-              0   -          0          0
0   00       0000 0  o'0000300               '0000303000-000000             0000 00    0.0  03           0-0  to
0-0  00       000000-0000000000              00 00  00-0-0  00  00 00       000000  0000-00  00          0000000000           0  0
000- 0        0-0-0-0000000000000'           000000000  00  0  00           0-03000  00000000  0         00000000
00   0        0*0(303000000'                '0       0oO    000  00 0        0000 00   0000              0               0
000  00       0  00000000000-000            '0  00  000000  000  0  00      000000- 00-0000000           0000-           0          0
to       0  000000000000                00 00  0000  00  0  0           0000  0-000000   0          00-0-           0
0   0         OooOotoW 00-00-                '0000000000000  00  00 00      00 00  000  00            0000 0
0-0  00       00000000000000                 00 0000 0-00000  00  00 0-      0030000000000  0            0-0000000
0000 0        00-00000000-0000               0  00  0000  00  0  0           00000  0*030000  0          000000000
00         00                  0'              00  0          0          00
0   00        000  0   0000-0-               0       000  00 000  0          0000                                         00  000
00'00         0000000  0000000               00      0000 00 00  00         003        O.OtO           '00'00000        0  000
000  '0       0-000000  '000000              00      00  00 00  0            003        0000             0000000
00  -         00   000                       0       00   0  0-0'   00       0-         00                                0      00
0000      0.00              t               00
000  00       0  0000  0000                 0'      0000 0  00' 0           000       00-00-            000            '000     0
000  00      '0 00300  0*000                 00      000  00 000  0          00        0000              0-0000         00
0   0         0-00000  000000                00      00  0' 000  00         0000        0000             000  00          00
0'0'0'00  0000000             00       000  .0 000  03        0-to       000000            00000000         0
'00  0        00000003000000                 0       000  00 00  0           00        000               000000000        0
0000      0-                 '0             '0              '000       t
000    0'  0    03            '0              '0              0-00       00
'0  0-     00   00            0-               0'             0.0        0
0   0      0  03              00              00               00        0                                0
000    03  0    00             00              00             030        00
0    0              00              00             000        00
0000 0     0  00               0               0              00         0
00   -        0000 00   00 00                0-      0000003                000        00                0
000  '0       000000000-00000                0  0-0'0000' 0000000000000003000000000000000000             00 00  00        0
000000-00     0-0-000-000000000             '0 00000000000000000000000    000-000000000000003            0 0'0'00         0
0000000       00000-0-00-000000              0  000000-000000000000000-0000030000-00000.00000            000000000
0   00   00                    0          0   0   0           0003       00                               '00
00  0-       00 000-00000000-00              0- 000000000000000000000000000000000-      000   00         00003
0-00000      00 00000-000-000                0  000000000003000000000000    0030-00-000-000  000         ooo             0000
'''''
00000000      0  00000000000                00 000000000'300000'0000000    0-0000000000000  0-000        0000           00
0-         00                I              00
00  00        00  0'  00*00000               00     00 00  0000  0- 00       00- 0      Oo               0
000  00       000-00000-000000               00 00000000000000000-003000    0000-0-000000030000-00       00000000  00     0
000000-       00-0000000000000-              0  0000'0'0000000000000000    000000000000-0000000          00000-000        0
00000000      OO00OoO0'0000                 03 0000030000000000000000    000-000000-000000-000           0-000300.000     0
00  00       0000 0'    000000               0       0  0   0-00  00        0000 00   0000 00            0                0
003000        0000000-00000000               00 00000-0*00-00000000000000-   0000-0000000000000000       00-00000         0
0000000       0-0000000000-0000              0  000000-0000000-0000000000-   000-000000000000-00000      00000000
00         0                                00
0   0     0    00              0          00  0000   0        0030       00                               0000
0000000       00000000000000000              00 00000003000000-0000000-00-   000000 0000000o  0000       000003         0003
030000000     00 0-000000-000-               0  0o0-00000'0o0000oo00,oo.   0000-00000000  000          00000           0
'''''' '03
00 00
00  00       0000 000000000                  0       000000000000           000  00   0000 0             00               0
0000000       0000000-0000300000             0  0000000000-00000000000000   000000000000-000000          00000-0003       0
00000000      00000000000000                 0  0-000000000000' 0-0000000000000-000300000-00-00300       00000000         0
00            00                             00                             (3
03
oo2od 2 JO T *Soj



BRAZIL
APPRAZOSAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT (RFFSAS
Category                                                   B.dg.t   -Cc$  1974  million                                                              Cr9 (1975) million                                Cr0$ (1975) m.i8llion     01$ (19755 million
Fef. 01q74                                   1975                      1976                      1977                     1978                    1975-197                  1975-1978                7,
L      F       T         1.      F       T      -L         F      T         L       F       T         L       F       T         L.      F       T         L       F       T
IV         OIONALI.NC AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Mis    improemets In signalling                  25          0.1    0.4    0.5         2.1    7.4    9.5        2.1    7.4    9.5         2.5    8.3   10.8          -       -       -       6.7   23.1   29.8         0.9    3.1    4.0
Mis    imprOvements in teleoms                   26          2.9   16.3   19.2         4.3   24.2   29.5        4.3   24.2   28.5         5.2   28.9   34.1          -      -       -       13.8   77.3   91.1         1.8   18.3   12.1
CTC Rio-lEo PanIc                                39           -       -       -        6.6   21.9   28.5       21.8   73.2   95.0        15.3   51.2   66.5          -      -       -       43.7  146.3  198.0         5-8   19.5   25.3
AlTC CamFo  rGade-J-edse(                        52          3.3   11.1   14.4         5.8   19.4   25.2         -       - -      -       -   -         -       -      -                     5.9   19.4   25.          0.8    2.8    3.4
1.3   27.8   34.1       18.9   72.9   91.7        28.2  104.8  133.0       23.0   88.4  111.4          -       -       -       70.0  286.1 I36.           9.3   35.5   44.8         2.0
O         MOTIVE POWER AND R01LLING STOCK
60 locon (EaP C-er  ) 2,OOOhP, 1.50n             67         21.0  189.3  210.3          -      -       - -  -       -         -       -       -        -       -       -                      -       -       -         -       -       -
119 I ros (F.B.I.N2,250 hr  l.60m               48            -       -      -         -       -       -       23.1  208.1  231.2       13.2  118.7  131.9          -       -       -       36.3  3268.  363.1         4.9   43.8   48.4
195  locos, o.identified                        33            -       -      -       24.3  218.2  242.4        31.4  282.3  313.9          -      -       -         -       -       -       55.6  500.7  558.3         7.4   86.8   74.2
10 shooer                                       33            -       -      -        2.4   21.4   23,8          -       -       -         -      - -  -  -    -                             2.4   21.4   23.8         0.3    2.9    3.2
Farce f tot  ehilding 12 loose                   33           -       -       -       0.2    1.9    2.1         0.2    1.9    2.1         0.2    8.9    2.1         -               -        0.8     3.7    6.3        0.1    0.8    0.9
4,391 freight corn (REp Cor-)                    67           -       -       -      58.5  454.3  504.9        36.9  332.3  369.2        19.6  175.9  193.35                               107.0  962.5 1069.5        14.3  129.3  142.8
109  -efrig  cas(REp  Corr                       67           -       -      -        4.9   42.7   47.5          -       -                 -      -       -         -       -       -        4.9   42.7   47.5         0.6     5.7    8.3
992 freightcr  (Rodnap)                         09          16.1  144.4  160.5          -      -       -         -       -       -         -       -      -         -       -       -         -       -       --                -       -
3,000 freight cae(D)                            00          30.2  371.9  302.1       17.3  155.8  173.11         -       -        -       -            -       -       -                    17.3  155.9  173.1         2.3   29.8   23.1
2,90feih  cr  (F.B..N4                                                       29.3  162.2  202.3        20.3  102.3  302.5       29.3  192.2  202.35                                 60.9  546.7  807.5         9.1   72.9   81.0
190 task cars                                   00           1.7   15.2   16 .9                -       -         -       --                       -       -         -       -       -         -       -       --                -       -
2,8009 f-oight cars, misc  100 & 1600           31            -       -      -       38.4  345.6  384.0        16.4  147.9  164.2       13.6  122.0  135.6          -68-i.4  615.4  693.9                              9.1   82.1   91.2
6 reiners                                       32           3.0   36.4   29.4             -                -                -        -                     - --                     ----     -       -       --                -       -
30 metalli  paecr                                 1          0.7    8.1    6.9        0.9    7.4    02           -       -                                                                    .8     7.4    0.2        0.1    5.0    0.1
Mdr of 297fegtcr31                                       -       -      -        50 44 .9   49.9           4.591 4.                  .    5.        33         --                      1.9  12.0  15.7            2.1   19.0   21.1
Modern  of 49 pans. cas31                                     -_     ~ -      -        01    0.7    0.9         0. 2    1.7    1.9        0.2    1.7    1.9         -       -       -        0.3    4.1    4.6         0.1    0.5    0.6
72.7  653.3  726.0    164.0 1471.1 1639.1    132.9 1195.6 1329.2            73.6  661.2  734.98                               370.4 3332.0 3702.6        49.3  444.4  493.7        21.0
VI         SUBURBAN SERVICES
(a)  Mde Jo-i-o
Improvmets in P pc. wy                           29         13.0   19.0   33.0        9.0   13.5   22.5         7.0   10.5   17.5        15.0   22.6   37.0        7.6   11.2   00.0        30.6   37.0   964          7.1    7.7   122.0
Stations end yards                               29         51.5   '7.2  128.7        7.6   11.4   19.0         9. 4   14.1   23.5      32.1   40.1   80.2         5.4    8.0   13.4       34.5   81,6  136.1          7.3   10.9   18.2
Si gralliog andcomsiaos                          29          7.3   11.0   10.3       20.5   42.9   71.3        32.1   49.0   80.1       14.5   21.7   36.2        30.2   57.4   95.6    113.3  169.9  393.2          15.1   22.7   37.9
30 ne  snit trains                              29            -       -      -       19.7   39.6   69.3        16.9   25.3   42.2         -       -       -       24.0   36.1   60.1       00.6   91.0  151.6         9.1   12.1   20.2
Modern  of 54 unit trains                        29          5.5    6.2   13.7         3._65.3    0.9           3.1    4.6    7.7         6.9   10.2   17.0        3.0    4.5    7.5        16.5   24.6   41.1         2.2    3.3    5.5
77.5  116.2  193.7       66.4  103.6  171.0        69.5  102.5  171.0       69.4  102.6  171.7        70. 2   117.2  195.4    293.5  424.9  708.4        37.9   56.7   94.5         4.2
(b)  Boo Panic
Inproveasi  In Pe-n  way                         30          5.4    0.1   13.5        3.5    5.3    9,9         6.5    9.1   13.2       13.4   19.9   33.3         4.1    8.2   10.3       27.1   40.5   67.6          3.6    5.4    9.0
sta tions ad yards                               20         34,6   52.3   07. 1       3.4    3.1    0.5        00.0   26.9   44.9       23.3   35.0   30.3         6.1   12.1   20.2        52.9   79.1  531.9         7.0   10.5   17.5
Sig_lling and  oosncios29                                   0.0   12.0   20.0        0.2    0.4    0.6         0.9    1.2    2.1        1.4    2.0    3.4         0.4    0.6    1.0         2,9    4.2    7.1        0.4    0.6    1.0
40 new ..it trains                               28           -       -       -      30.0   46.3   77.         13.1   19.7   32.08                    -           26.5   39.5   66.0        20.4  105.5  173.9         9.4   14.1   23.5
40.2   72.6  120.4       37.9   57.1   95.0        30.1   56.9   95.0       39.1   36.9   95.0        39.1   58.4   97.5    153.2  229.3  392.5          20.4   30.6   51.0         2.3
5710       RAILWAY4 MODERNIZBATION
Track  -ohahilitati-n ptogran                    23         09.0  109.0  189.0    132.3  169.4   300.7   171.0  217.7  398.7    163.5  209.1  371.6                     -       -         466.9  594.2 1061.0        62.2   79.2  541.4
Workshop moderisotion                            22          6.0   19.9   25.9       10.2   19.9   29.1        23.4   43.4   66.0       33.9   63.1   97.8          -                       67.5  125.4  195.9         9.0   16.7   25.7
*    le-trificatio- progra                         24          0.3    0.4    0.7        23.0   23.0   46.0       35.1   35.1   70 .2       35.2   35.2   70.4         -       -               93.3   93.3  106.6        12.4   12.5   24.9
*   lage unification progra                        17           -       -       -      30.7   46.1   76.0        42.1   63.1  105.2    150.1  225.1  375.2            -       -222.9  334.3  557.2                      29.7   44.i   74.3
Road vehicles                                    34          3.5      -     3.5       7.8      -      7.0       7.0      -     7.0        7.0     -      7.0        -       -       -      21.0       -    21.0       2.9       -     2.8
Completion of the MBn P-ojoct                    30        129.2  193.9  323.0       36.0   54.0   90.0        29.9   43.2   72.0       17.9   26.9   44.9          -8 2.7  124.1  206.8                             11.0   16.5   27.5
219.0  525.1  542.1    239.2  310.4  549.6    307.4  402.5  709.9    407.0  559.4  966.0                 -       -       -     954.2 1271.3 2225.5    127.1  169.5  298.6           13.1
Bass Cost Estinste                                        1336.9 1769.5 3106.3   2092.5 2057.6 4948.1   2722.4 3009.0 5722.4   2302.4 2356.6 4739.0    925.4  606.9 1332.2   9112.7 8921.0 16,933.7 1991.3 1176.4 2257.7                      100.0
Physical Coctinoe-ien                                      042.4  125.0  269.2    070.0  120.3  306.3    243.0  169.9  413.7    213.5  136.9  370.3              96.5   56.8  143.3    721.8  511.8   1233.6   96.2   69.2  164.4               7.3
Tote)                                          1479.2 1995.3 5374.5   2260.5 2905.9 5246.4   2906.2 3169.9 6136.l12595.9 2515.4 25 1009.. 3   1011.9  863.6 1675.1   99-34.5 9332.9 19,.167.3 1177.5 1244.8 2422.1    197.3  100.0
0f which:  civil woks                                      994.9  014.9 1909.8   1459.4  941.9 2400.3   2005.0 5265.6 3271.4   1803.9 1224.5 3028.3    606.0  395.9 1071.8   5924,0 3917.9  9,771.9  793.9  509.0 1302.9                              (547
nenipoen                                      494.3 1000.4 1564.7    902.1 2044.0 2946.1    960.4 1904.3 2964.7    792.5 1290.9 2091.0    322.9  277.0  603.7   2990.5 5515.0  8,395.5  303.6  735.6 1119.2                              (46)
Ropectod price increases:
civI  woks:  7, p~a.                                   0                        15.0                     13.0                      13.0                     12.0
- opouded                               0                        7.5                      22.5                     30.5                      55.7
-mun                                     0              109.4   70.6  180.0    451.3  294.9  736.1    694.5  471.4 1165.9    302.1  214.9  597.0   1637.3 1041.7 2679.0    210.3  139.9  337.2                             14.7
eosipm-t:  7 , p. .                                   0                       11.8                      19.0                     10.0                       9.0
7. copouded                              0                        5.5                      16.6                     20.2                     40.3
am-nt                                    0               44.1  112.4  156.5    159.4  316.1  475.5    223.4  363.5  596.9    131.3  112.01243.3               550.2  904.0 1462.2        74.4  120.6  192.0                 8.1
Total aexp-tsd price in-re.se.                               0      0       8       153.5  193.0  336.5    61.    0.   21.6    917.9  034.9 1752.8    51.    2.    4.3   2195.5 1945.7 4141.2    292.7  259.3  222.2                                   22.8      n
Total repented cot of project                            1479.2 1095.3 3574-.9   2414.0 3160.9 5502.9   5576.9 3770.8 7347.7   3513.8 3340.3 6862.1   1.525.3  090.5 2515.9  11039.0 11273.5 22309.5 5470.2 1504.1 2974.3-                            122.0
Stems te-ttionly incloded is the project, sshjant to furthor review
1uosyoinI   ivncidct 7: ''L Elc c.-. y,yI of tIc Froj-u.                                                                                                                                                                                                  *
Dcuo-isy 1'I7)i



APPRAiSA OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT RIFFSIA
Doubtfu1o  Rfste Itin., RE-ldEd frmi the-oj
B.dgat                                                         CrO  (1975) milliru                                                       Ct$ (1975) mllliou          U1$ (19755   illee,
Cut.                                                       Ref.                1975                      1976                     1971978                                            1979                   1975-1979                 1975-979 
L      F       T         1                                S       T         1      F       T         L       F       T         1L      F      T         I       F       T7
De- offl.e bOlidi.g.                            81-3.6                                                                                           -      3.6      3.6       -     3.6       7.2      -      7.2       1.0      -      1.0
Fu-i tore and   0lrso                            2-1.9                                                                                           -      1.9       1.9      -     1.9       3.8      -      3.8       0.5      -     0.5
T-anf- Lo Ot-fIli                               03-66.5                                                                                          -    66.7      06.0      -     76.0    142.5       -   162.5       19.0      -    19.0
St.dies .od P-ojeot                            0'64'3-3.3    6.2    9.5                                                                                          3.3    6.2    9.5         6.6   12.4   19.0         0.9    1.7    2.6
Research ..d troleleg                           06-11.0    6.2_ 17.2                                                                                            11.0    6.2   17.2        22.0   12.4   36.4         2.9    1.7    4.6
06 3   12.4   98.7       95.8   12.4  108.2    182.1   24.8  206.9           74.C3    3.6   27.7       3.1
11   NEW6 LINES dND RIIAL2CIOITS
R  JuPeti-But,C do PiF"I                        36          6.0    3.0    9.0       60.3   29.7   90.0       '2.6   35.6  108.0        76.7   37.0  114.5         -       -       -      215.4  106.1  321.5       28,7   14.1   42.0
8L1 - Irrlgs Sr' Paul                          62           -           ------                                                                                860.3  427.7 1296.0    868.3  427.7 1296.0    115.8   57.0  172.8
R.  O-c*bs Pedr  do SfI0                        43          3.2    1.8    5.0       51.3   25.2   76.5       51.3   23.2   '6.5        53.1   2641   '9.2         -       -       -      158.9   78.3  237.2       21.2   10.6   31.6
R   eedoRo-Jolo .40                       4          45    2.5    7,0         2.4 ~35.6  108.8         '2.4 ~31.6  108.0        72.4   35.6  1080           -      -              221.7  109.3  331.0       29.6   26.6  64.2
13.7    '.3   21.0    184.0   90.3  274.5    296.2   96.4  292.5    2.2   99.1  301.7    868.3  427.7 1296.0   1464.3  721.4 2185.7    195.3   96.1  291.4                        32.3
(65b   eutCrrdr
R  Asnia11 040                                               -       -       -      10.4   10.3   20.7        13.5   13.5   27.0 - -             -       -        -       -      -       23.9   23.8   47.7          3.2    3.2    6.4
N L  CGo..r-1 Lus-Peetas                        696          -       -       -         -      -       -        0.9     -      0.9    120.6   59.4  180.0        93.8   46.2  140.0    215.3  185.6  320.9          28,7   14.1   42.8
O  TeSs iaooao-Cmpo lrande  -0.9                                                       -      0.9     66.9   33.0   99.9        60.3   29.7   90.8    128.1   62.7  190.6          17.1    8.49  25.599.9  28.1   627  190.
-  -     -      ~~~~~~10.4   10.3   20.7  15.3   13.5   28.0    107.5   92.4  279.9    15.1   71.9  230.0    367.3  192.1  558.4                49.0   21.7   74.7         6.3
mis.. loa t-         gnel  (Os-t IT)            09 -          -       --                     -       -        -       -       -       30.2   14.8   45.0        30.2   14.8   45.0        60.4   29.6   90.0        8.1    3.8   12.0
1RI0-Mpl  (Fart 115                             11          2.2    3.2    1.4       22.3   33.5   55.8       22.9   34.3   57.2        36.0   54.0   90.0       24.2   01.4  135.6    137.6  206.4  344.0          18.3   27.5   45.8
RIf-OtSClaros (Fore 77)                 23          2.9    4.3    '.2        4.7    7.0   11.7        6.5    9.7   16.2       26.9   40.4   67.3        25.2   37.8   03.0       66.2   99.2  165.4         8.8   13.0   72.0
J.. Joqolm 14.tinh.-lO-.o                    14 -          ---                                       --30.2   14.9 45.0                                      33.2   16.3   49.5        63.3   31.2   94.5         8.4    4.2   12.6
0.1.. Tpatiogu-Capttlo MaCrIco  15 - ~             ~       ~        ~        ~~~~-- - - -1.0            -     1.0 - -                -       --1.0                                  -      1.0       0.1      -     0.2
I.Moi-Sa1-do   (Fr   I                                  .       .     6.       7.1 _    0l.6 I_17.       7.1   00.6   1 7.7      3.    58.2 970            39.4   59.7   96.6       95.1  1i42.7  237.8       12.7   19.0   31.7
.8 1.6   19.4      34.1   51.1   85.2       37.5   54.6   92.1    162. 183  344.              182.2  209.3  391.7    423.6  109.1  932.7          55.6   67.8  224.2        13.8
III  STATIONS A085  ARDS
Mist  Y.rd ispr--meni                           19---                                         -                 -       -      -       77.9   17.1   95.0    116.9   25.6  142.5    194.8   42.7  237.5            26.0    5.7   31.7
oem y.rd, IOcooflia                             20-.........7.8    1.7    9.5                                                                                    7.8    1.7    8.5        15.06    3.4   19.0       2.1    0.4    2.3
05.7   18.8  104.5    124.7   27.3  152.0    210.4   46.1  256.5            20.1    6.1   34.2         3.8
v    MLOTIVE _ 08E8 & ROLLING 07.0CR
Furts for rebulding8  r.                        33           -                                                                          0.2    1.9    2.1        0.2    1.9    2.1        0.4    3.8    4.2         0.1    0.5    0.6
1217  -irsgt ras(OpYort   1.00-1. 60            67                                                    --12.7  114.3  127.0                                      16.9  152.2  169.1       29.6  266.5  296.1         3.9   35.5   39.4
81   rlh   su(751) 1.60s              68                                                                                     19.6  176.6  196.2          -       -      -       19.6  176.6  196.2         2.6   23.5   26.1
475loefjiht  sts  1.004  +  gt  - 1.60 m31                                                                                             21.6  204.0  115.6         -       -       -       11.6  104.0  115.6        1.5   13.9   15.4
Mo,der-  of 2,268 freight r3s1 -                              ---                                       --6.7   60.6   67.3                                      5.7   50.0   56.5        12.4  111.4  125.0        1.7   14.9   18.0
Mo,de,-  If 42 psu.....    ruts                 31                                                                                      0.2    1.8    2.0        0.2    1.8    2.0         0.4    5.6    4.0        0.1    0.5    0.6
140  ..u.e_f_ ntst                              52                                                                                    112108 120                 30 34.2   300             15.   135.0  150.0       2.01   18.0   20.0
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~62.2  560.0  822.2                     26.8  240.9  267.7        89.0  600.9  889.9       11.   106.8  118.7        13.2
VII RAILWAY MODERNIZATION
Tronk -rebiblflit.t     P-9-r                   253                                                                                  160.6  204.3  364.9    174.6  222.2  396.8    335.2  426.5  761.7             44.7   56.9  101.6
Wotlkshop   dOlaro                              22           --                                                                        19.0   35.3   54,3       16.3   30.3   46.6        35.3   65.6  100.9        4.7    8.7   13.4
noorFtao   proora                               24 -          ---                                       --34.9   35.0   69.9                                    15.2   15.3   30.5        30.1   30.3  000.4        6.7    6.7   13.4
on,..ifirstion Pro9es                       17                                                  150.1  225.1  375.2    150.1  225.1  375.2    300.2  450.2  750,4                                        40.0   60.0  100.0
RoOd sils34                                                  -          ---                                                -70                   -     7.0       7.0      -      72.0    14.0       -    14.0       1.9      -      1.9
371.6  499.7  671.3    363.2  492.9  856.1    734.8  992.6 1727.4            9. 13320.3                25.5
Bsse rout esiua2.                                                   89 40.4    22.          5.      00.      4.      5..4         4t1157.516.  2622.6   1015. 1 1486.6 330.7   3471.5 ~3287.0 ~67585               63.0  430.2 ~901.2    100.0
physIcal ronringennlss                 2.4     2.2    4.6    2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_5.~4 16.9   42.  276 1.3459  81.~2102.0  ~184.0    161.7  132.5  294.2    290.3  272.7  571.0 52 6 83 4.    9.8   36.6    7 6.42      0.o5
T.ta                                      23.5   21.1   45.0    253.9  166.8 ~422.7    276.5 ~182.0  459.3   1230.    37920.                  960   09039.              790359772.                0,      7.   977.         0.       0.
of  hith:  civil  -eri                                     17.9   15.8   33.7    190.4  126.6  517.8    207.4  137.1  344.5    676.5  713.6 1290.1   1436.1 1001.4 2437.5   2740.3 1994.5 4742.8    366.4  265.9  632.3                              (65)
.Qnipeo..                                       4.0    5.3   11.3       63.5   42.2  185.7       69.1   45.7  114.0    362.2  834.3 1216.5    520.7  617.7 1130.4   1021.5 1565.2 2506.7    136.4  200.7  345.1                          (35)
E.P..tsd ptiOoi.       -.
Ci,d I -kthu   % P..                                          15.0                      13.0                     13.0                     12.0                     12.0
I t tooudd                                      7.5                     22.5                     30.2                      55.7                     '4.4
asn_O                                   1.3    1.2    2 5       42 8   28.5   '1.3       79.0   52.0  132.6    488.2  397.5  885.7   1003.3  745.0 1020.3   1695.4 122560 2920.4    226.1  163.3  389.4                           39.0
u0Opm5Or!       I p  a                                        11 .0                     00.0                     10.0                      9.8                      8.0
1 ropocdod                                     3 .5                    16.6                     28.2                     40.3                      52.3
suouct                       ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~0.3  0.3    0.  I0.5I ~7.0   17.5    19.5   12.0   32.4    146.0  344.3  490.5    272.3  323.1  595.4    440.6  607.6 1134.2               59. 8 91..7  1451.95               15.5
Total ampoctOd prior.  .no.....                             1.6    15    3.1        533 3.          81        93 6.           56.0    63.2  741.8 ~1376.0   1355.6 1068.1 ~2423.7   214.  19'r2.6 ~4056.6    259 3.0              4.955.3
T.,t l epn-rod cen  of it-g                                                                                                                                                                                                                         15.
smoodd frm  the  r-juc-                              25.5   22.6   48. 1    307.2 2620.3  51 1.5    375.8  260. 5  624.3   1872.~92309.7 ~4162.6   3332.4 2687.2 46019.6   5913.0 5472.3 11.586.1  '8:8.7  ~729.6 1~518.3153
Of mhich:  douhnftl inn-                                   25.5   52.6   40.1    307.2  204.3511.5    375.0  260.5  624.3    086.6  589.9 1476.7    617.6  515.9 1153.5   2212.9 1581.2 3794.                     295.2  210.8  306.0                (33)
tMot. iS0tO906.1 1719.  2785.9   2714.6 2171.3 4006.1   3700.9 3891.1 7592.0    493.5  5150.  1012.3                                                                                                                                    (675
Octob- 1974



BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT (RFFSA)
Items to be Financed by the Proposed Loan
Categery                                                                 Cr$ (1975) million               US$ (1975) million                              Expected Disbursement Schedule (USS million)
Quantity    To be ordered in    Total         To be ordered in    Total                %             1975       1976             1977        1978
1975       1976                  1975       1976                                        I1      I      II        I               I
I           Track Rehabilitation Program
(a)  Rails and accessories                         684 km      104        104        208        13.9       13.9       27.8                             -      6.1     6.1       7.8    7.8
(b)  Switches                                    1,065          33         -          33         4.4         -         4.4                             -      0.8     1.8      1.8      -
(c)  Ballast crushers                               10          16         -          16         2.1         -         2.1                             -      1.0     1.1        -
(d)  Maintenance equipment                          32          90         -          90        12.0         -        12.0                            1.4    3.6      5.3       1.7     _
(e)  Welding equipment                               1          18         -          18         2.4         -         2.4                             -      1.2     1.2        -      _
261        104       365        34.8        13.9      48.7        36.0                 1.4   12.7    15.5    11.3    7.8         _
II          Mechanical Department
(a)  Parts for freight car modernization           Set          14         14         28         1.9        1.9        3.8                             -     0.7      1.0      1.1    1.0
(b)  Workshop equipment                            Set          14         26         40         1.8        3.5        5.3                             -     0.6      0.9      1.1    1.7    1.0
28        40         68         3.7        5.4        9.1         6.7                 -      1.3      1.9      2.2    2.7    1.0
III         Signalling and Communications
(a)  CTC Rio de Janeiro-Sao Paulo                  Set         139         -         139        18.5         -        18.5                             -     1.8      3.6      5.2    5.3    2.6
(b)  Telecommunication equipment                   Set           8         -           8         I.1                   1.1                             -     0.6      0.5       -       -       -
147         -         147       19.6          -       19.6        14.5                 _      2.4      4.1      5.2    5.3    2.6
IV          Suburban Services
(a)  Unit trains                                    40         285         -         285        38.0         -       38.0                            9.5      -       9.5       -      9.5    9.5
(b)  Signalling and electrical equipment           Set         107         -         107        14.4         _        14.4                             -     1.8      2.7      3.6    3.8    2.5
392         -        392         52.4                 52.4        38.7                9.5    1.8    12.2        3.6   13.3   12.0
V           Consulting services
(a)  Technical assistance                            _          21         -          21         2.8         -         2.8                           0.3    0.5       0.5      0.85    0,5    0.5
(b)  Training                                        _          20         -          20         2.7         -        2.7                            0.3    0.5       0.5      0.6    0.4    0,4
41         -         41          5.5         -        5.5         4.1                0.6    1.0       1.0      1.1    0.9    0.9
Base Cost Estimate                                       869         144     1,013       116.0       19.3      135.3       100.0               11.6   19.6       34.5   23.2   29.9   16.5
Physical contingencies                                    44           7         51        5.8        1.0        6.8         5.0                0.6    1.0        1.7    1.2    1.5    0.8
Sub-total                                      913         151    1L064        121.8       20.3      142.1       105.0    100.0    12.2   20.6         36.2   24.4   31.4   17.3
Expected price increases
7. P. A.                                                                                                                             11.0         10.0             10.0        9.0
7. compounded                                                                                                                         5.5         16.6             28.2       40.3
amount                                                      _         248              . _            32.9                  23.2      0.7    3.4        6.0    6.9    8.9    7.0
Total                                                              1,312                             175.0                 123.2    12.9   24.0        42.2    31.3  40.3   24.3
December 1971



BRAZ IL
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT (RFFSA)
Intercity Freight Transport Statistics (1960-1972)
(in billion net ton-km)
(Figures between ( ) are indices with the 1960 value taken as 100)
Average annual growth rate in %
1960         %         1965         %         1970         %          1972         %           1960/65             1965/72            1960/72
Highway                        42.0        60.3       75.0        68.9       124.5        70.6        152.1       73.3          12.3                 10.6              11.3
(ioo)                  (179)                   (296)                   (362)
RailwaZ
RFFSA                    7.4        10.6        8.8         8.1        12.0        6.8         11.7         5.6           3.4                 4.2  2/            3.9  2/
(loo)                 (118)                   (156)                   (158)                                               -
FEPASA                   3.0         4-3        3.3         3.0         3.2        1.8           3.2        1.5            .7                   .0                .6
(100)                (11o)                    (107)                   (107)
Privatg 1/               2.6         3.7        6.2         5.7        15.1        8.6          18.5        8.9          19.0                 16.9              17.8
(ioo)                 (238)                   (581)                   (712)
Total Railway        13.1        18.8       18.3        16.8        30.3       17.2          33.3       16.0           7.1                  8.9               8.2
(100)                 (141)                   (233)                   (254)
Coastal Shipping               14.5        20.8       15.5        14.2        21.4       12.1         21.8        10.5           1.3                 5.0                3.4
(100)                 (107)                   (148)                   (150)
Air                              .1          .1         .1          .1          .2         .1           .3          .1            .0                 17.0               9.6
(loo)     _(_loc)                             (2 00)                  (300)
Total Transport      69.7       100        108.9       100         176.4       100         207.5       100             9.3                 9.7                9.6
(ioo)                 (156)                   (253)                   (298)
1/ The Companhia Vale Rio Doce railroad (Vitqria Minas) accounts for most of this private traffic.
2/ 1971 and 1972 were bad years for RFFSA; over the reference period 1965-1973, the average growth rate is 6.8%.
Source: GEIPOT (Anuario Estatistico dos Tramsportes: 1972)
DNER (Highway and Brazil's Development, Oct. 1973) and Bank staff
June 1974



BERAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PEOJECT (RMA)
RFFSA Freight Traffic 1968-1973 asd Forecasts 1974-1979
Regional North East (1, 2, 3 and 4th Divisions)
Commodities                                1968         1969         1970         1971         1972         1973         1974         1975         1976         1977          1978         1979
Minerals 1/         Thousand ton            171           213          256          295         365          434          526          565           604          639          673          720
Million ton-km             97          127          163          159          205          258          311          341          371          400          424          454
Cement              Thousand ton           173           221          361          273          313          432          445          487          530          590          637          688
Million ton-km           102             96         190          142          149          198          218          238          258          289          312          337
POL derivatives    Thousand ton              68            71          86            91         103          146          156          167          179          191          205           219
Million ton-km             24           27           29           36           43           67           72           77           82           88            94         101
Salt                Thousand ton             65            78          55           64          125          168          176          185          194          204           214          225
Million ton-km            46            58           31           48          115          165          173          182          191          200          210          221
Sugar Cane          Thousand ton            666           551         507          321          345          367          350          320          290          260          230          200
Million ton-km             17           14           16           13           12           11           12            8            7            6            5            4
Sugar               Thousand ton            472           466         479          489          674          643          669          695          723          752           782         814
Million ton-kn           .122          121          126          106          129          151          157          163          170          177          184          191
S-ub-Total    Thousand ton          1,615         1,600       1,744         1,533       1,925        2,190        2,322        2,419        2,520        2,636        2,741         2,866
Million ton-km           408           443          555          504          653          850          943        1,009        1,079        1,160        1,229        1,308
Other Products 2/  Thousand ton             637           623         458          406          481          566          500          550          600          600          600          600
Million ton-km           256           242          180          160          181          230          200          220          240          240          240          240
T 0 T A L    Thousand ton           212529 2*223              202           1*932       ?SJ&0        2           =82=          2,2269       3_1q=2 6                               x_46
Million ton-km           66=4          =685         75           664          =83       =080= 2-2                                 1          40Q          42
1/ From 1974 onward,inclades copper and quartz transport which were not included under this item
in the Railway statistics.
2/ From 1974 onward does rot include copper and quartz which were included urnder this item
in the Railwav statistics.
Source: RFFSA, SCFRERAIL and Bank Estimates.
June 1974



BRAZ IL
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PFOJECT (RFFSA)
RFESA Traffic 1O6-l973 and Forecasts 1974-1979
Central General System
Commodities                              1968        1969          1970         1971         1972         1973          1974         1975         1976          1977         1978         1979
Iron ore  1/        Thousand ton         5,592       6,463         7,142        6,435        5,580        7,621        12,614        16,820       20,230        24,190       29,845        31,500
Million ton-K.         3,097       3,593        4,000         1,559        3,035        4,258         7,200         9,266       11,025       13,981        18,499       19,518
Coal                Thosasnd ton         1,105       1,114         1,091        1,246          886        1,08o          1,100        1,400        1,850         2,435        2,617        2,800
Million ton-Km           182         181          172           184          128          160           158           202          266          351           377          403
Steel Produets ./  Thousand ton            68i          776        1,026          795        1,087        1,145          1,820        2,959        3,250         3,500        3,900        4,300
Million ton-Km           296         380          499           328          461          584           928        1,399         1,542        1,644         1,833        2,021
POL                 Thousand ton           102          192          446          519          726          712            831          889          952         1,018        1,054        1,090
Million ton-Km            44         131          323          457           697          642           768           806          847          889           911          934
Limestone           Thousand ton           742         686           740          949          965          932         1,299         1,495        1,670         1,874        2,092        2,310
Million ton-Km           249         230          245          304           374          308           424          483           539          604           674          743
Cement              Thoosand ton           966       1,226         1,029          889        1,150        1,557         1,807         2,834        4,887         6,054        6,715        7,376
Million ton-Km           5OO         663          659           458          704          899           982        1,572         2,770        3,427         3,800        4,172
Sugar               Thousand too           319         260           199          222          364          425           405           425          446           450          45o          450
Million ton-Km           112          88           64            73          132          150           139          345           151        1,161        1,16i         1,161
Dolomite 3/         Thou-snd too                                                                                           299          385          481           550          580          611
Million ton-Ks                                                                                           79          114           700          169           179          189
Manganeso  Ores 3/   Thousond ton                                                                                          138          174          204           282          300          319
Million ton-Ks                                                                                           67           83            97          131          139           148
Wheat               Thousand ton           232          209          215          249          232          248            258          270          285           301          308          316
Million ton-Ks            90          89            90          103           96          153           107          113           119          125           129          132
Pig Iron            Thousand ton           210         284           235          329          551          751           540           579          595           607          614          622
Million ton-Km           103         133          117           172          275          242           320          344           350          354          357          360
Sub-Totol       Thouoand ton         9,949      11,210       12,303        11,632       11,541       14,471        02,811       31,230        38,850       45,261       48,475        51,694
Million ton-Km         4,672       5,490        6,168        5.639        5,842         7,346        13,174       17,526        22,407       25,290       27,014        28,736
Other Products      Thoosand ton         2,674       2,608         2,352        1,972        1,735        2,471         i,816         1,900        1,900        1,950         2,052        1,950
Millin ton-Km          1,134       1,097          988          826           765          937           793          830           830          829           905          889
Total          Thomusad ton        12,623      13,818       14,655        1360l4       13,276       16,942        23,127       ISLIIO        36=75i       434211        50,527
Million ton-Km                     6,8=         Y 6                                                                                                       UAW3  4 29 i432   i 4L2
1/ Includes Manganese ore and Dolomite up to 1972.
2/ Total tonnages adjusted for tearamhipment to avoid double counting due to change of gauge.
3/ For years 1966-73 Manganese and dolomite totals are included in Iron or totals.
Source: RFF3A, SOFRIERAIL and Bank eatimates.                                                                                                                                              P1
December 1974 



BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A SE0OND RAIILAY PliJECT (RFFSA)
RIFSA Traffic 1968-1973 and Foecaats 1974-1979
Center-South System   -  (9th Division-Broad Gauge)
Co_gdities                             1968        1969         1970        1971         1972        1973         1974        1975         1976        1977         1978         1979
Iron Ore          Thousand ton         n.a.         572          735         587          878         897          920       1,130        2,230       2,630        3,350        3,540
MSillion ton-km        n.a.          29          48           44          45           39          48           60         105          126          150         170
Coal              Thousand ton          471         353          153         n.a.          81         137          108         126          147         171          200          230
Mi.llon ton-km          22          21          12          n.e.          6            9           8           10          12           13           16          18
Steel Preducts    Thousand ton         n.a.          (*)         (a)                      163         349          376         429          692          826         861          897
Million ton-kn         n.a.         (*)          (*)         (a)          10           20          23           26          41           50           52          54
POL               Thousand ton          987        1,162       1,245       1,361        1,074         394          300         300          300         300          300          300
Million ton-km           55          62          69           68          47            8           6            6           6            6           6            6
Fertilizer        Thousand ton          534         581          621         426          590         584          630         662          694         729          766        1,000
Million ton-km           54          59          51           37          46           44          48           51          53           56           59          77
Salt              Thousand ton          107         111          120         n.a.          60          61           60          60           60          60           60           60
Milliofton-ko,            6           6            7         n.e.          3            4           3            3            3           3            3           3
S,war             Thousand ton          370         217          212         114          749       1,051        1,000       1,000          900         800          800         800
Million ton-km,          48          27          23           14         102          135         137          137         123          110         110          110
Coffee            Thousand ton          452         361          441         385          184         203         210          220         232          243          255         270
Million ton-ks           29          21          17           19          22           22          24          25           27           28          29           30
Cotton            Thousand ton          408         633          470         293          330         273         200          190         180          170          160         150
Million ton-ks           28          49          30           17          22           18          14          13           13           12          12           11
Wheat             Thousand ton          313         315          275         176          264         369          370         397          417         438          459         482
Million ton-km           30          28          20           11          19           26          26          28           29           30          32           34
Other grain
and mla          Thousand ton         n.a.         n.a.         31.5        243          300         273         200          350         350          350          350         350
Million ton-Io        n.a.          n.s.         39           28          37           30          22           40          40          140          40           b
Sub-total      Thousand ton         n.a.         n.a.       4,587       3,585        4,673       4,591       4,374        4,864       6,202        6,717       7,361        8,079
Million ton-km        n.a.          n.a.        316          238         360         355          359         399          452         474          509          553
Other products    Thousand ton                      n.s.       2,259       1,749       1,376        1,491       1,517        1,593       1,673        1,756       1,839        1,921
Million ton-Ion                     n.a.        126           89          91          100         100         105          111         116          119          123
T 0 T A L      Thousand ton        IQAZ        Z6=QZ       =            5,3314      60o49       082 2,891                 ,I,57      7,876 82147=             9>20O       10 000
Million ton-km          L5,1        5          =4  a         23 a.D                   55          k2          6014         663          590         628         676
Source: RFFSA, SOFERAIL and Bank Estisate. W.                                                                                                                                                 _
June 1974



BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A SEOOND RAIIWAY PROJECT (RFFSA)
RFFSA Traffic 1968-1973 and Forecasts 1974-1979
Center-South System  -  (10th Division - Metric Gauge)
Cossenoditles                             1968        1969         1970        1971        1972         1973       1974         1975        1976         1977        1978        1979
Cement           Thousand ton              111         165          112         160         138          150        154          162         170          179         188         197
Million ton-km               85         116          72           95          66          80          85          90           94          99          104        109
Clinker          Thousand ton               85          40          223         115         164           91         75           -           -            -           _           _
Million ton-km               75          36         103           99         131          80          63          -            -           -            -           -
POL              Thousand ton              136         138          153         154         169          211        220          242         266          293         322         354
Million ton-km             120          126         145          141         157         198         210         230          250         280          310        341
Wood             Thousand ton               64          64           62          60           61          84         90           90          90           90          90          90
Million ton-km              64           63          66           67          68          96         100         100          100         100          100        100
Agric. Products  Thousand ton             n.a. *      n.a.*         137          85          44           46         55           66          80           95         114         137
Million ton-km            n.a. *       n.a,*         66           31          25          26          31          37           45          54           65          78
Fertilizer       Thousand ton             n.a. $      n.a.*       n.a.*        n.a.*         31           36         41           47          54           62          72          82
Million ton-km            n.a. *       n.a.*       n.a.*       n.a.*          21          27          31          36           41          47           54         62
Internatio nal
Traffic         Thousand ton             n.a. *      n.a.*       ri.a.*          9          69           37         70          75           80           84          88          91
Million ton-km            n.a. *       n.a.*       n.a.*          12          90          18          90          97          104         109         l14         120
Sub-Total     Thousand ton              396         407         587          574         676          655        705         682          740          803         87)4        951
Million ton-km              344         341         452          445         558         525         610         590          634         689          747        810
Other Products   Thousand ton              492         5o9          315         334         240          294        330          330         330          330         330         330
Million ton-km              268         271         198          167         132         202         170         170          170         170          170        170
T 0 T A L     Thousand ton              88f         916          892         908         916          94      1,035       1,012        1,070       1,133        1,204       1,281
Million ton-km             612          6I2                      692=7                               ==8 7*=                  t24         8=2          21Z        280
Cattle           Thousand ton              167         158          139         135         146          154        170         170          170          170         170         170
Million ton-km             112          112          81           78          85          88          98          98           98          98           98          98
*  The corresponding figures have been lumped in the category "Other Products";
the total figure is therefore accurate but not the subtotals.
Source:  hFFSA, SOFRERAIL and Bank Estimates
June 1974



TABL5 6
BRAZIL                                                                                 Page 5 of 6 pages
APPRAISAL OF A SlSCOND h'ILWAY PROJECT (REUNA)
RFSA FreiRhht Traffic 1968-1973 and Forecasts 1974-1979
Southern System (11, 12 and 13th Division)
Co-modities                                                                                                                                     F o re ast 
1968        1969         1970         1971         1972         1973        1974         1975         1976         1977         197c        1979
Lisstone              Thousand ton              266          295          242          369         289          336          350          350          350         350          350          350
Million tan-la              io5         103           80          142           73           84           87          87           87           07           87           87
Cenmot                Thousand ton              221          318          3C0         207          267          299          340          420          480         540          600          660
Million ten-kIc            118          101          137          103          145          188         213          250          300          320          350          390
POL                   Thousand too              474          498       1,065        1,297        1,546        1,236        1,428       1,556        1,696        1,200        1,300        1,400
Milion ton-las             151          235          466          577          673         605          643          702          763          540         580          630
Wood                  Thousand ton              956          837          898          778         562          526          483          442          402         361          321          285
Million ton-ka             455          373          373          337          256          240         217          199          181          163          145         129
Paper                 Thousand ton              155          152          155          165         144          143          1144         144         151          160          167          175
Millios ton-la               40          39           35           37           33           32           32          32           34           35           37           39
Sugar                 Thousand ton               87           78           84           64          7C           83          107          119          130         143          155          i68
Million ton-km               59          55           54           36           40          149          69           76           82           90           96         104
Coffee                Thousand ton              552          560         498          685           72           64           70           77           81          9a          103          113
Million ton-lk              287         243          189          268           37           414          48          53           S8           61          71           78
Wh.at                 Thousand ton              322          618          790       1,002          755          583          750          960       1,030        1,090        1,150        1,200
Million ton-kIn             153         359          490          636          147          394         4510         640          67o          700          760         805
Fertili-er 1/         Thousend too              159 0       187 a        221 *        261          858          655          786          904       1,039        1,113        1,257        1,383
Million ton-kIs              91 0       108          127 *        150          284          334          401         461          530          583          641          705
Soybea.-              Thousand ton               98          223         246          281          498          856        1,100       1,387        1,590        1,823        2,090        2,250
Million ton-kn               66         1414         i69          189          337         581          737          926        1,071        1,154       1,2          1,1400
Meals -nd Calms       Th.usand too                -          140          717         324          422          620          70C          937       1,133        1,300        1,656        1,081
Million tan-In                -         103          229          246          323          371          420         532          637          763          915       1,120
Corn                  Thousand ton              328          216         272          158          153         1-44          150         200          200          20G          200          201
M4illion ton-lk            214          129          184           87           61           57          60           So           80           80           6c3,        e0
Sub-Total          Thousand ton            3,618       4,122        1,088        5,591        5,563        5,545       6,408        7,496        8,286        8,474        9,349       10,065
Milon ion-h              1,739        1,991        2,531        2,836        2,851       2,979        3,377        1,038        4,456        b,579       5,059        5,667
Othor Products        Thousand ton            1,313       1,287           897         803          929          778          800          8oo         BoO          8OO          800          800
Million ton-kh              685         768          479          414          399          334         3510         314          350          350          350         350
T 0 T 6 L          7Thsua-d ton           4,931        5,409        5,995        6,194        1,969        6.323       7,208        8,296        9,086        9,274      10149        10,865
(1  ad 10th DIv.)
Million ton-kh           2,424        2.759        2.932        3,222        2,980        3,313       3.727        4,388        1,806        4,929        5,409       6,017
Coal                  Thoueand tio            2,112       2,147        2,064        2,047        2,002        2,095       l,Oo 2/    2,000          2,000        2,000        2,000       2,000
71th Dir. )
Million ton-km              144          146         141          138          133          139           70 2/       140         140          140          140         140
G0A3D TOTAL        Thousand ton           720L43                    -            =t___        L7                        L203 'o9k2S                 =       il,27b 111141            12; 881
Million ton-kIn          _f568        _f905        2,s73        2,15        11=         _452         3,7=7 .jaoSZ              4,26         5=142       5fS49       5.15?
1/ Inoludiog iletans  -ed a, fertillose. (-     ) Figs fur 1968-69-70 arm estiratei.
2/ DuN to a flood, traffio 7as .ninrrupted. -t is etioated that the lies uill sperato in 19714 at half capacity.
Source, RPFFA, SOFRli8IL and Bank Eiti-atou.
Jane 1974



BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A&SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT (RFFSA)
RFFSA Freight Traffic 1960-1973 ard Forecasts 1974-1979, by Regions
Regions                                                                                                                                   F o r e c a s t s
1968        1969        1970        1971         1972        1973        19714        1975        1976         1977        1978         1979
Northeast         Thousand ton            2,252       2,223       2,202       1,939        2,406       2,756        2,822       2,969       3,120        3,236       3,341        3,466
Million ton-km             664          685         735         664          834       1,080       1,143        1,229       1,319        1,400       1,469        1,548
Center            Thousand ton          12,623       13,818      14,655      13,604       13,276      16,942      23,127       30,130      36,750       43,211      50,527       53,644
Million ton-km           5,806       6,587        7,156       6,465       6,607        8,283      11,967      15,356       19,236      22,619       27,919       29,625
Center South      Thousand ton           7,975        8,023       7,738       6,242        6,966       7,031       6,926        7,469       8,945        9,606      10,404       11,281
Million ton-km           1,166       1,161        1,092         939       1,140        1,182       1,239        1,264       1,367        1,449       1,545       1,656
South             Thousand ton            7,043       7,556       8,049       8,441        7,971       8,418       8,208       10,296      11,086       11,274      12,149       12,865
Million ton-km           2,568        2,905       3,073       3,360       3,110        3,452       3,797        4,528       4,946       5,069        5,549       6,157
TOTAL-RFF3A     Thousand ton          2,893        31,620      32,644      30,226       30,619      35,147      IR,083       50,864      59,901       67,327      76,421       81,256
Million ton-km          10,204      11,338       12,056      11,428      11,690       13,997      18,1146      22,377      z6,868       30,537      36,482      38,986
Source: RFFSA, SOFRERAIL and Bank Estimates.                                                                                                                                        jo0
Decemaber 1974



TABLE 7
BRAZIL
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT (RFFSA)
Intercity Passenger Traffic
Forecasts
1965    1972     1973      P74.    1975    1976    1977    197F
North
000 Passengers    n.aO   5,1I7    5,240    5,345    5,451   5,560    5,672    5,785
Million pass.km   n.a.      542      524      335      545      556      567      579
Center
000 Passengers   36,544  17,838   13,972   12,574  11,316  10,185    9,166   8,250
Million passeAM   3,319   1,148      992      990      901      821      748      683
Center-South
000 Passengers    n.a.   8,697    8,590    8,590    8,290   83090   8,090    8,090
Million pass.km   n.a.      632      601      601      554      517      517      517
South
RU-]Passengers    6,358    3,858    3,665    3,482    3,308   3,1i42    2,985    2,836
Million pass.km    761      421      400      380      361      343      326      310
Total
WrPassengers   61,981  35,810  31,467   29,991  28,365   26,977   25,922   24,961
million pass.km   5,435   2,743    2,517    2,506   2,361   2,237    2,158    2,088
-Estimated
Source: RFFSA, SOFRERAIL and Bank estimates.
Deceriber 1974



Page. oT f 2pee
410)0..   .                                .                                                            .                                                 .                              1.1. .     . .     . .     . .     . .  
r-  4.o,coo  ..o.t4c-.         41.0eN0404400)00.  o.r,,o,o    o                                             wO0.-. . . .  . . . .          .4 40
0  ..-.j                                                                                       .4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      . . . .        
~~ '~~'~''**                         0~~. .   .40 .10[4(.4.40. 0.4.0..40. .
0    '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                                                                                                                       Ill~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
41   "' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ m                         0          ,1-.
00 -  0'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    tAI
10. 04~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l



TABLE B
Page 2 of 2 pages
NNoc4-.I       4440N-N-,ON  *N4NN-4001             N-4,<   ONNOON   N-  N-
4.4   0N       NNNNINJ         NNN400N-NN-N   NNNN!              44)001    ,aC4NN-.-4NNI N  N
-           .,n        .-.s  -      N    NNN       NO400000JN   
041       41      -             N  N
''N       N-ON       NNN-*NN,N-  N
I         II      NON   NNNJ N  40
N                           00     --H        -         Y' -
.44                                                                                      N  N
00.                                                            '*1'
4.44)44444                                                                    NN    4  N-  N-
*                :4    jN-
N- 445
o  4444N-         4,,II         *,4,,4,,,,,,, I
N  044N                                            N N    N
N N    N
4-,                                                       I
4j
050                II                                   I          I
ON                                                                                   N  N
4)4.4                                                                                N  N
0  N  ta                                                                                      N  N
o  4,444                                                                              1,1
0  54-N                                                                               II
O  45  -                     *I'I                                           II                II  -  -
St0
N-                                                   I
445-N-                                                I       NON
44 ON                                                         NON                      N  0
4)54                                                  I r    NON                       N  N
WON-        '      1                                    I
0  55                                                     Ii      NNINI                    N  -
40        00                                                            NNjOI                    .4  N
<44.44                                                                   4,-.INI                  N  N
4)40k           ' ,        * '''''''''''''''                  NO
4  0                                                                     ON
40 51
000 I
0 ,flN
ON N,-4           NN'N-NN-N4  N                      ii      '9;3
55--4N        NO  1--N          NNNNN-  N                                 ON         N-
--44)0-    N  N                NO NNNN, N                                 NN        N N N
4)04)1              '                      '4'''-                                     II
N00..-N         NN  NN        N           N-N-  N         N{        II      NO         N  N  N
4)-             -Ii
4)4)55           N            N           N-.-  N         Nj                NN         N- N  N
050.                 <191     0            0.0  0                           0.44       NI oj 4
44N0                         N             N-                                           I N  4
04)4)                                                                                    4!
0 N .4)
040  s-0                                                          .            '
550           NO 0          N ONONNON  NO   N                             NO
-a'                I  '4,''''''                                  LI
NOONO          '4N-  N-    NN-  N    .0                             NN-  N-  N-                           S
a  N        NNNN-N          NN  N       NN-  0    N- N                   NN       SIN  N  N
-  0          NN4N          N4'4         400  N    N  N                  0404     0140  N  N                            0
.01                                                                                       N-  N
0-410                      *'''''''4''                                       4'                                       .0
ON                   N N             -0       '        N-
'4)IN                                  .  .                                            -    9                          0
                      I                 N-N             N-          I    4N        NO   N-  N                            0
0k1                  0.0                             044.4     N-IN  N  N
O  50                                                     N                          04)41 N  -
C)  a                                                                                     -  .                            5
4) 01
:7                          0             -
04                                                                                                       41
I                                                                     4)
04)                  0   N-            0                                      N
N-        0          -    N            0                          0  0        0
00-4             ON   0    -  -0                                CON           -
04)  0    N      -        0      0  000                       000   N    .4  N-
40    440   NO.                                   0N40    04
42 ON-    N-0        4                 044                 .400
0.454     -  5  4) '04)          44  .044                   005-5  4)  04
4)0.4)   .4 44  5  .-0544        0  0  0                N  0-4  0  .0
0.4  0-40)400   0  00             0      N  -050
00-5    N  5-00  .4)  000044       CNN                 444 -.4)-.-,04404
00   0        aso   40    N 0-00    0440   --.    -0  04-404)0
0000    N  NN00N-.NN-04 00                  0  0      0  N-00.-
000       N-       04404.0    000-.- 4404   44  0       0  0004404)
fl  OCt00    0    0000--4-.40044  -40-00    -  00
-,.-04)    0  00050004)004)0   0--    N    04)400.404)4-'
CC'N          4400004)0-40004)0....           N  N-.-       41N4)44)0.-
0      00044444)0004)44-000    N  4)0    0    00   4)                                                     N
NI N .444)0 44
--044        0-N-0   004   .4  .450               N-  51  0.4)044ON                                              -
00 N - 4404-4 00' N054)44
4)440I    N    ON   ONON-ONONO   an    9  00               004)000                                               0
-44-.044-     N4NOONNNNNNN   NO                          N-  04)0)400
510440 N--.-40-NNNNN-.-4N-NN 4)10) N NO 4 4-.OONNO
9         9      00
0    9
O                                  N          01                                                        4)
O                                  0          NI                                                       N
N-            N



TABLE 9
BRAZIL                                                Page 1
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT (RFFSA)
Truck and Railroad Costs
1. Estimated Heavy Truck Transport Costs in Cr$/vehicle and in Cr$/ton-km
November 1973-June 1975
November 1973                April 1974 5/             June 1975 -
I/                                       in Cr$73                    iC$74                      in Cr$75
A.  Direct Truck - 'Operating Cost
Fuel (Diesel) i/                                    .339                       .456
Oil and lubricants -                                .042                       .057
Tires and recapping                                .445                        .644
Maintenance    2/339                                                            .441
Drivers' wages -                                   .294                        .382
Depreciation                                        .358                       .465
Interest                                           .351                        .456
Insurance                                          .165                        .215
Licensing and Road Tax                             .025                        .033
Sub-total                              2.41                        3.1L
B.  Non-financial overhead costs for
trucking firms  3/                                    + .48                          .62
C.  Taxes                                                     .43                        -.56
D.  Economic Truck Operating Costs
per veiicle km                                    2.46                        3-.O                       3.84
per ton-km  100% utilization                       .098                        .128                       .154
90%q;   "                            .109                        .142                       .170
Ba"    "                             .123                        .160                       .192
1/ Trailer -tractor with a 25-ton maximum load running 8000 km/month on paved roads.
2/ Including 40% of social security taxes.
3/ Includes wages of office anr  warehouse personnel, rental of office and warehouses,  commission and brokerage
fees, etc.  These expenses can range from 15% to 56% of total costs depending on the firm. They have been
assumed to be 20% here.
4/ Includes IPI and ICM taxes on the truck-trailer, Imposto UJnico on Fuel and Lubricants; and licensing and Road Tax
5/ Fuel, oil and lubricants ircreased 135% between Noreiber 1073 and April 1Q74 due to the fuel crisis (Diesel price went
up fmm Cr$.67/liter in Noverlber 1973 to Cr$.90/liter in April 1974). Other costs increased 30% in accordance with the
general price index variations during the same period.
6/ Assumes a general price index variation of 20% beiween April 1974 and June 1975.
Source: Revista de Administragao Publica.
Fundapao Getulto Vargas. Vol 8. June-March 1974, and
Bank estimates
Decerber 1974



BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT (RFFSA)
Truck and Railroad Costs
2. Railroad unit transport costs (in 1975 i centavos/per ton-kn)
1973                                               1978
Iron ore &                          Total          Iron ore &                             Total
steel traffic   other traffic  RFFSA traffic    steel traffic    other traffic   RFFSA traffic
I. Financial Costs
A.  Long-run variable cost
excluding depreciation and interest                         3.7              5.7             5.0               2.2                5.2             ^.6
B.  Depreciation and interest 1/                                  3.8              6.1             5.2              2.1                5.2              3.6
- track                                                     1.1              1.3             1.2              1.0                 1.2             1.1
- shunting                                                   .4                .4             .4                .1                 .4              .3
- locomotives                                                .6              1.4             1.1                .4                1.0              .7
- wagons                                                    1.6              3.0             2.5                .6                2.5             1.5
C. Long-run variable costs
- with D and I on track and  shunting only                  5.2              7.4             6.6              3.3                 6.8             5.0
- with D and I on all renewable assets                      7.5             11.8            10.2              4.3                10.4             7.2
D.  Fixed cost                                                    6.8              6.8             6.8              2.8                2.8             2.8
E.  Total cost including fixed cost,depreciation
and interest (13%) on all renewable assets                14.3             18.6            17.0              7.1                13.2            10.0
II.  Economic Costs   /
F.  Total costs  including fixed costs, depreciation and        12.9             16.7             15.3              6.4               11.9             9.0
interest 4l3%) on all renewable assets
Include all taxes on personnel and materials except Imposto Unico on diesel fuel.
ICM (Imposto de circulacao de mercadorias) is 15%  on all rail equipment.  IPI (Imposto sobre productos industrializados) is 8% on spare
parts and accessories.  These taxes would apply to all materials and equipment costs.  Their impact on all above categories is estimated
at 10% excluding taxes on personnel costs.                                       
Source: aFSSA and Bank estimates.
July 1974



TABLE 9
Page 3
BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT (RFFSA)
Truck and Railroad Costs
3. Comparison of estimated average economic truck and railroad costs
Cr$1975/per net ton-km
1973                L978
Economic heavy truck
operating costs i/
Range             .15-.19           .15-.19
Economic railroad cost 2/            .15               .10
Difference (truck minus rail)          0-.4            .5-.9
/ As defined in D. page 2: A 25-km tractor trailer, running 8,000 km/month
on paved road and loaded at 80 to 100% capacity. No infrastructure
costs are included.
/ As defined in E page 1 and adjusted downward 10% for taxes, including
fixed costs, depreciation and interest (13%) on all renewable assets.
Source: Bank estimates
July 197h



TABLE 10
BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY k'NOJECT  (RFFSA)
Statement of Revenues and Expenses for the Years 1963 and 1968 Through 1973 in Current Cruzeiros
(Cr$ million)
1963     1968      1969     1970      1971     1972        197
REVENUES
Passengers - SubI rban  )                              20.8      36.1      50.6     ?0.6      77.8     96.2       101.4
-Passengers - Interior  )                                        40.7      47.4     54.4      61.1     71.8        76.7
Passengers -"Normalization"                            -         24.5      29.1     33.9      44.4     43.2        80.5
Baggage and mail                                         1.9      7.0      11.9     15.6      12.5      7.1         7.2
Freight                                                 58.6    283.8    366.0    463.5    539.4    630.9         812.3
Freight "Normalization"                                --                    -        -         -      146.2        9.7
Pipeline                                               -         15.1      17.2     23.7      32.5     27.1        38.1
Other                                                   17.9     56.6      65.8     81.6      99.0     75.5       116.4
99.2    463.8    0880    743.3       66       998.0      1242.3
EXPENSES
Personnel                                              270.2    588.4    685.9    794.3    932.2   1117.1        1220.0
Materials                                               48.0    186.9    227.8    287.6    357.0    396.2         459.8
Depreciation                                              -         -       -          -      26.5     43.4        63.2
Other                                                   45.0    1-46.0    1        228.8    279.8    279.5        390.5
363.2    921.3   1092.14   1310.7   1595.5   1836.2       2133.5
Less: "Normalization"                                   -       107.4      76.6     87.5      96.2    105.5       114.2
363.2    813.9   1015.8   1223.2   1499.3   1730.7        2019.3
DEFICIT - after "Normalization"                             363.2    350.1    427.8    479.9    632.6    732.7         777.0
- without "Normalization"                          363.2    482.0    533.5    601.3    773.2    927.6          981.4
- without "Normalization" in 1973 Cr$             2129.3   1115.5   1022.2    961.6   1027.0   1064.8          981.4
Ratio of Expenses to Revenue:
- After "Normalization"                               -      176       173      165       173      173         163
- without "Normalization                            366      210       195      185       194      202         185
Traffic Volume (millions)
Passenger-km - suburban                                8870    6881      6601     5980      5269     5246        5168
Passenger-km  - interior                               5211    3112      2896     2724      2496     2742        2634
Freight-ton-km                                         7978   10463    11549    12212    11564    11848         14150
Total Traffic Units                                   22059  20456      21046    20916    19329    19836        21952
Number of Employees (Thousands)                              154    128        126       125      123       120        116
Average Revenue (1973 centavos)
Per passenger-km  - suburban )                                   1.21       1.47      1.89     1.96      2.10       1.96
Per passenger-km  - interior )                           1.19    3.03       3.114    3.19      3.25      3.01       2.91
Per freight-ton-km                                       5.93    6.28       6.07     6.07      6.20     6.11        5.74
Average Costs (1973 Cr$)
Personnel costs per employee (Cr$)                    14149  10617      10414    10120    10053    10707        10517
Total costs per traffic unit -
Before depreciation (centavos)                      13.28  10.42       9.94    10.02    10.78    10.38         9.43
July 1974



BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT (RFFSA)
Statement of Revenues and Expenses for 1973 By Region
(1973 Cr$ millions)
North-    Central   Central    South     Head-     Total
east                South             quarters
Revenues
Passengers - Interior                               12.9        28.8    23.1       11.9                  76.7
- Suburban                                3.1        70.4    27.7         .2                101.4
Baggage and mail                                     1.5         2.6      1.7       1.4                   7.2
Freight                                             56.1       376.9   155.6    223.7                   812.3
Pipeline revenues                                    -          -        38.1      -                    38.1
Other                                                8.0        41.1    25.4       30.6    11.3         116.4
81.6       519.8   271.6    267.8    11.3    1,152.1
Expenses
Administration and general                          62.6       140.3    34.7       5o.4      77.6       365.6
Maintenance of way and works, electric plant
and rolling stock                                135.5       473.4   114.8    156.5         1.4       881.6
Pipeline                                            -           -        14.6       -         -          14.6
Transportation                                      93.5       391.4   108.7    130.8         1.4       725.8
Cost of services and materials sold                  0.9        23.7       3.3      3.8       -          31.7
Expenses covered by Govermnent subsidy              30.5        60.8       6.5     16.2       0.2       114.2
323.0    1,089.6   282.6    357.7    80.6         2,133.5    |
Deficit                                              241.4       569.8    11.0       89.9    69.3         981.4   .
Operating ratio                                      396         210      104       134         -         185
July 1974



BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAIUIAY PROJECT (RFFSA)
Balance Sheets for the Years 1968 Through 1973 in 1973 Cruzeiros
(Cr$ millions)
1968        1969        1970        1971        1972        1973
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash                                  78.5        56.9       104.9        94.0        93.6         85.5
Receivables:
Government accounts
States and municipalities          108.8       112.0       108.4       244.o       283.9        317.2
Other                              244.1       323.3       230.4       185.5       253.5        323.5
431.4       492.2       443.7       523.5       631.0       726.2
.Current Liabilities                    708.3       615.2      365.1       334.2        355.9       336.7
Net Working Capital                    (276.9)     (123.0)      78.6       189.3        275.1       389.5
Investments                            100.5        81.6        15.4        17.2        19.5        48.1
Cash for Special Purposes              106.3       141.8       100.1        99.7       110.1       141.5
Inventories                            570.7       631.2       565.4       509.1       512.2       542.8
Fixed Assets and Capital Works in
Progress                           1,900.5    2,291.3    2,284.1    2,830.0    3,170.0         4,369.2
Deferred Expenses                      433.5       350.4       364.9       380.1       451.5       138.0
Total Assets                      2 834.6     3 373.3     3 408.5     4,025.4     4 538.4     5 629.1
,        _   _       _,   _ =  I -S  __
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
Long-term Debt                         729.0       895.3       494.4       900.0    1,106.3    1,603.8
Provision for Indemnities               37.9        56.4        72.0        81.6        90.1        94.4
Capital Accounts and Reserve Funds    2,067.7    2,421.6     2,842.1    3,043.8      3,342.0    3,930.9
Total Liabilities and Capital     2,834.6   _3,373.3      3,408.5    4,025.4    4,538.4    5,629.1
July 1974



TABLE 13
BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT (RFFSA)
Analysis of 1979 Forecast Income Account by Region
(million 1975 Cr$)
Headquarters
Central            & Regional
Northeast  Central    South      South   Admini8-      Total
tration
Operating Revenues
Passengers - suburban          -       175.5      70.6        -                   246.1
- interior        23.8      38.2       23.1      15.3                  100.4
Baggage, mail, etc.            1.9       3.1       1.9        2.0                    8.9
Freight - regular traffic   159.9   1,544.0      315.0      666.8               2,685.7
MBR traffic           -        381.2       -         _                    381.2
Pipeline                       -         -        40.5        -                    40.5
Miscellaneous                 11.1      18.4      29.7       17.2       6.6        83.0
196.7   2,160.4     480.8      701.3       6.6     3,545.8
Operating Expenses
Long-run variable costs:
Passengers - suburban        -       174.9      30.3        -                   205.2
- interior      68.9      96.1       47.8      41.9                  254.7
Freight - regular traffic 182.6   1,122.0      227.9      384.9               1,917.4
- MBR traffic       -       299.0        -                              299.0
Pipeline                               -         6.1                              6.1
Fixed costs                  245.6     667.1     148.6      235.1     144.1     1,440.5
497.1   2,359.1     460.7      661.9     144.1     4,122.9
Net Operating Surplus
(deficit)                   (300.4)   (198-7)     20.1      39.4    (137-5)      (577-1)
December 1974



TABLE 14
BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT (RFFSA)
Forecast Income Account
(millions of Cr$)
1974 Cr$                         1975 Cr$
1974        1975       1976      1977       1978      1979
OPERATING REVENUES
Passengers - suburban                                      127.4       150.9      155.2     159.6      164.1     246.1
- interior                                      95.5        108.0     106.0      104.2     102.3      100.4
Baggage, mail, etc.                                          8.8         9.9        9.7       9.4        9.2        8.9
Freight - regular traffic                                1,107.1     1,438.2   2,051.8   2,262.9   2,474.0   2,685.7
- NBR traffic                                     195.0        269.1     314.0      336.4     358.8      381.2
Pipeline                                                    35.2        40.5       40.5      4o.5       40.5      40.5
Miscellaneous                                               72.2        83.0       83.0      83.0       83.0      83.0
Subtotal                                             1,641.2      2,099.6   2,760.2   2,996.0   3,231.9   3,545.8
Government subsidies (normalization)
Northeast Region and Leopoldina Division deficits                                                    478.5     467.2
Interior passenger services 1/                                                                        96.6      88.8
Rio de Janeiro suburban passenger services                37.0        39.8       37.0      34.3       31.8      -
Expenses met by the Government                           125.6       135.9      127.4     118.9      110.4     101.7
Total Government subsidies                             162.6        175.7    164.4       153.2      717.3     657.7
Total Revenues                                       1,803.8      2,275.3   2,924.6   3,149.2   3,949.2   4,203.5
OPERATING EXPENSES
Long-run variable cost:
Passengers - suburban                                   140.5        161.9      162.3     162.6      163.1     205.2
- interior                                   275.5       304.4      292.0     279.6      267.1     254.7
Freight - regular traffic                             1,119.1      1,413.1   1,539.3   1,665.4   1,791.6   1,917.4
- MER traffic                                   155.0       213.9      249.5     267.4      285.2     299.0
Pipeline                                                   5.3         6.1        6.1       6.1        6.1       6.1
Steam locomotives costs                                   3.7          4.3       -         -          -         -
Imposto Unico                                           102.7        131.3     144.4      157.7      170.9     184.0
Fixed costs                                             1,155.1      1,342.0   1,355.7   1,369.4   1,383.1   1,440.5
Expenses met by the Government                             125.6       135.9      127.4     118.9      110.4     101.7
3,082.5     3,712.9   3,876.7   4,027.1   4,177.5   4,408.6
Operating Deficit                                          1,278.7     1,437.6      952.2     877.9      228.3     205.1
Interest and commissions on borrowing                        201.8       348.8      543.3     720.6      824.3     832.5
Deficit                                              1,480.5      1,776.4   1,1495.14   1,598.5   1,052.6   1,037.6
Working ratio - after normalization                          143         135        108       103         84        83
- without normalization                       157         146        115       108        103         go
Operating ratio - after normalization                        171         163        133       128        106       10$
- without normalization                     188         177        1140      134        129       124
Note:  Depreciation charged in Operating Expenses            511.0       647.0      714.4     777.9      841.2     948.2
Depreciation budgeted                                 97.0        113.0     130.0
Other than in Northeast Region and Leopoldina Division.
December 1974



BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT (RFFSA)
Cash Flow and Financing Plan
millions of
1974 Cr$                  (millions of 1975 Cr$)                    Total
1974        1975      1976       1977      197B       1979      1975/1979
Requirements
RFFSA's Operating Deficits 1/                    864.7        903.6     367'.7    877.9      228.3     205.1       2,582.6
Estimated Project Costs and Costs
of Remote Items in RFFSA's Investment Plan   3,374.5      5,246.4   6,136.1   5,109.3   3,452.8   2,905.1        22,849.7
Estimated Debt Repayments:
Principal                                      261.5       306.8      545.6     672.3      880.2   1,101.5       3,506.4
Interest                                       201.8       348.8      543.3     720.6      824.3     832.5       3,269.5
4,702.5     6,805.6   7,592.7   7,380.1   5,385.6   5,o44.2       32,208.2
Sources of Funds
Government Budget Appropriations:
To meet RFFSA's operating deficits             864.7       903.6    367.7       877.9      228.3     205.1       2,582.6
To cover debt repayments                       463.3       655.6   1,088.9   1,392.9   1,704.5   1,934.0         6,775.9
To finance the Investment Plan               1 103.9     1 013 7  1,793.5       890.2      473.5      75.8       4,246.7
Total Government contributions            2,431.9     2,57T-9  3,250.1   3,161.0   2,406.3   2,214.9        13,605.2
RFFSA's Net Internally Generated Funds:
Depreciation                                    97.0       113.0    130.0       777.9      841.2     948.2       2,810.3
Imposto Unico Receipts Allocated to RFFSA        526.o       635.o      666.o     700.0      735.0     771.0      3,507.0
DNPVN (Santos Rail Access)                                    54.0       54.0                                        108.0
Domestic Loans                                   626.8       997.7   1,614.0   1,405.0       520.0     152.0       4,688.7
Foreign Loans                                    998.8     2,414.9   1,870.5   1,328.1       875.0     950.0       7,438.5
Other                                             22.0        18.1        8.1       8.1        8.1       8.1          50.5
4,702.5     6,805.6   7,592.7   7,380.1   5,385.6   5,044.2       32,208.2
Reduced in 1974 through 1976 to reflect Cr$ 97 million, Cr$ 113 million and Cr$ 130 charged respectively to
expense as (depreciation rather than the Cr$ 511 million, Cr$ 647 mtdllion and Cri 71f4.4 million calculated by
the Bank. A realistic charge for depreciation will be required by the Rank starting in 1977.
December 1974



TABLE 16
BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT (RFFSA)
Summary Forecast Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1974 through 1979
(millions of Cr$)
1974 Cr$                        1975 Cr$-------------------
1974        1975       1976      1977       1978      1979
ASSETS
Current Assets:
Cash                           109          447       220        186       154         87
Receivables:
Government, states and
municipalities              375           76       223        218       214        205
Other                        384          468       540        572       601        672
868         991        983       976        969       964
Current Liabilities              433          515       531        545       562        580
Net working capital            435          476       452        431       407        384
Fixed Assets and Capital
Works in Progress:
Gross value                                        37,732    42,841    46,294    49,198
Less: accumulated
depreciation                                 16294    17,072    17,913    18,861
Net Fixed Assets             7,647      12,780    21,438    25,769    28,381    30,337
Inventories                    637          757       781        802       826        850
Other assets                   383          447       454        461       469        475
Total Assets              9,102      14,460    23,125    27,463    30,083    32,046
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
Long-term Debt                 3,209        6,205     9,198    11,259    11,774    11,773
Provision for Indemnities        115          139       146        153       161        168
Capital Accounts and Reserve
Fund                         5,778       8,116    13,781    16,051    18,148    20,105
Total Liabilities
and Capital             9,102      14,460    23,125    27,463    30,083    32,046
Debt/Equity Ratio              37/63       44/56     40/60      41/59     40/60      37/63
December 1974



$  O   'n                                                        H   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ommerialin  Divisio
0v .o       o 0       H                             General Superintendent
o_  .4                                  (  _0                   Finances  
o    ,~~~~~co-i                                                                           eatos  iiso
0)                      'I)        C1~~~~4)F.
General Superintendent
Administration
--4
General Superintendent
Personnel
, ______._                                                                   _MechanicaL Division
o   9    1 __                                    X  ~~~~~~~~~~~~General Superintendent_ II
. oL                                                                        Ehgineeringr                     
co                                                       6                                                          Hj8Praet Way Div.
o   4'~~c               -
W-  co         t                                 I1
0)~~~~~
o   e h     T            I        S      I    W        1             | Northeastern
t 1           I                     o  ,      co
I      I ~Cto4'C-)X      t       8                    CentralI
to                                            -H 4%         |                |Region
0)       02~~~~~~~~~~~00           ;
>1~~ ~~~~~~~ 1      1  1  1
02~~~~~~~~u
.4'  ~~~~GO    0    bO          -
CO~~~~E O4aC   L                                        eta
4'                                                         Sou t  t  <    Center-nouth
P~~~
Region
|co          bn |. |0                                            ern|| n        )i |L. I
r-      L      S   It -H --iRgo
H-2  E.1...4
cc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



ANNiEX 2
BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A SECONID RAILWAY PROJECT (RFFSA)
Action Taken on Uneconomic Lines
Lines        Km
Original program, 1966                           127       6,315
Added in 1967-1972                                26      +1,961
Taken out in 1972                                 12      -  211
Final program, 1972                              141       8,o65       100.0
Situation as of end 1972
track lifted                                   78      44,298        53.3
traffic discontinued                           23       1,259        15.6
remaining in service                          Ito                    31.1
141       8,065       100.0
Action taken in 1973
track lifted                                    4         128          1.6
traffic discontinued                            9         525          6.5
remaining in service                           27       1,8%          23.0
40       2,508         31.1
erogrammed for 1927
traffic discontinued                            8         899         11.1
remaining in service                           19         956         11.9
27       1,855         23.0
Situation by end 1974
track lifted                                   82       14,426        54.9
traffic discontinued                           40       2.683         33.2
Sub-total                        122        7,109        88.1
remaining in service                           19 ..6                 11.9
Total                            141        8,065       100.0
Types of lines remaining in service after
end 1974
economically justified                          4         215          2.7
kept as private sidings                         7         105          1.3
military                                        6         482          6.0
in observation                                  2         15          11.
"Ju-ly 19Th                                        19          956        11.9



ANNEX 3
Page 1
BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT (RFFSA)
Uneconomic Lines and Services to be Studied
1.        The study on uneconomic lines and services should address itself
to the two following areas:
(a) the low traffic density lines of the network; and
(b)  the uneconomic services on the rest of the network
(including intercity passenger services).
2.         Since both aspects of the study may lead to substantial savings
and since they are to sorne extent interrelated, they shotuld be tackled
together on a regional basis.  In each of the regional rail networks, the
study sihould:
(a)  clearly identify the uneconomic lines and services in general;
(b)  analyze the future economic and financial viability of such
services based on realistic traffic and revenue forecasts.
Particular care should be exercised in the computation of
avoidable costs and social benefits;
- (c)  determine which services should be eliminated and when and
outline the corresponding maintenance and operating policies
to be adopted until the service is terminated;
(d)  deterraine, for those services that should not be eliminated,
a program of rationalization with a view to minimize costs.
3.         In each regional network, the study should focus on, but not
necessarily be limited to, the geographical parts of the network, which
have a low level of traffic density, described below:



AN1IEX 3
Page 2
Region and
Division                             Sections
A.  Northeast                        All
B. Center
5t]1 Division                    Sao Peclro - Uberaba
Azurita - Bom Despacho
Camargos - Cidade Industrial
Aureliano Mourao - Antonio Carlos
Lines in Goias State
Subnetwqork Varginha - Lavras - Born Jardim -
Cruzeiro - Sapucai
6th Division                     Corinto - Pirapora
Lorena - Piquete
Japeri - Paracambi
Del Castilho - Sao Mateus
7th Division                    All
(Leopoldina)
C.  Center South                     Indu Brazil - Ponta Pora
Posto Agente - Porto Esperanca
D. South
11th Division                   Eng. Gutierrez - Porto Uniao
Morretes - Antonina
Mafra - San Francisco do Sul
12th Division                   Esplanada - Rio Deserto
Pinheirinh1o - Treviso
13th Division                   General Luz - Caxias do Sul
Carlos Barbosa - Bento Goncalves
Sao Borja - Itaqui
Santiago - Cerro Largo
Alegrete - Quarai
Entroncamento - Livrameento
Sao Sebastiao - Dom Pedrito
Santo Angelo - Cerro Largo
Basilio - Jaguarao
DeceiTiber 1974



ANNEX 4
Page 1
BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT (RFFSA)
Brief Description of Items in the Project
The costs of all items in the Project are given in Table 2 of
the report.
I.   HEADQUARTERS
1.        Includes principally the costs of new offices in Porto Alegre, Recife
and Sao Paulo; a new headquarters office and houses in Brasilia; training and
research; and studies and engineering designs.
II. NEW LINES AND REALIGNMENTS
(a) Industrial Corridors
2.        New Japeri-Arara Line.  This 62-km line will provide a bypass between
Japeri (on the main trunk line to Rio from both Belo Horizonte and Sao Paulo)
and Arara, an existing yard in the port of Rio de Janeiro. The freight traffic
to the port and the industrial zone presently transits downtown and interferes
with suburban passenger traffic, adding to the congestion problem. This by-
pass is expected to be completed in 1975 (Map 11,110).
3.        Rio-Sao Paulo Rehabilitation.  This important ongoing project
includes, in particular:
(i) realigning 50 km of track;
(ii)  rehabilitation of 362 km of permanent way and superstructure
between Barra do Pirai and Manoel Feio;
(iii) improving the Barra Mansa-Saudade section and building a new
station at Saudade;
(iv) remodeling the Barbara yard;
(v) linking the two yards of Barbara and Volta Redonda with a
new 4-km spur;
(vi) rebuilding the Volta Redonda yard and its power distribution
system.
I!ost of the work except item (ii) above is tnow completed.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
4.        Manoel Feio-Engenheiro-Sao Paulo.  This complement to the above
item comprises the addition of a third line for freight traffic on a con-
gested 25-km section in the Sao Paulo western suburb. Works are to be
completed in 1975.
5.        Rio-Sao Paulo Over/Under Passes.  This program comprises the
construction between 1974 and 1976 of 80 over and under passes between Rio
and Sao Paulo. This will allow for suppressing 174 level crossings and will
significantly increase train and road vehicle safety and speed along this
important corridor.
6.        Ribeirao Pires-Sao Bernardo (Sao Paulo Rail Link).  This is a
16.5-km long subsection of the 39.5-km southern section of the Sao Paulo
rail link connecting, to the West, the Sorocabana line of the FEPASA system
(Jurubatuba) with, to the East, the Santos-Jundiai line of the RFFSA system
(Ribeirao Pires). Sao Bernardo is the intermediate station where both the
RFFSA and FEPASA subsections would meet (see Map IBRD 11,113).
7.        Sao Bernardo-Jurubatuba (Sao Paulo Rail Link).  Continuation of the
preceding line, theoretically part of the FEPASA system, but included in
RFFSA's Investment Plan for budgeting reasons (Map 11,113).
8.        New Belo Horizonte-Volta Redonda Line.  This new, 432-km long,
electrified line is needed to cater for the iron ore and steel-related,
traffic which is expected to exceed the capacity of the existing line
(estimated at about 30 million tons) before the end of the decade. Tnis
expectation is based on detailed traffic studies made by a Brazilian consul-
tant, TRANSCON, and confirmed by Bank forecasts. The Brazilian Government
is accordingly giving high priority to the construction of this line, for
which the engineering studies are under way. Construction is expected to
start in 1975 and last four years (Map 11,110).
9.        Engineering Studies for the Realignments between Joao Aires, Barao
de Juparana and Barra do Pirai. These are realignments--about 200-km long--
of the existing line between Belo Horizonte and Rio de Janeiro. Their con-
struction.probably will not be justified for several years, when the above
new Belo Horizonte-Volta Redonda line is saturated and/or the existing Belo-
Rio line carries enough traffic to justify cost savings investments. There-
fore, at this stage, studies only are included in the Project (Map 11,110).
10.       Arcos Spur.  This is a 9-km spur linking limestone deposits to the
station of Arcos in the Central Region. The line is expected to carry about
2 million tons of limestone per year to CSN (Companhia Siderurgica Nacional)
in Volta Redonda (Map 11,110).
11.       Third Rail Sao Paulo-Santos.  Widening to 1.60 m of the existing
meter-gauge line of FEPASA. RFFSA's traffic could then use this line instead
of its present obsolete cable-operated line and in addition to the new rack



ANNEX 4
Page 3
section being completed (item 15 below) but faced with serious technical
problems. The availability of a safe connection between the two important
cities is essential.
12.       New Paratinga-Piassaguera Line.  Also on FEPASA territory, this
20-km line is under way and is to provide direct access to the port of Santos.
About 13 km of track are already laid, and the completion of the line is
expected in mid-1976.
13.       Widening Ipatinga-Fabrica.  USIMIINAS is one of Brazil's major steel
mills, located in Ipatinga on the meter gauge EFVM line.  Problems are pre-
sently being encountered with the shipment of steel products to the main
centers of consumption in Rio and Sao Paulo, better served by the broad gauge
network of RFFSA. The track is to be widened to 1.60 m by adding two rails,
and would then be suitable for both the EFVM meter gauge stock and RFFSA's wide
gauge stock serving USIMINAS (Map 11,110).
(b) Export Corridors
14.       Belo Hlorizonte-Costa Lacerda Realignment.  A limited rehabilitation
of this section will improve the petroleum traffic from the Belo Horizonte
refinery to Brasilia and the center west states (Map 11,110).
15.       Serra do Mar (Sao Paulo-Santos) Rehabilitation.  Construction of an
8-km new rack railroad with electric traction to replace the old and costly
cable car system in the Sierra section of the Santos-Jundiai Railroad, between
Sao Paulo and Santos, is now complete, except for the signalling which is
being installed and will be ready in 1975 (Map 11,112). However, individual
problems are still being encountered.
16.       Access to the Santos Left Bank.  This is a 24-km spur connecting
the newly expanding left bank of the Santos Port with the existing railway
lines between Sao Paulo and Santos. This item is included in the Santos Port
project, financed under Loan 756-BR. Because of very substantial cost
increases and changes in the scope of the project, the economic feasibility
was re-examined in 1973 by consultants (Planave) and reconfirr,med by the Bank,
subject to reductions in the project design. The engineering studies are
now being revised, and construction is expected to start in 1975 (Map 11,110).
17.       Curitiba-Paranagua Rehabilitation.  Minor rehabilitation works are
needed on the old line to keep it open to traffic until the new line is ready
by 1978.  These works include building contention walls and changing rails
in the curves. Other works will be done in the terminal, yard and stations
that will be used by the new line (Map 11,111).
18.       Curitiba-Paranagua and Guarapuava-Cascavel.  Each of these links
is at one end of the export corridor leading from Cascavel, the center of a
rapidly expanding soybean producing area in western Parana, to the port of
Paranagua. Engineering studies for Curitiba-Paranagua (107 kn) are under
way and to be completed by end of 1974; those for Guarapuava-Cascavel (260 km)
are expected for completion by mid-1975 (Mfap 11,111).



ANNEX 4
Page 4
19.       Engenheiro Bley-Curitiba.  This new 70-km line is being built to
replace the existing one, which has difficult gradient and curve character-
istics. The works are to be completed in 1975 (Map 11,111).
20.       Engenheiro Bley-Engnleiro Gutierrez, New Line.  This section belongs
to the same export corridor as the two preceding items and would avoid the
present detour through Ponta Grossa. Priority seems lower, however, and this
item has been only tentatively included in the Project, subject to further
review (Map 11,111).
21.       Jussara-Londrina.  The permanent way has to be improved along this
section of the Parana Export Corridor, which serves one of the most important
producing areas (Map 11,111).
22.       Cianorte-Umuarama, New Line.  This is a 50-km extension of an
existing line in western Parana, serving the soybean producing country and
facilitating exports. This item is tentatively included in the Project,
subject to further review (Map 11,111).
23.       Rehabilitation of the Railway Lines Leading to the Port of Rio
Grande. This program is for improving 540 km of lines in the hinterland of
the Rio Grande do Sul State. Rehabilitation of these lines is part of the
Export Corridor Program and is well under way. All the works are to be
completed in 1976 (Map 11,111).
24.       Philipson-Canabarro Realignment.  This 29-km shortcut would, like
the following items, facilitate grain exports from the hinterland of the Rio
Grande do Sul to the deep sea port of Rio Grande. It is part of the State
Railway Master Plan Study, which was recently completed (Map 11,111).
25.       Dilermando de Aguiar-Sao Gabriel, New Line.  This 70-km long new
section would shorten the distance run by north-south trains in Rio Grande
do Sul, avoiding the detour through Cacequi (Map 11,111).
26.       Realignments along the Cacequi-Rio Grande Line.  The three follow-
ing realignments are also part of the Export Corridor Program for the State
of Rio Grande do Sul:
(i)  Tiaraju-Von Bock, 44 km, to be completed in 1975;
(ii)  Sao-Sebastiao-Hulha Negra, 66 km, to be completed in 1975;
(iii) Herval-Pelotas, 85 km, to be completed in 1976 (Map 11,111).



ANNEX 4
Page 5
(c) Other
27.       Access to the Port of Aratu.  This small railway spur (15 kri) to
Aratu (the industrial port of Salvador) is to be completed in 1975 (Map 11,109).
28.       Araguari-Pires do Rio Realignment.  This realignment will replace
the existing line - 62 km longer and with very poor characteristics - and will
thereby remove the major remaining obstacle to the traffic between Sao Paulo,
Rio and Brasilia. (Map 11,110).
29.       New Line to Cantagalo.  This 70-km long spur could be built to link
the limestone and cement producing area around Cantagalo to the main network
at Nelo Barreto. This item is tentatively included in the Project, subject
to further review (Map 11,110).
30.       Miscellaneous Local Realignments.  On lines with important traffic,
minor realignment can bring about a better utilization of the locomotives and
rolling stock, thereby increasing the capacity of the line.
31.       Santo Eduardo-Vitoria Realignment.  This 165-km long realignment
would replace the existing 253-km long poorly aligned line. When the final
engineering is completed and when the plans for the steel projects in Vitoria
are firmed up, the feasibility of the Santo Eduardo-Vitoria realignment should
be rechecked (Map 11,110).
32.       Iacu-Mapele Realignment, and Other Major Realignments on the Iacu-
Montes Claros and Maceio-Salvador Sections. Construction of the 270-km long
realignment from Iacu to Mapele and major realignment works along the Iacu-
Montes Claros (814 km) and Maceio-Salvador (850 km) sections would basically
serve two objectives: (a) rehabilitating the rail link between the Northeast
region and the rest of the country and (b) improving transport conditions
for both inputs and outputs of the petrochemical and cement industries around
Salvador (Map 10,109). Only the more urgent works are tentatively included
in the Project.
33.       Roca Sales-Passo Fundo, New Line.  This is a major connecting link
between the northern wheat-producing region of Rio Grande do Sul and the state
capital, Porto Alegre. Construction was started by DNEF back in 1950 and has
been proceeding since, mostly with the Army's help. Completion is expected
in 1978 (Map 11,111).
34.       Consolidation of New Lines.  On many lines built by DNEF and oper-
ated by RFFSA, geological studies indicate the need for complementary civil
works such as widening cuts and land fills, building contention walls, etc.
This will be the case in 1975 and beyond for the General Luz-Mafra section
on the Southern Trunk Line (Tronco Sul).



ANNEX 4
Page 6
III. STATIONS AND YARDS
35.       Yard Improvements in Arara.  The Arara yard, with 26 km of lines,
will have a capacity for about 5,400 cars per day; traffic handled will con-
sist mostly of iron ore, coal and containers exported and imported through
the Rio de Janeiro Port.
36.       Yard and.Station Improvements.  This item includes the construction
of new, or the extension and remodeling of existing, yards, stations and
sidings, with the provision of equipment to improve train operations. About
50% of this investment will be made in the Central region in Rio, Sao Paulo,
Belo Horizonte, Volta Redonda and Campos, 30% will be made in the Southern
region and 20% in the Central-South and Northeast regions.
37.       New Station Building in Brasilia.  The sumptuous new station build-
ing now being built by DNEF in the capital, at a cost of Cr$ (1974) 19 million,
is a prestige work without real justification, but which is almost completed.
38.       Oil Handling Facilities.  This includes the construction of sidings
and access spurs to the following oil refineries or main petroleum derivative
distribution centers: Aracaju, Juazeiro, Brumado, Candeias, Araucaria and
San Jose dos Campos.
IV. SIGNALLING AND TELECOMUNICATIONS
39.       Miscellaneous Improvements in Signalling.  This is principally to
modernize the automatic signalling syster;i on those sections of the 6th and
9th Divisions' high traffic density lines, which are not covered by other
ongoing specific projects, such as MBR, Rio-Sao Paulo and Campo Grande-
Jundiai.
40.       Miscellaneous Improvements in Telecommunications.  With the instal-
lation of a telephone network to cover the railway system and the provision
of a communication system between the locomotives and the yards, train oper-
ations could be substantially improved.
41.       CTC between Rio and Sao Paulo.  This will increase the capacity of
the line, which will have to carry a large number of iron ore and steel
product trains as well as passenger trains. The engineering is expected to
be carried out in 1975 and the system installed in 1976.
42.       ATC Campo Grande-Jundiai.  This is to complete the installation of
Automatic Traffic Control on 104 km of lines of the 9th Division and, thus,
to improve the efficiency and the safety of operations in the Sao Paulo
Export Corridor (Map 11,113).
V.   MOTIVE POWER AND ROLLING STOCK
43.       One hundred and eighteen 2,250 HP broad gauge diesel electric
locomotives are being acquired, especially to cater for iron ore and steel



ANNEX 4
Page 7
traffic to be carried on heavy block trains in the Central region; 15 are
expected in 1974 and the rest will be delivered in 1975 and 1976.
44.        One hundred and ninety-five locomotives (gauge and HP to be deter-
mined); 10 shunters and parts for rebuilding 12 locomotives will be acquired
between 1974 and 1978 as part of the expansion and modernization programs of
the motive power fleet.
4'5.       Four thousand three hundred and ninety-one freight cars and 100
refrigerator cars will be acquired over the three years 1974-1976 in addition
to 1,850 hoppers already acquired in 1973. These wagons, like the locomotives
of item 32 above, are part of the Export Corridor Program and will be used
mostly in the Southern states for bulk cereals transport.
46.        Three thousand nine hundred and eighty-two freight cars were ordered
from several firms in Brazil (3,000) and in Yugoslavia (982) for delivery in
1974 and 1975.
47.        Two thousand four lhundred and ninety broad gauge wagons will be
acquired between 1974 and 1977 to meet the demands of the steel industry and
iron ore exports.
48.        Two thousand eight hundred and eight freight cars will be acquired
between 1974 and 1978 to meet the increased traffic demand in products other
than steel and cereals.
49.        Tlirty metallic passenger cars.  These are the only expenses for
new rolling stock for interior passenger transport. They will allow for
keeping certain services open when their elimination is neither possible nor
desired.
50.        Forty-eight passenger cars will be modernized between 1975 and
1977.
51.        Two thousand  nine hundred and seven freight cars will be modernized
between 1975 and 1977, at a rate of about 1,000 a year.  Many of the cars now
used are very old and obsolete and should be scrapped while others can be
moderni zed.
VI.  SUBURBAN SERVICES
(a) Rio de Janeiro
52.        Improvements in Permanent Way of about 400 km of Line.  Major
rehabilitation, including drainage works, new concrete sleepers and small
realignmients, will be done on about 100 km of line.  Fences and walls will
be built around the railway premises in order to prevent traffic evasion
and increase safety.



ANNEX 4
Page 8
53.       Stations and Yards.  The Don Pedro II Station will be remodeled
for exclusive use of suburban passengers, whereas Barrao de Maua will attend
the passengers of interior lines. The Deodoro and Sao Diego yards will also
be remodeled. In many stations, the train platforms will be extended in
order to permit operation of 12-car traiiis, and foot bridges will be built
(Alap 11,112).
34.       Signalling and Conriunications.  The program includes remodeling of
substations, substituting of transmission lines and a general upgrading of
all the power supply system, along withi the installation of CTC in various
sections.
Thirty New Unit Trains and MIodernization of 54 Unit Trains will
replace obsolete stock and provide added capacity.
(b) Sao Paulo
,fl.     Improvements in Permanent Way.  This includes major upgrading of
50 km of way and construction of 30 1m of new lines to double track the
Nlanoel Feio-Calmon Viana and Canpo Grande-MIaua sections and to add one more
line between the Roosevelt station and Sebastiao Gualberto.
s7.       Stations and Yards.  As in Rio preceding, improvemenits will include
the extensions of platforms and the building of walls and foot bridges, as
well as the remodeling and building of a few stations.
5{,.      Signalling and Communications.  This includes the electrification
of thie above new lines and the upgrading of power supply systems on the
existing system. ATC will be installed on the new lines and on the Roosevelt-
Mogi section.
59.       Forty new train sets will be acquired in 1975-1976.
VII. RAILWAY MODERNIZATION
uUi.      Track Rehabilitation Program.  This three-year program is in addition
to rehabilitation works carried out under special programs (e.g., MBR, para.
71 following; rehabilitation of tihe lines to Rio Grande, para. 23 preceding).
It provides for (i) upgrading about 400 km of track each year, (ii) repairing
or rebuilding bridges and other items, and (iii) equipment such as welding
sets, track aligning machines, ballast crushers, etc.
61.       Workshop Modernization.  This program is to concentrate motive power
and rolling stock maintenance in a few large modern workshops. It also provides
for acquiring a basic stock of spare parts.
62.       Electrification.  This item includes the first three years of a
program of electrification studies as well as the electrification of the
following sections: Suzano-Rio Grande da Serra and Santos-Piassaguera,



ANNEX 4
Page 9
where the expected traffic growth is such that the investment is considered
justified. It also includes, subject to further review, electrification of
the Rio-Sao Paulo and Ponta Grossa-Curitiba-Paranagua lines.
63.       Gauge Unification:  About 2,800 km of meter gauge line could be
converted into broad gauge because of their localization and the expected
traffic volumes. This is being studied now and is tentatively included in
the Project, subject to further review.
64.       Road Vehicles.  These include vehicles for door-to-door services,
pickups for the maintenance services and administration cars.
65.      MMBR.  Completion of the MBR project is expected to cost Cr 74 $
million in 1974 and Cr 75 $ 207 million beyond. This project is partly
financed out of the proceeds of Bank Loan 786-BR (first railway project).
December 1974



ANNEX 5
Page 1
BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT (RFFSA)
Doubtful Items Excluded from the Project
I.   New Lines and Realignments
(a) Industrial Corridors
(i) Japeri-Barra do Pirai Realignment (Map 11,110)
This 60-km long realignment would facilitate the train movements
between Rio and both Sao Paulo and Belo Horizonte in the steep section of the
Serra do Mar. Total cost is estimated at Cr$(1975) 321.5 million, and con-
struction was to be carried out from 1975 to 1978. This section is not con-
sidered to be a major bottleneck at present because most of the heavy iron
ore or steel traffic is export bound; track improvements would benefit passen-
ger traffic between Rio and Sao Paulo, but savings are not expected to match
the high cost of the works. A complete feasibility study should be made, based
on engineering cost estimates and a careful forecast of the passenger traffic
between Rio and Sao Paulo, before construction is initiated. A reassessment
should be made in 1975.
(ii)   Jeceaba-Pedra do Sino-Joao Aires Realignment (Map 11,110)
These two important realignments, 43 and 60 km long, respectively,
along the existing line from Belo Horizonte to Rio cannot be justified at
this stage. They would be completed, at the earliest, one or two years
ahead of the next Belo Horizonte-Volta Redonda connection, which is expected
to divert most of the tfaffic from the existing route. The expected savings
in speed and safety do not match the sizable investment costs of these works
(Cr$ (1975) 568 million).
(b) Export Corridors
Azurita-Itauna, Realignment (Map 11,110)
The extensive rehabilitation (Cr$ (1975) 114 million) of over 600
km of track between southern Goias and the port of Vitoria has not been
backed up so far by any reliable long term traffic forecasts. As a matter
of fact, the Export Corridor Study by SERETE, based on short term projections,
did not recommend any improvements on this line, which is considered to have
ample capacity. Even in the longer term, as economic expansion develops in
the center west states of Matto Grosso and Goias, most exports would probably
be directed to Santos through the FEPASA line and the Brasilia-Pires do Rio-
Araguari RFFSA line, which forms part of the Tronco Sul (Southern Trunk) and



ANNEX 5
Page 2
is under construction (Annex 11). The only rationale behind a very limited
rehabilitation program is the shipping of petroleum products to Brasilia
and the Center West states when the Belo Horizonte refinery comes into
operation, and this is included in the Project (Annex 4, item 14).
(c) Other
Iacu-Mapele Realignment, and Other Major Realignments on
the Iacu-Montes Claros and Maceio-Salvador Sections
(Map 11,109)
See Annex 11, paragraph 42.
November 1974



ANNEX 6
Page 1
BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT (RFFSA)
Program of Action, 1975-1979
A.   Quantitative Targets
1975    1976    1977    1978    1979
1.  Number of staff (end of years)  112,000 110,000 108,000 106,000 104,000
2. Working ratio (%)
After normalization                135     108      103      84       83
Without normalization              146     115      108     103       98
3. Operating ratio (Z) /1
After normalization                 -      -        108     106      105
Without normalization               -               134      129     124
4.  Availability of locomotives (%)        85       86      87       88      90
5.  Availability of freight cars (%)       86       87      88       89      90
6. Average net load per train (tons)
excluding MBR traffic              405     425       440    460      475
7. Net ton-km per wagon day in use
excluding MBR traffic            1,400   1,525    1,650  1,775   1,900
8. Wagon turnaround time (days)
excluding MBR traffic                9.7     9.5       9.3    9.1      8.8
9.  Kilometers of track rehabilitated   386        480      438    407      433
10. Number of freight cars
rehabilitated                      810   1,190    1,183    992        -
11.  Number of unit trains rehabilitated  18         18       18      -       _
/1   In arriving at the operating ratio, adequate provision for depreciation
will be made, based on revised values of fixed assets and realistic
asset lives.
B.   Tariffs
Studies for a new tariff structure based on costs and competition
will be carried out by the costing group (recently established in the Super-
intendency of General Coordination and Planning) with the assistance of
consultants. A new tariff structure for freight and passenger traffic will
be introduced by the end of 1975. The new structure for freight traffic will
incorporate selective tariff increases which will increase average freight
revenues per ton-km (excluding that from iron ore, for which long-term freight
contracts exist) by at least 20% in real terms above the level achieved during
1972, excluding subsidies. Passenger fares will be increased in the suburban
Rio de Janeiro service to cover the long-run variable costs and to eliminate
the need for Government subsidy of the service by the end of 1978. Other re-
visions of passenger fares and freight rates will be made from time to time
to achieve the financial targets referred to in section A preceding.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
In order to secure for RFFSA a portion of the benefits of the Steel
Expansion Plan which is commensurate with the volume of new investments to
be made by RFFSA to cater for steel and steel-related traffic, tariffs for
this traffic will be established from January 1, 1979 (when the new line from
Belo Horizonte to Volta Redonda is expected to be in service) to cover the
long-run variable costs, including all current expenses (except imposto unico
taxes), a reasonable share of fixed costs and depreciation and interest at
15% on all investments made necessary by the Steel Expansion Plan in order
to fully recover their capital costs over 25 years.
C.   Uneconomic Lines and Services
By the end of 1976, RFFSA will carry out a program of studies of
uneconomic lines and services defined in agreement with the Bank and will
furnish to the Bank a Program of Action to be taken with respect to such lines
and services for an exchange of views thereon promptly after the studies are
completed. The studies would be carried out as described in Annex 3 of this
report and focus on the sections referred to therein.
December 1974k



ANNEX 7
Page 1
BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT (RFFSA)
Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
A.   Objectives
RFFSA is engaged in implementing a large Investment Plan to increase
its capacity to carry significantly greater traffic in the near future. An
important element of the Plan is its effort to improve the operating efficiency
of its operations. To do this effectively and expeditiously, it will need
technical assistance in the following areas:
1.   Railway operations
(a) organization, concentration and modernization of workshops
(b) maintenance and renewal of permanent way
(c) train and station operations
(d) training
2.   Project management and control
3.   Suburban rail services
4.   Uneconomic lines and services
5.   Electrification
6.   Data processing
7.   Accounting
8.   Marketing
Each of the preceding assignments requires somewhat different expertise.
However, this would not preclude a consulting firm or individual consultants
offering its (or his) services in more than one of these areas if available
staff had the necessary background to do an effective job.
B.   Approach
The consultants would work closely with counterpart staff assigned
by the railways to work with them on a full-time basis. The counterparts
would take part in the assignment and become thoroughly familiar with the new



ANNEX 7
Page 2
procedures proposed and would assist with their implementation. The counter-
part staff should be experienced railway employees in early or mid-career,
who would eventually be responsible for some aspect of the new systems installed
by the consultants.
The assignments would normally be carried out in two phases:
(a) a fact-finding, review and recommendation phase;
(b)  an implementation phase.
During the implementation phase, the consultants may wish to install new
systems and procedures on a pilot basis in specific areas or regions, extend-
ing them gradually to a larger part, or the entire railway system, if justi-
fied.  This would be acceptable in certain cases.
C.   Scope of Services
The consultants will:
1.   Railway operations
(a) Workshop organization, concentration and modernization
(i)  define a general policy for equipment maintenance,
including criteria for establishing maintenance cycles;
(ii) organize workshop administration and procedures,
defining types of operations to be performed and
installing systems for work programming and control;
(iii) establish a system of workshop inventory control for
liaison with Purchasing and Stores Departments;
(iv) establish a workshop information system as a basis
for management decisions;
(v) review and revise plans for shop concentration and
modernization and assist in their implementation.
(b) Maintenance and renewal of permanent way
(i) establish procedures for programming track maintenance
and carrying it out;
(ii)  improve track maintenance techniques and methods,
including rail welding and tie treatment and the
organization of ballast supply and its transport;



ANNEX 7
Page 3
(iii) prepare procedures for programming renewals and
assist in the programming and execution of designated
renewal projects.
(c) Train and station operations
(i) establish freight and passenger schedules and
operating rules;
(ii)  improve train dispatching and safety regulations
and practices;
(iii) establish a system of through and blocked (classified)
freight trains;
-(iv)  improve yard and station operations;
(v)  develop procedures for updating the inventory of
rolling stock;
(vi) establish procedures for improving control of the
wagon and passenger fleet and motive power for
improved utilization and to effectively program
rolling stock maintenance;
(vii) assist in the establishment of an office of
organization and methods to study and develop
improved systems and procedures.
(d) Training
(i)  Review the manpower requirements, labor agreements
and work procedures and make proposals for training
programs needed to implement the recommendations,
taking into account the training now being carried
on in RFFSA.
2.   Project management and control
The consultants will:
(i)  assist RFFSA in selecting, engaging and supervising
consultants engaged in feasibility studies, final
engineering or supervision of projects in the Five-
Year Plan and in providing information and guidance
to these consultants;
(ii) assist RFFSA in coordinating and implementing all
aspects of the Five-Year Plan;



ANNEX 7
Page 4
(iii) assist in preparing reports on the Five-Year Plan
and in monitoring and controlling project costs
and progress;
(iv) assist RFFSA in the review and evaluation of consultants'
proposals and studies, plans, specifications, tender
documents, bidders' proposals, variation orders, pay
estimates, progress reports and similar documents, making
recommendations regarding action to be taken upon them
when appropriate.
3.   Suburban rail services
The consultants will:
(a) make recommendations to improve the quality and
reliability of suburban passenger train services
and assist in their implementation for a reasonable
period (i) for Rio de Janeiro and (ii) for Sao Paulo;
(b) make proposals for increasing the capacity of these
services, taking into account the potential demand
for such services.
4.   Uneconomic services
The consultants will define criteria and methodology for identi-
fying uneconomic lines and services and for studying and preparing
proposals for eliminating or reducing such services (Annex 3).
5.   Electrification
The consultants will review the case for electrifying a section
or sections of RFFSA's railway system and make recommendations
based on their findings.
6.   Data processing
The consultants will:
(i) establish a data base for a management information
system and as a tool for car distribution and control;
(ii)  prepare a master plan for the extension of the use
of computers by RFFSA, including training programs
for personnel;
(iii)  implement specific computer applications after
agreement with RFFSA and carry out the related training
programs.



ANNEX 7
Page 5
7.   Accounting
The consultants will design and install:
(i) a financial reporting system which meets the
business management needs of the railway; and
(ii) an operating budget system for the planning and
control of operating revenues and expenses and
a capital investment budgeting system for the
planning and control of capital expenditures.
'Ehe consultants will also assess the needs for training staff to
implement the financial reporting and budgeting systems and will prepare a
training proposal, including an assessment of training requirements and a
specific program to meet these requirements. After review and approval of
the training program by RFFSA, the consultants will carry it out. Consulting
assistance will also be obtained to extend to the regions the cost accounting
system recently established at headquarters and to assist in its use through-
out RFFSA generally.
8.   Marketing
The consultants will:
(i) assist RFFSA in determining the policy of the recently
created Commercial Division in the Superintendency of
Operations and in training its staff;
(ii) establish methods and procedures for short- and long-
term traffic forecasting and for marketing railway
services;
(iii) establish procedures for revising tariffs from time to
time, taking into account the cost of services and
competition from other transport modes.
December 1974



ANNEX 8
Page 1
BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT (RFFSA)
RFFSA's Department of Human Development
I.   Organization
The Department's present organization consists of three divisions:
1.  Professional Training
(a) technical section for training (employees)
(b) technical section for apprenticeship (minors: 14-18 yrs.).
(c) technical section for programing and control
2.   Selection and Adaptation
3.   Instrumentation (audio-visual equipment)
The Department has plans to alter its organization as follows:
1.   Education Division
(a) technical sections for training (employees)
(b) technical sections for industrial apprenticeship
(c) technical sections for basic instruction (high school level)
2.   Planning of Human Resources Division:
(a) technical section for research
(b)  technical section for programming and control
(c) technical section for audio-visual resources
3.   Selection and Adaptation Division:
(a)  technical section for psychometrics
(b) technical section for recruiting and selection



ANNEX 8
Page 2
The four regions will have similar structures, with fixed and
mobile training centers.
II. Financing
RFFSA's training program is financed from two sources:
(a) RFFSA's own budget
(b) funds proceeding from RFFSA-SENAI 1/ agreement
The total expenditures were:
1972                            Cr$ 22,682,336
1973                            Cr$ 27,550,784
1974 - (estimate)               Cr$ 30,000,000
Table 1 indicates, for 1973, the distribution of expenses by
region and by type of training.
Industrial Apprenticeship = for minors (14-18 years)
Training                   = for regular RFFSA employees
Applied Psychology         = selection and adaptation of trainees
Materials                  = didactic equipment and materials
Investment                 = new training centers
III. Operations
Table 2, for the years 1958-1973, gives RFFSA's personnel,
the number of trainees (in medium and basic level courses),
the cost of the program, and the cost per trainee.
November 1974
1/  SENAI is a semi-official training organization sponsored by the
Federation of Industry and Commerce, which, in 1972, trained 300,000
technicians in 235 centers all over Brazil.



BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAEY PROJECT (RFFSA)
Program for Personnel Trainingt 1973
(in Cr$)
Region             Industrial        Training           Applied        Materials  menvNst-      Adminis-          Total
Aoprenticeship                       Psychology                     n          tration
Northeast            763,537          1,511,944          260,516        49,o9hl   303,330          822,231       3,710,652
Center             5,193,912          2,183,509          955,384        71,805    656,816       1,897,499       11,258,925
Center South       1,179,221            8389092          147,781         6,511      15,200        411,746        2,598,551
South              1,355,742          1,299,925          379,188        32,490      54,240        489,329        3,610,964
General                                 361,200          177,840                                  706,946        1,245,986
Administration
Miscellaneous                         2,435,982                        150,000  2,239,722 1/       300,000       5,125,706
Totals             8,792,412          8,630,652       1,920,709        309,900  3,269,308       1,627,751       27,550,784
1/ Accumulated balances from preVious years.
CD
HICD



ANNEX 8
Table 2
BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT (RFFSA)
Training of Personnel
Cost of               Average
Year           Staff               Trainees            Training               Cost/Trainee
-----in current Cruzeiros)---
1958 (Dec.)    157,311                                    -                        _
1959           154,1Ol                 534               903,713                  303
1960           153,539               2,791             3,034,670                  172
1961           153,007               1,586             1,0111203                  251
1962           153,151               3,193             2,296,525                  246
1963           154h013               4,304             3,375,981                  147
1964           153,434               3,539             2,540,231                  1h2
1965           145,821               8,324             5,579,402                  165
1966           137f712              11898              5,788,011                  131
1967           132,533              12,392             6,900,761                  160
1968           127,P27              11,138             6,622,548                  210
1969           125,230              15,628           17,971,090                   162
1970          -123,862              13,964            129331,665                  196
1971           120,515              22,998           16,051,249                   193
1972           118j,045             16,716           23,679,591                   270
1973 (Aug.)    114,226              18,608           274550,784                   258
147,913          135,637,424                   201



ANNEX 9
BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT (RFFSA)
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
-    - - - - - - US$ million - - - - - - -
FISCAL                 ESTIMATED                    ESTIMATED
YEAR                   CUMULATIVE                   AMOUNTS
AND                    DISBURSEMENTS                UNDISBURSED
SEMSTER
1976
I                        12.9                           162.1
II                       36.9                           138.1
1977
I                        79.1                            95.9
II                      110.4                            64.6
1978
I                       150.7                            24.3
II                      175.0                              0
Proposed Closing Date: June 30, 1979
November 1974



ANNEX 10
Page 1
BRAZIL
.APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT (RFFSA)
Traffic Forecasts
A.   Freight
1.        Detailed traffic forecasts were made for each region and division
and for the main commodities in each region and are shown in Table 6 of the
report. The table below indicates, in very brief form, the breakdown of the
total traffic into (a) iron ore and steel-related products, (b) bulk cereals
in the Southern region and (c) other commodities for the years. 1973 and 1979;
it also shows the corresponding average annual growth rate.
Average annual
1973 (actual)   1979 (forecast)  growth rate in %
M ton  M ton-km  M ton  M ton-km  Tons         Ton-km
Iron ore and steel
related products           12.6   5,540    46.4    23,270   24.2          27.0
Bulk cereals in the
Southern region             2.8   1,460       6.4      3,580   14.8        16.1
Others                       19.7   7,000    28.5    12,140    6.4            9.6
Total                   35.1  14,000    81.3    38,990   15.0          18.6
2.         In spite of their unusually high level, these forecasts are reason-
able and attainable, subject to the following two main assumptions:
(a)  iron ore and steel figures depend on the timely completion of
the expansion of the steel industry. A slippage of one year
has been assumed for the steel production targets jointly
established with the Industrial Projects Department (Annex 11);
(b)  annual growth rates of 15-16% for bulk cereals traffic in
the south are contingent upon the continued growth of export
crops such as soybeans. All evidence indicates that sucn
expansion is likely to continue (Economic Report 355-BR,
June 1974, paragraphs 62-64), and the traffic levels are in
line with the Bank's agricultural forecasts.
3.        Due to the lack of adequate investments in the past, the poor qual-
ity of railway services and the lack of adequate rolling stock, demand for
railway services has been substantially suppressed in past years. Part of the
increases forecast above reflects a recuperation of traffic by the railroad
(for instance, 80% of steel products are now moved by truck at high cost).
In view of this, an average annual growth rate for all other products of



ANNEX 10
Page 2
9.6% (equal to the average growth rate of intercity freight traffic, Table
5 of report), is not unrealistic.   Moreover, the intermodal split for freight
transport will be affected only very gradually by the new emphasis on railroads.
The traffic increase expected - iron ore and steel products excluded - merely
reduces the average annual growth rate of truck-hauled cargo from 9% to
8.5%.
4.        The steel expansion plan will increase the 1973 production of steel
ingots more than three times by 1980. This expansion is consistent with a
sustained growth of the economy of the order of 7.5% to 8% during 1974-1985
(Annex 11). Higher oil prices, and Brazil's dependence on imported crude
for 75% of its needs for the foreseeable future, give high priority to self-
sufficiency schemes where the comparative advantages are in the country's
favor. Tne steel industry is an examiple of this situation, and the expansion
plan is geared to obtain and maintain self-sufficiency after 1977. A summary
of the iron ore and steel related traffic to be handled by RFFSA, including
M[BR traffic follows (see Table 6 for detailed forecasts).
Steel and Steel Related Traffic
1973                     1979
M ton    M ton-km         M ton   M ton-km
Iron Ore                 8.5     4,300            35.0    19,700
Coal                     1.2        170            3.0        420
Limestone                 .9        310            2.3        740
Steel Products           1.5        600            5.2      2,070
Other                     .5        160             .9        340
Total                   12.6     5,540            46.4    23,270
There is no economic alternative to rail transport for the traffic
volumes involved, and the lack of railway transport would, in effect, block
the expansion of the Brazilian steel industry.
5.        Through the Export Corridor Program, total exports of bulk grains
(corn and soybeans), meal and cakes, should reach 10 million tons in the
late 1970's. With the increased railroad capacity provided by the planned
investments, rail traffic for these commodities in the Southern region is
expected to more than double from 2.8 million tons in 1973 to 6.4 million
tons in 1979. Rail transport of other traditional products such as coffee,
rice, sugar and cotton has been forecast for each region and is generally
expected to increase, albeit at a much slower rate than for grain traffic,
in accordance with future production levels and the economics of rail versus
other types of transport.
B.   Passenger Suburban Services - Rio de Janeiro
6.        The population of the metropolitan area of Rio de Janeiro has been
growing consistently at an average rate of 6% per year over the last five
years. A decreasing trend in the personal income of city residents is observed



ANNEX 10
Page 3
as the distance from downtown Rio de Janeiro increases, which, in turn, makes
the population of the outlying areas wholly dependent on mass transportation.
Furthermore, the greatest concentration of job opportunities is in the core
of the city. This city form pattern is not likely to change, and any further
increase in the size of Rio de Janeiro will have a commensurate effect on the
demand for urban mass transport. iHowever, the rate of population growth in
greater Rio seems likely to slow down in the near future, and an average
yearly rate of increase of 2.5% has been used.
7.        The projections of passenger traffic in the area of influence of
the suburban rail services in Rio de Janeiro are the following:
Population (millions)
In greater Rio        bus        Rail      Car     Total trips
(million passengers/day)
1968              6.0             1.0          .4       .2         1.6
1973              6.8             1.1          .5       .3         1.9
1978              7.8             1.1          .9       .3         2.3
1980              8.2             1.2         .9       .4          2.6 /1
/1   Values do not add up due to rounding.
Tne increase in suburban rail trips is due entirely to the comparative
advantages of the improved suburban rail service offering:
(a)  an increase of commercial speeds of trains fron 34 km/hr
to 60 km/hr because of better power supply, elimination
of grade crossings and installation of CTC systems;
(b)  an increase in the capacity of the trains under peak con-
ditions, at least by 25%-., because of an increase in the
length of station platforms to allow the use of 12 unit
trains;
(c) better frequency of service due to the introduction of
CTC systems and line reinforcements which will increase
by 100% the line capacity for suburban trains in and out
of downtown Rio de Janeiro;
(d)  an increase in reliability and comfort as a result of
improved unit availability and maintenance standards,
including interior lighting, air conditioning, working
doors and windows, and elimination of train breakdowns.



ANNEX 10
Page 4
C.   Suburban Services - Sao Paulo
8.        Sao Paulo is by far the fastest growing metropolitan area in
Brazil. Its population has nearly doubled every 10 years, reflecting the
accelerated industrial development that has taken place in the region.
Average salary incomes continue to be the highest in Brazil for all labor
and are likely to remain the main attractive force for further migration
into metropolitan Sao Paulo. Further population growth of Sao Paulo will
occur with further growth of the Brazilian economy. However, the complexity
of the problems created by previous growth, and the size of the current popu-
lation base, should tend to a lower rate of growth for greater Sao Paulo than
in the past. The rate used for the projections up to 1980 is 2.8% per year.
The population trends are as follows:
Year                 Population (Millions)
1950                           2.7
1960                           4.8
1971                           8.1
1980                          10.4
9.        In relative terms, suburban rail traffic in Sao Paulo has
decreased. In the face of continuous urban growth, the volume of passengers
transported has remained stationary over the last four years in both Divi-
sions. The 6th Division has experienced a drop of paying customers, but
ridership has remained the same. This situation is the direct result of
both lack of line capacity and improvements in levels of service.  The
modal split, used for commuting trips, was established by the Sao Paulo
Metro Study, based on a sampling performed in 1967, which is the following:
Mass transit (bus and rail):                      65% of total trips;
Individual transportation (cars and taxis):       35% of total trips.
-The investments in the 6th and 9th Divisions are unlikely to modify the
current modal split; any diversion of passengers from individual forms of
transportation to rail services can be expected to be marginal, and the -
increases in rail ridership will come at the expense of increases in bus
transport that would otherwise have taken place. The traffic projections
for commuter trips in the area of influence of the 6th and 9th Divisions
are the following:



A.NNEX 1 0
Page 5
Population (millions)
In Greater Sao Paulo    Rail    Bus    Car         Total trips
(Million passengers/day)
1968                 6.2             .20     1.00    .50           1.7
1973 (*)             8.6             .35     1.20    .85           2.4
1978                 9.9             .55     1.20    .90           2.7
1980                10.4             .60     1.30   1.00           2.9
(*) Estimated
D.   Intercit  Passenger Traffic
10.       Between 1965 and 1972, intercity passenger traffic declined 50%
from 5.4 to 2.7 million pass-km. This is due to the very strong competition
of bus and air transport, which provides faster, more comfortable and more
reliable service. Except in limited cases, intercity passenger traffic can-
not at present be served adequately or economically by rail because passenger
numbers are small and the geometry of the line and condition of the track do
not permit the speeds that would make rail transport competitive with other
modes. Traffic is expected to decrease further for the following reasons:
(a) as more secondary roads are built and paved, buses are going to capture
an increasing share of the rail traffic; (b) passenger rail fares should be
increased to cover variable costs, and this would reduce traffic levels; and
(c) investments to improve the quality of service are not economically feasi-
ble and will be avoided, adding, therefore, to the disincentives of rail
transport. It is not believed that the higher fuel prices and the corres-
ponding savings of rail versus road transport would significantly offset the
existing disadvantages of passenger rail transport in Brazil. The Rio-Sao
Paulo traffic, however, is expected to increase, due to the ongoing moderni-
zation effort. New train sets have already been acquired which can provide
a faster and more comfortable service than that by road. Traffic forecasts
have been made on a regional basis to account'for regional differences (Table
7 of the report). Total intercitv passenger traffic is expected to decrease
about 4% per year up to 1979.
November 1974



ANNEX 11
Page 1
BRAZIL
Economic Justification of the Items in the Project
A.   Introduction
1.        For the economic justification, all items in the Project have been
allocated to the five following categories (Table 8 of report):
(a) Iron ore and steel-related investments;
(b) Motive power, rolling stock and permanent way, not related to the
Steel Expansion Plan;
(c) Suburban passenger services in Rio and Sao Paulo;
(d) New lines for agriculture and other developments; and
(e) Other miscellaneous investments.
This annex presents a separate economic justification for each category. New
lines for agriculture and other developments are individually justified. Para-
graph 37 of this annex presents a consolidated economic rate of return for
the total Project, based on the categories' returns.
2.        The above categories are separate and exclusive although some
items could belong to one or another category (for example, yard improvements
in Arara, the industrial port of Rio de Janeiro, could be in A or B). In these
cases, in order to avoid any double counting of costs and benefits, the cost
of the corresponding item was prorated to the various categories to which it
belongs according to the type and amount of benefits it will generate (in the
case of the Arara yard, 70% of its investment cost was charged to A and 30% to
B, in accordance with the estimated breakdown between the steel and iron ore
related traffic and other traffic handled by the yard, Table 8 of report).
3.        In the Central region of RFFSA, practically all rail investments
are linked to Brazil's Steel Expansion Plan. The benefits of the Plan are
expected to be sizable, but, assuming they could be fully quantified, they
cannot be split and allocated for the purpose of justifying the railway
investments. Therefore, based on forecast ore and steel industry-related
traffic, tariff rates were calculated which would cover railway costs and
yield an acceptable economic return on the investment (para. 4 following).
These rates are such that they can be paid for transporting raw materials
and finished products without making proposed investments in the steel indus-
try uneconomic or financially unsound. All other categories in the Invest-
ment Plan are justified on the basis of total transport cost savings.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
B.   Economic Justification
(a) Iron Ore and Steel-Related Investments
4.        The investments required by the Steel Expansion Plan total Cr$ 7.4
billion (US$1 billion) between 1975 and 1978 (see Table 8 of report). As
stated in paragraph 2 preceding, the question is not only whether these
investments generate enough economic benefits but also whether a sufficient
portion of the benefits is retained by RFFSA. A tariff-setting policy, to
be applied to iron ore and steel-related traffic and based on the following
principles (Program of Action, Annex 6), is required:
(i)  long-run variable cost should be completely covered;
(ii) a reasonable share of overhead costs should be recovered;
(iii) capital costs should be recovered fully over 25 years with
interest at 15%.
The interest chosen reflects the high opportunity cost of capital in Brazil
and the expectation that the Project's return would, in any case, exceed the
opportunity cost of capital.
5.        Estimates of the tariffs of transporting iron ore by rail from Belo
Horizonte to Volta Redonda, the first stage in the Belo Horizonte-Sao Paulo
rail connection, and of transporting steel from Sao Paulo to various desti-
nations 200, 400 and 600 km away have been made. In calculating these costs,
interest on locomotives, railway wagons and track was included at 15%, and
a capital recovery factor of 15% over 25 years was included on all new infra-
structure investments (right of way, earthworks, bridges, tunnels, etc.) in
order to secure a fair share of the benefits of the steel expansion plan for
the railways.
6.        The latest costs of rails, locomotives and railway wagons were used
in estimating depreciation and interest, and other operating costs were based
on 1972 results adjusted to 1974 price levels. The cost of diesel fuel
excludes the imposto unico tax. The freight rate calculations are shown in
Tables 1, 2 and 3 of this annex and are as follows:



ANNEX 11
Page 3
Iron Ore                         Cr$           US$
Rate per ton Belo Horizonte to
Volta Redonda (432 km)                         23.78        3.40
Rate per ton-km                                    .0551        .0o079 
Steel (from Sao Paulo)
Rate per ton     200 km                          13.73        1.96
400 km                         26.25         3.75
600 km                         38.76         5.54
Rate per ton-km  200 km                           .0687         .0098
400 km                          .0656         .0094
600 km                          .0646         .0092
The current RFFSA freight rates in US$ equivalents are as follows:
Iron ore (432 km haul)         US$2.52/ton
Steel    (400 km haul)         US$3.40/ton
7.        The tariffs required for iron ore to yield a 15% return on the new
Belo Horizonte-Volta Redonda line are estimated to be some 35% above current
rates. Rates for steel are expected to be about 11% above the current level.
The Industrial Projects Department agrees that rate increases of this
magnitude could be borne without making investments in steel expansion un-
viable either from an economic or financial viewpoint.
(b) Motive Power, Rollin~g Stock and Permanent Way not Related to the
Steel Excpansion Plan
(i)  Motive Power Acquisition Program
8.        On the assumption that the 195 locomotives to be acquired will be
broad gauge, the expected locomotive inventory at the end of 1978 is given
in Table 4 of this annex, together with the estimated 1979 locomotive require-
ments which were calculated from 1978 traffic forecasts and estimates of the
utilization of this equipment in the various railroad services (suburban
passenger services, intercity passenger services, mixed trains, freight trains,
yard services and service trains). The utilization figures (locomotive-km
per year) are expected to increase as shown in Table 1 of the report, and
these increases are considered to be realistic.  Table 4 of this annex
indicates that there will be approximately as many broad gauge locomotives
as required but a surplus of metric gauge locomotives. However, by 1979,
traffic increases will absorb most of the excess meter gauge diesel locomotives.
The results of the calculation indicate clearly that the 195 locomotives of
unidentified type will have to be broad gauge locomotives.   The situation
should be reviewed again to take advantage of the latest traffic developments
before the locomotive program is revised further.



ANNEX 11
Page 4
(ii) Freight Car Acquisition ProRram
9.        Based on the current procurement program, the car fleet on hand
by the end of 1977 would be as shown in Table 5 of this annex. Based on
1978 traffic forecasts, on the new sizes of wagons to be acquired and certain
assumptions concerning freight car performance, the number of freight cars
needed to cater for 1978 traffic was estimated. Table 5 of this annex shows
the results of the calculations based on the assumptions made. For example,
wagon-km per wagon-day traffic is expected to increase, due principally to
a large increase in block train operations where the distance traveled per
day per wagon is large (e.g., MBR trains, 307 km per day). The analysis
shows that there will be a surplus of wagons for meter gauge traffic but
there will be a shortage of broad gauge wagons, especially of hopper cars
for iron ore traffic. The program should be reviewed before more orders for
freight wagons are placed to take traffic developments and the gauge unifi-
cation program into account. In addition to the 2,907 old wagons to be
rehabilitated in the years 1975-1977, an estimated 4,000 wagons are to be
scrapped, and this has been allowed for in the calculations in Table 5 of this
Annex. The wagon acquisition program should be reviewed annually to take all
these factors into account.
(iii) Combined Justification of Motiv_e Power., Rolling Stock and
Permanent Way Program not Related to the Steel Expansion Plan
10.       This program includes items which maintain the capacity of the
present system rather than increase it, e.g., modernization of 2,907 freight
cars is generally aimed at maintaining the capacity of the existing fleet.
The track rehabilitation program consists of improving transport conditions
by replacing rails, ties and switches and by doing minor local repairs. It
therefore includes a sizable part of track maintenance needed, in any case,
to keep the existing lines in operation, in addition to capacity-increasing
investments such as major realignments or increasing the weight of the rail.
For the purpose of the economic justification, all items in this category
were therefore classified as (a) renewal type investments and (b) capacity
increasing investments. The cost of each item or part thereof was then
allocated to the corresponding sub-category.
11.       The continuation of the railroad freight operation in Brazil justifies
the renewals included in category (a) provided they relate to that part of
the system which is economically viable. As Table 9 of the report indicates,
the average cost of moving existing traffic by rail is less than by road, and
this difference will increase markedly as traffic increases. The fixed costs,
which are expected to remain almost constant in absolute terms, will be spread
over a much larger traffic, and their share on each ton-km of traffic will
therefore decrease substantially. Trucking costs exclude highway capital and
maintenance costs since these costs are not readily available. Differences
between rail and trucking costs are there-fore conservatively estimated.
Nevertheless, they indicate that maintaining the existing assets on those
parts of the rail network which carry the bulk of the traffic, as provided by
the Project, is justified.



ANNEX 11
Page 5
12.       Without the capacity-increasing investments of category C, the
expected rail traffic increase would certainly not materialize, and, in fact,
as the plant deteriorates, the traffic would probably decrease under the road
competition. It has been assumed conservatively that, without the invest-
ments, the present level of traffic could be maintained, and, therefore,
savings in road versus rail transport costs have been computed only for the
expected traffic increase over the 1974 level. Moreover, since the Project
is expected to lower the average rail transport costs, this added benefit
was also considered for the existing traffic (Table 6 of this Annex).
13.       For the rate of return analysis of this category, the costs of
capacitv-increasing investments appear at their actual value in the invest-
ment cost stream of Table 6, whereas the renewal costs are included in the
form of depreciation and interest in the long run variable costs used for
computing the benefits. In order to avoid any double counting of costs, the
following two main assumptions have been made: (a) most of the newly acquired,
specialized rolling stock and motive power are going to cater to the traffic
increase in bulk cereals, fertilizer, etc., and are therefore considered as
capacity-increasing investments. As a result, depreciation and interest on
rolling stock and motive power have been excluded from the long run variable
costs for the computation of savings accruing to the traffic increase; (b) only
half the track rehabilitation program is considered as a capacity-increasing
investment and appears in the investment cost stream. The other half, corres-
ponding to replacement of existing track, is included in the long run variable
cost in the form of depreciation and interest on the track elements.
14.       Since many investments to increase rail capacity have been made in
1974, considering only the new "projecti" investments to be carried out between
1975 and 1979 would probably overestimate the rate of return of this category
because past investments are treated as sunk costs. In order to test the
sensitivity of the rate of return to this sunk cost element, the analysis was
carried out for two different initial project investment dates: 1974 and 1975.
Variations of the rates of return under cost increases and benefit decreases
were also analyzed. The following results justify the investments in all cases.
Rate of Return
15% Increase   25% Decrease
Base      in Costs      in Benefits
1.   Project investments only (1975-1979)    33              30             26
2.   1974 sunk costs included                   28           25             22
(c) Suburban Services in Rio and Sao Paulo
15.       RFFSA provides all rail commuter services to the suburbs of Rio de
Janeiro (Map IBRD 11,112) as well as the commuter services to all suburbs to
the east and northwest of the "Estacao de la Luz" in Sao Paulo (Map IBRD 11,113).
In both cities, the suburban rail services complement and support the services
to be provided by the metro system currently under construction. In bothi Sao



ANNEX 11
Page 6
Paulo and Rio, most passengers of suburban rail services are low-salaried
workers wholly dependent on mass transport to reach their places of work.
The planned investments in these services are intended to better utilize exist-
ing infrastructure and right-of-way and to improve the generally poor level
of service of current operations. Thus, the improvement to suburban rail serv-
ices will tend to ease mass transport problems while Metropolitan Transport
Studies are carried out in Rio under GEIPOT's coordination and in Sao Paulo
under the coordination of GEGRAN (Greater Sao Paulo Urban Planning Group). At
any rate, the complete results and policy recommendations of such studies are
years away, and an interim solution is urgently needed.
(i) Rio de Janeiro Suburban Rail Services
16.       The suburban rail services of Rio de Janeiro are overloaded and
face serious problems. The level of service is extremely low; at peak hours,
an average of 450 people travel in coaches with a normal capacity of 270-300
people. Trains either suffer breakdowns or experience delays because of
insufficient power. According to RFFSA's consultants, over 30% of all trans-
ported passengers do not pay. An average of five people die per month as a
result of falls along the right of way because of overcrowding of train
doors and platforms. Speeds are further reduced by level crossings and prac-
tically free access to the right of way. Under these conditions, the suburban
railway services in Rio de Janeiro transport 585,000 passengers per working
day. Although more difficult to measure accurately, the suburban bus services
currently transport over 1.1 million passengers per working day in the area
of influence of the suburban railway.
17.       The investments, totaling Cr$(1975) 940 million considered in the
Project amount to an interim solution. They would absorb most of the increase
in mass transport travel from the suburbs in the area of influence of the
lines to the hub up to 1979 through improvements in the level of service
(speed, reliability, comfort) and general upgrading of the physical condition
of the services. In addition to the economic benefits quantified below in
paragraph 20, the improvement of the suburban services will help prevent
further urban congestion at the center of Rio de Janeiro. It is doubtful
whether the inner city grid could absorb a further increase of road traffic
without serious effects on pollution levels, congestion and city form.
18.       Cost Benefit Analysis.  The economic evaluation of the improvement
in suburban rail services does not attempt to quantify the following benefits:
-    avoidance of further urban road congestion;
-    avoidance of additional air pollution from buses and cars;
-    reduction in the number of accidents and deaths in railway services;
-    reduction of travel time for rail passengers.
The investments are assumed to be spaced in equal installments from 1975
through 1978.  Economic benefits have been computed as cost differentials



ANNEX 11
Page 7
between bus vs rail unit costs for suburban services, comparing the situation
with the Project against the situation that would prevail without it. Further-
more, althouglh not all the line capacity will be utilized by 1978, total rider-
ship has been kept at its 1978 level, or 950,000 passengers per day. This is
due to the need beyond 1978 to provide additional rolling stock, to coordinate
and create feeder bus services to suburban rail stations, and to expand the
Don Pedro II and Deodoro stations, all of which are required to accommodate
suburban rail passengers beyond the projected 1978 demand. This need for
additionial investments rules out from this evaluation the economic benefits
of ridership levels above 950,000 passengers per day.
19.       The cost of bus transport in Brazil is estimated at Cr$ .05 per
pass-km, which does npt include the provision of infrastructure. Suburban
rail transport, on the other hand, has an economic cost of Cr$ .026 equiv-
alent per pass-km. The lifetime of investments has been estimated at 20
years and the average trip length at 25 km.  On these premises, the rate of
return of the investments involved is 39%X, and the first year benefit is
28%' .
20.       The cost of bus transportation being sensitive to fuel prices
introduces an element of uncertainty on the benefit side. A sensitivity
analysis of both costs and benefits has been performed as follows:
15% increase       25% decrease
Base           in Costs          in Benefits
Rate of Return                39              32                  26
and shows the set of investments in the suburban rail services of Rio de
Janeiro to be justified, even when a substantial portion of the benefits have
not been quantified (para. 18 preceding).
(ii) Sao Paulo Suburban Services
21.       The suburbs of Sao Paulo are served by three electrified lines.
These lines are operated separately, one by FEPASA and the other two by
RFFSA's 6tlh and 9th Divisions (Mfap 11,113). The investments in this Project
for Sao Paulo Suburban Rail Services apply to RFFSA's lines. These lines,
both broad gauge, provide quite different services.
22.       The 6th Division serves a low-income area, starting from Roosevelt
staitioin on the mainline to Rio de Janeiro and the Poa Variante.  The trains
in use are similar to those being used in Rio de Janeiro, with many of thle
same problems. Except for the Roosevelt station, passenger facilities are
rudimentary, checking of tickets rare, rolling stock availability low,
vandalism usual, and, in spite of serious peak hour overcrowding, the number
of paying passengers has declined.



ANNEX 11
Page 8
23.       The 9th Division serves industrial and residential neighborhoods
on both sides of La Luz Station; the population served has a higher average
income than that served by the 6th Division.  Levels of services are much
higher, rolling stock is well maintained, stations are satisfactory, and,
even at peak hours, overcrowding does not seem excessive. Ridership has
stabilized at around 52 million passengers per year, indicating that, unless
a further increase in level of service takes place, the relative importance
of suburban rail will continue to diminish in the areas served by the 9th
Division.
24.       Commercial speeds in both 6th and 9th Divisions are of the order of
35 to 40 km/hr and train capacities are 2,400 and 2,000 passengers, respective-
ly. By adding and replacing rolling stock, increasing commercial speeds from
38 km/lhr to 48 km/hr, and increasing the frequency of service by means of CTC
systems in the 6th Division and display signal systems in the 9th Division,
a sizable contribution will be made toward alleviating Sao Paulo urban trans-
port needs.
25.        Cost Benefit Analysis.  The unit costs and savings used in the
analysis, as well as the rate at which the total of Cr$(1975) 460 million
is invested, are the same as in the case of the Rio de Janeiro suburban
system (paras. 18 and 19 preceding). The overall level of rail ridership
has been forecast as much lower than that of Rio due to:
-    the preponderance of car and bus traffic in Sao Paulo;
-    existence of urban expressways;
-    a city form crossed by radial rail corridors.  (This prevents
a unidirectional concentration of flow toward the core of the
city, as can be observed in Rio de Janeiro, and facilitates
bus and private car competition.)
On the conservative premises above, the results are as follows:
15% increase       25% decrease
Base           in Costs           in Benefits
Rate of Return                 28               23                   19
First Year Benefit             21                -
(iii) Combined Suburban Services
2o.       Combining all investments in suburban services and their benefits,
the resulting rate of return is 34%/' and the first year benefit 25%.  As
in the case of Rio de Janeiro, the benefits indicated in paragraph 18 have
not been quantified.
(d) New Lines Related to Agriculture and Other Developments



ANNEX 11
Page 9
Sao Paulo Corridor
27.       Ribeirao Pires-Sao Bernardo-Jurubatuba (Sao Paulo Rail Link).  The
link would connect the main industrial area of Sao Paulo, the ABC zone, named
after the three industrial counties of Santo Andre, Sao Bernardo and Sao Caetano,
to the existing rail network (Map 11,113). It would thus provide a much needed
alternative to trucking for many of the automotive and manufacturing plants
of the area and it would also constitute a bypass for all the long distance
heavy traffic between Belo Horizonte and Rio de Janeiro on the one hand, and
the Santos industrial zones on the other. Benefits would be mostly savings
in transportation costs for products now being carried by road and savings
to existing passenger and freight traffic due to decreased congestion, in-
creased efficiency and faster transport time. Quantifiable benefits yielded
a rate of return of over 36% at the time the study was made. 1/ With the
increased congestion and pollution in the Sao Paulo area and the higher fuel
prices, the priority and urgency of this investment appears even greater now,
and its inclusion in the Project is warranted. Construction is expected to
start in early 1975 as soon as the engineering project is completed.
28.       Access to the Santos Left Bank.  This is a 24-km spur connecting
the newly expanding left bank of the Santos Port with the existing railway
lines between Sao Paulo and Santos. This item is included in the Santos
Port project, financed under Bank loan 756-BR. Because of very substantial
cost increases and changes in the scope of the Project, the economic feasi-
bility was re-examined in 1973 and reconfirmed subject to reductions in the
Project design. The engineering studies are now being revised and construction
is expected to start in early 1975. The railway will initially carry fertilizer
and container traffic between the left bank terminals and the Sao Paulo area.
If the Sao Paulo sugar export terminal is built on the left bank as expected,
bulk sugar will also become an important commodity. Benefits derived from
direct savings in transportation costs alone yield an economic rate of return
of 12% without sugar and 15% with sugar. These rates are conservative since
other real benefits were not quantified such as the avoidance of increased
congestion on the right bank and the City of Santos and the avoidance of
expensive highway maintenance and overhaul costs due to heavy truck traffic
to the left bank.
29.       Third Rail Sao Paulo-Santos.  This is to provide an alternative
broad gauge access to Santos along the existing one-meter gauge Sorocabana
line of the FEPASA system. The new rack railroad that has been recently
completed to replace the old cablecar system in the Serra section of the
broad gauge Santos-Jundiai RFFSA line is still being tested following a
locomotive accident that occurred in 1973. Although operations are expected
to improve, the Brazilian Government does not consider the system reliable
enough in view of the prime economic importance of this rail link which sup-
plies, inter alia, the Cosipa steel plant with the iron ore originating in
1/   Feasibility Study, 1970, by Asplan-Parsons, Brickeroff, Quade and Douglas.



ANNEX 1 1
Page 10
the Central Region. Although, on capacity grounds, this broadening of the
gauge would not be needed before the late 70's when the rack railroad could
reach saturation, the increased safety and the flexibility of operation pro-
vided by a dual gauge system justify carrying out this work earlier than it
would economically be justified.
30.       Paratinga-Piassaguera, New Line.  This is a 21-km rail link in the
Santos area which connects the Santos-Jundiai (RFFSA) line to Sorocabana
(FEPASA) lines. It also provides a meter gauge access to the Cosipa plant
and the left bank of the port of Santos. Construction started several years
ago and is partly financed out of the proceeds of the Santos Port loan
(756-BR). Conclusion of the 7 remaining km in difficult terrain with two
viaducts and a bridge is expected in 1976.
Parana Corridor
31.       Curitiba-Paranagua and Guarapuava-Cascavel.  Each of these links
is at one end of the export corridor leading from Cascavel, the center of a
rapidly expanding soybean-producing area in western Parana, to the port of
Paranagua (Map 11,111). They are considered jointly because, on the one hand,
the new line from Curitiba-Paranagua would hardly be justified to replace
the existing one with limited capacity without the additional traffic generated
upstream, and, on the other hand, the existing line does not offer enough
capacity to cater for this additional traffic. The feasibility was demon-
strated first by the Brazilian Consortium SERETE/SPL in its 1973 study of the
Parana and Santa Catarina rail network 1/ and confirmed by ENGETRAN/SOFRERAIL.
Based on revised, more conservative cost estimates and traffic projections,
the economic analysis was updated by the Bank. None of these studies take
into account the potentially important but still undefined transport demand
generated by the construction in the late 70's of the 12,600 MW Itaipu hydro-
electric plant, on the border with Paraguay, some 200 km southwest of Cascavel.
The main savings, thus considered, result from avoiding trucking large quantities
of bulk grain from the production areas to the port on distances exceeding
500 km. The highway maintenance cost associated with the heavy truck traffic
has not been taken into account in the case where the railroad lines were not
built. The combined economic rate of return for the joint investment is
therefore estimated conservatively at 15%. Traffic volumes have also been
kept at low levels because of capacity limitations on an intermediate link
of the chain (Guarapuava-Eng. Bley). These limitations will disappear when
the track rehabilitation program now under way on the Guarapuava-Eng.
Gutierrez section is completed and when the next section, Eng. Gutierrez-Ponta
Grossa is improved or, alternatively, the bypass line Eng. Gutierrez-Eng. Bley
is built. The choice between these two alternatives and the optimal construc-
tion timing will need to be studied more carefully when the engineering studies
are completed before works actually start (Annex 5 and Section C of this
Annex). The Brazilian Government attaches high priority to the two new lines
1/   Estudo do Sistema Ferroviario.  Estados do Parana e Santa Catarina.
Edital do 01 .CPC/A71, March 1973.



ANNEX 1 1
Page 11
and expects to proceed witlh construction immediately after the engineering
project is completed. because the economic case is good and expected to
remain so even if substantial cost overruns were to occur, it was agreed
during negotiations that the 13ank would not request a revised feasibility
study, provided RFFSA consult and provide the Bank with updated, engineering-
based cost estimates and traffic forecasts before the works are carried otut.
Engineering studies for Curitiba-Paranagua are under way and to be completed
by end of 1974; those for Guarapuava-Cascavel are expected for completion by
mid-1975.
Rio Grande do Sul Corridor
32.       Five Realignments.  With soybean production of about 4 million tolns
in 1974 against 2.9 in 1973 and exports of soy products (coarse grain, meal
and pellets) of respectively 2.5 million and 1.9 million, Rio Grande do Sul
is the major soybean producing state in Brazil, and expansion prospects are
very good. Removing transport bottlenecks and lowering transport costs are
the main objectives of the Export Corridor Program which, in the State of
Rio Grande do Sul, consists of rehabilitating sections in the hinterland of
the State (see Annex 4, para. 23) and realigning five sections along tlle trunk
line leading from Cruz Alta, the major soybean market center, to the Rio GrarLde
export port:
(i)  Philipson-Canabarro, a 30-km shiortcut substituting a difficult
section with gradients up to 3.9wO and minimum radius curves
of 90-100 m. Savings in operating costs resulting from a
much reduced running time and from large train loads (1,090
net tons instead of 650 net tons on the downhill run) yield
an estimated benefit cost ratio of 2.
(ii) Dilermando de Aguiar-Sao Gabriel. This 67-km long section
will shorten the distance run by north-south trains, avoiding
the detour througlh Cacequi. The benefit cost ratio is also
expected to be about 2.
(iii)  Tiaraju-Von Bock (44 kmi); Sao Sebastiao-lIulha Negra (66 kn);
lierval-Pelotas (85 km). These are three other "variants"
downstream from the preceding ones which were recommended
by the export corridor studies as the most urgent in view of
the particularly difficult characteristics of the existing
alignment. Construction is expected to be carried out
promptly and ternminated before 1977.
33.       Roca Sales-Passo Fundo, New Line.  This is a major connecting link
between the northern wheat-producing region of Rio Grande do Sul and the state
capital, Porto Alegre. Construction was started by DNEF back in 1950 and has
been proceeding since at a slow pace, mostly with the Army's help. The feasi-
bility of this investment was questioned in 1966 bv Coverdale and Colpitts,
consultants, who recommendled that a reassessment be made an(d that the line be
completed promptly, if justified.  Total investment has been estimated at
CrS 8'20 million, and Cr$ (1975) 450( million, or about half, is now included



ANTNEX I 1
Page 12
in the Five-Year Plan to complete the line.  This connection has recently been
restudied as part of the DNEF-finaince(d Rio Grande do Sul rail network study,
and its conclusion was found to be highly justified.
Other Lines
34.       Araguari-Pires do Rio Realignment.  Construction of this 166-km long
realignment by the 2nd Army Battalion started this year and is expected to
be concluded in 1976 at a total cost of Cr$ (1975) 282 million. Detailed
engineering was carried out by the Army, assisted by consultants and financed
by DNEF funds. This realignment will replace the existing line - 62 km longer
and with very poor characteristics - and will thereby remove the major remain-
ing obstacle to the traffic between Sao Paulo, Rio and Brasilia. No feasi-
bility study has been done. SOFRERAIL justified the investment with an eco-
nomic rate of return of 12% on the basis of traffic estimates prepared by the
Army Battalion. These estimates call for increases in traffic levels from
about 600,000 tons in 1970 to 2.7 million tons in 1980 and 4.8 million tons
in 1985. These figures seem to be overestimated and the economic justification
might therefore be questionable. However, construction is already well under
wav and the Government attaches high priority to this line which links the
Federal District with the economic centers of Brazil and, in particular,
supplies fuel products to Brasilia.
35.       New line access to Aratu.  This is a relatively minor investment,
CrS (1975) 45 million, for a 15-km long rail line linking the new industrial
center of Aratu near Salvador in northeast Brazil with the mineral berth of the
Porto de Fora.
(e) Other MLiscellaneous Investments
36.       There is no separate economic justification for these items, but
their cost has been included in the total Project cost for the computation of
the overall economic rate of return.
(f) Overall Economic Evaluation
37.       The overall economic evaluation of the Project was performed by
consolidating the costs and benefits of all investment categories evaluated
above. Care was exercised in defining subsystems with little or no overlapping.
This, in turn, was facilitated by RFFSA's particular traffic patterns and the
geograplhical locations of economic activity in Brazil. As a result, the con-
solidation of costs and benefits does not involve double counting of benefits.
The set of investments designated as Miscellaneous Investments could not be
allocated to any particular category and has been included in the overall
evaluation as an overhead which is, to some extent, instrumental in bringing
about all the benefits of the investment program. For a total investment of
CrS 16,934 million, the rate of return obtained is 19%,'; an increase in costs
of 25 and 40% would reduce the rate of return to 15% and 14',; and a 30% reduc-
tion of benefits would bring it down to 14'.'



ANNEX 11
Page 13
C.   Items Tentatively Included in the Project
(i) Eng. Bley-Eng. Gutierrez, New Line (Map. 11,111)
38.       As part of the Parana Export Corridor program, a new line is to be
built between Guarapuava and Cascavel, and also between Curitiba and Paranagua
para 31 above). The section between Curitiba and Eng. Bley is being substan-
tially upgraded. From Eng. Bley to Eng. Gutierrez, the present line goes
through Ponta Grossa and has a poor alignment, especially between Ponta Grossa
and Eng. Gutierrez. A direct link has therefore been envisaged between Eng.
Bley and Eng. Gutierrez, bypassing Ponta Grossa and thus reducing the distance
between these two points by some 70 km. However, since part of the traffic
would still transit through Ponta Grossa, the benefits of this shortcut
should be examined closely and compared with those generated by improving
the existing section of Eng. Gutierrez-Ponta Grossa. A feasibility study
should therefore be carried out and, if it proves viable, the conbtruction
of this new link should be phased with that of the upstream section, Guarapuava-
Cascavel.
(ii) Cianorte-Umuarama, New Line (Map 11,111)
39.       This is a 50-km extension of an existing line to Umuarama, a locality
in western Parana. Like the Guarapuava-Cascavel line included in the Project,
this new railroad section would serve the soybean producing country and facili-
tate exports. Presently, the economic case for the undertaking is weaker than
for the Cascavel line because of lower production and export levels. However,
this may change if the soybean production of southern Mato Grosso (Pantanal
area) increases as forecast, and if it is proven that road/rail exports along
Highway BR 163/487 to Umuarama is a cheaper alternative than via BR 376 to
Maringa or via BR 267 to Presidente Prudente on the Sao Paulo network. The
construction of a hydro complex at Guaira, west of Umuarama on the Parana
river, would also be a factor to consider. The feasibility study should there-
fore be updated when the engineering studies are completed.
(iii) Cantagalo Branch Line (Map 11,110)
40.       The Cantagalo branch line would serve a cement-producing area of
great potential. An entirely new traffic totaling 1.5 million tons (1.2 M
cement, .17 M fuel oil, plus other traffic) is expected to materialize by
1978 over an average length of haul of 270 km to Rio de Janeiro and Guanabara.
The branch line itself costs Cr$ 200 million (Table 8 of the report), but
other improvements to the Leopoldina lines will be required at an estimated
additional cost of Cr$ 30 million. The feasibility based on present cost
estimates and on the expansion plans of the cement industry in the area was
demonstrated in various studies, and an updating of the cost-benefit analysis
was done in the Bank, showing a 22% rate of return. The economic case for
the new line therefore seems well established and, after the detailed engi-
neering is completed, a checking of the feasibility would suffice to ensure
that the project is still fully justified.



ANNEX 11
Page 14
(iv) Santo Eduardo-Vitoria Realignment (Map 11,110)
41.       This 165-km long realignment would replace the existing 253-km
long poorly aligned line. Construction, costing about Cr$ (1975) 396 million,
would start in 1976 and terminate in 1978. Final engineering is contracted
and should be completed in 1975. In 1970, in a DNEF-financed study, the
consultants TRANSCON found the line to be economically justified provided
that a rail access to a cement factory be built and railway operations be
improved. SOFRERAIL remade a pilot feasibility study of this line in 1973
and found a very low return. However, based on new plans for the steel com-
plex in the Vitoria area, which will generate transport demand for limestone
and finished steel products, and on contracts for sugar transport to Vitoria,
RFFSA has decided to go ahead with the design and has obtained a preliminary
financing agreement with BNDE. When the final engineering is completed by
the end of 1975 and when the plans for the steel projects in Vitoria are
firmed up, the feasibility of the Santo Eduardo-Vitoria realignment should
be re-evaluated.
(v) Iacu-Napele Realignment and Other Major Realignments on
the Iacu-Montes Claros and Maceio-Salvador Sections (Map 11,109)
42.       Construction of the 270-km long realignment from Iacu to Mapele
and major realignment works along the Iacu-Montes Claros (814 km) and Maceio-
Salvador (850 km) sections would basically serve two objectives: (a) re-
habilitating the rail link between the Northeast region and the rest of the
country and (b) improving transport conditions for both inputs and outputs
of the petrochemical and cement industries around Salvador. Final engineering
for the Iacu-Mapele realignment is being contracted and is expected to be
ready by September 1975. Works on the other sections are also expected to
begin in 1976.  Total cost during the Five-Year Plan period is estimated at
Cr$ (1975) 943 million. A feasibility study of the realignment was prepared
in 1971 by the Brazilian consortium TRANSCON-ASTEP-TEMPO as part of a study
of the railway network in the state of Bahia. SOFRERAIL, which performed a
rapid updating of the economics in 1973, showed that, despite the new trans-
port flows generated by the industrial development around Salvador, the
feasibility of the investment would still be marginal. This conclusion would
a priori hold for the other two sections, which presently have lower traffic
levels. Traffic forecasts have recently been revised by the consortium
TRANSCON-ASTEP as part of the DNEF-GEIPOT study of the Northeast Railway
System and provide a sound basis for reformulation of the project. An updated
feasibility study should define the optimum level and timing of investments
necessary to improve the presently very bad traffic conditions. In view of
the undeveloped stage of the Northeast economy, this study should consider
the possible development impact of a better rail link between the main economic
centers of Brazil and the Northeast, and should investigate the possibility of,
and define the eventual economic benefits of, resorting to more labor-intensive
construction methods.



ANNEX 11
Page 15
(vi) Electrification Program
43.       With a view to reducing Brazil's dependency on foreign sources of
energy, the Government has embarked on a program to reduce fuel consumption
in the transportation sector and use alternative domestic sources of energy
such as hydro power.  The railway electrification program is one aspect of
this overall program. A feasibility study is under way, and should be com-
pleted shortly, which should define what investments should be made and in
what order. It should be reviewed by, and agreed with, the Bank before im-
plementation starts.
(vii) Gauge Unification Program
44.       This program has the long tenr  objective of standardizing the
gauge of Brazil Railways and, thus, lowering transportation costs by avoiding
transshipments and enhancing long distance hauls by rail. A feasibility
study is under way and expected to be completed soon. Preliminary results
show that such a program would be very expensive and should be implemented in
a piecemeal fashion, over a long time period (more than 10 years). A care-
ful review of the cost benefit analysis will be needed before the program is
started.
~iete-i-mer   i4



ANNEX 11
Table 1
BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT (RFFSA)
Estimated Long-Run Variable Cost and Total Cost of Iron Ore Traffic
Belo Horizonte - Volta Redonda
Rnri Statistics
Length of haul                                       432 km
Empty return                                         100%
Net train load                                       9,500 tons
Gross train load - loaded                           12,000 tons
- empty                            2,500 tons
Gross train load
including six
locomotives     - loaded                            12,500 tons
- empty                             3,000 tons
No. of wagons per train                              100
Turnaround                                           3 days
Locomotive-kn                                        5,184
Train-km                                               864
Net tn-km                                         ,10o4,000
Gross ton-km (including locomotives)             6,696,ooo
Wagon-km                                            86,40o
Wagon-days                                             300
Source: Bank estimates
July 1974



ANNEX 11
Table 2
BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT (RFFSA)
*
Estimated Long-Run Variable Cost and Total Cost of Iron Ore Traffic per Trip
Belo Horizonte - Volta Redonda
No. of        Cost per           Total
Units         Unit (Cr$)         Cost (Cr$)
Locomotive crew                  864            1.h1             1,218
Fuel and lubricants       6,264,ooo               .0053         33,199
Other locomotive costs         5,184            5.90            30,586
Train crew                       864             .976              843
Track costs               6,696,000               .o46o         30,802
Wagon costs - day                300           47.52            14,256
- km             86,400              .26           22,464
Terminal shunting                 36           70.00             2,520
Documentation                     10           27.00               270
Long-run variable cost                                         136,158
Add:  Share of overhead costs (10%)                             13,616
Add:  Return on investment on Belo Horizonte-Volta Redonda line
Cost (excluding rails) - Cr$ 3,000 million
Capital recovery factor (15%, 25 years) .1547
Annual cost to be recovered - Cr$ 464 million
Traffic capacity of line - 25 billion ton-km
Cost per ton-km - .01856
Cost for 4,104,000 net ton-km                             76,170
225, 944
Cr$        US$
Cost per ton            23.78       3.4o
Cost per ton-km            .0551     .0079
Current RFFSA
freight rate per
ton for 432 km haul                2.52
Comparable figures assuming 13% rate of return
Cost per ton            21.91       3.13
Cost per ton-km            .0507     .0072
* Includes depreciation and interest at 15% on renewable assets (locomotives,
freight wagons, track and yard investments)
Source: Bank estimates
July 1974



ANNEX 11
Table 3
BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT (RFFSA)
Estimated Long-Run Variable Cost and Total Cost of Steel Traffic
1972 Costs Adjusted to 1974 Prices
200 km Haul       400 km Haul            600 kmn Haul
Cost Item          Unit     No.of               No.of                 No.of
Cost     Units     Cost     Units       Cost       Units       Cost
Documentation           27.00         1    27.00         1       27.00          1      27.00
Terminal Shunting       20.00         4    80.00         4       80.00          4      80.00
Intermediate
Shunting               20.00         -       -          1       20.00          2      40.00
Wagon-km                   .26       360    93.60      720      187.20      1,080      280.80
Wagon-day               39.01          2.9 113.13        5.9   230.16            8.9  347019
Locomotive, train
& track costs           0.0154  24,000   369.60   L8,000       739.20     72,000   1,108.80
Long-run variable                          683e33             1,283,56              1,883.79
costs
Add: overhead costs 10C                     68.33               128036                188.38
capital recovery
factor                               278.40                556.80                835.20
1,030.06             1,968.72              2,907.37
Statistics
Gross wagon load:
-loaded                                   100 tons              100 tons              100 tons
-empty                                     25 tons               25 tons               25 tons
% empty return                              80%                  80%                    80%
Gross trailing ton-km                      24,000               48,0oo                 72,000
Net ton-km                                15,000                30,000                h5,ooo
Cost per ton      -cr$                     13.73                26.25                  38.76
-US$                     1.96                  3*75                  5.54
Cost per ton-km   -Cr$                        o687                .o656                  .0646
-US$                      .0098                 .oo94                 .0092
Present RFFSA tariff
per ton-km       -US$                                            .oo85                  oo85
Source: Bank estimates
July 1974



BRAZIL
APPRAISAL 01 A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT (RFFSA)
ESTIMATED LOCOMOTIVE REQUIREMENTS (1978)
Broad gauge                                                                                                  Meter and Blarro  Gauge
Suburban       Iotar.ity                                                                     Eapeotod        Sob-rbu         Intar-ity                                                                        IaPeotd
Pas.enger.     Passengers    Mixed        Freight       Servica       Yards       Total      Inventory       Pa.e.n.ar      Paar en Mers    Mixed       FreiSht        Servica       Yard.       Total        Inventory
1979                                                                                                              1979
Locoeotive-ke ('000)
Carroms  otorea                 40,647          1.258                                                          41,905                           260              100                                                              360
Auto etri.e.                                    1,538                                                            1,538                                         1,114                                                            1,114
Eteas,                                                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~306  56  362
Diesel                              534         1,218          749         37,755      1,427       11,232       52,915                          760            5,150       4,677       37,534          2,406      10,558       61,085
Elextrir                         ___              915                       2.242                                3.157                           52              195          72        1,043             75l                   1.437
41,191        4,929          749         39,997       1,427       11,232      99,515                        15072            6,559       4,749        38,883         2,481      10,614        64,358
Locoeotive-k. per
loruootive in
traff ic
Carroe gotorga                 124,000        124,000                                                          124,000                      100,000          100,000                                                          100,000
Adtoatgirs                                     92,000                                                          92,000                                         92,000                                                            92,000
BIem                                                                                                                                                                                   18,500                     12.000        17,608
Di8ce                           50,000        133,000      100.100        100,000    10,000         50,000      80,358                       50,000          133,00      100.000      100,000         50.000      50000        83,000
Electric                                       75,000                      75,000                               75,000                       75,000           75,000      75,000       75,000         75,000                    75,000
LaronotiveS in traffic
Carro. -otore-                      328            10                                                              338                             3               1                                                                 4
A.to otri.ea                                       17                                                               17                                            13                                                                13
Stsa                                                                                                                                                                                        17                          4           21
Diesel                               11            10            8             378         29          225         661                            16              39           47          375             49         212          738
ElectrIc                                           13                           30                                  43                             1                3           1           14              1                       20
1,059                                                                                                             796
Locogotives required
in *tock
Cartai  wotores                                                                                                    398          383                                                                                                   5             5
Autogotri.em                                                                                                        21            19                                                                                                 16            26
(80% availability)                                                                                                                                                                                                                 32             45
(677 availability)32                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4
Die.sl                                                                                                             734          728                                                                                                 820           883
(90% availability)
Electric                                                                                                        41                45                                                                                                 23            38
(90% availability)                                                                                              1,201        1,175                                                                                                896            997
Bourca: RFF8A and Bank eatieetee
Noveeber 1974






BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT (RFFSA)
Estimated Freight Car Requirements (1978)
Broad Gauge                                                     Meter and Narrow Gauge
I-on Ore, Coal and Steel Traffic                                              Bulk Agricultural
Other Iron                               Other          Total           Ffoducts, Fertilizer                          GRAND
MBR Iron Ore    (re and Coal       steel       Tontal     TEaffic      Broad gauge        sd Cement               Other       TDtal    TOTAL
A. Rectuirements in 1978
Traffic (1978)
Tonnage (millions)                              16.0             16.4            2.5        34.9         13.1        48.0                        9.9            14.1       24.0
Ton-km (billions)                                9.9              9.0            1.2        20.1          4.9        25.0                        5.3             6.2        11.5
Freight Car Performance
Average wagon load, loaded wagons (tons)        95.0             75.0           75.0        83.0         40.0         64.2                      54.0            28.0        34.9
Average haul (km)                              615.0            549.0          480.0       576.0        374.0       521.0                      535.0          440.0       479.0
% loaded wagons to total                        50.0             60.0           60.0        55.0         55.0         55.0                       50.0           63.0        57.0
Wagon-km between turnaround                  1,230.0            915.0          800.0    1,047.0         680.0        947.0                   1,070.0           698.0      840.0
Wagon-km per wagon day in traffic (km)         307.5            122.0          122.0       172.0         80.0        132.0                      120.0           70.0        88.0
Wagon turnaround (days)                          4.0              7,5            6.6         6.1          8.5          7.2                        8.9           10.0         9.5
Number of trips per wagon per year              91.0             48.0           55.0        60.0         43.0         51.0                       27.0  2/       36.0        33.1
Number of wagon loads                      168,500.0        218,700.0       33,300.0  420,500.0   327,500.0   748,000.0                    183,300.0      503,500.0  686,800.0
Number of wagons required in service         1,850.0          4,556.0          606.0    7,012,0       7,616.0    14,628.0                    6,790.0        13,988.0   20,778.0
Number of wagons reouired in stock 1/        2,056.0          5,063.0          674.0    7,793.0       8,463.0    16,256.0                    7,544.0        15,542.0   23,086.0
Service wagons reouired (4%)                                                                            700          700                                     1,000       1,000
Total 1978 reouirements              2,056            5,063            674       7,793       9,163       16,956                      7,544         16,542      24,086         41,042
B. Expected inventory end 1977 3/                     1,790            4,689            700       7,179       8,946       16,125                      8,800         18,996      27,796         43,921
C   (Shortage) Surplus                                 (266)            (374)            26        (614)        (217)        (831)                    1,256          2,454       3,710           2,879
/ Including 107 out-of service for repair.
2/ Eight month harvest season assumed to cater for peak seasonal demand.
3/ Based on latest data on wagon procurement plans.
Source: RFFSA and Bank estimates
November 1974



BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OP A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT (RFFSA)
Cost Benefit Analysis of Category B
(Motive Power, Rolling Stock and Permanent Way not Related to the Steel Expansion Plan)
(All costs are in 1975 million Cr$)
Rate of Return Analysis
Traffic increase with    Project items in 1975-77 only           With 1974 sunk investments
respect to base                           Savings to:                           Savings to:
Total costs of    Capacity                                              levels AR of:                         Traffic                               Traffic
investments in    increasing           Adjusted      Traffic 3/         1974         1975        Adjusted    increase    Current    Adjusted    increase   Current
Year    Category B          investments 1/      costs 2/      million ton-km    million ton-km            costs 2/    only          traffic    costs 2/    only          traffic
1974      1,450                  854              794           9,200              -              -           -           -           -           794
1975      1,692                1,176            1,094          10,700          1,500              -       1,094           -           _         1,094        150
1976      1,208                  872              811          13,200          4,000          2,500         811         250           -           811        400
1977        745                  517              481          13,500          4,300          2,800         481         280           -           481       430            -
1978         -                    -                 -          14,600          5,400          3,900           -        430          535             -        595        460
1979         -                    -                 -          14,600          5,400          3,900           -         430         535             -        595        460
1980-99      -                    -                 -          14,600          5,400          3,900           -        430          535             -        595        460
2000                              -                 -          14,600          5,400          3,900        -239 -/     430          535          -318 -4/    595        460
Transport Cost Savings:  in 1975 Cr$/ton-km                                                         Economic Rate of Return
1.  To rail traffic above current levels-    1973/77          1978 and after                            Base                         33                                  28
Economic heavy truck transport costs 5/    .17                .17                                    15% increase in costs       30                                  25
Economic long-run variable rail costs                                                               25% decrease in benefits  26                                     22
for traffic other than iron ore and
steel including depreciation and
interest on track and shunting               .7              .6
Savings          .10             .11
2. To rail traffic at current levels:
Total railroad costs for non iron ore
and steel traffic including depreciation
and interest on all renewable assets 5/   .167               .119
Savings            -             .05
1,  Investments in Category B were divided into two parts:  capacity increasing investments (70% of the total cost of the Category between 1975 and 1977) and
renewal type investments (30% of the same cost).
2/  Physical contingencies range from 0% for ecuipment (53% of the cost) to 10% for the construction items to be completed in 1974-75.  Overall they amount to
3% of total costs   Since taxes were conservatively estimated at 10%, the base cost was adjusted 7% downward to reflect both physical contingencies and taxes,
3/  Total traffic excluding iron ore, steel and steel related products.  Traffic is kept at constant level from 1978 onwards.
4/  Assumes an overall salvage value of 10% after 25 years.
5/  See Table 9.                                                                                                                                                             'WI
Source: Bank Estimates
December 1974



ANNEX 12
Page 1
BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT (RFFSA)
Future Expansion of the Steel Industry
The Current Situation
1.        During the last four years, the steel industry has been character-
ized by a vigorous expansion in production of over 9% per year. This expan-
sion, however, has not been able to keep up with the increase in domestic
consumption of steel products which, during the same period, has been grow-
ing at more than 15% per year. Domestic steel consumption reached 8.7 million
tons in 1973, and the short fall in local production was 1.7 million tons.
Steel consumption is centered in the State of Sao Paulo, followed by Guanabara-
Rio de Janeiro and Minas Gerais. This situation is expected to continue beyond
1980.
2.        The annual growth of the Brazilian economy was 10%; during 1969-
1973, however, the industrial sector grew at a rate of 13% per year, the
transportation industry at 14%, the civil works industry at 12% and power
generation at 11%. This underscores the crucial role that the steel industry
plays in the current phase of overall Brazilian economic development and
suggests that, even if economic growth were to slow down slightly, a very
large scope would still exist for economic expansion of the steel industry
to eliminate the net import requirements. The Government has requested Bank
financial support for the Third Phase of the Steel Expansion Plan.
Effect of l!the Eer_risis
3.        The recently increased fuel costs may slow down the growth of the
Brazilian economy. The latest Bank estimates are that the economy will
still grow at 10% in 1974 but at a slightly (on the order of 8-9%) lower
rate thereafter. These projections, however, are subject to change.
4.        In the face of a possible slowdown in the growth of the Brazilian
economy, the Steel Expansion Plan is likely to go ahead as envisaged, with
the only possible exception being the slippage of the development of the
export oriented semi-finished product mill at Itaqui, which depends on the
development of ore deposits at Carajas, by four years at the most. The
projection of demand for steel products, measured in equivalent ingots, as
shown in Table 1 of this annex, has been computed on the basis of a yearly
growth rate that is slightly above 10% and is compatible with an overall
growth rate for the economy of 7-1/2%-8% a year. Therefore, no sizable slow-
down of demand for steel is to be expected if a 7-1/2% to 8% growth is
achieved until 1980.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
5.        Furthermore, delay in the expansion of steel production for export
does not seem likely. In the face of higher fuel costs, Brazil can be
expected to move to improve its balance of trade by encouraging exports.
Brazil's comparative advantage for steel production is such that it will
eventually expand its steel production beyond its domestic needs. Projected
demand for Brazilian iron ore and steel ingots has not been reduced since
Japan, a principal customer for these products, will undoubtedly attempt to
pay its greatly increased fuel import bill by export expansion, especially
of industrial products. It is not expected that the forecast of demand for
steel, raw materials, and plant capacities given in Tables 1 and 4 of this
annex and explained in paragraph 6 will be affected substantially by increased
fuel costs.
The Steel Epansion Plan
6.        The Steel Expansion Plan will attempt to increase Brazilian produc-
tion of steel ingots and, hence, to eliminate the net steel import requirement.
The demand forecast is in keeping with the somewhat reduced growth rates for
Brazil that now appear likely (para. 4 preceding). As a consequence, the
projected demand for steel is conservative, since the effects of the recent
increases in fuel costs do not preclude the possibility of consumption of
steel higher than that forecast. In this context, the excess capacity of
2.8 million tons of steel ingot equivalents projected for 1980 gives a moder-
ate margin of safety for Brazilian supplies under peak demand when likely
exports, currently being negotiated, are taken into account. 1/ Furthermore,
the timing of the expansion plan as presented in Tables 1 to 4 represents a
minimum necessary requirement for sustained Brazilian growth.
July 1974
1/ By 1980, Brazil is expected to export 4.0 million tons of steel ingots
to Japan.



ANNEX ]2
Table 1
BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT (RFFSA)
Brazilian Demand for Steel
And Steel :m,orts 1/
(003 tons oe       i     valents)
YEAR        IMPORTS         DEMAND
1970            800         5,690 (g/)
1971          1,600         6,600 oo /)
1972          1,200         7,650 (/
1973          1,700         8,900
1974          21500         9,500
1975          I,000        11,000
1976          2,000        13,600
1977         (1,100)       15,200
1978         (3,000)       17,000
1979         (5,200)       18,600
1980         (6,800)       20,000
1/  Figures in parenthese.s are excess steel plant capacities, they are
not projected export figures.
(2/) Effective consumption recordech



BRAZIL                               ANNEX 12
Table 2
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT (FFSA)T
Brazilian Production of Steel
(Plant capacitv in million tons of steel ingot equivalents)
1974     1977     1980      1985
1. Flat Steel (Product to ingot ratio: 75%)
(a) sxisting_plants
USIMINAS                             1.5       3.6      4.0      5.0
COSIPA                               1.6       2.3      3.5      3.5
CSN                                  1.5      3.0       4.0    4U5
(b) new plants
Tubarao                               -         -       1.0      1.5
(c) total                                 4.6      8.9      12.5     14.5
2. Non-Flat Steel (Product to ingot ratio 80%)
(a) existing Plants
Belgo Mineira                        0.6      0.7       0.8      1.0
COSIGUA                             0.3       0.6      0.9       1.0
CSN                                  0.3      0.5       0.5      1.0
GERDA GROUP                          03       o.6       1.0      1.2
COFAVI                               001      0.2       0.3      0.5
Others                               0.9       1,4      2.0      2.3
(b) new plants
(Mendes Jr.)                           -       1.0       1.0      2.0
(c) sub-total                             2.5      5.0       6.5      9.0
3, Semi-Finished Steel
ea) new
ltaqui                                -         -       2.0      4.0
Tubarao (Kawasaki)                    -       3.0       6,0      60o
(b) total                                  -       370       g.5     100
Total:  l(c) + 2(c) + 3(b)                      7.1     16,9     27.0      33.5



ANNEX 12
Taiblg 3
BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT (RFFSA)
Total Consumption of Raw Materials
in the Brazilian Steel Sector
Technical
Coefficients  '73      f74     175      '76     f77     '78      '79     '80
Iron Ore               (1.3)         9.4      11.1    13.0    15.1    21.1    26.8    28.6    32.5
Limestone 1/           ( .2)         1.5       1.6     1.7      2.3     3.2     3.6    4h.0      4.6
Coal                   (.75)         5.4       6.4     7.5     8.7    12.2    15.0    16.5    18.8
Scrap Iron 2/          (.2)          1.5       1.6     1.7      2.3     3.2     3.6      4.0     4.6
Manganese Ore          (.03)           .2       .2      .3       .4      .5       .5      .6      .7
Steel Production                     7.2       8.5    10.0    11.6    16.2    20.0    22.0    25.0
(estimate)
1/   Includes approximately one third of doloaite0
2/   50% of which is generated 'in house'.



ANNEX 1.2
BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT (RFFSA)
Sources of Raw Materials
for Main Steel Producers
PLANT     IRON ORE     LIMESTONE 2/     COAL 3/     SCRAP IRON W      MANGANESE
Usiminas  Itabira      Matozinho        Port of    Brazil             Rio Acima
Victoria
Cosigua  Aguaas        C. Belo          Port or    Brazil             Cons. Lafaiete
Claras                        Rio
Cosipa   Aguas         Salto de Pira-   Port of     Brazil            Rio Acima
Claras       pora Bom Jesus   Santos
de Pirapora
CSN       Congonhas    CO Belo,         Port of    Brazil              Cons Lafahete
Araa 1/     Barroso, Arcos  Arara
J. MurVinho 1/
Tubarao   Itabira     Miatozinho        Port of    Brazil             Rio Acima
Tubarao
Itaqui    Carajas      undefi ned       Port of    Port of            UndefiLed
Sao Luis    Sao Luis
Mendes    Aguas        Nova Granja      Port of     Brazil             Cons Lafaiete
Jr.      Claras                        Rio
1/  Sources of pellets
2/   Sources of Dolomite Ouro Preto, Juperana, Burnice
3/  Sources of coal are: in Brazil, Criciuma, Cafivari, Imbituba; and abroad, USA,
Poland and Colombia.
4/   Sources of Scrap Iron in addition to the plants themselves are assumed
throughout the country.



ANNEX 13
Page 1
BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT (RFFSA)
Tariffs and Costs
1.        The present RFFSA tariff came into effect in February 1968.  It has
eight basic commodity schedules for carload shipments, three of which are
special schedules for iron ore, lumber and cement. The tariff sets maximum
rates, but 70% of freight traffic is carried at significantly lower special
contract rates. Proposals for rate increases are sent to the General Trans-
port Accounting Bureau (Ministry of Transport), which reviews them for con-
sistency with FEPASA's proposals; the proposals are then sent to the Inter-
ministerial Price Commission for approval. Rate increases in recent years
have generally kept pace with inflation. Freight rates on goods other than
those for export carry a 10% surcharge (amounting to some Cr$ 43 million in
1972) which goes to the Ministry of Labor for social purposes. The Govern-
ment planned to incorporate this surcharge into RFFSA's tariffs by June 1970,
but the Ministry of Labor opposed it. During negotiations, the Government
agreed to neutralize the effect on RFFSA's competitive position of the sur-
charge by January 1, 1976.
2.         In June-July 1973, a Bank consultant (Mr. F. Sander) visited RFFSA
for five weeks to undertake a traffic costing study and to train four RFFSA
staff in the techniques of railway costing,with a view to establishing a
permanent costing team in RFFSA. The following comments are based on the re-
sults of this study.
(i) Passenger Fares
3.        A comparison of passenger train costs (excluding interest) and
revenues by Division for 1972 is given in Table 1 of this annex. Only on the
suburban Sao Paulo and Santos services (Division 9) do passenger fares cover
long-run variable costs and make a contribution to fixed costs. For the Rio
suburban services (Division 6), cost per train-km were considerably higher
than for the Sao Paulo service because of exceptionally high repair costs of
old electric unit trains. A Government subsidy was paid to supplement the low
passenger fares, and this was just sufficient to cover the loss on these ope-
rations.
4.         On interior passenger services, long-run variable costs are from
two to four times receipts. The cost per train-km of Cr$ 11.36 (US$1.89) is
reasonable. The large passenger deficit is caused by low fares and poor
patronage of the service offered. The fare paid (equivalent to US40.43 per
km) is one of the world's lowest.



ANNEX 13
Page 2
(ii) Freight Tariffs
5.        A comparison of receipts and long-run variable costs (excluding
interest) by Division is given in Table 2 of this annex. Except in Divisions
1 to 4 (the Northeast) and 7 (Leopoldina), revenues cover or approximate
long-run variable costs on freight (excluding livestock). However, there is
very little contribution to fixed costs. To give some idea of the adequacy
of freight rates on individual commodities, a comparison of receipts and long-
run variable costs is given (Table 3 to this annex) for the Sixth Division,
which accounted for 40% of ton-km of RFFSA in 1972. This shows that a number
of commodities were carried below variable cost. In general, rates are low,
averaging 1972 Cr$ .0524 (USd0.88) per ton-km. Trucking costs are generally
higher (Table 9 of the main report), and there is room for increases in rail-
way rates as services are improved.
December 1974



BRAZIL
A'PPAISAL OF A SECOND RAIIWAY FM (CT (IF)
Passenger Train Receipts and C-sts. 1'72
(Exprsssed in 19';2 Cr$)
1- 4              5                       6         - D  I  V  I  _S 7IO     N  S             9                       10            1-1
Interior        Suubrban                           Interior        Sulkirban                                           Total
RFFSA
Receipts,~~                           ~~~~............. .....................................   ............................ (Cr   $000) .............. ..... .... ........... ............ ....... ........ .
Receixpts:.(r$0)
Passengers, interior                   11,462            3,990          17,962             -               9,835            9,952                             7,865           10,7411         71,815
suburban                    2,235             168             -              65,935           1,561              -             26,177              -                158          ,6,,134
Baggage                                 1,218              3?74           1,041            -                 453              2h9             -                 933            1,373           5,641
Mail                                        6               41              852            -                 -                132             -                 15C              262           1,1'43
Total receipts                     14,921            4,581          19,855           65,935           11,849          10,333           26,17?            8,9418          12,53;'        175,133
Long-run Variable Cost:
Maintenance,repair and
excludig depreciation               32,175           12,942          412,170          91,999           24,570          15,061             8,464          14,332           24,)L5(        266,163
Depreciation                             9,229           4,522           11,067            3,451           7,228            5,022            3,433            4,792           12,992          61,736
Total                              41,404          17,464           53,237           95,450           31,798          20,083           11,897           19,124           37,442         327,899
Resullts of Operation:
Net lose                               2.6,483          12,883          33,382           29,515           19,949            9,750             -              10,176           24,9CP
Contributi-on to fixed                                                                                                                                                                      152,766
costs                                           -               -                -                -                        -                ,280              - _
Receipts Expressed as
Percentage of Long-run
Variable Cost                                 36               26               37              69               37               51              220              147               33              53
Statistics:
Train-km (000)                          2,927            1,806           4,931            9,487            3,078            1,402            1,703            1,982           3,297           30,613
Passenger-km (million)                    674.7            204.6           1468.41         4,292.6           520.7.           371.3            767.8            260.6          1427.5          7,S9Y.2
Average no. of passengers
per train                               233              113               95             152             169              265              451              131             130              261
Receipts per train km (Crli)                5.10             2.51 1.G3                        6.95             3.85             7.37            15.37               l             3.80             5.72
Long-raq variable cost oer
tra-n-kn (Cr$)                            14.15            9.67            10.80           10.06            10.33            1-432             6.99             9.65           1l.;             10.71
Average fare paid per
passenger-km (centavas)                    2.03            2.014            3.83             1.54t           .2.19             2.68             3.1              3.02            2.55             2.10
Long-rnn variable cost per
passenger-km (centavoS)                   6.11              8.54           i1-17             2  2             6.11             5.41             1.55 t.4                         . 6 L.1C
December 1974                                                                                                                                                                                         H



ANINEX 13
BRAZL                            Table.
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT (RFFSA)
Freight Receipts and Costs by Divisioor, 1972
(Excluding Livestock on Divisions 6, 10 and 13)
(1972 Cr$)
Division     Receipts      Long-run     Excess or          Net         Receipts     Long-run
Variable     (Shortfall)       ton-km       per Net      Variable
Cost       of Revenues    (million)        ton-km      Cost per
-    (Cr$ '000)     -       over Cost                                Net ton-km
--------(Cr$) ---- -
1           1,510         4,786       ( 3,276)            31         .o487        .1544
2           9,230        14,651        ( 5,421)          162         .0570        .0904
3          18,700        35,980       (17,280)           314         *o596        .1146
4          14,708        26,708       (12,000)           336         .0438        .0795
$          74,651        79,952        ( 5,301)        1,541         .o484        .0519
6         194,469       173,075        21,394          4,785         .o464         .0362
7          17,575       39,101        (21,526)           288         .0610        .1358
9          72,400       68,706          3,694            450         .160g        .1527
10          32,583        33,116       (  533)            690         .0472        .o480
11          70,827        71,780        (  953)         1,1409        .0503        .0509
12          1-3,449        8,148         5,301            132         .1019        .0617
13          93,204        70,579        22,625          1,570         .0594        .o450
613,306      626,582        (13,276)        11,708        .0524         .0535
Decerfiber 197L



BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A SE2Z000 RAELdAX PIOJECT (MA2
6th Ditlalon - reOtral
Comoartson of Receipts a-t Lorg-ran Variable Costs of Principal Comaodities
T.e" 1972
Averag                Porcentaes
n-load            Drtaitbation   Ton-b
Commmodity                             C~         .0 11    sayw   Private                                         Average                    Renal  to               o.-r,VaaleCostT                          Ratio of
rItr  |1-   1.00"  l.oO   1.00" hWagon          agon  1 Tone        Ton-Km        egh    haul    ipr ton-Km            Total  - p.ron            Par- o       otI   Receipts
(Tons)                                               |(000       (1illn                                 rc) (p  (Wr$)  (cr $000   ((:r .        I C. $)    (fCr Soo1)           to Costs
M.nrio de ferro (iron ore)             48   -          100     -         50         50       5,152     2,908.1              56b            0.0334           97,135       15-50       0.0275         79,856              1.12
Caento (censnt)                        b5 25            70    30        80          20         6B4       423.9              620            0.0370          15,667        2?.16       0.0357         15,157              1.03
Ferro a ago (iron and ateel)            40  25          90    10        60          bO         830       400.8              b92            0.0503           20,602       16.72       0.0339         t3,878              1.8
Calcfrios (limestone)                   b5 25           50    50        80          20         6L4       t89.6              294            0.01S3         10,300        10.85       0.0368          6,937               .1b7
C.rvToeinsal (ooal)                    L0   -          1OD     -       100         -           88S       128.4             1L5            0.083            10,818         8.00       0.0551          7,080             1.53
Trigo (wheat)                           35  20          93   10         100                    152        61.9              407            0.0552            3,b16       17.82       O.C038          2,709              1.26
Fe-ro . .Plg tiron)                     35  25          9  - 10         100         -          191        60.6              3l7            0.0521            3,158       15.03       o.o074          2,871              1.10
Carv-o vegetal (charcoal)               -   15          -    100       100          -          128        56.4             1i.             o.O51.6           3,077       36.00       o.0816           ,608              0.67
C,,,o,e d.err  (iron ptpes)             20  15          90    10        50          50         61.        53.8              6b1            n.0h80           2,581.       L2.88       0.0510          2,-,44             0.94
Nas>o (apswm                            50   -         10u     -        1.70        _           65        0.4               745            0.02h42           1,173       23.33        0.0313         1,516              0.77
.A;4c*r (auger)                         30  20          90    10       100          -           914       38.9             1.1             0.0h26           1,659        21.21       0.0513          1.997              0.83
Dolomite (dolomite)                     b0 25           70    30        100                    700        36.3              18e            0.0790           2,867         9.82        o.o0513        1,Y6L              1.146
NinSrio de mangeia (,aacglae
Ir.)           b0  25          60   b0        100         -           38        29.5              776            O.C0118           1,231       32.10        0.0ob4         1,220              1.01
Papal * papelFo (paper and card-
board)              35  15           70    30       I W                     h1         21.9             bv8            0.0510            1,116        16.65       0.0535          1,173             0.95
Ar&,%s  (wire)                          35  10          70    30        100                     26        18.1              708            0.0453              831       32.91        0.0o65           856              0.97
Outra                                   25  15          70    30       100          -          71l       299.2              0ob            o -   0.0629     18,819       26.15        0.o655        19,599              0.91
Peqasnee eapedi;*os  (LL)  (terdnAl comtat trwspert Included In mO0traa'-analyzis to b  coqoletead by FFISA)                                                                                         1,112
Oabtotal - meraluortaa                                                                       9,938    Lb,7S5.z              b8z            0.Oh06          192,4!;59     16.6b        0.03b6       165,327              1.18
Animals                                                                                      - b(3        22.5              523            0.1471            3,310      110.00        0.2102         4,730              0.70
Collection od delt ery        )     .                                                                                                                                                                 2,9L9
(to be illoodt.d by RmPPA when data ar. aveilable)
Trsa.slitpant between puges                                                                                                                                                                            201
VrAL~~~~_ __                                                                                             _                          - _              -
DeIAL - Cernrp                                                                                        1,7,?,                1.82          0.,1             (975769        1719 740360               i72a207             t.11
December 1974.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            [t 3



ANNEX 14
Page 1
BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT (RFFSA)
Assumptions Used in Making Forecast Income Account
Operating Revenues
1.        Tariff levels for 1972 were used to project all passenger and
freight revenues (except for NBR traffic), with an adjustment of 15% a year
(the 1973 rate of Brazilian inflation) to allow for inflation between 1972 and
1975. In 1976, a further 20% increase in average unit freight revenues was
calculated except on MBR traffic (rates for MTBR traffic are contract rates
which vary with the annual tonnage shipped). The Government agreed, during
negotiations, to take whatever action was needed to neutralize the effects of
the 10% surcharge on freight on RFFSA's competitive position by January 1,
1976. This will enable RFFSA to increase its tariffs by 10%, and it was as-
sumed that this would be done beginning in 1976. These tariffs were applied
to the traffic forecasts given in Chapter 5 of the report. No allowance was
made for the additional revenues expected to begin in 1979 from increased
tariffs (for freight using the new Belo Horizonte to Volta Redonda line)
proposed to retain a share of the benefits from the Steel Expansion Plan.
Suburban Rio passenger tariffs were increased 15% from 1978.
2.        Other revenues (pipelines, miscellaneous) are based on 1972 tariff
levels adjusted for estimated inflation between 1972 and 1975.
Operating Expenses
3.        A costing analysis was carried out for each division of RFFSA in
June-July 1973, in which costs were separated between passenger (intercity
and suburban) and freight and between fixed and variable. Variable costs
were related to measurable operating statistics (train-km, locomotive-km, gross
ton-km, wagon-km, etc.). Based on the traffic forecasts, operating statistics
were calculated for each division, allowing for a modest improvement in certain
measures of operating performance (average wagon load, wagon-km per day, loco-
motive-km per annum, number of wagons per train). Based on these operating
statistics and the variable and fixed costs calculated in the costing analysis,
1979 costs were estimated. These were then adjusted for four factors:
(a) average estimated inflation between 1972 and 1975 at
15% a year;
(b) reductions in personnel numbers expected between 1972
and 1979 assuming the recent trend in staff reductions
continues, resulting in a decline in staff numbers as
follows:



ANNEX 14
Page 2
end 1974        112,000
1975        110,400
1976       108,800
1977        107,200
1978       105,600
1979        104,000
(c) increases in average real salaries by 1979 as follows:
30,600 locomotive crew and workshop personnel             25%
14,000 head office and regional administration staff 30%
approximately 60,000 other staff                          10%
(d) increased fuel costs and imposto unico taxes to reflect recent
increases to a CIF price of US$9 a barrel in Brazil, i.e., 1974
Cr$ 1.02 per liter (including Cr$0.31 imposto unico).
4.        Depreciation has been included in variable and fixed costs in the
cost analysis. Principal items of depreciation are on locomotives, on freight
and passenger wagons and on rail and fittings. Depreciation on these items
is calculated on the basis of locomotive-km, wagon-km, passenger car-km and
gross ton-km, respectively. In addition, depreciation was included, beginning
in 1975, on other items in the Project, such as new lines and realignments
(1%), headquarters investments (2%), stations and yards (2%) and signalling
and telecommunications (2.5%).
Subsidies
5.        Subsidies were estimated by calculating the difference between
revenues and costs for the Northeast and Leopoldina (excluding imposto
unico, which RFFSA recovers through its capital account). Other subsidies
represent the difference between long-run variable costs and related re-
venues. Expenses paid by the Government, principally the extra costs of
employing civil servants receiving higher compensation than if employed
under the Common Labor Laws (CLT), are expected to decline steadily as
employees in this category retire and are replaced by CLT staff.
6.        It is unlikely that the subsidies will be as great as forecast.  As
a result of the studies of uneconomic lines and services, such lines and serv-
ices will be reduced or eliminated, thereby reducing RFFSA's operating costs
and revenues and the related subsidies.
December 1974



ANNEX 15
Page 1
BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT (RFFSA)
Deals of Fin anc ing Plan
1.        RFFSA's cash flow and financing plan are given in Table 18 to this
report. Amounts are shown in 1974 Cr$ for 1974 and in 1975 Cr$ for the years
1975 through 1979. Because amounts are in 1974 and 1975 Cr$, price contin-
gencies have been excluded from project costs and amounts of financing
required.
2.        The financing plan covers the period of the investment plan rather
than that of the project. Since project items extend into 1978, it was
considered more convenient to present a financing plan for the full plan
period and to show sources of finance for project items and remote items of
RFFSA's five-year plan.
3.        The plan depends to a considerable extent upon appropriations
from the Federal Budget and imposto unico receipts, in accordance with past
trends. The Government's future policy in allocating these funds is presently
under review. Commencing in 1976, depreciation of RFFSA's fixed assets will
comprise an important source of funds. (The Plan of Action requires that
RFFSA be allowed to charge reasonable depreciation in its accounts commencing
in 1976.)
4.        RFFSA's long-term debt as of December 31, 1973 is given in Table 1
to this Annex. Foreign obligations are converted at the rates of exchange
prevailing on that date. Details of foreign and domestic financing, arranged
or assumed, are given in Table 2 to this Annex. Foreign financing is con-
verted to Cr$ at US$1 = Cr$ 7 in 1974 and US$1 = Cr$ 7.50 in 1975 through
1979.
5.        Domestic or foreign financing has been arranged for a large part
of the investment plan. Negotiations are under way with the U.S. Export-
Import Bank to finance 195 locomotives to be acquired in 1975 and 1976. It
was assumed that a loan would be obtained to cover 80% of the cost with 8%
interest and repayable in 15 years, including three years of grace. It was
further assumed that finance for an additional 118 locomotives to be acquired
in 1976 and 1977 could be obtained from the same source and on the same terms.
6.        It was assumed that, in addition to the proposed Bank loan, the
Government will request additional Bank financing for RFFSA, in an amount of
up to US$200 million, to help finance items in the Five-Year Plan over the
1917-1979 period. Finally, the Government and RFFSA intend to finance a
considerable quantity of rails and fittings (in addition to that already
financed) in order to carry out the large line construction and rehabilitation
and wagon rebuilding program. It was assumed that about 20% of rails and



ANNEX 15
Page 2
fittings would be acquired from domestic steel mills and financed domestically.
The balance would be acquired and financed abroad. The terms in each case
(Table 2) are similar to those for similar financings in the past.
7.        Railway wagons being acquired are already financed, except for
about 6,400 wagons being acquired in the years 1976-1979; for these, RFFSA
has signed a protocol of intentions with BNDE (as part of a long-term con-
struction contract with domestic suppliers) to finance them at 7% interest
with principal repayable over 12 years, including two years of grace.
8.        RFFSA also hopes to obtain finance for its electrification program
from abroad, but the sources are not certain and the terms are unknown. To
the extent that such finance is obtained, the Government's contributions to
the plan will be reduced.
December 1974



ANNEX 1i
Table 1
BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT (RFFSA)
Long-Term Debt as of December 31, 1973
US$           Cr$
('000)       millions
Foreign Creditors
Export-Import Bank of the United States                22,713
First National Bank of Memphis                             74
Ganz Mavag Locomotive and Carriage Manufacturing        3,488
International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (Loan 786-BR)                            20,715
Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company                    26,223
Marubeni Lida Co. Ltd.                                  4,665
Material y Construcciones S.A.                         25,044
Mrgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York                7,489
P.H.Z. - Stalexport                                       834
Rudnap, Export Import                                  16,590
The Northern Trust Company                                569
Banco do Brasil (agent for certain foreign creditors) 20,258
Total US$ obligations                         148,662
Materiel Industriel S.A. - Sw.Fr. 1,525,131               343
Osterreichische Landerbank - A.Sch. 37,576,228          2,030
Societe des Anciens Etablissements
L. Geismar - F.F. 654,058                               142
151,177         939.5
Domestic Creditors
Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico                            464.8
Caixa Economic Federal                                                 136.5
Instituto do Alcool e do Acucar                                         6.2
PETROBRAS                                                                9.0
616.5
Other long-term obligations                                               47.8
Total long-term debt as of                                  1,603.8
December 31, 1973
October 1974



BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT (RFFSA)
Details of Foreign and Domestic Financing Arranged and Assumed to Finance RFFSA Development Plan
Figures in Millions of Cr$                                                  Credit Terms
Financing for                  1974        1975         1976        1977        1978         1979           Term of Loan   Grace Period   Interest Rate
Foreign Financing
Contracts arranged as of 31/12/73                                                  823.2        235.7       109.5         48.1                                    various          various          various
Export-Import Bank (arranged)                   Export Corridor                      83.4        41.9                                                              15 years         6 years             6%
Bank of America (arranged)                                                           83.4        41.9                                                               8 years        2 years             8k%
Banco do Brasil (arranged)                                                            8.8         9.4                                                             11 years         2 years              4.3%
IBRD loan (proposed)                            Project                                         513.0       551.0                                                 25 years         5 years              8%
Rutnap Export-Import (arranged)                 3,000 wagons                                    578.0                                                               7 years        jsentne  after    7b
e very             7
Mecanoexport Import (arranged)                  2,900 wagons                                    245.0       205.0                                                   8 years        2 years              7%
Export-Import Bank (in negotiations)            195 locomotives                                 200.0       250.0                                                 15 years         3 years              8% 1/
Export-Import Bank (to obtain)                  118 locomotives                                             185.0       105.0                                     15 years         3 years              8% 1/
Source to be identified                         rails and accessories                           550.0       570.0       675.0        375.0       450.0            10 years         3 years              8% 1'
IBRD loan (assumed)                                                                                                     500.0         000        500.0            25 years         5 years              8% T1
998.8    2,414.9    1,870.5    1,328.1           875.0       950.0
Domestic Financing
Contracts arranged as of 31 '12/73                                                 124.7         24.6                                                             various          various          various
BNDE (arranged)                                 3,000 wagons                       302 1        173.1                                                             10 years         2 years             8% 2/
BNDE (arranged)                                 new lines and variantes            200.0        600.0    1,000.0        700.0                                     13 years         3 years              6% 2/
BNDE (protocol of intentions signed)            6,391 wagons                        -           -           414.0       480.0        395.0       152.0            12 years         2 years             7% 2
Source to be identified                         rails and accessories              -            200.0       200.0       225.0        125.0        _               12 years         3 years             8% 2/
626.8       997.7    1,614.0    1,405.0          520.0       152.0
1/ Assumed financing terms.
2/ Plus monetary correction.
October 1974






Carb/.oeqn2j Sea
L.     A Of MAP
C<0'-    J   F-                                                                                              5                    2   SobraSFORTALEZA
9  X           ~~~~B RA Z I,                                                                                                                           m   o Mucuipe
U TH                                                                                                                     id-a     
c-,R I CA                                                                                                TERESINA              Crateus          MosrOuro        MOCaU
A.% t;5tSor ; jc>sONSp-T ,,   ,.-BRAZIL
RAILROADS                                                                      Cur                          N    NATAL
.9> /S                                                                    rS51e,\e- j sz CarluscS / Nov o Cru2 
RFFSA                                                                                            P     prr S       uo CPbedelo
O                                                 0*>t  Atlantic    Northeastern Region                                                      Salgueiru o. .           O Grode          CA
0~~~  At/ant/c                        ~~~~~---      Central Region                                                                                           dPSO
;  v   Ocean                    e0,    -       South Central Region                                                                                                RECIFE
AF-----   iSouthern Region                                                             Futrolisa            Ardoveido
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Juoze,0i-oFm,Hr  t arir
(f)    FEPASA                                                                                      <sI       o
J U8anAa;u  f dlfrMS; AS he      (ie  i 1  IEFVM                                                              Cm          SnoClegu                       ,MACEJlO
International Boundaries                                     Crrpo        4m nT B-f-m                       MAzJiruo
-10                                                                                                                                                            vARACAJU                     0'
Burro     
Sdoc Francisco+ /anpr
larv u 1rSALVADOR
7BRASILIA                             Mn  Azui
tY                                            G~~~~~~~~~CIANiA   P J                           
o Riu                                    Munson Corns
,,, >: >                                        |       y~~~~~~~~~ ~~ Roocudor  Pirsporais                                 '
N>.: .' r jw                                                        BhsGo vndirG  cn.d-
itans t Crumba                                                     froguorifg w      i,      ed       XCurartoGa                                              :     
.,I    Purro Ivouronpo                                                               Em  turnae                                  i~ \
,   { 0        S~~~Ornd                   Pro.SonuaGosa  d    oso 5ul  .uol                                Nvvft
i~~~~~~~~~~auar                                          iu FSp                   x     :i ri     Unho} 5 QoeFRNCIS C C ' 
Fol Fr  t       tt                           miQCJuru                             B do                                                            I I0
Gum   Ds~Pch O~                  B,
I                                   AS paiSnteg ocz  umna8 F  mb>               JvLba    r                                 '
.   . puqul Alegretr  PN  V. QCQhC  do Su l 
Pj-  AC U <uAa           '      Ccnoerao    ';umo  sO'7LER             j        -   ATS__
I                                           PootI)< ;5  eosl o  j rno  CO'4I                                                             
J~~~~~~ Ivrouv o t,0 ;   .-.-...                      .....  P Aun n[oM;TR
4              ~~~~~          ~~Ji.  Frnh                                                                                                                                     20orZP  1-
/ t       ~                                       /   -0zB    u;*R oa G rnd     lu  Pwomu
-P1   R AG UAY_t
r0i,     .       Forro uniot          Motro t     =  JSA  FRANCISCO
I         .X    =4.                    Fus          ij        Ltvd
44                              Nd         d  v
/uv joi        oe.uMro   ,\Roinio                           I
rh'   "4~oru i,CchoervL  PF RTCQALEGRE                  I
~4   trorvr~enso         0 S j -, I-                                                                                 0     100    200   300   400   500
Fenus   4KILOMETERS
Rat . Ri Grunde
4             tic                      ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~500                                                                  0
dI                                                  C)a






sa..4B ,I.                                                    46- 
I  A  t                     I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ONEAU
BRASILIA    i                                                                                   0 MONTE AZUL
-16'                                                                                                                                                                       B t_1. r   /  iRAZIL                      16'
ANAPt S                                                                                         /RAILROADS
CENTRAL REGION SYSTEM
JARINA                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NEW  LINES.
=-i      60Dm gouge
GOIANIAo                                                                                                                                                          -   l 00m  gouge
EXISTING siNES:
LMONTES CAROS                        5th Dision
,.-,,r C   ut        3  t'x                                                                                                                                         1 )  + +   0 D6 m  g o u g e
/  lE  O  1                   J                                                                                                1O60m gouge
6th Division
IRES DO RIO                                                                                                                          6 106m gouge
-IB wJ i g ---~~~~C                                                                EFAVIORIA-IA (lOOm    googe)
FEPA5A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRPR                                                                                                 11 00  g   xx g
Dt I  gouge (16DmA  & I                 ,,
7th Division (LEOPOLDINA)
IlOOm gouge
9 th D,iviion
GO \ _ ITANERA                                                          5                                                    nrT   l60m  gmoge
E F VITORIA-.MINAS(lD00m gouge)
-.State Boundaries
BIAMEANTINA
COR INTO
FEPASA
GOVERN DOR VALADARES
N   ARCRN t
_IT,ABIRA            ' PAT NOA                   AIMOReTSi
BOM DESPACHS ECM T                                                    O   C          ARATINGA                            N'
IJORESCORS  /  WUMORI                                                  SABARA' EARRA
->. 22'OLEDAD F DE NASA                                                                                       -                             C/ "API   MARTINS
GARCAS TB IDAS                     D
*zz  tdmsorlmr. K itZ '-> \ oplRAi7rB~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JELA                                                           O                 ARAN O  A LAPIII
CACHO0  ED
g  r  \    g      A      O    tN 105 DW. V,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D 16PRMI
ITANT RE  A
'L                                                                          AO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SNOAM
DAS MIDAS                     -                          NCARLOSNEIROSL                        CM
INHA         NARATANOET
5%  SON LOST EOSCASTPOS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MEO                                                                AM
S 0 PAULO                                                                                           u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CNTGL   BE~o   SCAMOS-
maCAnTI              15~UNDAI                                                                                                  40                                                       2'A
BRAZ__ _ _                                       SANAO






IBRD 11111
caribheow Sea                                                                                                                   JUNE 1974
54                      52                    50         -          48
n   - 0  rX   -22'                 .                                                                        220
SqQUTH
AMERICA
OM  WARQUES DOS REIS
MARINGA      0LONDRINA
0      APUCARANA
CIANORTE    JUSSARA
At/a t Oso.t   I                   0UMUARAMA             MAUA    LISIMACO           WCESLA
. >   :  . >,,,,_.  >                       COSTA                ITARARE                        240
A GUAIRA                                             JAGARAIV       4 I APEVA
.__._.-__-_______.__                                                          HARMONIA       J MURTiNtO
i 4P MENDES                                oRESERVA 
AZ=  ff* V dO.          e               i .CASCAVEL
;            9                        0  PONTA GROSSA         RIO B DO SUL
oGUARAPUAVA           CURITIA  ANTONINA ,,
..FOZ DE IGUACU                                   a
-    $-A  R-A :G U A Y    c:   '      VCAPANEMA                                 ENGU        ENG BLEY
OCAPANEMA -. i .  %       P UNIAO       'MAFRA                                           26
Pi Ay R A  AYDA VITORIA                                              S FRANCISCO
r-    .   -                                                                    JDO SUL
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
.  , -. r      s   04                             MRAMO                                            -FLORIANOPOLIS
2680
P25  -    -  #5   - j    LARGO                                                                       HO2
-O. AN- OL-L;OE               PASSO FUNDO                  L MULLER  X,IMBITUBA
DA VBORIA-RJ          A  T ISO O
.-zS~ S FRANADA
CAXIe BPHILIPSON   CE AS  DOSULD / X
D DE AGA SANTA  MARIA                         RIO DOS SINGS
JURUGUA ANOA   ,AOEGRETh         ACEQUI 0A
2V              a             CEARRO     -                COFIRA             P6RTG ALEG230
;    UARAI       T             BOCKXARAO    D                                                BRAZIL
tIU                                              ROCA 'S,,,"ALES '''-"'l z   o EBSTA   1  S 4 SOUTHE    I       SYSTEM
t--;-/   HULIPSONEGRA    S     oS    JXNEW  LINES
GR4L- -LU ;   S  o   \  PELOTAS 2         EXISTING LINES:
_-2    -U  R J  ~  1J           Y --R V   RA                 SUL           D                       -                                 3
,, i, -~~ 'r'. T,-'."'' '7~~~\ / X 13 th Division
...... ;_, ,,. '.2 z;, ~~~~~~~~ ' 1 7 -- ' '' ~~~Stare Boundaries
-  s  -  -;- -.   >  -- .-.-- ,. -,5---N--,X;jTF   /gl-. -    Internationol Boundaries
$ - - , L - F T4- B 8.~~~~~~~~~~~<z/; ~~50t 0                                            480                     460
SAO GABRIEL~-






IBRD 11112
To Barra Do      To Tris Rios                                                                                                                                                                                                             JUJNE 197
Piro  7ithsDvision
Pjro D           7tvDivsio
Poracomb          P                                                                                                     BRAZIL                                                                                            (  BRAZIL
Coromujos                                RIO DE JANEIRO SUBURBAN RAILROAD SYSTEM                                                                                                                        AM ERtxtlt 
Eng2 Pedreina                                                                                                                                                                                                      0             "
Aijezur                                                                                                                                                                                          .ftot
To Vitoria                                                                            5      Oen
7th Division                                                                      f
44-
Miguel Couto
EXISTING  RAILROAD LINES AND  GAUGES
\a                                B elfort Rose                                             dSo Benlo                                                               LOOS    Gougel
- --Single Line
Gromocho                                                           To Lines
1.60rn_Gouge
Single Lise
Two Lines
Four Lines
Five Lines
Six Lines
S. Mateus     Eng Be        lf Pavuna                                           Duque de Coxios                                                  Eight Lines
do Central                    0                                                                                                                  Elect,if,ed Sections
Nova lgvafu                                                                                                                                             Not to Scile
Costa Borros
(f)4De~~~~~~oncrrio Gurgel <|
Sant/Cruz                         Bento Ri r 
/                /~~~~/                    \tMog~~~Mano                                                                                         2
To Mangor S atib a    C                Campo Grande                                                     a                                                  \\ ro /il
Matadouro                                               r                                              _Hrdo                                                    d/                     Aaol
Campo Dos Afonsos                                   H_ _d    de                                                  \\d
Engenhod de Dentro                      rage   (L 
Triagem (CB)
Denbi    Franciso BasSo de.Z D.ERO
SClube    Sd                             D. PEDROaI
N8vo        M~angueira>
0  Srido Cnistrndo  L Muller
2415"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     241






4634
-. t      A                                                                             B R A Z I L
SAO PAULO SUBURBAN RAILROAD SYSTEM
X                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      ~~                    ~     ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MATAERLANZDo  A tv
X,XPIRITUBA                                                                                                                                             ITAIM      <        ,ENG M ANOEl TEIO
ITAOU.0UECETUNA
LAPA  FUNSA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MGELPUI
~~~ EPRPROA                B. FUNUR ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  POLITELNIL~,4                                    EG.COL R
Wt                               T ~~~~~~~~       ~         ~       ~~~~CARANDtRU  E<GTINAE\
\NUNIVERSISADE                               S EENTO \        FA LC;D                                     A
'DM PRNHEIRUU LAREUEROE  SUL
% MORUMBI                       AL MACAUS          \
NNT                  ,/       USBRA ROSA NCIRANDA
U AMARO fit                         \\
LAIRP                                                                                            PATARAN RTCMANAUATLI
7.    ~~VSASCO    ~ Z IMPOLEOPOLDINA                                        ONTE PEQUENA 
1PR CA ARRE                                                                /
OKR U BATU BA                    SUE\UIG
CIUAVE DUTRAEB    S JUDAS                                                                                                                              /         NEW RFFSA DOUBLE, DUAL GAUGE LINES
//                        \\           CDNCEICAO                                       8 PRUF SALADINOU                                                    =   NEW FEPASA  DOUBLE, DUAL GAUGE LINES
--CI     1'10                V     SRDD
-~~ INTERLASUS                          JUBAUJOAAUU
IINTRAO                            %             BAURA\<                                                                                                                EXISTING SINGLE & DOUBLE, BROAD GAUGE  LINES:
{~Z  C2,Pl'bA    o                                                 ' % V                                                                   MAUA                      /                  -91        DIVISION
N '                                                                                                                     EXISTING FEPASA DOIJBLE. NARROW  GAUGE  INES
(   B  R  A      I  L  2    -345                                           SAO BEANARUS                                                          (g                                               ELECTEIFIED  SECTIONS                        23045'
co        SEIvUT H                                                                       S E LAMPS                                           _                                                         -      SUBWAY (UNDER CONSTRULTION)
ts1      > lERO                                                                                      PRS  o   SUBURBAN  BAILEOAD  STATI ONS
G               )   SAOTdPABJZD                                                                                                                                     \
_-                                                                                                                                                                    Al O4 A      R D SERRA                SUBWAY STATIONS
e  |              H , a,  O n P C c                       KlLMETERS                                                                                                                                    L\ RAILROAD a SUBWAY                                       _
4.            0/) O' t e o n                                                                                                                                                  LAMPUTUREANUE STOA
f   /   .                       ~~~~~~~~Tha boUdAAncs shzwn AR tSiA mAp 0U m,l                                                                                          PARANAPIACABA~      WJ ~  BUS T ER MINAL__
k  ~~  - JE/*rnationol               ~~~~imply endowr.xenent or accpopaoce by the          63'57-                                                                                                                                                         _
BAA0dO~~L~S  WmIdAUoLU,Id~~,~fflIUroV MARIAN



