04LV CIRCULATING Copy
TQf t RETUJRNEOD To REPORTS DESK
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-152la-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
REDE FERROVIARIA FEDERAL, S.A. (RFFSA)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
December 30, 1974
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of December 19, 1974)
Currency Unit                        Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1.00                              Cr$7.425
Cr$l                                 US$0.1347
Cr$1 million                         US$13h,680



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE
PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LOAN TO REDE FERROVIARIA FEDERAL, S.A. (RFFSA)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE FEDERATIVE REPUELIC OF BRAZIL FOR
A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Rede Ferroviaria Federal, S.A., RFFSA (the Federal Railway
Company), with the guarantee of the Federative Republic of Brazil for
the equivalent of US$175 million to help finance a second railway project.
The loan would have a term of 25 years, including five years of grace,
with interest at 8% per annum. The term of the loan was determined on
the basis of the average expected life of the assets to be financed.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report, entitled "Economic Position and Prospects
of Brazil" (355a-ER), dated June 20, 1974, was distributed to the
Executive Directors on July 3, 1974. Country data sheets are attached
as Annex I. An economic mission visited the country in October/November
1971 and its report is in preparation.
3.        The Brazilian economy so far has continued to grow at the rapid
pace which began in 1968, with an estimated increase in GDP of about 10.5%
in 197a. The average rate of growth of 10.4% over the period 1967-74 has
resulted in a 60% increase in per capita income, a 130% increase in manu-
facturing output and 350% increase in the value of exports. During much
of this period, with carefully designed fiscal and monetary policies, the
Government was successful in gradually reducing the rate of domestic in-
flation. In 1973, however, overheating developed, which was temporarily
contained, but which led to a fairly sharp increase in prices during the
first half of 1974, reflecting a very rapid increase in import prices and
a relaxation of price controls. The level of inflation in 1974 is likely
to be about 33%, compared to under 20% per year in 1970-73.
4.        Recent international economic developments, rather than leading
to a decline in the rate of GDP growth, have caused a sharp deterioration
of Brazil's balance of payments performance. The fourfold increase in
the price of crude oil (adding some US$2 billion to the import bill), the
steep rise in the price of most imported raw materials, as well as the
reduced availability of external financial credits, have made management
of the external sector very difficult in 1974. Further, these external



factors caught Brazil at the time when its economy was overheated and,
thus, growth of import demand was very high because of limitations on
domestic capacity in key sectors coupled with speculative stockpiling.
In contrast to the 1969-73 period when the current account deficit
averaged US$1 billion, or about 2% of GDP, the current account deficit
widened to about US$7.3 billion, or about 7% of GDP, in 1974, as a
result of the sizeable differential between import growth (about 100%)
and export growth (roughly 20%). The bulk of the deficit was financed
by a large increase in the inflow of external financial credits (about
US$3.7 billion on a net basis) coupled with a relatively modest drawdown
of foreign exchange reserves (about US$1 billion). Starting in September
1974, however, the tight international financial market for long-term
funds brought about a slowdown in the flow of financial credits.
5.        Measures to cope with the new external situation were intensi-
fied in March 1974, when a new government came into office. The first
effort of the new economic team was to cool off the economy by restoring
control of aggregate demand in order to reduce the prospective current
account deficit of the balance of payments to more manageable levels
and to restrain accelerating inflation. The main instruments that were
used to achieve these goals were the implementation of a tight monetary
and fiscal program, the imposition of higher import duties and accelera-
tion of the "crawling peg" exchange rate adjustments. Indications of a
downturn in the rate of industrial expansion and deceleration of the rate
of inflation in the third quarter of 1974 suggest that the Government
policies have begun to succeed in reducing the overheating of the economy.
Although the impact of these policies had not yet (as of October 1974)
been felt on the balance of payments, the Government remains confident
that imports will soon reflect the slowdown in growth of the industrial
sector and of investment.
6.        As for 1975, the Government is committed to substantially reduce
the current account deficit. To this end, it intends to continue to
implement a tight monetary policy, a balanced budget and a realistic
exchange rate policy, coupled with some reduction in imports associated
with the public investment program. The balance of payments outlook for
1975 also reflects favorable prospects for most Brazilian exports, an
expected slowdown in import price increases and likely expansion of 20-25%
in domestic oil production, thanks to earlier discoveries of offshore
deposits in some Northeast states. The Government plans to reduce the
1975 trade deficit to about US$2 billion -- or as much as the additional
oil import bill -- as compared to roughly US$5 billion in 1974. Export
earnings are expected to increase, and the reduction in the deficit should
be attainable if imports (which in 1974 included goods imported for inventory
accumulation) are kept at the same level as in 1974. Within the overall
import constraint, however, it may be possible to satisfy an increase in
demand for imported raw materials and capital goods consistent with a
satisfactory economic growth (7-8%), through some reductions in imports
of consumer goods, zero growth of oil import volumes and depletion of stock-
piles. The expected decline in the trade deficit in 1975 will be partly
offset by a substantial increase in interest payments as a result of the
large external borrowing contracted during 1974.   The current account
deficit for 1975 would then amount to about U3Z5 billion or US$2 billion



less than in 1974. If conditions in the international financial markets
do not deteriorate further, financing of such a deficit should not require
a drawdown of foreign exchange reserves.
7.        In recent years, Brazil has become more closely integrated into
the world economy and its growth has become more dependent upon and vul-
nerable to changes in the world economic situation. The slowdown in the
rate of growth of the world economy could have an adverse impact on prices
of Brazilian primary exports and on the rate of growth of its exports of
manufactures. In addition, disruption of world capital markets could affect
the flow of loans and direct investment to Brazil. Although the country's
economic prospects are favorable, these uncertainties call for some reduc-
tion from the very high rate of growth achieved in the past. The authorities
have stated that they are ready to lower the growth target if external factors
compel them to do so. A growth path in the 7-8% range seems feasible for the
rest of the decade. This would result in an annual average current account
deficit of US$5.3 billion (US$3.7 billion in 1974 prices) over the 1975-79
period. In financing this deficit, Brazil is likely to count more than ever
on the help of multilateral lenders, not only because the availability of loans
from other sources on good terms may be somewhat less ample than in the past
but also because multilateral lenders can act as catalysts to help mobilize
other sources of financing and because the level of their activity is taken
by the financial community as a measure of the confidence these agencies
have in the economic management of the country. It is estimated that the
average annual net inflow of medium- and long-term capital (that is, capital
other than direct investments and financial credits) required for the 1975-79
period will be about US$1.6 billion, or three times the average for the
1970-74 period. It thus appears that the cfficial loan capital needed to
support Brazil's growth targets is substantial.   On the other hand, the
direct import needs of most public investment projects are relatively low,
reflecting the ability of the domestic capital goods industry to compete
successfully under international competitive bidding and the low direct
foreign exchange component of many projects with strong social impact.
Hence, an appreciable part of official external financing would have to
be made available to cover domestic expenditures if Brazil is to achieve
its targets for external capital inflow.
8.        By the end of 1973, Brazil's total external debt (public and
private) reached US$12.6 billion, of which over 60% or US$7.8 billion
was in the form of financial credits. By the end of 1974, total debt
may reach US$17 billion (and financial credits outstanding US$11.6
billion). Despite the large increases in the level of indebtedness,
Brazil's external liquidity profile steadily improved over the past few
years, except for a small deterioration in 1974. Extension of the average
term of financial credits and virtual elimination of short-term credits has
had a favorable impact on debt structure. While the debt service ratio
declined, the reserve level in terms of number of months of imports increased.
The present level of reserves (US$5.9 billion) is equivalent to about five
months of the expected 1975 imports of goods and services. If an export
growth rate of around 20% per year in dollar terms (compared to 28% in
1970-74) can be maintained over the 1975-79 period and if average maturi-
ties on new financial credits do not fall below six years, the total debt ser-
vice ratio in 1979 can be expected not to exceed the 1973 level of 34%, which
is below the level prevailing in the 1969-72 period (about 40%).   It should be



- 4 -
noted that this debt service ratio includes service on all public and
private debt; the ratio for public and publicly guaranteed debt alone,
a figure which is not available, must be very much lower. Nonetheless
the fact remains that Brazil's external debt service obligations are
high. However, the large foreign exchange reserves accumulated over
the past several years ensure that Brazil will have the liquidity to
meet its debt service obligations in the short-term, while the country's
record of high caliber financial management provides grounds for confi-
dence in the maintenance of creditworthiness over the longer run. If
recent reports of major new discoveries of offshore oil deposits prove to
be accurate, oil import dependence may be substantially reduced by the
end of the decade, and the country's external position improved.
9.        There has been a remarkable broadening and deepening of the
country's productive base and of its infrastructure in recent years, as
well as a considerable strengthening of its external sector. However,
despite its recent growth and vast potential, Brazil is still a country
with a modest per capita income, about US$630 (for 1973), a very unequal
distribution of income, and extensive absolute poverty. The Brazilian
Government believes that the poverty and dualism which afflict the country
can be ameliorated only if high rates of economic growth are sustained,
permitting absorption of the economically marginal population into the
expanding modern sector. Within the context of rapid growth, the
Government has mounted many socially oriented programs which transfer
resources from the more developed to the less developed regions of the
country. The programs fall into two broad categories: regional develop-
ment programs for the Northeast, Amazon and Center-West designed to bring
about a fuller utilization of the country's land and natural resources,
encourage expansion of the agricultural frontier and promote industriali-
zation of less developed areas; and social development programs in public
health and nutrition, water and sewerage, low-income housing, education
and social welfare, instituted to broaden the distribution of and improve
access to the benefits of economic growth.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
Bank Operations
10.       By November 30, 1974, Brazil had received 49 loans from the
Bank amounting to US$1,856.0 million, of which 31 have not been fully
disbursed. An additional loan of US$23.5 million for a second educa-
tion project was signed on December 27, 1974. During FY65-69, disburse-
ments averaged only US$10 million per year, increasing to an average of
US$136 million per year during FY70-74, and reaching US$225 million in FY7h.
Disbursements will continue to increase during the next few years.   Annex II
contains a suimmary statement of Bank loans as of November 30, 1974 and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.



- 5 -
11.       Bank lending to Brazil was very active in FY72, when seven loans
were approved totalling US$437 million (including three large loans to the
steel industry).  In FY73, six loans amounting to US$187.7 million and,
in FY7[, three loans totalling US$242 million were approved. The loan for
the second education project is the only loan to Bra-zil approved thus far
in FY75. A proposed loan of US$110 million for a fifth highway project
is being presented to the Executive Directors simultaneously with this
proposed railway loan. At an advanced stage of preparation are a polder
irrigation and agricultural development project in the lower Sao Francisco
Valley and two projects in the next phase of the Government's program for
expanding the flat steel industry. We hope to present these projects to
the Executive Directors for consideration during the current fiscal year.
We are also working with the Brazilians on the preparation of an integrated
rural development project in the Northeast state of Rio Grande de Norte,
an agricultural research program, a nutrition project, second grain storage
and agro-industries projects, a small-and medium-sized industry credit pro-
ject, a secondary and feeder road project, a project to rehabilitate and
expand the Sao Paulo state railway enterprise and a power distribution
project in the Northeast.
12.       Brazil's medium- and long-term external debt (excluding finan-
cial credits) outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1973 totalled Us$4.7
billion, and of this amount the Bank held 13.8%. The Bank's share of the
service on this debt was about 6.0%. If present trends continue as ex-
pected, the Bank's share in total medium- and long-term debt outstanding
would increase to about 18% by 1979, while the share in debt service would
increase to about 10%.
IFC Operations
13.       IFC has committed more financial resources to Brazil than to any
other country. Since 1957, IFC has made 26 commitments to Brazil, totalling
a net amount of US$250.8 million, of which US$13.9 million has been repaid
and US$lh0.5 million sold. Of the balance of US$96.4 million, US$70.1
million represents loans and US$26.3 million equity. A summary of IFC's
investments up to November 30, 1974, is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
14.       In its lending to Brazil, one of the important objectives
which the Bank is seeking to achieve is the identification and support of
projects designed to increase productivity and incomes in the lowest income
segments of the population, to broaden the economic opportunities open to
those groups and to alleviate human misery. Project preparation efforts in
this area have been intensified, and we hope to present an increasing num-
ber of loans with this objective. We are actively associated with the pre-
paration of new projects in the fields of water supply and sewerage, sites
and services and rural development. A project designed to assist Brazil
in formulating a national nutrition program is being appraised. A parti-
cular effort is being made to help Brazil develop effective programs to
increase the productivity of the small farmer in the Northeast, the poorest
section of the country. A staff member is stationed in Recife to work with
the Government in formulating what we hope will be a series of integrated



- 6 -
rural development projects.   Efforts in this field would be reinforced by
a project in preparation to support agricultural research in the North-
east and to strengthen the federal mechanism for coordinating and super-
vi sing agricultural research.
15.       Institutional development and policy reform, designed inter alia
to help ensure that public savings are used economically and that an ade-
quate volume of savings is available for applications in the social sec-
tor, have been a second major objective in Bank lending to Brazil.   They
play a particularly important role in our lending in the transportation
sector, especially for railways. The proposed railway program has been
designed to include a series of measures such as tariff adjustments, stu-
dies of uneconomic lines and services and technical assistance which should
jointly lead to a strengthening of the operational efficiency, management
and planning capacity and the financial position of RFFSA. It is also a
key element in the Government's energy conservation program.
16.       A third objective in Bank lending to Brazil, especially in the
power, steel and highway sectors, is to help provide necessary long-term
external capital. In this regard, the Bank seeks to play a complementary
role to that of other lenders, supplementing their resources in individual
operations and financing activities that they are unwilling to finance.
Brazil has needed and will continue to need a very large volume of medium-
and long-term capital inflows to sustain rapid growth and achieve its em-
ployment creation and regional development objectives.
17.       A fourth lending objective for the Bank has been to help ease
the foreign exchange constraint on Brazilian development, which has become
more critical since the increase in petroleum prices, by supporting projects
designed to increase Brazil's export capacity and, where economical, to
substitute domestic production for imports. The grain storage and agro-
industries programs are both export oriented, and support of Brazil's steel
industry would help Brazil develop self-sufficiency in a commodity which
can be produced efficiently in Brazil owing to the country's bountiful sup-
ply of high-grade iron ore and the scale of its internal markets. The pro-
posed rehabilitation and expansion of the railways, which are normally the
most economical means of transporting these bulk items over long distances,
will play a crucial role in allowing the Government to achieve its export
expansion and import substitution targets. The growth of agricultural ex-
ports, which several of our loans will assist, should help Brazil make a
material contribution to the alleviation of the world food shortage.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
18.       A report entitled "?The Transport Sector of Brazil," No. 521a-BR,
dated December 20, 1974, is being circulated separately to the Executive
Directors.
Bank Participation in the Transport Sector
19.       The Bank loans for the second (RFFSA) railway project proposed



-7-
in this report and for the proposed fifth highway project would be the
Bank's tenth and eleventh for the development of Brazil's transport sec-
tor. Except for three small loans in the early 1950's (two for railway
equipment and one for highway maintenance equipment), the Bank's asso-
ciation with the Brazilian transport sector dates from 1965. In that
year, through a technical assistance grant of US$1.5 million, the Bank
helped finance and supervise the first phase of a nationwide Transport
Survey. A second phase of the Survey, partly financed by the UNDP and
the USAID, with the Bank as executing agency, was subsequently completed.
The recommendations arising from the Survey have provided the general basis
for investment projects which the Bank has helped finance and for the de-
finition of steps to improve transport institutions and services. During
the past seven years, the Bank has made four loans for highway construction
projects, one loan for a port project (Santos) and one for a railway pro-
ject, the latter in conjunction with an iron ore mining development also
partly financed by the Bank.
Sector Background
20.       The large size and difficult natural terrain of Brazil, together
with an abundance of agricultural land and mineral resources, have made
transportation a particularly crucial element in the development of the
economy. During the period 1969-73, investments in transport infrastructure
increased by an estimated average of over 16% per year. In 1973 transport
investments (excluding the motor vehicle fleet) reached about US$1.8 bil-
lion, absorbing roughly 16% of gross fixed public and private investment
expenditures.
21.       The main transport flows which have developed in Brazil are the
very large movement of industrial products and iron ore within the triangle
formed by the cities of Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and Belo Horizonte, and
the flow of agricultural products in the South and Southeast either to
ports for export or to main consumption centers such as Rio de Janeiro and
Sao Paulo. Intercity freight movement grew at an average annual rate of
10% between 1960 and 1972, when it reached an estimated total of 208 bil-
lion ton-km. Of this, 73% was by road, 16% by rail, 11% by coastal shipping
and a negligible amount by air. Intercity passenger transport grew at an
average annual rate of 12% over the same period, and in 1972 totalled roughly
150 billion passenger-km, of which 95% was by road, 3% by rail and 2% by
air.
Energy Policy
22.       The increase in petroleum prices in the last year has led the
Government to review its transport investment priorities and policies.
With the substantial increase in the import bill for petroleum (see para-
graph L above), efforts have been redoubled to irlplement development pro-
grams aimed at export promotion and import substitution where Brazil's com-
parative advantages make such programs economically justified. Iron ore,
steel and agricultural production are major focal points in this effort.
All involve bulk transport over long distances, for which rail is normally
the most economic transport alternative. Hence, the Government intends to
devote an increasing share of transport investment to the rehabilitation



and expansion of the railways and, as a general target, to provide for
the transport by rail of up to 30% of all intercity freight traffic by
the end of the decade, as compared to about 16% in 1972.
23.       During the past year, the Government has doubled the price of
regular gasoline to the user to a current level of roughly US$1.00 per
gallon. Diesel oil and fuel oil price increases, however, have been held
to roughly 50% over the mid-1973 level, mainly through a revision in the
structure of petroleum products taxes. The revised petroleum tax and price
structure is dampening growth in what would otherwise be underpriced pas-
senger car trips, and will accelerate the shift from less energy-efficient
gasoline powered trucks (now about half the fleet) to more efficient diesel
powered vehicles. Also, since fuel costs per ton-km are less for rail than
for road transport, rail transport has become relatively more attractive for
certain commodities on medium- and long-hauls. Nevertheless, one can expect
that the shift in the rail/road allocation of existing traffic will only be
gradual because: (a) the nature, size and characteristics of the existing
road and rail networks and operations will not allow a quick, significant
and economic diversion from one mode to the other; and (b) the railroad
companies will have, in the next few years, limited capacity for accommo-
dating new traffic. The projected increase in the rail share of total traf-
fic by the end of the decade will result mainly from the very substantial
new bulk traffic foreseen in agriculture and iron and steel-related trans-
port requirements, toward which much of the rail investment program will
be directed.
24.       The Government also intends to pursue an aggressive role in the
improvement of mass transport in Brazil's major urban areas, including the
rehabilitation of the suburban passenger train services. Improve-
nents are under study for coastal shipping and inland navigation.
Transport Planning and Coordination
25.       Responsibility, at the fedral level, for coordinating and planning
surface transport lies with the Ministry of Transport. Civil aviation falls
within the jurisdiction of a separate Ministry of Aviation. General inter-
ninisterial coordination of national transport policy is carried out by the
National Transport Council. However, the main governmental entity within
the Ministry of Transport in charge of transport planning and coordination
is GEIPOT - the Brazilian transport planning agency. GEIPOT was formed
in 1965 as the Government's counterpart agency for the execution and super-
vision of the Transport Survey. For the first few years after completion of
the Survey, GEIPOT failed to exert decisive influence in the coordination of
planning by the individual modal agencies. However, in mid-1972, its manage-
ment was strengthened and GEIPOT became more active in reviewing modal plans
and commissioning special transport studies.
26.       In 1973 GEIPOT was transormed from a Government agency to a Go-
vernment-owned and controlled company, which should allow GEIPOT greater
flexibility in retaining high quality staff. GEIPOT receives Government
financial support to give technical assistance to all modal agencies; to
help the Government formulate, coordinate and execute its national transport
policy; and to execute and coordinate the preparation of modal master plans



- 9 -
and other studies necessary to achieve these objectives. However, in view
of the complexity and immense size of Brazil's transport system, this im-
proved capacity for general transport planning and coordination can be ex-
pected to achieve its intended results only if complemented by a continued
strengthening of the planning capacity in the individual modal agencies.
Highway Subsector
27.       Over the last decade, and through 1973, the Government placed
highest priority within the transport sector on the development of the federal
and state highway system. In line with recommendations made in the Trans-
port Survey, the National Highway Department (DNER) and a number of state
highway departments were reorganized; maintenance and construction are gra-
dually being delegated to the states -- though this could now be accelerated
-- and DNER's planning capacity and contract supervision methods were im-
proved substantially. In 1973 over half (or almost US$1 billion) of public
sector transport investments were for highways. Between 1967 and 1972, the
combined federal and state system increased from 36,000 km to 62,000 km.
Trucks account for roughly 45% of total intercity vehicle kilometers, and
the relative share of total intercity freight movement accounted for by road
transport increased from 69% in 1965 to 73% in 1972. The increased empha-
sis now being given to developing rail capacity for bulk, long haul cargo
will prevent what would otherwise be a growing imbalance in the transport
system, but large investments will still be required to improve the high-
way system. However, while construction of various new roads will continue
to be justified, an increasing share of investments in the hi4hway subsector
will need to be allocated to secondary and feeder roads, improved mainte-
nance, road rehabilitation and upgrading.
Ports and Waterways
28.       There are 36 principal ports in Brazil.   In 1972, total port
freight traffic was about 110 million tons. Rio de Janeiro accounted for
about 20% and Santos for 12%. The share of waterborne transport in total
domestic freight traffic has declined over the last decade because water-
borne traffic has grown less rapidly than other traffic categories, despite
sizeable increases shipped by waterways. The Government's program to de-
centralize and reorganize the administration of major ports and to improve
management, accounting and planning practices -- an effort recommended
in the Transport Survey and initiated in conjunction with the Bank's 1971
Loan (756-ER) for the Santos port project -- has proceeded very slowly.
However, the National Department of Ports and Navigable Waterways is now
being reorganized. Also, during the past year, the dock companies of se-
veral major ports have been converted from Government agencies to corpora-
tions with majority Government ownership, a step which should strengthen
and allow greater flexibility in local port management. An overall port
study, recently completed with Bank financing under the Santos Port Loan,
will lead to the preparation of a five-year investment program for Brazi-
lian ports. With few exceptions, the efficiency of port operations of Bra-
zilian ports requires considerable further improvement, particularly if
the Government is to achieve its target of reversing the relative decline
in the use of coastal shipping for general cargo, which could be the most
economic alternative in many cases.



- 10 -
PART IV - THE RAILWAY SYSTEM
National Railway Network
29.       RFFSA, the Federal Railway Company, operates 25,000 route-Ian.
The balance of the Brazilian railway network consists of about 5,000 km of
lines operated by FEPASA (the state-owned Sao Paulo 'Railways); 935 Im of
lines operated by EFVM (Estrada de Ferro Vitoria a 'l1inas), a department of
the Government-owned mining company, Companhia Vale do Rio Doce (CVRP),
carrying mostly iron ore traffic; and 718 Ion of lines operated by five
small private companies. The new Federal Government which took office in
March 1974 is undertaking studies with a view to merging the main railway
companies in the medium term.   The merger of RFFSA and FEPASA was recommended
in the Transport Survey but was delayed principally by unresolved issues
regarding responsibilityr for financing deficits and investments, matters
now under review.
HFFSAi Organization and Management
30.       RFFSA was created in 1957 as a corporation almost entirely owned
by the Federal Government, grouping 18 railways wihich formerly7 had been
under separate managements.   Central RFFSA management is carried out by a
Board of 6 members. The former railways continued to exist as divisions
under local management until 1968 when R.FFSA's organization was reshaped
to provide four regions and to concentrate administrative responsibility
in regional headquarters. However, until 1973 when an effort was made to
decen-tralize many of the day-to-day management decisions away from OYFSA
national headquarters, regional managers remained weak. In 1974 HFFSA
carried out a reorganization of its central management structure, further
strengthening the regions and also improving the planning superintendency
and commercial unit. RFFSA has also recently created a subsidiary, ENGEFER,
which will be responsible for completing the engineering and for contracting
the major new construction works, thus enablirng, FFSh to concentrate staff
energies on implementing other aspects of the investment program and on
improving operational efficiency.
31.       RFF3A has steadily reduced its staff, mainly through normal resigna-
tions and retirements, from 154,000 in 1963 to 114,000 at the end of 1973.
By the end of 1979 the staff is expected to be further reduced to 104,000.
The salary structure for university-level s-vaff was improved considerably
in late 1973, 1-owever, low pay scales for machinists and skilled laborers
have resulted in considerable staff losses in re-ions of strong labor demand
and ELFF3ik is now preparing a new salary structure for these and other cate-
goriss. RFFSA has agreed to provide the Bank, by March 30, 1976, with a
study of the adequacy of RFFSA's staff compensation (see Section 4.95 o°'
draft Loan iigreemenb).
RFFS1k Traffic
32'       Al1-houghI the relative share of the railways in total intercity



- 11 -
freight movement decreased from 19% in 1960 to 16% in 1972, rail freight
traffic increased in absolute terms from 13 to 33 billion ton-km. Of this
20 billion ton-km increase, about 80% was accounted for by increased iron
ore exports on the EFVM railway. The growth of RFFSA traffic averaged only
4% per year during the 1960-72 period, bat since 1969 the yearly increases
averaged 6%. In 1972, RFFSA freight traffic totalled 11.7 billion ton-km.
Much of the recent growth in RFFSA freight traffic was due to increased
shipments of iron ore, petroleum derivatives, cement, limestone, fertilizers,
steel products, wheat, soybeans and sugar, which together accounted for 75%
of the total net ton-km transported by RFFSA. RFFSA traffic is concentrated
in the central region, particularly in the Rio de Janeiro-Belo Horizonte-
Sao Paulo triangle, which now accounts for roughly 60% of RFFSA's net ton-km
movement on about 35% of the track.
33.       The increasing export of iron ore, largely in conjunction with
the Bank-financed (Loan 787-BR) MBR project, and the planned development
of the steel industry will dramatically increase the level of RFFSA traffic.
Freight movements in ton-km are expected to increase by 18.6% per annum
between 1973 and 1979, with iron ore and steel related traffic accounting
for 71% of the increase. Bulk cereal movements will contribute another 8.5%
of the total increase. Traffic of other commodities is expected to grow at
an average annual rate only moderately above previous rates.
34.       Between 1965 and 1972, RFFSA intercity passenger traffic declined
50% from 5.4 million to 2.7 million passenger-km. Except in limited cases
(such as Rio-Sao Paulo), intercity passenger traffic cannot at present be
served economically by rail because passenger numbers are small and the
alignment and condition of the track do not permit speeds which would make
rail transport competitive with bus or air transport, which provide faster,
more comfortable and more reliable services. Total RFFSA intercity passen-
ger traffic is therefore expected to decrease up to 4% per year.
35.       On the other hand, RFFSA suburban passenger traffic in Rio and
Sao Paulo is expected to grow. This traffic is now limited by the capacity
of the present systems which are characterized by often antiquated equipment
in frequent need of repair and by high passenger accident rates due to over-
crowding. In Rio, RFFSA passengers now number 585,000 daily, but after com-
pletion of the envisaged RFFSA modernization program, are expected to number
around 900,000 daily by 1980. In Sao Paulo, where the state railway also
offers suburban passenger services on other routes, RFFSA passengers number
roughly 350,000 daily and are expected to rise to about 600,000 by 1980. In
both cities, the suburban trains serve largely low income workers who are
wholly dependent upon mass transport to reach their places of work and who
would otherwise be carried by bus, a less economical alternative. The planned
investments in suburban rail services are intended to improve the use of
existing infrastructure and are only an interim and partial solution to the
overall urban transport needs of the metropolitan areas. The investments
are complementary to other urban transport investments underway -- Metros
are being constructed in both cities -- and are also an integral part of the
Government's urgently needed short-term efforts to offer improved mass trans-
port at the same time that gasoline prices are gradually increased. Metro-
politan transport studies to develop longer-term investment proposals are
being undertaken in both metropolitan areas.



- 12 -
RFFSA Network and Productivity
36.       Of RFFSA's total network, 92% is meter gauge, 7% broad gauge
(1.6 m) and 1% narrow gauge (0.76 m). Due to mountainous terrain, align-
ments are often poor, with many curves and steep gradients. Renewals and
general maintenance of the track have not been carried out sufficiently
and a substantial program of track improvement will be necessary to carry
safely the forecast traffic, even though new lines are also planned. About
80% of RFFSA's locomotive fleet is less than 15 years old, and with new
acquisitions and the scrapping of older types, the fleet should be adequate
to handle growing traffic. Much of the intercity passenger car fleet is
obsolete, but minimum investments are foreseen in view of the relatively
poor competitive position of the railways for serving most intercity passen-
ger traffic. However, considerable investments will be required to expand
and modernize the freight car fleet and also the unit train fleet for subur-
ban passenger services. In addition, workshops will be concentrated and
moderni zed.
37.       Operating performance in RFFSA varies widely between divisions.
Nevertheless, there is considerable scope for improving productivity, as
the turnaround time for iron ore traffic (about 5 days) and general cargo
(about 11 days) could both be reduced, while utilization of diesel locomo-
tives in freight services should increase from the present 70,000 km per
year to about 100,000 km. In conjunction with the proposed project, which
includes substantial technical assistance, RFFSA has agreed to take steps
necessary to meet time-phased targets for different productivity indices
(see Section 4.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
38.       In 1966, a study of uneconomic lines was started by RFFSA and
GEIPOT and eventually expanded to cover 8,065 km of lines. RFFSA has made
impressive progress in implementing recommendations resulting from the stu-
dies and, by the end of 1974, a total of 7,109 km of uneconomic lines had
been taken out of service. Of the remainder, some were found economical
to keep in service, some were transformed into private sidings and others
are being keptn under observation or kept in service for social or other
reasons. RFFSA has agreed to undertake additional studies to reduce un-
economic services (see Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement). The
studies will focus particularly on the Northeast and on the Lenpoldina
division (which covers areas immediately Northeast of Rio de Janeiro) and
intercity passenger movement in general.
PART V - THE PROJECT
39.       The Government of Brazil and the Brazilian Federal Railways
(RFFSA) have requested a Bank loan to help finance RFFSA's Five-Year
(1975-79) Investment Plan. The Project, which has been defined as that
part of the proposed five-year plan for which economic justification has
already been shown and for which implementation has been scheduled to begin
in the next two years, was appraised by Bank rnissions which visited Brazil
in November 1973 and February 1974. A report, entitled "Appraisal of a Se-
cond Railway Project (RFFSA)", No. 570a-3,H, dated December 20, 1974, is being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors. A loan and project sum- _



- 13 -
mary is presented in Annex III. Negotiations took place in Washington
from December 9, 1974, to December 13, 1974. The Borrower was represented
by a team headed by General Milton Mendes Goncalves, the President of
RFFSA.
The Five-Year Investment Plan
40.       RFFSA has prepared, with the assistance of consultants (ENGETRAN
of Brazil and SOFRERAIL of France) a Five-Year Investment Plan, 1975-79,
amounting to about US$h.5 billion, with a foreign exchange component of
US$2.3 billion equivalent. About 34% of the investments in the proposed
RFFSA Plan are still either at a relatively early phase of study by RFFSA
or have been scheduled for implementation only beginning in the last several
years of the planning period and, hence, have not been included in the Pro-
ject. It is estimated that, of the total planned investment of US$4.5 bil-
lion (including both physical and price contingencies), roughly US$4.0 bil-
lion will eventually prove justified for execution during the five-year pe-
riod.
The Project
41.       The total cost of the Project is estimated at US$3.0 billion (in-
cluding both physical and price contigencies) with a foreign exchange com-
ponent of about US$1.5 billion. The Project and an accompanying Program of
Action to improve the operating efficiency of RFFSA are intended to accom-
modate substantial projected increases in the demand for rail transport --
particularly stemming from the Government's efforts to ease balance of pay-
ments pressures by increasing steel production and iron ore and agricultural
exports -- and to strengthen RFFSA's management and planning capacity and
financial position. The Project includes:
(a) construction of new lines and realignments;
(b) improvements to stations and yards;
(c) improvements to and expansion of signalling and telecommu-
nications facilities;
(d) modernization and expansion of motive power and rolling
stock;
(e) improvements to permanent way, stations, yards, signalling
and communications, and procurement of additional unit trains
for suburban passenger services in Rio de Janeiro and Sao
Paulo;
(f) track rehabilitation, workshop modernization, electrification,
gauge unification and other miscellaneous investments in ope-
rating facilities; and
(g) improvements in headquarters facilities, execution of econo-
mic feasibility and engineering studies, and implementation of
training programs.



The proposed Bank loan of US$175 million would be used to help finance ma-
terials and equipment for the track rehabilitation program; parts for
freight car modernization; equipment for workshops; signalling and electric
equipment and train sets for suburban services; and ccnsulting services for
the studies and training.
42.       RFFSA has agreed that, for certain of the new line or realignment
construction items included in the Project for which detailed engineering
is not completed or sufficiently advanced to confirm the economic viability
based on final cost estimates, execution will not begin until detailed en-
gineering is completed and the economic viability reconfirmed (see Section
3.02(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). RFFSA has also agreed that any major
new item (i.e., construction projects costing in aggregate more than US$20
million equivalent, or the procurement of equipment in a particular category
costing during any one year more than US$5 million equivalent) will not be
undertaken unless: (i) economic feasibility and detailed engineering studies
are completed and the economic justification has been demonstrated to the
satisfaction of the Bank; (ii) it has been demonstrated to the satisfaction
of the Bank that implementationof the investment will not result in an un-
timely delay in the execution of the Project; and (iii) a financing plan
has been prepared.by RFFSA and found satisfactory by the Bank (see Section
5.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
13.       Investments alone, however, will not achieve the Government's
goal of improved railway services. Improvements in management, operations
and maintenance procedures are also essential and RFFSA has agreed to imple-
ment a Plan of Action to reach time-phased performance targets. In addition,
the Project contains an important element of technical assistance and an ex-
tensive training program.
RFFSA Finances
4b.       Since RFFSA was created in 1957, its operations have been charac-
terized by heavy financial deficits. In 1963 the operating deficit reached
US$350 million and the operating ratio (the ratio of expenses, including
depreciation, to revenues) reached a high of 366. Between 1963 and 1970
the deficit was reduced by 55% in real terms, principally by reducing staff
numbers by 23% and personnel costs by 28% and by increasing suburban pas-
senger fares slightly in real terms. By 1970 the operating ratio was 185
and the deficit US$157 million. No improvement has been registered since.
On a regional basis, the operating ratio in 1973 varied from 396 in the
Northeast to 10L in the Center-South. Operating deficits have been met by
the Federal Treasury.  In 1968 the Government instituted a program of "nor-
malization" to provide specific subsidies to supplement low suburban fares
and some freight rates, and to cover certain other losses. In 1973, the
operating ratio was 165, or 163 if "normalization" were taken into account.
L5.       The Government and RFFSA's management are determined to improve
RFFSA's financial performance over the next five years. In part, this will
result from traffic increases, but the major part of the improvement is ex-
pected to result from a specific time-phased program of measures which RFFSA
has adopted (see Section 5.06 of the draft Loan Agreement). RFFSA will in-



- 15 -
troduce by the end of 1975 a revised freight tariff structure based on
costs and including selective tariff adjustments which will increase,
overall, freight revenue per unit by 20 percent in real terms over the
average 1972 level. Freight rates applied to iron ore and steel-related
traffic will be set to cover the economic costs of the service and to re-
cover capital costs of the related rail investments at an assumed interest
rate of at least 15% per annum. Also, fares for suburban passenger ser-
vices in Rio, which do not yet cover long run variable costs, will be in-
creased by at least 15% in real terms over the 1972 level by the end of
1978, when improvements in these services are expected to be completed.
Though losses on intercity passenger services cannot be expected to be
eliminated by fare increases, fares on some night trains and fast day trains
will also be increased in real terms. As noted in paragraph 38, RFFSA will
carry out additional studies with a view to identifying and implementing
means to reduce uneconomic services throughout the system, but particularly
in the Northeast and in the Leopoldina Division and for intercity passenger
traffic. Finally, where uneconomic lines and services cannot be phased out
for social or other reasons, the Government has agreed that, from January
1, 1978, onwards, the "normalization" or subsidy system will cover all rele-
vant losses (see Section 2.03 in the draft Guarantee Agreement). These
measures should provide RFFSA with an-aadequate framework for improved com-
mercial and financial planning and performance. By 1979, the operating
ratio should be reduced to 124 before "normalization" and 105 after "nor-
malization", as compared to 185 and 163 respectively in 1973.
46.       Several other actions are either underway or planned to improve
RFFSA's financial management.  RFFSA has agreed to revalue, by the end of
1976 the depreciable fixed assets appearing inP its balance sheet to
reflect present values less accumulated depreciation, and to charge deprecia-
tion on properly revalued assets in its annual accounts begirnning in 1977.
Assets have heretofore appeared at historical cost and depreciation charges
have been unrealistically low. In addition, UFFS. will retain an independent
auditing firm to audit RFFSA's accounts and to help improve its internal
control and auditing procedures and its balance sheet presentation (see
Sections 5.04 and 5.02 in the draft Loan Agreement).
Financing Plan
L7.       The projected cash flow and financing plan for 1975-79, assuming
execution not only of the Project but also of those items in the Invest-
ment Plan which already appear to be justified for execution later in the
five-year period, is as follows:
1975-79
Requirements                     US$ Millions                  %
RFFSA Operating Deficit               344                      8
Estimated Investments
(excluding price contingencies) 3,047                      71
Debt Service                          903                     21
Total          4,294                     100



- 16 -
1975-79
US$ Millions
Source of Funds
RFFSA Depreciation                    375                       9
Imposto Unico 1/                      467                      ll
Other Federal Government           1,814                       42
Domestic Loans                        625                      15
Foreign Loans                         992                      23
Other                                  21                       -
Total                T,29                       100
1/ RFFSA allocation of Petroleum Products Tax receipts.
The financing plan depends to a considerable extent on appropriations from
the federal budget, including a continued growth of petroleum tax receipts.
Figures for domestic and foreign loans include not only those already
arranged or being negotiated but also undefined, but expected additional
borrowings. In addition to some US$65 million equivalent in foreign financ-
ing remaining to be committed under various previous external loans (both
commercial and official) for Project items already under execution, and
the proposed Bank Loan of US$175 million, RFFSA has arranged new foreign
financing of about US$77 million equivalent from Yugoslavia and US$60
million equivalent from Romania, both for purchase of freight wagons. It
is also negotiating financing of about US$60 million with the United States
Export-Import Bank for the purchase of locomotives. The GTovernment intends
to arrange further foreign financing through suppliers' credits and bilat-
eral trade agreements and is also considering the possibilities for organiz-
ing other co-financing. The Government agreed that it would provide or
arrange whatever financing is necessary to execute the Project satisfactorily
and in a timely manner.
Project Execution
48.       The proposed investment program is substantially larger than that
carried out by RFFSA in recent years. In order to help implement this
ambitious plan, RFFSA has established a subsidiary company, ENGEF5R, which
would act as an investment execution body for those aspects of the RFFSA
program, such as new line construction, which are not closely linked to the
operation of present services. Though it is still early to judge the per-
formance of this new organization, ENGEF$R appears to be well staffed with
competent and experienced engineers.
49.       To increase the capability of AFFSA for implementing the Project
and to improve operational efficiency in general, an extensive program of
technical assistance, at an estimated cost of about US$8.5 million equiva-
lent over a three-year period, has been included in the Project. A per-
centage of the costs of the consulting services required would be financed
under the proposed loan. The fields to be covered include:
(i) railway operations (including workshop organization, concen-
tration and modernization; maintenance and renewal of per-
manent way; train and station operations; and training);



- 17 -
(ii) project management and control;
(iii) suburban commuter services (operational efficiency);
(iv) uneconomic lines and services;
(v) marketing;
(vi) electrification; and
(vii) data processing, financial reporting and budgeting.
RFFSA's entering into technical assistance contracts with respect to main
aspects of the first five fields would be a condition of loan effectiveness
(see Section 7.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursements
50.       All goods financed under the jroposed loan would be acquired on
the basis of international competitive bidding. For the purpose of com-
paring bids, Brazilian bidders would be granted a margin of preference by
adding 15% (or the applicable customs duty, whichever is lower) to the
CIF value of the foreign bids. Brazilian firms are likely to compete for
most items and, since they are often competitive in the world market, it
is possible that as much as 50% of the orders to be financed by the Bank
may be awarded locally. The actual percentage may be lower, however,
because local manufacturers of railway equipment are working close to full
capacity and might not be able to meet the required delivery periods. The
proposed loan would finance the full amount, less domestic taxes, of con-
tracts awarded to Brazilian firms and this would entail disbursements for
local expenditures. The Bank loan would be equivalent to less than 12%
of the foreign exchange component of the project and the Government will
defray a high percentage of foreign exchange costs from its own resources.
The expected foreign financing of slightly under US$1 billion over the next
five years will cover only about two-thirds the estimated foreign exchange
component of RFFSA's investments. Project items to be subject to Bank
financing would be contracted during 1975 and 1976 with disbursements
extending through 1978.
Rate of Return
51.       The estimated economic rate of return for the total Project is
19%. Economic evaluations were also carried out on five general categories
into which the Project was divided, including: (a) iron and steel related
investments; (b) the motive power, rolling stock and permanent way program
not related to the steel expansion program; (c) suburban passenger services
in Rio and Sao Paulo; (d) new lines related to agriculture and other develop-
ments; and (e) other miscellaneous investments. With respect to the invest-
ments related to iron and steel developments, the tariff rates, which will
cover railway costs and yield at least a 15% internal rate of return on



- 18 -
the rail investments (see para 45), were reviewed in the context of the
steel industry cost structure, and it was concluded that such rates would
not prejudice the economic or financial viability of proposed investments
in the iron and steel industry. All other categories in the Project were
justified on the basis of total transport cost savings.
52.       The investments in the motive power, rolling stock and perma-
nent way program, not related to iron ore and steel related traffic, will
increase railway capacity to carry new traffic and, hence, allow transport
savings over the alternative truck transport, as well as reduce costs for
existing rail traffic. A 33% rate of return is expected on the investments
in this category.
53.       The suburban passenger service investments are expected to yield
an economic return of 34%, both through savings when compared to expanded
bus transport, which would otherwise be necessary to carry incremental
traffic, and also through rail cost savings for current traffic levels. In
addition, significant non-quantified benefits would accrue through reduced
accident rates in suburban passenger services, a dampening of the increase in
urban road congestion and associated air pollution; reduction of rail travel
time; and improved frequency of rail services.
5L.       Most of the specific rail investments related to agriculture and
other developments have been evaluated separately and found to be economi-
cally well justified, with rates of return ranging from 12% to 36%. In
some cases the feasibility will have to be reconfirmed after detailed en-
gineering is completed and costs updated. The other miscellaneous invest-
ments included in the Project are considered justified and were included in
the overall Project as overhead items.
55.       The Project is based on the assumption of continued growth of the
Brazilian economy, and should there be a dramatic economic slowdown, some
of the railway investments might be premature, especially those not related
to the steel expansion program.   Also, if some of the planned operational
improvemernts were not carried out, the expected benefits of the investments
would not materialize as earlyr as forecast.  But even if these nerative
events were to occur, the proposed project is still likely to show an accept-
able rate of return since the combination of investmernts and operational
measures which it envisages is still expected to achieve major increases
in operating efficiency.   The Project is of high national priority, and a
key component of the Governnent's economric development plan.
PART VT - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.       The draft Loan Agreement between Rede Ferroviaria Federal, S.A.,
and the Bank, and the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Federative Re-
public of Brazil and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for
in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text
of a draft resolution approving the proposed loan are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately. Features of the draft Loan and Guaran-
tee Agreements of special interest are referred to in paragraphs 31, 37, 38,
42, 45, 46, 47 and 4f9.



- 19 -
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Ar-
ticles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
58.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
(by J. Burke Knapp)
Attachments
December 30, 1974






ANNEX I
Page 1 of 3
M"U' T4TA - BauL
ARiA                                             P2 wamT
8,51l 0I, bt O                                  9t.2    nillio  (atd-1972)                     ..     Pr klaof arable land
SOCIA ImCAT1RS
R fwrr Cxn+rss
m  R,. 11 1    U     I     I     U    Y     V     an
OVB PR  CAPITA U:4 (ATLAS BlASIS) )                              .         530 /b          750 /b       760 h      2,130 /s
DET.CCRAPIIC
Crud rrth r.t   (pe th-o.and)                                 42          38/f           (43A          23/a         19
Crd. d..th r.t    (par th-on nd)                              12          10              10           10 77         7 !
nfant aortalit  ret. (par toheand ie. births)                180         1lo              58 /b."  4    0  12       1
Life sxpactncy *t birth (year)                                50          61 If, .        664 7i       70 /         72
or... r..prd-ction rete 12                                   2.6         2.6             3.1          1.4          1.0
Popalati.o grot rat.    f                                    3.0         2.9 /c          3.5 /o       1.3 /c       1.1 
Pop.latioo grouth rat. - urb"n                                 6 /d        5 7a            5 7          27a          3_
AK. trut.re (p.ront)
0 -1                                                      (43          42              46           28 /f        24
15-64                                                       51,         53A/            50           63 7?        69
65 nd o,er                                                   3
Dlmnedncq ratio A                                            1.4 /       15              19 /         1.0          0.6 L
Urban popelatton a. percent of total                          46 /d       56 /d           59 /         78 If g      72 /h
Faily planning. Vo. of acemptor. onaltive (tQ-A.)              .         250 -
go. of saer. (% of earriad amen)             ..         1.6
D#rWDIT
Toti    bor for- (t-an.da)                                22,700      29,500 8        13,OD0        1,100 If    52,800
Percentage cployd in crioulatr-                             5(          41.             39           17 7?        19
Percentage unceplo.yd                                                    2 L1                         a 7?       1.2
iroIs DISThIJBTraG
ercent of oeio.. inoo i.   r-eid by hihest 5%                 28 /I       33 /I           36 /1        21 2 , 1
Ptrc nt of national inoo   reoieed by higbhet 20%             54 7W       62 7r           61           .7 
Pero"nt of national inooc  receid by loeet 20%                   77        31 71           b 71        1 7
Perocot of notionai .cooe rocoi,od by tocet 40%               12 71       10 71 i
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND 0WLRSHIP
9 ocoud by top lOS of o-cer.
I octad by -olleet 10% of oo-ner.
REAL7M11 AND NUTRITION
Popolation per physitic                                    2,1I0       1 950 I/        1,b40          9b4          880
PoPulatlon por purcdng porsoc                                          3,300 [o        1,570        3,560          21o
Poopletio- por hoepit.1 bed                                  27r         260             930          160 I         80
Per 0cpitC oalorio copply so S of reqoira-  te /5             .J         106             107 I/       110          105
Per rapita protoo copply, totaL (grAs, p-r dayr6              60          67              60 /,        91           7I
Of cR1f6, ant.el cod puit                                   38          39              28 7         6b           45
oth rat. 1-LI 7cr. /7                                         .. dpl11                                 .1 0 64
EDLGATION
3iut-d /8 prticry cohool  nrollneot ratio                  100 /ob     130 /ahb.e      104. /ab     11/pb        100
Adj3.,td LE ,ocory e            1hool enrdllcnt ratio         11 /Ab      2 iab.ao        23     5      6           90
Tears of -chooling proided, first cd e-eond level             13          13              12           17           1?
Vo.atio-al enrollbeot a S of sec. school onrolicont           19          17              21 Ic        22/p         20
Ad.it lltor-cy rate i                                         61          c8 /            8L 75        91           99 /, ad
HOUSI0C
Oterogo No. of person. Per roP o (urban)                                 1.0 I,          ?.S                       1.0 If
Percent ofocrIpied Anit, Oith-ot piped -at.r                  5  I/r      67 7I t         61 I.e       ..
A.I0i0 to        ' olctriotty (aa % of total Poptuation)      L.           7 7I           60
Percet-o- frrl popul.tion, oooact.d too l1tniotty                          B 7s
GONSUIPTION
9I7    r-2sver- per 1000 population                           oo          60             276          3b6          568 /a
Paso--gor oar, per 1000 population                             I          25              25           42 /f       101 71
EleoIrtc pucer -Oceoflption (kb& p.c.)                       328         477             586          762        3,391
Ne.spri,t -oooorptioo p.o. kg per year                       3.3         2.9             3.1          7.2         19.1
Note'   Figu     rfr  ither to the I1tret pioda r to             acocoot of -nviroenta1 t_aparatre, body unighta, nd
thc 1:tot yc.ro. Iatcot perida rfeer to priociple tO             dictribution by ge aC.  cn of actional popolationa.
thr yrr   1956-60 or 1966-70; the lateat yr    in prin_-      6 Protin etavdrd     (reqlrseenta) for all eontrics as estab-
elpir to 1960 cod 1970.                                          lihahd by U3SA E.ono.Ic Ressarob Srvice provide for a alrle
LI The Por C.plte GNP retirate ia at nacikt pricea fcr           allounoce of 60 grea  of total protein per day, and 20 grca of
Ze_ro oth r th-n 1900, clulated by thne a.  o   rdion        ani-ai nd pclaa protein, of ehiob 10 grne ehoold be ania
troonto..r cc Ihe 0972 Aorld B-nk Atla-                      p.ot.,    Theae etaIdrdn ara   -,ehat 1ieAr tb n thoce of 75
12 Avr-g 00bcr of doughter, per co      of rprod..ti,e           gr    of total protein end 23 groas of aiai protein a. -
gre                             .. vcrcg                             for thie  -Ird, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
I Cbpolottci grcuth rotc- or for the decadee ending in           Srvey'
1960 snd 1970                                                  ce So etodie  have c4ggected that croda death ratee of children
A   Ra,to of onder 15 -nd 65 cod over age hrket. t.              age  1 th-ough 4 ay be uoed a    f a firet app,roiation Ind= of
tho.e th l-bor forc. brahekt of agec 15 through 6b4.          alntrition.
0 FAOr tfervce otcodardc repreeot ptyeiologicaL re-       /8 Peroctaee anrolled cf correspond,ing popolatlon of echool age
qoire,n-tr for ord     tivity cod healtb, tAidng             c defined for each country
/I   1971;   A. 1972;    Io 1960-71i    d  Urbn and u,brban sone. of &d.d.trati,e eceters af aunieiplitieb cd die-
tricto;   Is  Lcoalitia. of 2,500 or acres  Lf  Natiat.;    J A    tis;    &  Citie;  ( bi) haing 30,000 or acre
lohabitant.;   Li  Fotio of popul-tion under 15 and 65 cd or to total labor foreol     L   heaAd en 1.3 percent ample
tabulation of oahe raturos, eiluding Indin jungle populatice;      A           aonaaioa.lly ac-tiba populatioa;  /  Ho,oeholde;
969;        /n  1967;   /   o oepitL pereaonerL;                    /D 1968;  /    Q Definitrn u  Urban;  /a get±a  based on
coeple t ahubctioo cr.eneui returns.   ta  rer to dwlUinga;     /t  Insida or outoaf;    /u  In-Tuding ead-p   anent
d   ellinge;  /I   1964-66  I.  Registered only;  x  15-59;    * 60 cod aver;    /     Rtr of population under 15 cd
tO and o.er to total labor force;   la- 19t5-70;   1Ib   onac enrollent hbich inoldec overage studaot;      /ao  The
not ecrolleet r-ttos in 1971 ore a4a% A18% for basic and aecoodary education rapeotively;  /ld 15 yar r;ndo      r;
Ic, Toclde onLy.
J.psn h.c been acbeoted asn objective country aInce the Brasilian Goveroxet has hare    particular intereat in
Jopone de..lopantl apriene; a        , the to goarne,enta have condacttd Joint etudies to identify posible future
ecooc    problcac of Brasil on the basic of the qparience of Japn.
R3 August 28, 1974



AtNNiJ I
EIORGMT IO VE021T DIATA                                                Page 2 of 3
(Amountsi    mlioso      U.S. dollars)
Actual    Estimated    ~~~~ProlcedL         1965-   1970 -   1973 -    1974 -   1972    1974     1979
NAT,ONAL AC.CO1DNTS                19 71    1972      1973     1974        1975    1-979     1970     1973     1974     1979                      __
Amo.nts in 1968              Prices& Exchange Rates        Average Anrnual Growth Rates       As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product           39,0       34;     478 3,,               149    ;,s            .)   5.         u)       ,s     s.        ss.     9a.
Gains f'rom Terms of Trade()        362      608     1,196       199        419     920                                          0.4   04          1.2
Gross Domestic Income            39~      4475T     49TW2     53,=7T     5 7-ZM  7 T7Mf        7.     18        .         .0   10079W    la=T    10=7
Import (inci. NFS)                3.873    4,775     5,654     6,734      6 ,227  9,897       15.9   21.0     19.1       8.0    10.8     12.5     12.5
Exports   (import capacity)  ~~3,053  3 920  4 922     3,730     4,619    8.363      10.2    18.1    .24.2     17.5      8.9      6.9     10.5
Resource Gap                       820         5               3,Ws  -   27000    =,- 27035-FW 56-                                                T7
Consumwption Expenditures        31,800   35,521    39,474    42,949     44,834  62,366        8.1   00.4      8.8       7. 7   60.2      79.7    78.6
Investment    1  (imcl. stocks)   8,486    9,549    11,026    13,926     14,677  18,470        8.9   19.6     26.3       5.8    21.7      25.8    23.3
Domestic Savings                  7,666    8,694    10.294    10,922     13,014  16,936        9.8   18.0      6.1       9.1    19.8      20.3    21.4
National Savings                  7 ,229    8,184    9,766     10,547    12,415  16,092        5.1   18.4       8.0      8.8    18.6      19.6    20.3
MERCHANDISE TPADE                           Annual Oats at Current; Prices                                                        As Percent of Total
Imnorts
CaeDital goods                  1,241     1,734    2,142      7,941     3,587   7 ,22 7     36.0   26.0      37.3     19.7    40.9      2 3. 9  35.5
Intermediate goods (~mLfuels) 1,140       1,359    2,024     4,624      3,973   6,019       18.8   36.0     128.5      5.5    32.1      37.6    29.6
Fuels and related materials       377       506      617      3,090     3,350   5,038        8.9   50.0     2 78 .2   10.3    11.9      25.1    24 .7
of which: Petroleum,            251       344      606     2,600      7,930   4,947        7.5   50.0     329.0     13.7     8.1      21.1    24.3
Consumption goods                 507       591    1~07(c     1,569     1 400    1 290-5    12.3   42.0     46.1       4.0    14.0      12.7     9.4
Total Merch. Imports (fob       3,245     4-,235   6.192     1 2714     ?i-;T 20,356        22.0   35.0    9~8.9      10.6   100.0-    10.     100.0i o-
Exports
primary7 prochicts (excd, fuels)  2 ,27 1  3,086   4,656      5,109     7,211  11,807       10.2   26.0       9.7     18.2    7 7. 3    69.2    60.7
F'uels and related materials       19        36       52         65        65     100         .    31.0      25.0      9.0     0.9       0.9     0.3
of which: Petroleume              8        16       16         30        30      40         -    17.0     87.5       5.9     0.4       0.4     0.2
,Nsatufa,ctoegod                  520       824    1.330      2,015     2,600    7,384      23.0   54.0      51.5     29.5    20.6      273      8.
Toa .erch. Exoorts (fob)     2,904    3,991     6,199    ?7385      10',086  19T,350     11.4   31.5     19.1      21.5   100      1=0      1 07W
Merchandise Trade Indices                     Average 1968.-     100
Export Price index                118       129      177        225       258      .         5.4   13.5      27.1
Import Price Index                104       109      134        212       233     ..         3.9   10.3     58.4
Terms of Trade Index              113       118      132        106       ill      .. 
Exports Volume Indes              130      165       186        174       205      .         5.7   15.8     - 6.4
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR,             Annual Data at 1968-    Prices and Exchange Rates            Average Annual Growth Rates       As Percent of Total-
Agriculture                     5,093    5.302     5,488     6,201      6,511   8,298        3.0    6.3      13.0     6.0     15.6      14.7    13.5
Industry and l4ioing            8 ,987  10.227    11,762    12,879     13,909  19,478       10.3   13.3      9.5      8.5     30.9      396     J.
Service                        16_573   18_496    20_8~24   2 L3.1     Zi...96  1a.470       7 .7  11.9     10.4      7.8             _~~..._t.6   _6L
Total                          30,653   34,025    38.074    42,071     45,016  61,246       7.-5   1-1.5    10o.5     7.8    100.      100. 0  10.
FUBLIC FINANCE  Annual                        tes                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~As Percent of G.DP
TC`entral Gove`rnmnt)
Current Receipts                3,830    4,834     5,524     6,000      6,503                 .    18.3      8.6      ..      11.1      11.2
Current Expendituires           2,795    2,968     3.41      3,8       .3.,977.                    11.9      8.0      ..       6.8       6.9
liscigetary Savings    ~~~~1,035  1,866    2,114     2,318      2,526                . .   3.5       9.76    ..        4.3      4.3 
Other Public Sector
Public Sector Investment        1,147    1.939    2,173      2,330      2,52~6               ..    32.0      72       ..       4.5      4.3
us $ million
DETAIL ON                              At     19)68 P and ER
PUBLIC SECTOR                                    % o-- -Total
I5VESTNMNT PROGRAM                   1o 69 / 73  1969 ,93
Social Sectors                     2,145        8.6
Agriculture                           133       0.5
Industry and Mining                2,948       11.9
Power                              3,963       16.0
Transport and communications       5,092       20.5
Other                             1054         42.5
Total Expenditures                24,826      100.0
SELECTED INDICATORS                                1960-     1965-     1970-   1973-        FINANCING
1965       1970     1973    1974
Average TCOR                                        4.3       2.7       18      2.-1           Public Se,ctor Savings         21,480       86.5
Import Elasticity                                   neg.      2.1       1.8     1.8            Foreign Borrowing               1,853       7.5
Masrginal Domestic Savings Rate                      .34       .14       .30     .12           Domestic Borrowing            1.J.49.       6.0
Marginal National Savinigs Rate                      .35       .12      .29      .15           Total Financing                24,826     100.0
LA30R FORCE AND                 otal Labor Forc2/                               Value Added Per Worker (19 68-      Prices & Ee Rates)
OUTPUT PE-R WORKER                Is Millions         % f Total           1960 -70         in U.S.Dolls.rs     Percent of Average        19 60- 70c
1~~~~R ~~19 70  1960      19 70     GrwhRt              1960      19 70      1960       39 70     Growth Rate
Agriculture                      12.2       13.1     54.0     44.4         0.7               244      349         77.5     83.7            3.6
Industry                          3.0        5.3     13.3     18.0         5.8             1,376    1,525        336.8    265.7            1.1
Service                           7.4       11.11    32. 7    37.6         4.1             1    ij 3  1,.339     253.3    221.1            1.9
Total                            22. 6      29.5    100.0   100.0          3.1               315      417        100.0    100.0            2.9
*not applicable           nil1 or negligible      1/   Projected values for the 1976-79 period are the sane as lie last Economic Report.     trhe sew
not available        - less than half the        -   set of projections are is tlce process of being prepared for tie nest Report.
smallest unit shown      2/  Econoically active population.                                                     December 18, 1974



BALAN1CE 01' P4.0987, E'TERN'    4000   lnC   AN  DEBT
A. -.1     E.1i.-d                                                                                     A~~~~~~~~~~~~1  Dg. Anna
190    1971        1L972          1973          184              975        1976         1977          19718         97                        1974-1979
SLINARD BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Eopocts (l.cI. NFl)                             2,993         3,175        4,272         4,596         7,945          10,835      11,481       13,786        16,726       20,64C                         51.0
Iemoct   (toi..I  NFS)                          3,172        4af02f        5,205         7.7          12±,   4454                 13 ,117      17,682       20_O5 2       24,42 7                        11 .3
ReoreBalIoc   (X-N)                       -179          -853         -  933       -911           -6.399         -365             I        -3,I95        -4,024       -3,781
Interest (net)                     - ~~~~      ~~234 -  302      359       -  514        -   560         -1,180      -  763       -1,032        -1,335       -1,655
Rirsuc tooeateronlncoue            - ~~170      -   166      -   202       -220          -   243         -  275      -313         -   35Z          396       -4.4
W_ck_c     Remttanc                                 .            -             -            -              --                         ----
Correct Traustcca (ceo)               ~~~21          4             5           27            -40                         70            20           20           20
Balance on Correc    Acc..et.                  -   6         1.0           1,9                        -7,261          -,070?      -4.692       baZ,20       .J..25        -5.869
Private Otroct teossts,eet           ~132           168          318          940            975          1,200       1,310         1,331        1,464         1,610                         10.1
mALI Laces
Di.b-rcnct                                      571           835        1,099         1,376         5,350          1,544        1,899        3,5171       2,410         2,743
-Ilecoyacoca                      -~~~     ~  ~~~4 34  -441  -525         -670           -500               544     -538          -536         -563          -611
DcDtebjc-yoac                                   137      ~   394           574          -706          8942           1,000       1,361        1,635        1,847         2,112
OteEc racoecce  ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    I1,22        1,442        3,396         3,151         5,942           3,830       4,294         5,097        5,888        6, 344
-Repayennus                       - ~~~~      ~~~~495  -641  -860         -1.5           -1 310         -1_20         2173         2 802        343            ,218
Nan Dl.sboc-   -at                                 627          801         2,536        2,093         3,732           2520        tT1           2tYI295        3          2,126
1970        1971          1972      1973          1974
Capital Tca-a-tion     e.-ti                       184          DNA           626          377           559             350
Oboogo  Ic  c   Rese--    7-iceae                   18       -563         -2,505        -2,428         1,103
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE
OfficIal Cream    4   roa-Ilike                                                                                         Disbor-d                    3,849       1.443         4,007     4,701         5,363
9447 Loans                                                                                                              1t ....st ac KILT Debt        164         175           239       2A0           BOO,
(BtD                                            205           356          455           199           1(1           Dcpay-,sts on MALT Debt - 434              441          335       670            508
IFC                                                8            7           10            ID                          T.I oca  MID,T  IebtS.-icotc  598         616          764       9 50           a00
IDB1                                             40           133          180           250            h. rba              Debt Serlu     (ec      565         768          980     1,293          1,570
Cunro- -ts                                      DI?           198          219           270                          T. oclDebt Sceoosi    net   1,163       1,384        1,744     2,242          2,378
Depplisra                                       601           324          350           775
Mode                 -            -             -            AD~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~Bd-.                  Fp1     -~g        %
Public Lua-     -.ei.                             67          114           90           LOO            K. 8T.               Debt Sccotn             23.0        19.4          17.9      14.4          10.2
loca   Poblic 9047 Loa-                          1,033        1,037         1,134        1,AR4             .,-ota              leOl Dsrntc-            3R,8        43.4          40.8      34. 3C 9.9
TDR.a.lro    DoI  t.ic         4.0          48.8         45.6      30.3           33.6
Actoal Dabs   -oaadte      o  Dec. 31,1973
RXTFROAL uutm                                              Diab-red Dclv                   Percet                       A-ergo T.em     of KALT    Dobt
lORE                                                            651                         13.8
lOC                                                              47                          1.0                        In.,u5 Prior Year 204           5.6          5.7          6.9       7.0            6.4
7D0                                                             293                          6.0                        A-at.   e% PrIer Year 086D 14.9            14.3          15.2      16.7          10.6
Co_   _   _cor                                                1,885'                        3.9"
SoPplic-                                                      1,632                         34.6                      109L0 DBt Ro., 4 Dlab.oesd      2158        3141.         4941      451
Eotds                                                           142                          3.0                           as 7 844      Deb, 00        8.          10.          121       13.
Pob Ic. D.bcs.s-A.                                                73                          1.3                          as    M BL    Debt Derolc    4.5          3.6          6.3       6.0
Toa  AT Debn                                               4,723                        102.0
19  teo  Oat. 4& Dlabarand        .
Flt--co1 Cr-dics                                              7,848                                                       Ps7    ablIc Deb.   4 
Total Debt O-t-edtco                                         12,571                                                       c0FabIle Debt Osc-ic            .
not uppllcable                           a sta~~~~~~-Rt -s  Lan                                /   P-Jlette    ecaRtte17-9~rc                   r     .h ease as..    ls    ccal      eot
not ovaitoble                        - oIl Or tegl~~~~~~~~iglAl                                Ibeor    aes at      roettt    e   in th    rca      f belot p-cp-cd Rot tho      co  ceport
cot   -oil.ble aeP-trley                                   ...oe  th- beIf the                               21   Pbllc a-d prloato, senIadlng fitracta Iordlse,
bot (cuteded iD -oa                                      smales     -ate thon
U-ueber 18, 1974



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of November 30, 1974)
Loan                                                        Amount Less
No.    Year          Borrower                    Purpose   Cancellations   Undisbursed
(US$ M-illion)
Eighteen     Loans fully disbursed                             373.2
h03    1965   Centrais Eletricas de Furnas -
Estreito I                       Power          57.0            003
h04    1965   Centrais Eletricas de Sao
Paulo - Xavantes                 Power          19.8            1.3
442    1966   Centrais Eletricas de Minas
Gerais - Jaguara                 Power          49.0            0.2
h741/ 1966    Centrais Eletricas de Furnas -
Estreito II                      Power          39.0            1.5
516    1967   Brazil                             Livestock      4o.o            1.0
565    1968   Centrais Eletricas de Furnas -
Porto Colombia                   Power          22.3            3.5
566    1968   Centrais Eletricas de Minas
Gerais - Volta Grande            Power          26.6            2.8
656    1970   Banco do Nordeste do Brasil        Industry       25.0             7.3
676    1970   Brazil                             Roads         100.0             5.6
677    1970   Centrais Eletricas de Furnas -
Marimbondo                       Power          80.0           32.4
728    1971   Centrais Eletricas do Sul do
Brasil, S.A.                     Power          7000           46.1
755    1971   Brazil                             Education       8.4            6.3
756    1971   Brazil                             Ports          45.0           ho.h
757    1971   Superintendencia de Agua e         Water
Esgotos da Capital               Supply         22.0           17.5
758    1971   Companhia Metropolitana de         Pollution
Saneamento de Sao Paulo          Control        12.0           10.3
1/ In two tranches.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9
Loan                                                       Amount Less
No.    Year          Borrower                   Purpose   Cancellations   Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
786    1971   Rede Ferroviaria Federal          Railways       46.0            7.2
787    1971   Mineracoes Brasileiras Reunidas   Industry       50.0            2.4
797    1972   Companhia Siderurgica Nacional    Industry       64.5           33.1
812    1972   Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas
Gerais                           Industry      63.0           28.7
813    1972   Brazil                            Roads          89.0           25.9
828    1972   Companhia Siderurgica Paulista    Industry       64.5           48.5
829    1972   Centrais Eletricas de Minas
Gerais, S.A. - Sao Simao        Power          60.o           48.8
853    1972   Brazil                            LandSettlement 6.7             6.6
854    1972   Brazil                            Roads          51.0           28.5
857    1972   Banco do Brasil, S.A.             Grain Storage  30.0           21.4
868    1972   Brazil                            Livestock      26.0           11,8
887    1973   Light - Servicos de Eletricidade  Power          20.0           20.0
923    1973   Centrais Eletricas de Furnas -
Itumbiara                       Power         125.0          125.0
924    1973   Brazil                            Agro-Industries 5h.0          51.9
100o81 1974   Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao
Francisco                       Power          81.0          81.0
1004/ 1974    Banco Nacional de Habitacao       Water Supply   36.0          36.0
Total                                         1,856.0 2/      753.3
of which has been repaid to Bank and others:  254.2
Total now outstanding                         1,601.8
Amount sold                         36.0
of which has been repaid          10.3         25.7,
Total now held by Bank                        1,576.1
Total undisbursed                                             753.3
No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.
l/ Not yet effective.
T/ In addition, a loan of' $23.5 million for ed-ucation was signed on December 27, 19714.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (AS OF NOVEMBER 30, 1974)
Year                         Obligor                           Type of Business              Amlount in US$ million
Loans    Equity    Total
1957           Siemens to Brasil Cia. de Eletricidade          Electrical Equipment          2.00         -     2.00
1958           Olinkraft, S.A. Celulose e Papel                Pulp and Paper                1.20         -     1.20
1958           D.L.R. Plasticos do Brasil, S.A.                Automotive Parts              0.45         -     0.45
1958          'dillys-Overland do Brasil, S.A.
Industria e Com6rcio                          Motor Vehicles                2.45         -     2.45
1959           Companhia Mineira de Cimento Portland, S.A.     Cement                        1.20         -     1.20
1959           Champion Celulose, S.A.                         Pulp                          4.00         -     4.co
1966/1968/
1972           Acos Villares, S.A.                             Steel                         8.oo      1.93     9.93
1966/1969      Papel e Celulose Catarinense, S.A.              Pulp and Paper                4.06      3.13     7.19
1967/1972      Ultrafertil, S.A. - Industria e Com6rcio de
Fertilizantes                                 Fertilizers                    8.22     3.03    11.25
1969           Petroqufmica Unigo, S.A.                        Petrochemicals                5.50      2.88     8.38
1970           Poliolefinas, S.A. Ind6stria e Comercio         Petrochemicals                5.50      2.88     8.38
1971           Oxiteno, S.A. Ind6stria e Com6rcio              Petrochemicals                4.60      1.44     6.04
1971           Industria de Celulose Borregaard, S.A.          Pulp                          4.90         -     4.90
1972/1975      Companhia de Cimento Nacional de Minas          Cement                       29.13      3.20    32.33
1973/1974      Companhia Sideruirgica da Guanabara - COSIGUA   Steel                        67.00      6.50    73.50
1973           Capital Market Development Fund - FUMCAP        Capital Market Development    5.00         -     5.00
1973           anpresa de Desenvolvimento de Recursos          Nickel Mining and
Minerais - CODEMIN, S.A.                        Refining                    26.00     4.40    30.40
1974           Ind6strias Villares, S.A.                       Elevators and Industrial
Equipment                   6.00         -     6.00
1974           Fabrica de Tecidos Tatuape, S.A.                Textiles                     31.00              31.00
1975           Capuava Carbonos Industriais Ltd.                                             6.18     1.08     7.26
Total Qross Commitments                                                      222.39   30.47   252.86
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayments and Sales                       1 52.eB   6 .17  156.biL
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                                             70.12   26.29    96.42
Total Undisbursed                                                            102.36    8.58   110.94



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9
1/
C.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
(As of November 30, 1974)
There are now 29 effective Bank loans under disbursement:
Loan No.
403/474   Estreito Hydroelectric Project:   US$57 and US$39 million loans
of February 26, 1965 and December 19, 1966; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976. The project is almost completed. Equipment
costs were substantially below estimates, so disbursements pro-
ceeded more slowly than forecast. The original Closing Date
was April 1, 1971.
404       Xavantes Hydroelectric Project:   US$22.5 million loan of
February 27, 1965; Closing Date: June 30, 1975. The project
was completed in early 1971 (after a delay of about 18 months)
except for the installation of equipment for an associated trans-
mission line. In March 1972, US$2.7 million was cancelled from
the remainder of the loan. Ordering and the proposed delivery
of this equipment have been delayed, but the loan is now expected
to be fully disbursed by April 30, 1975. The original Closing
Date was December 31, 1969.
442       Jaguara Hydroelectric Project:   US$49 million loan of March 15,
1966; Closing Date: December 31, 1974. All the generators were
commissioned during 1971 and the project has been completed. Dis-
bursements will extend up to the end of 1974 primarily because
equipment originally defective necessitated a postponement of the
last payments to suppliers. The original Closing Date was April
30, 1971.
516       Livestock Project:  US$40 million loan of September 23, 1967;
Closing Date: December 31, 1974. After initial delays due to
marketing and organizational difficulties, the livestock credit
program has been proceeding at a satisfactory rate. Loan funds
have now been completely committed, and the remaining balance of
US$1.0 million is expected to be disbursed by the revised Closing
Date of December 31, 1974. The original Closing Date was Decem-
ber 31, 1973.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any pro-
blems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weakness in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9
Loan No.
565       Porto Colombia Hydroelectric Project:   US$22.3 million loan of
October 23, 1968; Closing Date: March 31, 1975. Changes in the
project layout and design have increased substantially the local
cost, which will be covered by ELETROBRAS, without, however,
significantly affecting the economic justification for the pro-
ject. Construction work is on schedule and the last unit was
placed in service in early 1974.
566       Volta Grande Hydroelectric Project:   US$26.6 million loan of
October 23, 1968; Closing Date: January 31, 1975. The project
was delayed six months by spillway foundation difficulties.
This problem and price escalation greater than estimated increased
powerhouse construction cost by 72%, but, as the original cost
was very low, the resulting cost per kW of generating capacity
is still attractive. No financial difficulty is expected for
the company as a result of the overruns. The project is now
90% completed and the first generating unit was tested in March
197h. The first three generating units are expected to be in com-
mercial operation by the end of 1974 and the fourth unit by March
1975.
656       Industry: US$25 million loan of February 16, 1970 to Banco do
Nordeste do Brasil (BNB); Closing Date: June 30, 1975. The
loan has been fully committed. The Terminal Date for submission
of subprojects, originally June 30, 1972 and postponed to June
30, 1973, was postponed a second time to June 30, 1974 to give
BNB an opportunity to submit subprojects in an advanced stage of
preparation. Slow utilization of the Loan was due mainly to
BNB's unusually burdensome security conditions on subloans and
its emphasis on larger-scale projects, for which financing from
other than World Bank funds has been available.
676       Second Highway Construction Project:   US$100 million loan of May
25, 1970; Closing Date: July 31, 1975. Construction works are
underway and the overall quality of construction and supervision
is satisfactory. There have, however, been substantial cost in-
creases on some contracts, so that the total construction cost
of the project is now estimated to be above the appraisal estimate,
excluding contingencies, but still within the appraisal estimate
including contingencies. The execution of some contracts has
been seriously delayed by inclement weather conditions and pro-
ject changes. Disbursements under the loan are behind the ap-
praisal schedule, due to a late start of the project, but have
improved during the last two years. The original Closing Date
was July 31, 197h.
677       Marimbondo Hydroelectric Project:   US$70 million loan of May 25,
1970; Closing Date: May 31, 1977. Construction work is pro-
ceeding on schedule. The cost of increased excavation and con-
crete work resulting from poor rock foundation is expected to be
mostly offset by a reduction in earth fill work. A US$26 million



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9
Loan No.
overrun, caused by equipment prices higher than estimated and
additional transmission facilities, was covered by a loan from
a commercial bank, but did not significantly affect the econo-
mic justification for the project.
728       Salto Osorio Hydroelectric Project:   US$70 million loan of April
5, 1971; Closing Date: May 31, 1977. The construction of the
Salto Osorio hydroelectric plant is progressing satisfactorily.
A cost overrun of about US$8 million due to increased equipment
cost is foreseen but this does not significantly affect the eco-
nomic justification of the project. The construction of the trans-
mission system, delayed to allow a reexamination of ELETROSUL's
market, is proceeding as originally defined.
755       Education Project:  US$8.4 million loan of June 21, 1971; Closing
Date: December 31, 1975. Progress on the construction and equip-
ment of the project schools is now proceeding satisfactorily. Al-
though the project implementation is behind the original schedule
due to initial delays, disbursements under the loan are expected
to be completed by the Closing Date.
756       Santos Port Project:  US$45 million loan of June 21, 1971; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979. Because of other investments in the Port
of Santos and an increase in the cost estimate of the Bank-finan-
ced project there, the execution of the Bank-financed project
has been delayed and its scope has been reviewed. The Bank and
the Borrower have now agreed to postpone construction of part of
the container terminal, exclude-from the project the corn storage
silo, simplify the rail access to the left bank of the project,
and reallocate the remaining loan amount to a larger dredger and
more extensive consultants' services and training. The Closing
Date of the loan has been postponed from September 30, 1976 to
June 30, 1979, in accordance with the new schedule for completion
of the project. With the assistance of management consultants,
satisfactory progress has been made in improving port operations
in Santos.
757       Sao Paulo Water Supply Project: US$22 million loan of June 21,
1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1976. The project suffered initial
delays caused by the State of Sao Paulo not furnishing the re-
quired counterpart funds. The required funds are now included
in the state budget. The Government has consolidated all the
water and sewerage companies in the state into a single company,
SABESP, and a loan assumption agreement with the new company
was concluded December 18, 1974. The original Closing Date was
June 30, 1975.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9
Loan No.
758       Sao Paulo Pollution Control Project:   US$15 million loan
of June 21, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1976. The original
project design included the pumping of untreated sewage into
an area reservoir representing a major source of water and
serving as an important recreational facility for the Sao
Paulo area. Earlier studies had shown that the reservoir
could absorb the organic pollution without damage for some
time. Area residents, however, objected to this solution and
subsequent technical review questioned the initial judgment
that no ecological harm would be caused.   As a result, the
original design has been modified to exclude the discharge
of raw sewage and include a treatment facility. Bidding
procedures are in progress for other portions of the proj-
ect. As a result of the modifications in the project,
the loan amount has been reduced to US$12 million. The
Government has consolidated all the water and sewerage com-
panies in the state into a single company, SABESP, and a loan
assumption agreement with the new company was concluded
December 18, 1974. The original Closing Date was June 30,
1975.
786       Railway Project - MBR: US$46 million loan of August 25, 1971;
Closing Date:  September 30, 1975.   Implementation of the
project is generally satisfactory but behind schedule. Iron
ore traffic between the Aguas Claras mine and the Sepetiba
terminal has reached only about 60% of the expected target to
date. Derailments on the central line and technical problems
at the MBR loading and unloading sites have curtailed some
traffic flows, but the major cause of the backlog is the
collapse of a bridge, interrupting MBR traffic for a month.
This accident was apparently triggered by an overload of the
freight cars. With improvements under way in track rehabili-
tation, bridge strengthening and siding lengthening, traffic
is expected to reach the monthly target level by the end of
1974.
787       MBR Iron Ore Project:  US$50 million loan of August 25, 1971;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976. The estimated cost of the
project has increased due to major design changes for the port
terminal and several investment additions to the project.
Target completion dates at the mine and terminal were met and
the first ship left Sepetiba Bay on November 26, 1973.
797       CSN Steel Expansion Project:  US$64.5 million loan of February 8,
1972; Closing Date: July 1, 1976. The estimated cost is now
US$560 million, an increase of about 32% from the appraisal
estimate due to design evolution and increases in local construc-
tion costs. The project is now 65% complete and is about three
months behind the appraisal schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9
Loan No.
812       USIMINAS Steel Expansion Project: US$63 million loan of
April 11, 1972; Closing Date: June 1, 1976. The estimated
total project cost is now US$784 million, an increase of
about 37% from the appraisal estimate due primarily to
increases in equipment and local construction costs. The
project is 70% complete and may be about six months behind
the original estimate.
813       Third Highway Construction Project:   us$89 million loan of
April 11, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1976. Construction
works are more than three-quarters completed, but are slightly
behind schedule; the estimated total contract cost is slightly
above the appraisal estimate. The feasibility studies and
detailed engineering financed under the loan were started later
than planned, but are now completed at a cost substantially
below the appraisal estimate. Disbursements are lagging
behind the appraisal forecast, but have improved during the
last year and are now expected to be completed by the original
Closing Date of the loan.
828       COSIPA Steel Expansion Project:   US$64.5 million loan of
June 1, 1972; Closing Date: January 15, 1977. The estimated
cost is now US$568 million, an increase of about 20% over the
appraisal estimate due primarily to increased local con-
struction costs. This will not significantly affect the
economic justification of the project. The project is now
60% complete and proceeding according to schedule.
829       Sao Simao Hydroelectric Project:   US$60 million loan of June 14,
1972; Closing Date: September 30, 1979. The contract for the
civil works was awarded to an Italian-Brazilian consortium in
May 1973, and the project is proceeding according to schedule.
853       Alto Turi Land Settlement Project:   Us$6.7 million loan of
July 2U, 1972; Closing Date: December 1, 1978. COLONE has
prepared revised farm development plans whose credit com-
ponent, to be financed by public financial institutions, will
be significantly higher than originally estimated, although
still low in comparison to other settlement projects. Admin-
istrative delays in the release of public funds for farm
credit and COLONE working capital requirements and difficulties
in recruiting project staff have slowed project execution.
Settlement, however, has now begun and the project should be
completed in 1978 as envisaged.
854       Fourth Highway Construction Project:   US$51 million loan of
August 4, 1972; Closing Date:   December 31, 1976. Construction
works are more than half completed but behind schedule; the
estimated total contract cost is slightly above the appraisal
estimate.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9
Loan No.
857       Grain Storage Project:  US$30 million loan of September 27,
1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1979. After some initial
difficulties with the appraisal of subprojects, the project
is now well underway. As of September 30, 1974, 367 sub-
projects (totalling US$23 million) were approved and another
12 (totalling US$24 million) were in the pipeline. The Bank
and the Borrower have agreed on a revised indexing system to
ensure with greater certainty that sub-borrowers are charged
a positive real interest rate.
868       Interim Second Livestock Project:   US$26 million loan of
December 19, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1977. The project
is proceeding normally. The loan has been fully committed
and is expected to be disbursed as scheduled.
887       Power Distribution Project:   US$20 million loan of April 16,
1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1976. Principally due to dif-
ficulties encountered in preparing bidding documents and delays
in deliveries of equipment and materials, the project is behind
schedule. The borrower intends to accelerate procurement
significantly this year and disbursements are expected to be
completed by the Closing Date.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:   US$125 million loan of
August 1, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1982. Bids for
the concrete works were opened on August 8, 1974, and bid
evaluation has been completed. A contract award is expected
shortly. The project is proceeding according to schedule.
924       Agro-Industries Credit Project:   US$54 million loan of
August 1, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1976. The loan
became effective on March 11, 1974. The demand for credit is
strong and the participating banks are expected to commit
project funds by October 1975.
There were two Bank loans not yet effective as of November 30, 1974:
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:   US$81 million
loan of June 17, 1974; Closing Date:  December 31, 1978. The
deadline for the loan documents to become effective has been
postponed from December 16, 1974, to March 16, 1975, to allow
the Borrower additional time to meet effectiveness conditions of
its loan from the Inter-American Development Bank.
1009      Minas Gerais Water Supply Project:   US$36 million loan of
June 17_, 197: Closing Date: August 15, 1977. The Loan
Agreement was signed last June. The deadline for effective-
ness has been postponed from September 23, 1974, the original
date, to January 31, 1975, to allow the Borrower additional
time to meet its project staffing requirements.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
Second (RFFSA) Railways Project
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:     Rede Ferroviaria Federal, S.A.
Guarantor:    Federative Republic of Brazil.
Amount:       US$175 million equivalent.
Terms:        Payable in 25 years including 5 years of grace at 8%
interest per annum.
Project
Description:  The project consists of high priority investments scheduled
for implementation beginning during the first two years
of RFFSA's Five-Year 1975-79 Investment Program and including:
(a)  construction of new lines and realignments;
(b) improvements to stations and yards;
(c) improvements to and expansion of signalling and
telecommunications facilities;
(d) modernization and expansion of motive power and
rolling stock;
(e) improvements to permanent way, stations, yards,
signalling and communications, and procurement of
additional unit trains for suburban passenger ser-
vices in Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo;
(f) track rehabilitation, workshop modernization, electri-
fication, gauge unification, and other miscellaneous
investments in operating facilities; and
(g) improvements in headquarters facilities, execution
of economic feasibility and engineering studies, and
implementation of training programs.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
Estimated
Costs:                                          Local     Foreign    Total
(US$ Mfll-ion)
New lines and realignments         789.0      427.0   1,216.0
Stations and yards                  30.1        7.2      37.3
Signalling and communications        9.3       35.5      44.8
Motive power and rolling stock      49.3      444.4     493.7
Suburban services                   58.2       87.3     145.5
Modernization                      127.1      169.5     296.6
Headquarters, training and
technical assistance             18.3         5.5      23.8
Sub-Total                  1,081.3     1,176.4   2,257.7
Physical Contingencies              96.2       68.2     164.4
Price Contingencies               292.7       259.5     552.2
TOTAL                      1,470.2     1,504.1   2,974.3
Financing:    The projected cash flow and financing plan for 1975-79,
assuming execution not only of the Project but also of
those items in the Investment Plan which already appear
to be justified for execution later in the five-year
period, is as follows:
1975-79
Requirements                    US$ Million
RFFSA Operating Deficit              344
Estimated Investments
(excluding price
contingencies)                   3,047
Debt Service                         903
TOTAL                        4,294
Source of Funds
RFFSA Depreciation                   375
Imposto Unico                        467
Other Federal Government          1,814
Domestic Loans                       625
Foreign Loans                        992
Other                                21
TOTAL                        4,294



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
Procurement
Arrangements:  All goods financed under the proposed loan would be
acquired on the basis of international competitive
bidding. Local bidders would be granted a margin of
preference of 15% of the c.i.f. price or the prevailing
tariff, whichever is lower.
Technical
Assistance:    RFFSA will engage consultants to provide technical
assistance in the fields of corporate planning, data
processing and costing; workshop reorganization and
operations; permanent way maintenance and renewal;
commercial operations; supervision of construction;
study of uneconomic lines and services; electrification;
and suburban commuter services.
Rate of
Return:        The estimated economic rate of return is 19%.
Completion
Date:          Project completion expected December 31, 1978.
Appraisal
Report:        Report No. 570a-BR of December 20, 1974.






CorbbreaNn Saoe                                 g
S;gh~~~~~~~~~~~~ot CeIa RegionLOur
f F  EA_OF MAP               Region
iV                                                  g S bol;___\PORTA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LEZA
I L                                                                   M.c.roipeopo~  4J
v       , r h   !             .                                      3 C 
{;  1t 'f | t A             ~~~BRAZILTEEIArcu                                  MDSOR     ou
, , /' sIS- z r'S' I     ~~~~~~~~~RAILROADS                                  VW.tu 2NAA
.1A R; A G A      ConoonoSORFFSA                                              CotS                    Cbedelo
r,          .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C -  ( 3Nortkeoustern Region                   501gueror Coon8PCASC
t  > ~~~~~~ ze - ~~~~~~(a)  - South Central Region.\                                     EC    F
Jot, r5  R onde(9)   Southern Region                          Petrohna AGn
.   (ffi     FEPASA                                    uoeroAomei            C6/30rff1o
iZ s  l (7@                           E FVM                              c-P    Snhor     Col4gioz}/MCI
6a6; 1 a a/a              ~~~~~~~~~~~~International Boundaries  Formoso  do, B2onf 8mm   p, 
-10                                                                                \>         ARACAJU
See IABRD 1t110 for Detail of Central Region   |
n | ~~~~~~~~~~~Anopolis              BRASILI
>  \                         | OPi~~~~~ ~    ~     ~~~~~~~~~~res  Montes Claros  
ro  X                       |   t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~codo,  PiRoporo 
TO SCnoz                               I    >.g 
HqCo-ubo                            rgo       ) at        ir      Go,  
\\i~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ps V-9s        Uber   o     D.s ,
)   t      PonoromFotuboK t0RzbCiSSO Pf  \ J9urhnhF 7 Po,'nOteNo-o,  EdI
-20'i---- >&/p/ont° Pbra  do C    n       o Cm               ps                                         20°-
See I RD 1Z10 fr De_all of Southern Regto
L                 G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n
PIRGA              C-orts      n   eronco Id ,   ANTOS            --
)1      )  G      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pont. Grasos  Sul to-
S         ,.^      Eng GulleD G.-pu  Ant ouo                                           |
f._   /  >   ;    )   /   eSDCt~~~~~~~ 5FRtANCISCO 
| \ + <~~r-'to Roso      (_lFIRIANAPOLIS \ 
<          XUruguoiof ~~~§%CocequieRRiodos Sinos
si? tn +(Duorof }~~~ CoOo5e.10  L5TOAEGRE 
a:  LisromeS Sebosho'do 5.  2/                                        10°0o 200 300 400 500
j |      <    s   ,ggW        [~~~plot                                    KILOMETERS
( UR UG U AY     0//l 
{   q1   \1 1/°           ~~~~~~~~~~~~50'                             40' 



