CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1074 BR
Guarantee Agreement
(Second Railway Project)
BETWEEN
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JANUARY 17, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1074 BR
Guarantee Agreement
(Second Railway Project)
BETWEEN
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JANUARY 17, 1975


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 17, 1975, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC
OF BRAZIL (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank
and Rede Ferroviaria Federal S.A. (hereinafter called the Borrower) the Bank has
agreed to make to the Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to one
hu,idred and seventy-five million dollars ($175,000,000), on the terms and
conL.Ltions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition inter alia that
the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
such loan as hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS the Guarantor represents and warrants that the giving of such
guarantee is authorized by Decree Law No. 1312 of February 15, 1974; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agre6d so to guarantee such obligations
of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in Section 1.02
of the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally
guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and punctual
payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and
the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section
2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor specifically undertakes, whenever there is
reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be
inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of
the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide
the Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with such funds as are needed
to meet such expenditures.
Section 2.03. (a) The Guarantor shall enable the Borrower to carry out the
Borrower's program   of action on uneconomic lines and services referred to in
Section 3.07(i) of the Loan Agreement.
(b)   In the event that the Guarantor decides to maintain certain lines and
services of the Borrower or tariffs for said services for social or other reasons,
the Guarantor shall, not later than January 1, 1978 or such other later date as
shall be agreed with the Bank, commence to pay to the Borrower through its
normalization system the difference between the costs of operating said lines and
services and the revenue generated from   said lines and services.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making loans to, or with
the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in normal circumstances, special security
from the member concerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member. To that end,
if any lien shall be created on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security
for any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit
of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution


﻿-r                                              5
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect;
provided, however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason such
provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall promptly and at
no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on,
the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)   The foregoing, undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any lien created on
property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the
purchase price of such property; (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date; and (iii) any lien on commercial goods to secure a debt maturing not
more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred and to be
paid out of the proceeds of sale of such commercial goods.
(c)   As used in this Section, the term  "public assets" means assets of the
Guarantor, of any political or administrative subdivision thereof and of any entity
owned or controlled by, or operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor
or any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization
fund, or similar functions, for the Guarantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall take all action necessary on its part to
ensure that amounts due by it to the Borrower, on account of normalization and
other payments, will be settled promptly.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall, by January 1, 1976 or such other later
date as shall be agreed with the Bank, take all action necessary on its part to
neutralize the effects on the Borrower's competitive position of the 10% surcharge
levied on freight rates for merchandise bound for domestic consumption.
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall take, or cause to be taken, all reasonable
action required for the prompt issuance to the Borrower of such import and other
permits and licenses as shall be necessary for the acquisition and importation of
goods and services required for the carrying out of the Project.


﻿6
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Ministro da Fazenda of the Guarantor is designated as
representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministdrio da Fazenda
Ediffcio Minist6rio da Fazenda
Esplanada dos Minist6rios
Brasilia, Brazil
Cable address:
MINIFAZ
Brasilia
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿7
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s / Mario Henrique Simonsen
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / Gerald Alter
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


