Doumment of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
o-p-
RePort No. P-4164-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 76.4 MILLION
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
OCTOBER 17, 1985
This docmne  bs s resbtrictd dIsibutin sod ay be ued by recpiets aly In dte perfonnmce of
their omclal dutho as euets ma no odhewise be discoed withot Wod Bak autherzutio.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The external value of the Bangladesh Taka (Tk) is fixed in relation to a
basket of reference currencies, with the US dollar serving as intervention
currency. On August 31, 1985 the official exchange rate was set at Tk 29.22
buying and Tk 29.28 selling per US dollar.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
kg          Kilogram
kW          Kilowatt (= 1.341 horsepower)
MW          Megawatt (thousand kilowatts)
MVA         Megavolt-ampere (thousand kilovolt amperes)
kWh     =   Kilowatt hour (= 860.42 kilocalories)
GWh     =   Gigawatt hour (million kilowatt hours)
kV      =   Kilovolt (thousand volts)
km      =   Kilometer (0.6214 mile)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACRE    -   Area Coverage Rural Electrification
ADB     -   Asian Development Bank
BPDB    -   Bangladesh Power Development Board
EIRR    -   Economic Internal Rate of Return
LRMC    -   Long-run Marginal Cost
NRECA   -   National Rural Electrification Cooperative Association
PBS     -   Palli Bidyut Samity (Rural Electrification Cooperative)
REB     -   Rural Electrification Board
UNDP    -   United Nations Development Programme
USAID   -   United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANCLADESH
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:               People's Republic of Bangladesh
Beneficiary:            Rural Electrification Board
Amount:                 SDR 76.4 million (US$79.0 million equivaLent)
Terms:                  Standard
Relending Terms:       The proceeds of the credit would be relent to the
Rural Electrification Board (REB) for a period of 30
years, including a grace period of five years, at a
rate of 0.75Z per annum (capitalized) during the grace
period and 2% during the repayment period. The assets
of the completed schemes would be transferred by REB
to the respective Rural Electrification Cooperatives
(Palli Bidyut Samities - PBSs), on the basis of sub-
loans. The sub-loans would be for a period of 30
years, including a grace period of five years, at a
rate of 0.75Z per annum (capitalized) during the grace
period and 3Z per annum during the repayment period.
The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project Description:   The project would support the Government's efforts to
expand the supply of electricity in rural areas and
finance the installation of electricity distribution
networks in six new PBS areas and expansion of net-
works in five existing PBSs. The project also would
include technical assistance to strengthen financial
and institutional aspects of both REB and PBSs.
Project Risk;          The project would be relatively free of complexities.
Slippage could occur due to delays in procurement and
shortage of linesmen. These possibiLities would be
minimized through the employment of consultants to
provide REB with technical and institution-building
services and the implementation of an agreed training
program.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Estimated Project Cost:
Foreign        Local        Total
--- -  --(US$ Million)- -  ---
Line and Substation Materials           48.2         14.1          62.3
Support Commodity /a                     2.5          0.6           3.1
Line and Substation Construction          -           4.6           4.6
General Plant /b                          -           2.7           2.7
Engineering and Consulting Services    1.6            2.5           4.1
REB Overhead  and Other Expenses          -           7.8           7.8
Total Base Cost             52.3         32.3          84.6
Physical Contingencies                   3.9          2.4           6.3
Price Contingencies                      7.6          9.7          17.3
Total Project Cost          63.8         44.4         108.2
Interest During Construction               -           2.4           2.4
Total Financing Required   63.8          46.8         110.6 /c
/a  Support commodity consists of vehicles, motorcycles, tools, communication
equipment and boats, etc.
/b General Plant consists of local transport, office and residential
buildings, including cost of land and office equipment.
/c Of which duties and taxes would amount to about U$13.4 million.
Financing Plan:
Foreign        Local        Total
--------(US$ Million)  ---
IDA                         63.8         15.2          79.0
Government                    -          31.6          31.6
63.8        46.8         110.6
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY                      FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91
-  -=:tU$Million )   --
Annual                       3.9   11.8   35.2   14.4   11.3    2.4
Cumulative                   3.9   15.7   50.9   65.3   76.6   79.0
Rate of Return: The Economic Rate of Return is 13%.
Map: IBRD No. 18740
Staff Appraisal Report: Bangladesh: Second Rural Electrification Project
Report No. 5590-BD, dated September 29, 1985.



INTERNATIONAL DEVEL02MENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
development credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for SDR 76.4 mil-
lion (US$79.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a
Second Rural Electrification Project. The Government of Bangladesh would
relend the proceeds of the credit to the Rural Electrification Board (REB)
for a period of 30 years, including a grace period of five years, at a rate
of 0.75% per annum (capitalized) during the grace period and 2Z per annum
during the repayment period. The assets of the completed schemes would be
transferred by REB to Rural Electrification Cooperatives (Palli Bidyut
Samities - PBSs), on the basis of sub-loans. The sub-loans would be for a
period of 30 years, including a grace period of five years, at a rate of
0.75% per annum (capitalized) during the grace period and 3% per annum during
the repaymenr period. The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Introduction
2.      An economic report entitled "Bangladesh: Economic and Social
Development Prospects," (Report No. 5409-BD, dated April 2, 1985) has been
distributed to the Executive Directors.
3.      Bangladesh, which became independent in 1972 under very difficult
circumstances, is a country with a very high population density and
widespread poverty (annual income per capita is about US$130). The economy,
dominated by agriculture, remains highly vulnerable to disruption by both
natural and external factors. Although considerable progress has been made
in terms of increased flood control, and extending the availability of
irrigation and other inputs, foodgrain production remains heavily dependent
on weather conditions and falls short of domestic requirements. To meet
minimum needs, the Government has to import foodgrains financed by aid or
from its own resources. The uncertainties of foodgrain availability also
make it necessary to maintain public foodgrain stocks, the financing of which
adds to the problems of fiscal management.
4.      The economy is aLso characterized by low savings, which reflect the
low level of incomes, and by a large structural external payments gap.
Domestic savings account for only a negligible part of investment (which has



-2-
averaged about 162 of Gross Domestic Product (CDP) in recent years). Export
earnings cover less than 30% of the import bill, with raw jute and jute goods
accounting for about 60% of merchandise exports. The resource gap of about
15Z of CDP is financed by workers' remittances, which rose rapidly to more
than 5Z of GDP in FY83, before declining significantly during the past two
years, and by foreign assistance equivalent to about 10% of GDP per annum.
The capacity to finance imports can be sharply affected by external factors
that are beyond the control of the Government; the effect of such adverse
factors on the economy is amplified by the heavy dependence of budgetary
revenues on import duties and sales taxes, which together account for about
60% of tax revenues.
Recent Economic Developments
5.      In the late 1970s, Bangladesh enjoyed a period of political stability
and economic consolidation and was able to plan for longer-term development.
GDP growth of nearly 6Z per annum from FY75 to FY80 was accompanied by rising
public investment, financed by a substantial real increase in aid
disbursements. A combination of adverse domestic and external events after
FY80 disrupted the momentum of development. Between FYB0 and FY82, the
external terms of trade for Bangladesh fell by 30Z, due to declining prices
for jute and jute products, as well as to increases in import prices.
External aid flows, which had been rising steadily up to FY80, declined in
FY81 and in FY82 barely recovered to their FY80 level. Foreign exchange
reserves declined to about US$120 million (equivalent to about two weeks'
imports) by end-FY82. The deterioration in the terms of trade and stagnation
of aid receipts in real terms had an adverse impact on public finances and
forced the Government to impose severe cuts in domestic public investment in
FY81 and FY82. At the same time, the rate of growth in GDP decreased from
about 6% in FY81 to 1.4% in FY82, largely due to a decline in food crop
production following a prolonged drought during FY82.
6.      In response to these adverse developments, the Government took a
series of measures designed to stabilize the economy. In the FY83 Budget,
growth of public expenditure was tightly restrained, new tax measures were
introduced and a series of pricing adjustments were made to reduce subsidies
and improve the financial performance of public sector enterprises and
utilities. Taken together, the tax, pricing, and subsidy-reduction measures
amounted to an impressive 2.3Z of GDP. In FY83, the Covernment also
announced its New Industrial Policy designed to improve the efficiency of                  a
public sector enterprises and provide an improved policy environment for the
private sector. More than 100 public sector enterprises were subsequently
denationalized, investment sanctioning procedures were streamlined and many
industries were freed from investment sanctions. Imports were liberalized by
increasing access to imports through a secondary exchange market and by
eliminating some quantitative restrictions. By the end of FY83, the balance
of payments position had improved considerably, due to a recovery in the
terms of trade, an upsurge in workers' remittances, higher aid inflows, as
well as increasing exports stimulated by a substantial depreciation in the



-3-
exchange rate. However, the reduction in the current account deficit, which
fell from 14.5% to 10.4% of GDP, was also due to the depressed level of
imports resulting from a continued slow rate of GDP growth, which recovered
to only about 3Z in FY83. While more favorable weather conditions and
increased inputs led to a 3-4% growth in agriculture, most of the non-
agricultural sectors remained depressed; value added in the manufacturing
sector actually declined by 1-2%.
7.      Economic performance in FY84 and FY85 was seriously affected by a
series of damaging floods during 1984 whose intensity was comparable to the
devastating floods of 1974. Successive rice crops were hit causing net
foodgrain losses of about 1.0 million tons. Due to investments in more
dispersed food storage facilities, the improved efficiency of the Public Food
Distribution System, and the Government's large-scale foodgrain procurements
abroad, a famine was averted. Even though the immediate food crisis has
passed, the impact of the floods is reflected in lower agricultural growth
rates of around 2Z in FY84 and FY85. The cyclone and tidal bore disaster in
May 1985 caused extensive loss of life and property along the southern coast
and islands of Bangladesh; the effect on food production was, however,
limited, although loss of agricultural livestock was considerable.
8.      In the nonagricultural sectors there was in FY84 a slow, but
gradually accelerating, recovery. Industry, in particular, rebounded sharply
from the weak performance of the preceding year. This was due to a combina-
tion of factors including further liberalization and privatization measures
following the promulgation of the Government's New Industrial Policy; easier
access to imports during a period of less restricted foreign exchange
resources; increased non-traditional industrial exports (especially ready-
made garments); and increased demand generated by a sharp expansion of
private credit (paragraph 11). Therefore, despite the severe setbacks in
agriculture, the improvements in industry still led to a GDP growth of around
3.5Z for FY84. Preliminary estimates indicate that overall economic growth
in FY85 will be around 3%.
9.      Following the major domestic revenue effort made in FY83, the
Government has sought to consolidate that effort in its FY84 and FY85
Budgets, rather than to embark on major new initiatives. Further modest tax
and pricing adjustments were made to increase recurrent revenues, but total
revenues for FY84 were well short of the budget target as dutiable imports
and aid disbursements fell considerably below expectation.  In FY85, tax
revenues benefited from higher imports. A substantial budget deficit was
avoided in FY84 by a significant shortfall in development expenditures com-
pared with the budget estimate; a similar shortfall in the Ann_al Development
Programme expenditures has occurred during FY85. Such shortfalls arise
partly from overly ambitious development expenditure targets, but are alsc;
attributable to lower than expected disbursements of project aid as a result
of implementation constraints.



-4-
10.     The FY86 budget provides for some new revenue measures including tax
revenue increases of about 4% in real terms. Also, the Government announced
a Tk 600 million reduction in food subsidies reducing the overall subsidy
level in the budget to Tk 3 billion. The price of naturaL gas was raised by
20% and a 2% power rate hike in the budget was followed by another 16%
increase in September 1986. On the expenditure side, Government announced
significant cost-of-living adjustments in public salaries which account for
most of a 13% rise in current outlays. The FY86 ADP appears again
overambitious. The planned ADP size of Tk 38.3 billion implies a sizable
30X increase over the already revised budget estimates for FY85 of Tk 35
billion. It is unlikely that the country's project implementation capability
could execute an ADP of this size.
11.     During 1983 and 1984, the Government permitted a rapid expansion in
domestic credit in an effort to stimulate economic recovery and, by means of
liberal rural credit, to mitigate the effects of the 1984 floods. Domestic
Drices have, nevertheless, remained relatively stable, although the rate of
inflation increased from about 12% in FY84 to about 14% in FY85. In January
1985, the Government took a series of measures to limit the growth of
liquidity. The measures included increases in interest rates and quantita-
tive restrictions on the growth of domestic credit. In spite of these
measures, liquidity has continued to expand, albeit at a slower pace, and
credit restrictions will have to be maintained throughout FY86 to prerent an
acceleration of inflation.
12.     The balance of payments and foreign exchange reserves position
improved during FY84. Export earnings rose by 20%, due to higher interna-
tional prices for jute, jute products, and tea, as well as a major boost in
non-traditional exports. while imports remained close to the FY83 level since
economic recovery was slower than anticipated and aid-financed imports were
depressed by delays in project implementation. Even though workers' remit-
tances began to decline in the second half of the fiscal year, the current
account deficit as a whole declined to 7.4% of GDP in FY84 from 10.4% in
FY83, while gross foreign exchange reserves in March 1984 reached a peak of
US$558 million, equivalent to about 3 months' imports. However, during FY85
there has been a deterioration in the balance of payments. Part of the
growing pressure on the balance of payments arose from the additional
foodgrain imports necessitated by the severe 1984 floods. Since immediate
additional food aid in response to the crisis was limited, the Government had
to purchase about 1.25 million tons of foodgrains, valued at close to US$250
million, from its ow-n resources. Non-food imports have also increased
significantly, partly as a result of the continued recovery in the non-
agricultural sectors stimulated by the rapid expansion in domestic credit.
Workers' remittances have also declined further and although exports and aid
disbursements increased somewhat over FY84 levels, external reserves fell by
about US$145 million in FY85. The decline in reserves would have been even
more marked if a substantial portion (about US$190 million) of foodgrain
imports had not been purchased on credit. This short-term borrowing will,
however, add to the difficulty of managing the balance of payments over the



next three years when there will also be substantial obligations for repur-
chases from the IMF; externaL reserves have continued to decline during the
first two months of FY86.
External DebE
13.     Since most of Bangladesh's borrowings have been on highly conces-
sional terms, servicing external medium- and long-term debts has not been a
major problem. Nonetheless, the burden of servicing this concessional debt
is rising steadily as debts incurred in the first years after independence
are increasingly falling due for repayment. Total service payments an exter-
nal public medium- and long-term debt are expected to rise from about 13% of
export earnings (goods, services, and workers' remittances) in FY84 to 14% in
FY85 and a peak of 182 in FY87, gradually declining thereafter. However,
when obligations to the IMF are included, the debt service ratio for FY85 is
estimated at about 20%, rising to between 20-25Z during FY86 and FY87. The
debt service ratio is forecast to decline thereafter, as food debts are
repaid, to about 15-172 by FY90. The Bank Group's share of Bangladesh's debt
servicing obligations will remain modest over this period, rising from 8.5Z
in FY84 to 8.9% in FY86. The Bank Group's share of total debt outstanding
and disbursed is projected to increase from about 30% in FY84 to about 35Z in
FY86.
Development Planning and Policv Issues
14.     Although the Second Five Year Plan period ended in June 1985, the
Government's development strate;y continues to be largely based on the
priorities outlined in the Plan. The priority development objectives are:
(a) reducing population growth from the present rate of 2.6Z per annum;
(b) achieving foodgrain self-sufficiency, (c) eliminating mass illiteracy;
and (d) accelerating domestic energy development. IDA has assisted the
Government in preparing the Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan that aims
at increasing foodgrain production.  With appropriate producer incentives,
adequate resources to provide needed inputs to farmers, and an expanded role
for the private sector in the provision and servicing of modern agricultural
implements and inputs, foodgrain self-sufficiency could be achieved by the
end of the decade. Given Bangladesh's high illiteracy rate (742), the Plan's
emphasis on primary education is well founded; under the Plan the objective
of achieving universal primary education was adopted. Prospects for achiev-
*       ing the objectives of educational expansion and improved foodgrain
availability would be improved by success in reducing the population growth
rate; this will require more determined efforts than hitherto. The
Government is taking steps to improve its family planning and health services
at the field level, including increasing the number of field workers and
providing them with more intensive training and supervision. The Government
has also developed a strategy for expanding support to maternal and child
health services.



-6-
15.     Early development of the country's energy resources, particularly
natural gas, is very important since imported petroleum at present preempts
about two-thirds of merchandise export earnings. Since the required invest-
ments are likely to be capital-intensive and lumpy, they need to be properly
planned under a phased priority program. The Government is now endeavoring,
with Asian Development Bank (ADB)/United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)
assistance, to formulate an appropriate energy sector investment program.
The implementation of appropriate enorgy conservation measures and the set-
ting of energy prices at economically efficient levels will also be criticaL
to the success of the energy development program.
16.     There is an urgent need to address the growing problems of rural
poverty and unemployment. Fifty percent of the rural population is function-
ally landless, and the employment situation has deteriorated significantly
since the 1970s, with only 70% of new entrants to the labor force finding
gainful employment. Increased foodgrain production alone will not suffice to
resolve the unemployment and income problems, in view of the large projected
growth of the work force. Measures must be taken simultaneously, therefore,
to develop other sectors, such as fisheries, livestock, forestry and non-
foodgrain crops, and to strengthen the industrial sector -- especially rural
small-scale and cottage industries -- so that incomes generated in one sub-
sector will generate effective demand for the output of others.
17.     As noted above, the Government's New Industrial Policy has given a
greater role to the private sector in industrial development, increased the
incentives for export industries, and liberalized the import regime.
However, there remains an urgent need to strengthen the development finance
institutions, whose financial structure has been undermined by an increasing
problem of debt arrears, and to rationalize industrial incentives. The
Government is now examining the future role of the development finance
institutions in the light of recent consuLtants' studies. An ongoing program
of IDA-financed studies is expected to lead to a program of action for the
rationalization of a broad range of trade and industrial policies.
18.     The Government is now preparing its Third Five Year Plan (FY86-90).
While the development priorities are not likely to change significantly from
those incorporated into the Second Five Year Plan, the size of the future
public investment program will need to be set at a level consistent with a
realistic assessment of prospective external and domestic financial
resources.  As external assistance will continue to be severely constr'ined,
there is a clear need for a sustained and intensive domestic resour._ mobi-
lization effort to raise tax revenues, increase the level of cost recovery,
reduce subsidies, and improve the financial performance of public
enterprises. In the medium term, the tax base will have to be broadened to
reduce its present dependence on import duties, Lhereby improving the elas-
ticity of the tax system.
19.     Realization of the Government's development objectives will also
require significant improvements in development administration. There is a
critical need to strengthen project implementation, streamline administrative
procedures, and improve decision-making processes. Recognizing that local



-7..
government bodies can play an effective role in the development effort, the
Government has decided to decentraLize a number of planning and administra-
tive functions to the upgraded Upazila (Sub-District) level. The implementa-
tion and impact of this policy will need to be closely monitored.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
20.     Cumulative Bank Group commitments to Bangladesh total US$3,243.40
million. This figure includes reactivation of eleven credits (US$154.41
million) made to Pakistan before 1971 and a consolidation loan (US$54.90
million) and a consolidation credit (US$37.45 million) approved in 1975 to
cover liabilities arising from projects completed prior to independence. In
addition to these, the Bank has approved 84 new credits since Bangladesh
became a member in 1972. In terms of total commitments, approximately 24%
of IDA lending has been for agriculture, irrigation and rural development;
l1Z for industry; 13% for power and energy; TX for transportation and
telecommunications; 9X for education and technical assistance; 2% for urban
infrastructure; 2% for population control; and 32% for imports program
support. Apart from increased emphasis on energy development, the composi-
tion of IDA lending over the next several years is not expected to change
markedly. On June 18, 1976, Bangladesh became a member of IFC and five
investments have been approved to date.
21.     IDA's country assistance strategy is designed to support the
Covernment's priority development ob;ectives set out in the Second Five Year
Plan and summarized in paragraph 14 above. IDA's lending has emphasized
agriculture, with particular importance attached to increasing food produc-
tion through augmenting the supply of essential inputs such as irrigation
equipment, fertilizer, and improved seeds, the development of extension
services, research programs, and rural cooperatives, the provision of
agricultural credit, and the promotion of input and output pricing policies
that allow adequate incentives to farmers to increase production. IDA has
also supported the Government's efforts to encourage greater private sector
participation in the supply and distribution of agricultural inputs. IDA's
lending program will place increasing emphasis on agricultural diversifica-
tion through increased production of fish and forestry products.
22.     An inadequate supply of energy is one of the major constraints to
economic growth in BangLadesh. IDA's lending for power and gas investments
is designed to expand the use of natural gas in substitution for imported
oil, promote conservation measures and more efficient energy use, and
encourage further gas and oil exploration. IDA is also financing projects to
expand the country's rural electrification system and power generation and
transmission capabilities. Recognizing the critical shortages in traditional
fuels, IDA is financing investments in forestry to increase the supply of
fuelwood.



-8-
23.     In the education sector, IDA's lending strategy focuses on two
areas -- primary education and skills development. Lending for primary
education supports the national goals of achieving universal primary educa-
tion and reducing illiteracy, expanding access to education, and upgrading
quality. Projects for vocational and technical education promote the train-
ing of craftsmen, technicians, and engineers.
24.     In order to alleviate the severe economic and social pressures
created by the extremely high popuLation density and the continuing popula-
tion increase. IDA, together with other donors, is assisting the Government
in implementing an accelerated family pLanning program. With Bangladesh's
urban popuLation expected to increase from about 16-18 million in 19B5 to
between 35-40 million by the year 2000, future IDA activities will also help
the Government address the problem of providing low-cost shelter and
infrastructure services to the urban poor; IDA is already financing water and
sanitation improvements in Chittagong and Dhaka.
25.     To achieve a higher and sustained level of growth, provide productive
employment for a rapidly growing work force, and improve the country's exter-
nal trade and payments position on a sustained basis, industry will need to
play a more pivotal role in the economy. IDA's lending program seeks to
assist the Government in: (a) increasing efficiency in public sector
enterprises; (b) reforming trade, industrial, and financial policies;
(c) strengthening existing financial institutions; (d) establishing export
development programs; and (e) promoting rural and small-scale industries.
In addition to assistance under program credits (paragraph 27), IDA has
supported projects to increase fertilizer production, rehabilitate the jute
and textile industries, strengthen the development finance institutions, and
promote small-scale industries.
26.     Because of the importance of river transport in this deltaic country,
in the transport sector, IDA has focused on the development of the inland
water transport system. The road network in Bangladesh is extensive, but the
roads are in poor condition and inadequately maintained. IDA's future lend-
ing program will concentrate primarily on maintaining and upgrading existing
roads.
27.     Because of the urgent need for sustained transfer of substantial
financial resources, the assistance strategy for Bangladesh provides a sig-
nificant proportion of arnual lending in the form of program credits.  In
addition to providing much-needed foreign exchange and local counterpart
financial support, annual program credits have provided a useful vehicle for
addressing a wide range of sectoral and macro-economic issues.  Due to
Bangladesh's savings/investment gap, IDA credits for project financing con-
tinue to cover all foreign exchange costs and a significant portion of local
currency expenditures. Given the severe limits on external concessionary
assistance, IDA has emphasized the r.eed for Government to mobilize more
domestic financial resources and to utilize these resources more efficiently.
IDA is promoting Government policies to set public utility prices at economi-
cally efficient levels, to mobilize domestic financial resources, and to
improve the efficiencv of public sector institutions.



-9-
28.      Project implementation is hampered not only by a shortage of domes-
tic financial resources, but also by weak development institutions, limited
managerial capacity, and cumbersome bureaucratic procedures. IDA, in con-
sultation with other donors, is engaged in a continuing dialogue with the
Government on ways to improve project implementaticn. In support of broader
institutional reform, IDA is: (a) providing technical assistance for project
preparation and implementation; (b) financing projects to train civil ser-
vants and other managerial and technical personnel; and (c) encouraging the
Government to introduce administrative reforms and improve staff salaries and
incentives. Despite progress in impLementing reforms, which include
administrative reorganization and improvements in financial planning and
budgetary procedures, adequate institutional capabilities can be achieved
only over the long term.
29.     IDA chairs the annual Bangladesh Aid Group meeting which provides a
forum for aid donor consultation and IDA's Resident Representative chairs
regularLy scheduled donor meetings in Dhaka to exchange views on policy
issues, project implementation, and aid coordination.
PART III - ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Consumption
30.     In Bangladesh, per capita energy consumption, which is among the
lowest in the world, is estimated at about 90 kilograms (kg) of oil equiv-
alent annually. Traditional fuels, such as crop residues, animal dung, and
wood, supply about 60% of total energy requirements. Per capita annual
consumption of commercial energy is estimated to be only 35 kg of oil
equivalent. In FY84, commercial energy consumption was about 3.4 million
tons of oil equivalent, of which natural gas accounted for 52Z, petroleum
37X, hydropower 6Z, and coal 52.
Energy Resources and Energy Balance
31.     Natural gas is Bangladesh's principal commercially exploitabLe energy
resource. One offshore and twelve onshore gas fields have been discovered,
and six fields are in production. All onshore gas fields are located east
of the Brahmaputra/Jamuna River. Gas-in-place is estimated at about 11
trillion cubic feet. Condensate reserves are estimated at 18 million
barrels. Uncertainty regarding the level of existing reserves makes it
difficult for the Government to formulate a long-term development strategy
for the natural gas subsector. However, under the IDA-financed Petroleum
Exploration Promotion Project (Credit 1402-BD) and the Second Gas Development
Project (Credit 1586-BD) efforts are being made, through seismic surveys and
appraisal drilling, to prove additional reserves.



-            ~~~~-10-
32.     To date, no commercial reserves of oil have been discovered.  The
Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project (Credit 1402-BD) is supporting the
Government's efforts to attract international oil companies to undertake oil
exploration in the country.
33.     Bangladesh's hydropower potential is limited because the country's
large rivers, the Ganges and the Brahmaputra/Jamuna, flow over a flat deltaic
area. Hydropower potential is estimated to be about 1,500 gigawatt hours per
year (GWh/year), of which 850 GWh/year have been developed. All existing
development is on the Karnafuli river at Kaptai, where the installed capacity
is 130 megawatts (KW). Planned developments will increase Kaptai's total
installed capacity to 330 MW and generating capability to about 1,050
GWh/year.
34.     Coal deposits in northwestern Bangladesh, at Jamalganj, are estimated
at 700 million tons. The deposits are at depths of 650-1,050 meters under
soft water-bearing strata, and their extraction would be uneconomic at
present. Peat deposits are known to exist in the Faridpur and Khulna
districts.
35.     Traditional fuels play a crucial role in Bangladesh's energy sector.
Wood is one of its major renewable energy resources, but usage is believed to
be in excess of sustainable yield. It has been estimated that tree biomass,
such as stem wood and branches, contribute 50-60X of the energy used by
households in rural areas. Animal dung and agricultural residues supply the
remaining energy requirements to rural households.
Power Subsector
36.     The principal institutions responsible for policy in the power sub-
sector are: (i) the Planning Commission which is responsible for sanctioning
all development investment schemes, including those in the power subsector,
costing more than Tk 5.0 million, and (ii) the Ministry of Energy and Mineral
Resources to which the Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB) and the
Rural Electrification Board (REB) are accountable.
37.     BPDB was established in 1972, as a statutory Government corporation
responsible for the generation, transmission, and distribution of electric
power nationwide. BPDB was the sole authority responsible for these func-
tions until 1977, when REB was created and made responsible for the distribu-
tion of electricity in rural areas.
Existing Facilities
38.     Bangladesh is divided into eastern and western zones by the Ganges
and BrAhmaputra/Jamuna River system. The power systems in the two zones were
completely isolated until the commissioning, in December 1982, of the 230
kilovolt Ckv) double circuit East-West Interconnector (energized at 132-kV).



In FY85, BPDB's total firm generating capacity was 1010 MW. 1/ Firm capacity
in the western zone is 338 MW, all using imported oil. In the eastern zone,
firm capacity is 672 MW, comprising 130 MW from hydroelectric plants, 537 MW
from natural gas-fired plants, and 5 MW from diesel plants. Total energy
generated by BPDB's power plants in FY84 was 3,961 CWh, comprising 3,396 GWh
(86%) in the eastern zone and 565 GWh (14%) in the western zone.  The major
generating stations and load centers are interconnected by a 132-kV transmis-
sion grid (2,000 km), consisting of double and single-circuit lines. The
distribution system consists of about 7,000 km of 33-kV lines and 21,000 km
of 11-kV and 400-volt lines. The 33-kV network functions as a bulk distribu-
tion system to supply large consumers.
39.     In FY84, the average fuel cost per kWh generated in the western zone
was nearly Tk 1.50/kWh compared to only Tk 0.15/kWh in the eastern zone. The
commissioning of the East-West Interconnector reduced total generating costs
for the system by substituting natural gas-fired generation in the east for
oil-fired generation in the west.
40.     At the end of FY84, the total number of consumers supplied by BPDB
was about 725,000, of which about 467,000 were domestic and occasional users.
Another 237,000 consumers, of which about 215,000 were domestic, were sup-
plied through REB. Overall, an estimated 9% of the population receives
-lectricity.
The Rural Electrification Program
41.     The Government created REB in 1977 to carry out a national program of
rural electrification to improve the quality of life and stimulate economic
growth through the development of agriculture and small-scale agro-industries
in rural areas. A comprehensive rural electrification master plan was
developed by REB with assistance from the National Rural Electrification
Cooperative Association (NRECA); these consulting services were financed by
the United States Agency for International Development (USPA!!). The master
plan envisages the electrification of the popuLated landmass of the country
in five phases by about the year 2000.
42.     Rural electrification under the plan is based on the concept of "Area
Coverage Rural Electrification" (ACRE), involving the design of a distribu-
tion system to provide a basic infrastructure backbone system that can cater
to rapid increases in the number of consumer connections. The ACRE concept
involves the development of semi-autonomous member-owned rural electrifica-
tion cooperatives, Palli Bidyut Samities (PBSs), each of which covers an area
Gf 900-1300 square km and has between 20,000 and 30,000 members. Each PBS
1/ In addition, some industries have their own generating capacity which
totals about 200 MW.



-12-
includes a nuraber of administrative districts (UpaziLas). The formation of
PBSs has been progressing smoothly under the guidance of REB with assistance
from two consulting firms, NRECA and Commonwealth Associates, Inc., both
financed by USAID. The PBSs are subject to supervision and control by REB,
which is the lending and construction institution.
43.     The rural electrification master plan envisages the creation of 62
PBSs by the year 2000. Thirteen PBSs, financed by USAID, under Phase I of
the implementation program have been compLeted and are operating. The Kuwait
Fund for Arab Economic Development also provided finance for eight additional
PBSs under Phase I, four of which have been energized; in addition, the Asian
Development Bank (ADB) supported the expansion of two Phase I PBSs. Phase
II, comprising 12 PBSs, is under construction with financial assistance from
IDA under the Rural Electrification Project (Credit 1262-BD) for seven PBSs,
from USAID for four PBSs and consulting services, and from the Government of
Finland for one PBS. By June 1984, 17 PBSs under Phase I had been connected
to the grid and were supplying about 237,000 consumers, of which 3,900 were
irrigation, 2,000 industrial, 16,200 commercial and about 215,000 households.
44.     The Government is now considering Phase III of the program, including
the construction of 12 distribution systems, each to be operated by a new
PBS, and the expansion of some PBSs established under the first two phases.
The objective of Phase III is to cover about 23,300 square km of rural areas
and provide electricity service to about 500,000 consumers. The estimated
cost of Phase III is about US$253 million, including about US$179 million in
foreign cu-"ancy. In addition to IDA, the Government is discussing possible
Phase III financing with Canada, Denmark, Finland, Japan, Kuwait, and Saudi
Arabia.
Rural Electrification Board (REB)
45.     Within the framework of the rural electrification master plan, REB's
specific responsibilities include: (a) arranging finance for rural elec-
trification schemes; (b) construction of new distribution systems and
rehabilitation of existing schemes; (c) organizing prospective consumers into
PBSs and prescribing their by-laws; (d) establishing technical and
administrative standards for PBSs; and (e) approving their tariffs.
According to the Presidential Ordinance which created REB, it is also respon-
sible for electricity generation; however, this function is not, at present
given consideration in the Government's master plan. REB's management con-
sists of a Chairman, three full-time Members and four part-time Members. The
period, terms, and conditions of appointment for the Chairman and Members are
determined by the Government.
46.     REB exercises statutory control over PBSs, including the supervision
of their operations, assisting with the implementation of technical and
administrative control systems which REB has developed for the PBSs, and
training of PBS staff. REB has established a "Rate Cell" which reviews PBS
tariffs.   Following physical implementation of a project by REB, schemes are



-13-
handed over to the newly created PBSs. REB lends the initial cost of the
scheme, secured by a mortgage, to the PBS, provides loans to cover working
capital requirements, and arranges finance required to expand PBSs.
47.     REB has set up an "Evaluation Cell" in its program planning direc-
torate to assess the socio-economic impact of completed rural electrification
schemes on rural communities. A base line study of the initial 13 Phase I
PBSs has been completed by REB's Evaluation Cell, USAID, and Dhaka
University's Institute of Statistical Research and Training. The results of
the study, undertaken in 1983, are encouraging and indicate that nearlv all
of the objectives of the ACRE program are being realized.
Palli Bidyut Samities (PBSs)
48.     The PBS system consists of member-owned semi-autonomous cooperatives
for electricity distribution in rural areas. The PBS Board of Directors
consists of 10-15 Members elected by an annual meeting of its members, and
subject to approval by REB. The General Manager is the chief executive and
is accountable to the Board of Directors. Four main departments, each headed
by an Assistant General Manager, are responsible for extension and member
services, finance, construction and maintenance, and general services. The
organizational structure has been reviewed by IDA and found satisfactory.
49.     The responsibilities of a PBS begin when a constructed and energized
scheme is handed over to it. The principal objective of a PBS is to supply
its members and other consumers with electricity. Its functions incLude:
(a) planning and implementing the expansion of local distribution systems
with financial and technical assistance from REB; (b) purchase of elec-
tricity from BPDB; (c) distribution of electricity and making consumer
connections; (d) meter reading, billing, and collection; (e) setting tariffs,
with approval of REB; and (f) providing technical and financial assistance
to consumers for wiring their premises and acquiring and installing electri-
cal appliances and low tension capacitors to improve power factors.
50.     About 110,000 connections (supplying about 237,000 consumers) had
been made by June 1984, and in FY84 the average number of new connections
made per month was 3,374. Total energy consumption increased from 44.97 GWh
in FY83 to 88.08 GWh in FY84, with an associated increase in average annual
consumption per connection from 660 kWh to 801 kWh. Meter reading, billing
and collection are satisfactory in all the energized PBSs; all consumers are
billed regularly every month and in FY84, 96% of revenues were collected on
time. By October 1984, energized PBSs had constructed, with the assistance
of local consultants and through contractors, about 400 km of additional
distribution lines for which REB provided necessary financing.



-14-
IDA's Assistance in the Power Subsector
51.     IDA's lending for the power subsector is designed to assist the
Government in achieving the following objectives: (a) expand generating,
transmission, and distribution capacity at least cost, to meet increased
demand; (b) substitute gas-based generation for that based on imported
petroleum products; (c) improve the reliability of electricity supply and
efficiency of power system operations; (d) extend access to electricity in
rural areas for industrial, agricultural, and domestic purposes; and
(e) strengthen the management and financial performance of BPDB and REB. In
line with these objectives, IDA's involvement with Bangladesh's power subsec-
tor began in June 1979, with the approval of a US$18.0 million credit for
the Greater KhuLna Power Distribution Project (Credit 934-BD) to upgrade and
improve the distribution networks in Khulna and three neighboring towns.
Approval of two power credits followed in June 1982: US$40.0 million for the
Rural Electrification Project (Credit 1262-BD) to provide electricity to
seven rur-al cooperative areas, which was supplemented by US$8.0 million under
the Supplemental Assistance to Selected Projects (Credit 1504-BD), and
US$92.0 million for the Ashuganj Thermal Power Project (Credit 1254-BD) to
increase the generating capacity of the Ashuganj thermal power station by
adding two 150 KW gas-fired steam units.
52.     Completion of the Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project has been
delayed by more than one year, mainly due to delays in procurement. BPDB
has, however, taken corrective steps to remedy the situation. The Rural
Electrification Project is expected to be completed on schedule in December
198B. After some initial delays in the award of major procurement contracts,
the Ashuganj Thermal Power Project is progressing smoothly and is expected to
be completed by July, 1987.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
53.     The proposed project was prepared by REB with the assistance of
consultants. It was appraised in September/October 1984. A Staff Appraisal
Report entitled "Bangladesh - Second Rural Electrification Project"
(No. 5590-BD, dated September 29, 1985) is being distributed separately. A
timetable of key events relating to the project and special conditions of the
credit are listed in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C.
in September 1985. The Government delegation was led by Brigadier Sabihuddin
Ahmed, Chairman, Rural Electrification Board (REB).
Project Objectives
54.     The main objectives of the proposed project are to:  (a) install
distribution networks in six new PBSs (Kishoreganj, Naogaon, Sylhet,
Patuakhali-Barguna, Narsingdi, Barisal); (b) rehabilitate existing networks
now operated by BPDB in the areas of the proposed PBSs which will be taken



-15-
over by REB; and (c) expand the systems of five existing PBSs (Laxmipur,
Bogra, Rangpur-I, Jessore, and Rangpur-II) to include six additional Upazilas
in their areas. The proposed project would provide electricity to about
117,000 domestic, 15,000 comaercial, and 1,700 industrial consumers, and to
5,000 irrigation pumps by 1992. On completion of the proposed project in
FY92, about 24% of existing households, 36% of existing diesel irrigation
pumps, and 522 of existing industries using diesel engines would be energized
in the project areas.
Project Description
55.     The proposed project would consist of the following components:
(a) construction of about 5,660 km of 33-kV and 11-kV three-phase and single-
phase primary lines, and about 2,850 km of 400/230 volt secondary lines;
(b) construction of 22 substations 33/11-kV, each of 5 MVA; (c) service
material for consumer connections; (d) support commodities consisting of
vehicles, motorcycles, tools, communications equipment, boats, etc.;
(e) rehabilitation of existing 33-kV, 11-kV and low voltage lines and dis-
tribution substations now operated by BPDB, which would be taken over by PBSs
in the proposed project areas; (f) general plant consisting of local
transport, office, and residential buildings, including cost of land and
office equipment; and (g) consulting services for reviewing the technical
specifications, supervising construction, and assisting REB and PBSs in
developing their technical and institutional services.
Project Implementation
56.     REB would be responsible for the implementation of the project.  REB
would prepare the technical specifications and bidding documents on the basis
of established design criteria and would also be responsible for procurement.
Consultants, with international experience and satisfactory to IDA, would
provide REB and PBSs with technical and institution-building services.
Physical execution of the project would be carried out by local contractors.
Local consultants would be responsible for detailed field services, system
design, and construction supervision.
Project Costs
57.     The estimated total cost of the proposed project, including physical
and price contingencies, duties, and taxes, is US$108.2 million. Duties and
taxes have been estimated at US$13.4 million. Total finances required,
including interest during construction (US$2.4 million) are estimated at
US$110.6 million equivalent, of which US$63.8 million would be in foreign
exchange. The estimates are based on mid-1985 prices. Physical contingen-
cies of about 7.5% have been provided for equipment and services. Price
contingencies for foreign costs are assumed at 7.5Z for FY86 and 8X for each
year thereafter. For local costs, price contingencies are assumed at 13% for
FY86 and 11% for each year thereafter. Price contingencies are equivalent to
19% of base cost including physical contingencies.



-16-
Financing Plan
58.     The proposed IDA credit of SDR 76.4 million (US$79.0 million
equivalent) would cover 83% of the total project cost, net of taxes and
duties, and excluding incerest during construction. IDA's contribution would
cover 100% of the foreign cost and about 49% of the local cost, excluding
taxes and duties, and interest during construction. The remaining 51% of the
local cost, together with the taxes, duties, and interest during
construction, wouLd be provided as equity to REB by the Government. REB has
prepared a draft Project Proforma, an internal Government document, the
approval of which is a prerequisite Eor the release of funds and the hiring
of staff. Approval of the Project Proforma by the Government would be a
condition of credit effectiveness.
Relending Terms
59.     The proceeds of the IDA credit would be relent to REB by the
Government, under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and REB,
for a period of 30 years, including a grace period of five years, at a rate
of 0.75% per annum (capitalized) during the grace period and 2% per annum
during the repayment period. The Government would bear the foreign exchange
risk. The execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement would be a condition of
credit effectiveness. On completion of each scheme under the proposed
project, REB would transfer the assets to the respective PBS as a loan under
a Sub-loan Agreement to be entered into between REB and the respective PBS.
The Sub-loan Agreement would provide for the repayment of the loan over a
period of 30 years, including a grace period of five years, at a rate of
0.75Z (capitalized) during the grace period and 3% per annum during the
repayment period. The above onlending arrangements are the same as those
agreed under the Rural Electrification Project (Credit 1262-BD). These
onlending arrangements would be reviewed after completion of the Power
Tariff/Subsidy Study (see paragraphs 71).



-17-
Procurement
60.     Procurement of the various project components would be as follows:
Procurement Table
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Procurement Arrangements
Description
ICB      LCB      Other       N/A     Total
1. Line Materials /a           60.4     0.45      0.45       11.2     72.5
(60.4)   (0.45)   (0.45)         -     (61.3)
2. Substation Materials /a    3.0       0.2       0.2         0.7      4.1
(3.0)   (0.2)    (0.2)          -      (3.4)
3. Support Commodity /a         3.0     0.1       0.1         0.6       3.8
(3.0)   (0.1)    (0.1)          -      (3.2)
4. Substation Construction       -      0.6        -          0.1       0.7
-     (0.6)       -           -      (0.6)
5. Line Construction             -      5.1        -          0.8       5.9
-     (5.1)       _           _      (5.1)
5. Consulting Services:
(a) system design         -        -       3.0          -        3.0
and supervision       -        -      (3.0)         -       (3.0)
(b) engineering and       -        -       2.4          -        2.4
institution bldg.    -         -      (2.4)         -       (2.4)
6. General Plant                 -       -        4.0          -       4.0
7. REB Overhead                  -       -         -         11.8     11.8
TOTAL              66.4      6.45    10.15       25.2 /b 108.2
(66.4)   (6.45)   (6.15)         -     (79.0)
Note:  Figures in parenthesis are the amounts proposed to be financed by IDA.
/a  Material and equipment to be procured on LIB basis has been shown under
"lother. "
/b  Local duties and taxes for materials and construction costs (items 1 to
5) are shown under column "N/A".
61.     Procurement of materials and equipment would be on the basis of
international competitive bidding (1CB) in accordance with the "Guidelines
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits." It is expected that only
foreign suppliers would submit bids for the equipment and materials. Local
manufacturers who may participate in the bidding would be allowed a
preference margin of 152 on c.i.f. prices or the prevailing import duties and
taxes, whichever is lower. Contracts for civil works would be awarded
through local competitive bidding (LCB). Small quantities of materials,
tools, spares, and equipment not exceeding US$100,000 for each contract, and



-18-
in the aggregate not exceeding US$750,000, would be procured through limited
international bidding (LIB) on the basis of bids from a list of at least
three qualified bidders. In addition minor quantities of equipment not
exceeding US$100,000 for each contract, and in the aggregate not exceeding
US$750,000 would be procured through LCB procedures acceptable to IDA. All
contracts above US$50,000 would be subject to IDA's prior review.
Disbursement
62.     Disbursement under the proposed credit would be as follows: (a) 100%
of foreign expenditures of equipment, vehicles and materials; in the case of
locally-manufactured goods, 100Z of the ex-factory price; in the case of
other items procured locally, 702 of the local expenditure; (b) 85% of expen-
diture for civil works, including erection and commissioning charges; and
(c) 100% of total expenditure of consulting services. The proposed credit is
expected to be fully disbursed over a period of six years. In order to
facilitate disbursement, a Special Account would be established in the
Bangladesh Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The initial
deposit into the Special Account would be SDR3.0 million equivalent.
Training
63.     In addition to meeting its own requirements, REB's training program
is designed to meet the requirements of PBSs and local construction and
consulting firms which are implementing the rural electrification program.
Between July 1978 and July 1984, REB trained about 7,280 persons in courses
designed and supervised by the NRECA consulting team. Its training program,
when judged in terms of the number of persons trained and skills imparted,
has been, and promises to continue to be, effective. In spite of REB's
efforts, there is a shortage of linesmen which has hindered consumer
connections. REB would submit to IDA, not later than twelve months before
the commercial operation of each PBS under the project, a program for the
recruitment and training of the staff required for these PBSs.
Power Supply to PBSs
64.     Success of the proposed project would be dependent partly on reliable
supplies of high voltage power being received by PBSs from BPDB. Detailed
plans, prepared by BPDB, to provide supplies to new PBSs have been reviewed
bv IDA and found satisfactory. BPDB would expand in a timely manner its
transmission and distribution capacity to provide reliable power supply to
PBSs to be established under the proposed project.
System Losses
65.     Losses in PBS supply systems have been decreasing since they were
energized. However, losses in some systems are higher than were anticipated
under the Rural Electrification Project (Credit 1262-BD). REB attributes
these excess losses to the fact that transformers are not fully loaded during



-19-
the initial period of operation of a PBS. Non-technical losses are believed
to be low since PBS members perceive it to be in their own interest to report
any form of theft of electricity.  However, the exact cause of excess losses
have not yet been ascertained. By December 31, 1985, REB would appoint
consultants to carry out a study to determine the causes of high system
losses and recommend dated action programs to remedy each of the specific
causes of system losses. The study would be completed by June 30, 1986 and
its recommendations would thereafter be implemented as would be agreed with
IDA.
REB's Accounts and Audits
66.     REB's system of accounts was developed by NRECA and is based on the
"Uniform. SvsLem of Accounts" prescribed by the Rural Electrification
Administration of the United States, with modifications appropriate to REB.
The system is based on sound commercial accounting principles and is properly
maintained by REB accounting staff. REB plans to continue maintaining its
records to reflect its operations and financial conditions in accordance with
appropriate accounting principles. REB's accounts are audited by independent
auditors. Audit reports would be submitted to IDA within nine months after
the end of each fiscal year. REB will continue its efforts to gradually
shorten this period to six months by FY88.
REB's Financial Performance
67.     REB has not experienced any problems regarding the flow of funds
required to implement the ACRE 'rogram in.a timely manner. When completed
schemes are handed over to PBSs, their total costs, including those covered
by the Government's equity contribution to REB, are considered as long-term
loans to PBSs. Accordingly, REB, because it enjoys a spread on the interest
rate and receives the Government's contribution as equity capital, is
expected to establish firancial viability when the PBSs start servicing their
loans. Since no interest on PBS loans fell due before FY84, REB's financial
performance can only be assessed in the light of its financial projections
which indicate that the aforesaid spread will be sufficient to cover
administrative expenses and to realize an increasing net income. According
to the Ordinance under which REB was created, the Government is committed to
cover REB's administrative expenses. It was, therefore, agreed under the
Rural Electrification Project (Credit 1262-BD) that the Government shall
cover, when required, any deficit arising from REB's operations. This arran-
gement has been reaffirmed under the proposed credit.
68.     The financial objectives of REB, as established under the Rural
Electrification Project (Credit 1262-BD), depend on its ability to:
(a) realize a reasonable margin of net income after covering its administra-
tive expenses and interest payable; and (b) generate sufficient funds to meet
its debt service requirement and to provide a surplus necessary for future
expansion. Accordingly, REB would ensure that: (a) its administrative
expenses and amount of interest payments in any fiscal year beginning FY86



-20-
shall not exceed 75Z of the aggregate interest and other revenues received
from all sources during that fiscal year; and (b) its internal sources of
funds, including PBS Loan repayments in any fiscal year, shall cover at least
1.5 times the debt service requirement. REB woujld adjust its future onlend-
ing rates to PBSs so as to enable REB to comply with the above provisions.
Although these financial objectives have not yet been assessed due to the
early stage of REB's operation its financial projections, based on realistic
assumptions, indicate that it will be able to satisfy these requirements.
PBSs' Accounts and Audits
69.     PBSs have a Uniform System of Accounts based on the system prescribed
by the Rural Electrification Administration of the United States, in line
with that adopted for the REB accounting system. The system is designed to
meet all the requirements of commercially oriented utilities and is working
successfully in the 17 energized PBSs. REB is devoting serious efforts to
train the accounting staff required for the proper implementation of the
system, especially in the newLy formed PBSs. PBSs would maintain their
records adequately to reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices, their operation and financial condition.
70.     Under the Rural Electrification Project (Credit 1262-BD), it was
understood that the PBSs were to have their accounts and financial statements
audited by independent auditors and were to furnish to IDA, not later than
six months after the end of each fiscal year, certified copies of such
audited financial statements along with the audit report. The operating PBSs
have already selected independent auditors and their audits have started.
The audit report needs to be relaxed to nine months which is considered to be
more realistic. Accordingly, it has been agreed that PBSs would submit their
audit reports within nine months following each fiscal year.
Tariff and Subsidy Study
71.     Under the Ashuganj Thermal Power Project (Credit 1254-BD), and the
First Rural Electrification Project (Credit 1262-BD), it was agreed that the
Government would: (a) carry out by December 31, 1984, a study of the bulk
and retail tariffs to be applied in the power subsector taking into account
the long-run marginal cost of supply; and (b) implement by July 1, 1985, the
tariff structure and such other recommendations of the study as agreed by the
Government and IDA. However, substantial delays in appointment of consult-
ants have taken place. Besides the study of tariffs based on long-run mar-
ginal cost (LRMC) it is important that an assessment also be made of the
financial burden placed on the Government by the rural electrification
program, including cur:ent and capital costs of both existing and planned
investments. Therefore, the scope of the LRMC study has been broadened to
assess the extent of subsidies provided through such mechanisms as onlending
arrangements between the Government and REB, and subsequently between REB and
PBSs, the Government's program of subsidizing PBSs during the first five
years of their operations, bulk supply tariffs, and PBSs' retail tariffs. In



-21-
addition, the LRMC/subsidy study should provide an evaluation of the tariff
leveLs which consumers would be able to afford and the possible implications
for the rate of expansion of the rural electrification system. Following
completion of this study, onLending arrangements, Government provision of
subsidies to PBSs and both bulk supply and retail tariffs would be reviewed
with the Government in order to develop and implement a program, satisfactory
to IDA, for the expansion and operation of the rural electrification program
which would maximize cost recovery within the limits of affordability. This
study is being financed by UNDP with IDA as the executing agency. The
expanded study is expected to be completed by June 30, 1986. Based on recom-
mendations of this study, the Government would, by December 31, 1986, imple-
ment revised tariffs satisfactory to IDA.
Bulk Supply Tariff
72.     Under Credit 1262-BD it was agreed that, until such time as a revised
tariff structure based on the LRMC tariff study could be introduced, the
Government would design and implement a method for the calculation of the
bulk tariffs to be charged to PBSs based on LRMC. At the end of 1982 an
acceptable methodology to do this was developed with assistance from a con-
sultant financed by USAID. Based on this study a hulk supply rate of
Tk 0.78/kWh was established. This bulk supply tariff to PBSs has been
increased to Tk/kWh 0.95 (effective September 1985). This increase is con-
sidered an acceptable step towards charging PBSs a realistic rate for power
supply taking into consideration the existing level of BPDB retail tariff to
its urban domestic consumers. Pending the implementation of the revised
tariffs based on LRMC, the Government would (i) by March 31, 1986, recalcu-
late the bulk supply tariff rate for the next fiscal year based on methodol-
ogy satisfactory to IDA; and (ii) by July 1, 1986, implement a bulk supply
tariff rate acceptable to IDA.
PBSs Retail Tariff
73.     Each of the existing PBSs has its own tariff which is calculated on
the basis of a method acceptable to IDA and based on which tariff rates are
revised annually (the annual increase has averaged about 10 per kWh sold in
recent years). In July 1984, the average tariff rates in PBSs were between
50% and 60% of estimated LRMC. Under the Rural Electrification Project
(Credit 1262-BD), it was agreed that until the tariff structure based on the
LRMC Power Tariff Study is introduced, the average rate per kWh sold by PBSs
under the project should not be less than the average rate per kWh sold by
BPDB. This arrangement would be followed by PBSs under the proposed project
until a revised tariff based on the LRMC study is introduced.
Government Subsidy to PBSs
74.     The Government subsidizes PBSs during the first five years of their
operations. The subsidy was introduced in recognition of the fact that
BPDB's tariff for bulk supply to PBSs is significantly higher than BPDB's



-22-
tariff for its domestic consumers. The subsidy was based on a formula
acceptable to IDA. Subsequently, the Government applied this formula to all
PBSs created with the assistance of other donors. Four PBSs energized in
FY81-B2 succeeded in eliminating the need for subsidy; the ocher PBSs (nine)
have not yet completed five years of operation and the subsidy in each is
planned to be terminated by the end of this period. Pending a review of the
results of the LRMC tariff/subsidy study, the Government would continue to
subsidize PBSs during the first five years of their operations, in accordance
with a formula acceptabLe to IDA.
PBSs Desirable Financial Performance
75.     Financial projections for the average PBS assume that the bulk supply
tariff rate would increase at an annuaL average rate of about 14Z between
1985 and 1993. Because of Low initial sales volume, financial break-even is
not expected during the first five years of a PBS's operations. PBS would
take appropriate measures, including adjustments of its tariffs, to:
(a) earn, as of the sixth year of operation, revenues sufficient to cover
electricity purchases (based on the economic cost of supply), its administra-
tive expenses, depreciation and interest expense and to eliminate the need
for government subsidies; and (b) generate, starting from the seventh year, a
surplus of cash equivalent to 202 of its average capital expenditure.l/
76.     PBSs are expected to pay promptly for their electricity purchases
from BPDB in such a way that the unpaid consumption of any of them, at any
time, does not exceed the total billed consumption of the preceding two
months. However, because PBSs have only minimal paid-up capital, REB would
make available to PBSs: (a) short-term finance necessary for their working
capital; and (b) the funds needed to provide credit facilities for the pur-
chase of appliances and members' house wiring.
Ecological Effects
71.     The proposed project would not have any adverse ecological effects.
The Government and REB are expected to take adequate measures to ensure that
the project would not have any adverse impact on wildlife preserves.
Furthermore, under Bangladesh laws the Government is obligated to cormpensate
adequately those whose properties are acquired or damaged as a result of
projects for public purposes.
Economic Rate of Return
78.     Benefits and costs were estimated, and the economic rate of return
(ERR) was calculated, for the model PBS which formed the basis of the load
forecast. Benefits were estimated in terms of consumer's willingness to pay
for electricity. Both benefits and costs were estimated in terms of economic
1/ Based on three-year average including the capital expenditure of the
current year, previous year, and the next following year.



-23-
prices. The foreign costs were measured using border prices in terms of
mid-1985 prices, while local costs were converted into equivalent economic
costs using the standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.8. The ERR was calcu-
lated to be 12.7%, which is about equal to the estimated opportunity cost of
capital of 122. The ERR is negative if benefits are measured as being equal
to estimated revenues based on 1984 tariff rates multiplied by the SCF.
However, the proposed project is the least-cost way of supplying electricity
in the project areas and the use of electricity is the least-cost way of
meeting consumer's demands for energy in the projected uses.
Project Justification and Risk
79.     In addition to allowing the forecast demand for energy to be met at
least cost, the project would: (a) extend the public supply of electricity
to rural consumers, thereby substituting electricity generated from
indigenous resources for other forms of energy, particularly imported
petroleum; (b) increase the supply and availability of electricity for
irrigation and motive power in order to encourage multiple cropping, and the
creation of both new small-scale industries and rural employment
opportunities; (c) improve efficiency by reducing system losses; (d) assist
the power subsector in moving tariffs to a level which reflects the economic
costs of supply and allows a greater degree of self-financing; and
(e) strengthen the institutions concerned with rural electrification by
improving their accounting systems and by providing advisory consulting
services.
80.    The project would be relatively free of complexities.  Slippage could
occur due to delays in procurement and a shortage of linesmen. These pos-
sibilities would be minimized through the employment of consultants to
provide REB with technical and institution-building services, and the
implementation of an agreed training program.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
81.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and I recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
October 17, 1985



-24-                                           AMN  I
T A bLE L                                           P'A  I
SAILANCWCSN            - SOCIAL IHOICATORS DkTA SHEET
BAJIGLAIIV.SH                        ERlFfENlC  CGROU  (WEIGNTLD AVCA)t
K  MST                    (h15Si HECENT HSTIATER lb
RtCxTtb             LWS INCOt             HIDDLE INTX-co
19qD/b      19701k ESTUIMATL.         ASIA & PACIIIC         ASIA & PACIFIC
Am  (OAID sq. m)
TDYTAL                              144.0       144.0       144.0
ACRICULTURAL                         94.6        97.0       97.4
CG  Pu  cAPrIA (35$)                     ..          ..        130.0              278.3                    1011.1
Sl= CWNSAIPTIOlL PMR CAP-TA
(rILOGCRA.5 OF OIL EQItVALFT)                    20.0        35.0              255.1                     566.8
POILATI AIID VITAL STATISYTrS
POPULATION.NoD-YEAR (THOUSANODS)  53491.0    65117.0    95497.0
URBAN POPULATION (S UF TOTAL)         5.2         7.6       17.0                22.3                      35.9
POPULATIO 1ROJECTIONS
POPULATWN IN YflAR 2000 t:lLL)                            141.1
STATIONARf POPULATION  HItLL)                             310.0
POPULATION !M*ENTUI-                                        1.9
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. '0.                       371.5       473.0       003.2              173.8                     3bb.9
PER SQ. Fll. ACQI. LAND          565.3        702.5      955.3               353.3                    1591.2
POPULATION AGE STEICTURE (RI
0-14 IRS                          4.2        '6.2         43.6               3b.3                      3h.2
15-64 YRS                         52.5        51.1        53.6                59.4                     57.7
6 5 AND ABOVE                       3.1         2.6         2.b                4.3                       3.5
PoPULATtON GROuTwr RATE (:3
TOTAL                               1.9         2.4        2.6                 2.0                       2.3
URBAI                               3.7         6.2        6.2                 4.1                       4.1
CRUDE BIRTH HlATE (PER THOUS)        A6.6 8       8.0       41.5                27.5                      30.1
CRUDE DEATR RATE (PER THOUS)         22.5        20.9       15.7                10.2                      9.4
CROSS XEPIODUCTION RATE               3.4         3.4         3.1                1.7                       1.9
FAMlLY PLUNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUS)           ,,        373.0      1607.0 fe
USERS (C OF 4MAUED UOMEN)          ,,                     25.0 fd             49.4                      56.5
POOP MD WUTITOR
INDEX dF FOOD PROD. PEH CAPITA
11969-71-100)                       10b.0       101.0       94.0              I1b.6                      124.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES CZ OF REQUIRElEfTS)       o3.0        90.0        83.0              1u6. 3                    115.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          43.0        45.0        42.0               60.1                      00.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          9.0         9.0        7.0 1.             14.                       141
CrlLD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE         25.4        Z2.6        19.0                 7.3                      7.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)        43.5        44.9       49.6                00.5                      60.6
IMFAST DRT. RATE (PIER TNOUS)      159.0       150.0       132.0               69.:                      64.9
AcCESS TO SAtF UATER (-POP)
TOTAL                               -          45.0       38.0 If             44.2                      46.0
URBAN                               .          13.0       26.0 7c             771                      57.6
RURAL                               ' '7.0                40.0 7;W            34.6    ,                 37.1
ACCESS TO EXClETA DISPOSAL
(I OF PoPULATION)
IOTAL                                          6.0         3.0 /c              7.8                     50.1
IPMBAN                                                    21 0 /7            288                      52.9
ttRCAL                                                     1.0 7;W             5.5                     44.7
POPULATIWN PEP PNYSICLA                       86430.0     7810.0             3318.0                    7751.7
POP. PER NURSING PERSON                       76810.0    2Z570.0             4690.7                    Z'.b4.b
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
.CTAL                                        7U20.0 It  490.0               1039.2                    1112.1
URB                                          810.0 71r   600.0 I.            299.1                    651.4
RURAL                              ,,           ,,     23470.0 to          6026.2                    2596.9
ADH1SSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                                                     52.3                     41.1
RmIC
AVLRAGE S1ZE OF hiOUSENOLO
!OTAL                                           5.9 if     5.8 /C
URBAN                                            .1 o7r    6.1 7W
RURAL                                           5.9 If     5.8 Ic
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/2RO(I
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URAUU
RURAL
PERCENTACE OF DWELLINCS hlT  ELECT.
TOTAL                                                      3.5 /c
LRRAN 
RUJtAL                         -                                                ..



-25-                                                ANNEX I
T A N L    A 3P PACE 2
RAMMAKSK               - SOCIAL INUICATORS DATA SHEET
RAMGLANCSI    ~                     kRERENCE GHOUlS (WEIGIITEI AVERAES) ia
.OST                     (MST  cuCT l WHATE) /b
%ZCEMT             tiwINCONZ             mronu  Imc
1960i1     1971Lbk   TiT&b           ASIA h PACIFIC        ASIA & PACIFIC
flICARTUE
AOJUSTEO ENROLMENT RATIOS
PRDIARYt  TO-AL                   *7.0        52.0       6U.U               92.4                     100.7
MALE                   66.0        64.U        64.0             105.5                     106.14
PEKALE                 26.0        34.0        51.U              79.3                      ul.2
SECOIIDARY: TOTAL                  6.0        19.0        15.0              31.3                     47.8
MALE                   14.0        29.0        24.0              40.8                      5U.e
FEMALE                  1.0         8.0         6.0              21.9                      4.8
VOCATIOEML tl OF SECNDAU)            1.0         0.6        14.3               3.2                     18.4
PUPIL-TCAQtER RATIO
PRDA                               ..          5.0        55.0 Id           38.0                     30.4
SECONDARY                          ..         26.0       21.07              174                      22.2
PASSEJINR CARS/THOUSAND POP          ..          0.4        0.4 Ic            0.9                      10.1
IrIo RECTVERSITHOUSAjD POP           ..         ..          8.1              129.8                    172.9
TV RECYEMRSITHOUSAUD POP             ..          ..         0.9               19.8                     58.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY CEERAL
INTEREST`) CRIATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION             ..          ..          5.8              25.7                     65.3
CixWA ANUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPIT&        ..         ..          ..                6.0                       3.4
LASK NORCR
TOTAL IADOR FoRCE (Tws)          19252.0    23611.0    33542.0
aEKLE (PERCENT)                   15.2        16.6       17.6              33.2                      33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             67.0        86.0       74.0 Ic            69.6                     52.2
INDUSTR  (PERCENT)                 3.0         3.0        11.07             15.6                     17.9
PARTtCIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             36.0        34.7        35.1              41.9                     38.9
MALE                              58.7        55.9       56.3               53.6                     50.1
FEPALE                            11.4        11.9        12.6              29.1                     26.8
ECONMC DEDEUICt RATIO                1.3         1.4        1.3                1.0                      1.1
zuKm DIBTREISTI
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
-RE=cIVED 3f
HICHEST 5Z OF HOUSEIOLDS          18.3 3
HiGHEST 201 OF HOUSEHOLDS         44.5 7i    4.1 /h       *-                 *                       4.0
LOEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS            6.9         8.7 h      ..                 ..                       6.4
LOWEST 402 OF HOUSEHOLDS          17.9        19.6 71jb   *,                 *                       15.5
rou   Dn   m
FSINAMED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCME
LVEL U0$ PER CAPITA)
URBNi                              ..          ..        139.0 1.          133.9
RURAL                              ..         ..          111.07i         111.6                     151.9
ESTDMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
UB                                 ..          ..         ..                 ..                     177.9
RURJAL                             ..         ..          ..               61.7                     164.7
r.fmAl  ru. .,...a a..._....
PovERrY INCOME LEVEL (2)
RJA                                ..          ..        86.0 la           43.8                      23.5
RURAL                              ..          ..        86.0 /a           51.7                      37.9
NOT AVAILAUSZ
NoT APPLICAELE
/a  The gromp averags for each indicator are populoclon-wl5btcd arithmetic mans. _   verage of countries
among the indicatora depends on aailabIIity of data and i t no unform.
/b   Unless otheiazse noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "oDta for 1970" between
1969 and 1971; and data for 'rat Recent Estiace" between 1981 and 1983.
lc   1980; Id 1984; /s  1977;  /f 1973; IA 1963; A  1967  n 1972.
JUNE, 1995



-26-                                                  ANNEX I
Page 3
DEFLNmOrdS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notera Abboug dwe dnam - dr'aa IrO. ana enseallyludpd 'he morn au,honaiwe and nfe. it sou ao we w no atd sl dy may mu kw kanamlly
comapbk obie    l of abe lack ofr adardued defimtsons and concu uad by dila  ceountrie in comeming the datL The data am noelda sif to
d- nbe ards or a nugaitaat. mndace trends. asnd  iraetrf enrm sRmoe dueawma bIn.. commanhs
The ekremce pop aret lII the emo  count* pomp of th aubuti county and i2 a country group ath umwwa bgher avenge income tha the cousin
pomp of he mubflt comuA' lcamp for -High Inome Oil tapona r roup bh -S4iddk Incomw North Afnca nd Midd%I    EaC- ts Chosen tuse oh urongr
saio-cultutral adlmitnal. In the *ratce group dau the anngtn as pOpiho weighted anthaetc mamn for eah imdsator and abea oob when mqontq
of the counmin a promp hu dat tafor Lial indctor Sincc the covragcommresm snong ate aidiator depet oan th avsdabalty o(data and iaon  unform.
cautiomust be encimd m raelaating aetae of oneenifctor to another Tbe r aep are onl useul am companaing lhe a. luf one adtou r at a t  a"nn
I  tth country and efe.r.. SompL
ARnA (thousand sq.&.)                                            Cide gBsh tRre (pe chusaadi-Numnberofihve buthsm n the yar
T.a-Total surface area compnsing land ama and inland wates      peU thousand of mi-year populuia  1960. 1970. and 1933 dau.
1960. 1970 and 1983 dat.                                        Cnde Death Rar p  ter rhimadj-Number of deaths in the ynr
Apri4Eural-Estimate of agricultural area used nemporarily or    perU housamd of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 dan.
permanently for crops. pastures. market and kitchen prdens or to  Gras Reopndctfm  are- Average number of daughten a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                            wll bear an her normal reproducive period if she expecs
present ag-specfic fertlity rates; usually five-year avcrage ending
CNP PER CAPITA (USS)--GNP per capita estimates at current        in 1960 1970. and 1983.
market pricesL calculated by same conaersian method as ISorld                                  a  (rh.ma        nal num-
Bank Arias d1991-83 basis): 1983 data.                          ber of acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of nartonal
ENERGY CONSUMPMON  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent.    famlyvplanningprotram.
consumption of commercial pnmar6 energy icoal and lignute.       Family PIeru-C sens (perent of maced aJ.oaenl-The peren-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro- nuclear and geothemial elec-  tage of married  rnen of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) tn kIilorams of oil equtalcnt per capita: 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practting anv form of contraception. lomen
19B2  ta                                                        of child-bearing age a   enerall women aged 1   al aihnugh for
some countries Contraceptive usage is measured for other aot
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                 groups.
et       _ Poplar/m. Mid-Yw (rhomadn-As of July 1 1960. 1970.   FOOD AND NURION
and 1993 data.FODAD                                                             TLMN
Urha hpdou (pereet of warIf-Rano of urban wo total   ;ixo Food Pdi  Pr                               -l Crot -Inlex of per
population; different deinitions of urban aren may affect compar-  capita annual producton of al food commodities Producton
ability of daa mngconris  0  ndexdudes animal feed and seed for ariculture. Food comnodaties
abifuty of dat amongz countnes. 1960) 19-0 a nd i983 data.
-ihclude prmary commodities teg. sugarcane instead of saupr
Pbpulaios Aoeisiou                                              which ame edible and contain nutrients e.g. coffee and tea .Are
Populatton in tear 2000-The projecuon of popuation for Z00.     etdudcdj: they comprise cereals. root crops. puise. oil ceds.
made for each economy separathe. Starang alith informntion on    egtables. fruits. nuts. ,ugarcane and sugar beets. li%estock. arna
total population brr ag and set fem ilt rates. moriy ralt!es, and  livestocki products AgS:egate prnduction of each counntr. s baI d
mternatonal migration in the base year 1980. these parameters   on nauonal .serage producer pnce -eghLts. 1961145. 1970. anal
were projected at five-vear intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptons untl the populaton became stauonary.                 Per Caps Spply of Caloris percent of requh.eamtn-Comput-
Stationarr populatlon-ls one in which age- 3nd set-specific mor-  ed from caloneequialent ofnet food supplies available in cezrrt
uuty ratcs have not changed o'er a long penod. whale age-specific  per capita per da  Aiailable supplaes compnse domestic prt4uc-
fertilitv rates have samultaneousls remained t replacement ICvel  tion. impons less expons. and changes mn stock. Net supplies
n net reproducuon rate - I1 In such a population. the batih rate it  exclude anmr.al feed. iecus for u3a in ggnculture. quantiuua uad in
constant and equal w the death rate. the age structure is also  food processing. and losses an distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero The stationary populaton  etitmated b% FAO bard on ph%siological needs for no-nal ar. atn
size  as estumated on the basis of the projec:ed characternstics of  and health considering enutronmental temperature. bods weights.
the population In the .ear 2000. and the rate of decline of ferlit%  age and sex distnbution of population.and allowing 41 percent for
rate to replacement le'el.                                       waste at household le%ea. 19o1. 19'0 and 1982 data.
Populoatwa M.eonean--ls the tendency for population growth to    Per Caprit Sutpply of Prosts sram   er Sday-Protecn content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net suppiv of food per dav. Net supplh of food is defined
achived. that s even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countres established by lSDA
umty. The momentum of a populauon in the year r is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 gms of totl protean per
a rato of the ultimate stationary population to the populauon in  day and 0 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 granms
the year r. given thc assumption that ferutlit remans at replace-  should be animal protein. Thexs standards.are lower than those of
mena level from year r onward. 1985 data.                       75 grams of total protein and 23 gramts of anmnal protean as an
PfopIuiau Deskry                                                a,eragc fhr the world, proposed by FAO in the Third Vorld Food
Per sq.kn.-Mid-year population per square kilometer f 100 bec-  Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                 Per Ca  Noses Spply Frou A4ail sad hlse-Protein suppiy
Per sq.ka. ogrinidnrai land-Computed as above for agricultural  of food denved from animals and pulics in grams per day. 19h l -65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                            1970 and 1977 data.
Popadasion Age Ssr re percemr,-Children 10-14 years, work.      Child (qwe  1-4) D ha  Raise (per rhousmf -.N umber of deaths of
ing age (15-6 years). acd retired (65 years and overn as percentage  children aged 1.4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data               group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Pepsiaria. Growth Rare (jereu-seal--Annual growth rates of      from life tables: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
totl mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.      HFAIfLTH
PopulAut Growth RAe (percea-ilam--Annual grwth rates            L;Jfr Epecisacy as Br   (yewsn-Number of years a newborn
of urban populaton for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-U3 data.       infant would live if preailing patterns of mortalit for all people



-27-                                         -     ANEX I
PaRe 4
at the tme of or its bith wr to stay th ume throughout its life.  Piipe-iecher- .no . primary. avid .tico1daty-Tot- l students ,n-
1960. 190 and 913 dat                                          roiled in pnmary and scondary lis divided by numbers of
1fm yitah af     e  e(pr uoh.nd)-Numiber of infanu who die     teaces in t  corraspoim  kvl.
before rachng one year of ag per thousand live births in a given
year. 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                CONSUlPTION
AcceaCC u So   W     pwu  of ppil-rn   w ,  _, Ca                                      he                    er car com
'unsi-Nurmber of people (toial. urban. and rural) vnth raonable    p "W motor   areaing lss tan eight p sons cxencl   ambul
aco  to safe wter supply (incdud  tea    surfa  watn  or       ances* bhear  and military vehile.
untrted but uncon _unatid wat r sac   that fm  proted            de Aeiwn pm tm-U I types of rceier
booles spins and sitary wells) u percenta  of th r mpe         fot radio broadcas  to gmNel pubLic per thouAnd ofypopuouf n
tve Populations. In an urban area a pubic fountain or standpost  excludes un-liocnsed rtceiverp in counines and in year when
located not more than 200 metes from a houe my be consdered           unofic         rnc ve in  c       and n   y     wxy
u being within rasona   accss of that hous. In rural  ru  itrtion of radion ets w   in effect; data for rct yea  may
rcasanable a   would imply that       w     m        o         not be omparable sinc most countrs abolished icens.
household do not hae to spend a disproportionate pan of the day  TVRe,In (pr t hivreevers for broadcat
i fchil thr r        a. t- %                                   to general publi per thousand population  axcludes unlicnsed TV
Acean to EoLwe Dip1 (perceot                 -wp9p  m.n         receiversrin counrsnu and in yeas when reistraton of TV Kse was
m  rared-Number of people (total urban and rural) served by    in effecm
encret disposal as percts of their respective populations.     .sr*Sp       C;iralrbn_ t(pr rAmsandpepan)a-S hows the aver-
Eaceta diposl may include the coecnion and diposaL with or     age culation of -daily genml intet newspaper.- defined a a
without treatment. of buman excrcta and waste-water by water-  paodcl publicaton devoted primnly to reording genal news
borne systems or the ue of pit pnves and similar installuons.  It is considered to be daily if it appear at least four tim  a week.
PoPeLaine per P*oside.-4opulation divided by number of prac-   CW*H'.A A _&W Att x        rancrper Cpta per Yw-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at utiversity level.  number of tickes sold dunng the yer. including admusuons to
POPEat" per Nkoac P        4 ulation divided by number of      drive-in cinma and mobile uniLt
pnrctimig male and female grduate nurses asisant nursre
practical nurses and nuring auxilii. sABOR FOCE
POPufu_ .  per lospua 5.d-uI~ arbe and rwaliopulation          Totas Labr Force (thoaudsnh-EconomicaUv active personL in-
(total urban. and rural) divided by their repecuve number of   duding armed formcs and unemployd but xcxluding housewies.
hospital beds available in public and private. general and s   students. etc.. covering population of all ages. Definitions m
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals are estasments  v      countries are not comnptbie 1960. 1970 and 1953 da.
permanetly staffed by at la one physician EFtsublishments prov-    hFemk (p&cri-FemaIe labor force a percentage of total labor
ding prncipally custodial cm  are not induded. Rural hospitls.  force.
bowever, include healt and medical centers not permanently staffetd    Asgrk*     lpercrur j-Labdr form in fanm   foresry. hunting
by a physn (but by a medical Assstant. nurse. midufe. et)      and fishmg as prEae O; [Otal labor force i960. 1970 and 1910
which offcr in-Paent accmmodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical falities.                                           Indutmr fPercenri-Labor force in mining. consruction. manu-
A&s4sions p- Hospital Bed-Total number of admissions to or     factunng and electnrcit. water and pgs as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the numbecr of beds.      force: 1960. 19970 and 1910 data.
Pirbeidia RP-re INpc1J1-4el. mek. endfrnoaf-PrUcipation
HOLSING                                                        or activity rates are computed as total maie, and fema labor force
A*,re iSic of RewbOl (pfu. Per hrba..     as peretages of totaL male and femaak population of all ages
andriu,l-A household consuts of a group of individuals who share  respecively; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data Thes are based on ILOMs
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  paripation rates refltecing age-sCe strcureMof the population. and
may not be included in the household for stasucal purposeL     long ume trend. A few esumates are from natonal soucs.
A.;e Nunmher of Peo  pr Room-earaaen and red-                  Econowac Dependency Rade--Ratio of population under Is. and
A%erage number of persons per room in all urban. and rural     65 and over. tO the working age population ithose aged 15-64g.
occupied conventional dwellings. respectively. Dwelings exdude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied pams.                  ICOME DISMRIBLTION
Percentage of Dweliags -i'th E2craicinrj-rea. urban. and nma-  Percetage of Total Dispobk le nom  (both in cash and kidi-
Con% entional dwellings with lectricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of totaz. urban. and rural dwellings respectively,        hold income.
EDCATIOLN                                                      PO%ERTY TAItGET GROLPS
AdsVted Emvoll,  R_to                                          The followving estmates are very approximate measures of povem
PrIlarv school - soral. male and femak-Gross t. ,aic and      levels. and should be interpreted with considerble caution.
femaie enroinen: of ali agl  at the prary level as perc ntages of  EtnimedA4&ws e Perty Incvn  Leve f L S3 per cJp_a.-m.ran
respective primary school-age populations. While many countes  ad aed-Absolute poverty income levl is that income level
consider prmary school age to be 6-11 vyars others do not. The  below which a umrinal nutritionally adequate diet plus ssental
differences in country prActices m the ages and duration of school  non-food reqwrements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countnes with umversal  Esrimrated Reaie Prww  Inaom  Lewl r(SS per caopira-rba
education, gross enrollDmen may exceed 100 percent since some  and wed-Rurl relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils ae below or above the country's standard pnmary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
aYe-                                                           derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondy school - total.  al and ferak-Computed as above:    living in urban areas.
secondary education requir  at least four years of approved pn-  Emhed Pr pLse. Below AbsorWe Poerb y Ame Lewd (per-
nmry instruction: provides gneraL vocationaL or teacher traiing  cenr--rban and rriez-r Pcent of populaton turban and rural
insructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of agc, correspond-  who are -absolute poor."
cacc courses are gally exduded.
Vocxwoa Enrolmeni (Xprct of jecodwiy)-Vocational institu-                Comparaive Analysis and Data Division
tions include temical. industriL or other programs which operate       Economic Analysis and Projectons Deparment
indepedently or as departmts of secondary institutions.                                June 1935



mm 1
Populatis: 100.06 dLlio. (1985)
CGP Per Capita: 08113D (1963)
Amugut
(millioen 3            Averg   nnae  l Increase CZ)                  Share of CP at Market Prices (2)
in cnrregt prices)            in censatast urinam)                             in currant *rienl
Indicator                   FY04           EUhZ2  qzDZ7    HiE7s    FTS              g n  3o          .1e   n7s    MnZ  Emz   It
NATIOPAL ACCDIF
Orog. dometic product La          11.734            4.0      -0.4        3.5      3.4        100.0  100.0  160.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  IDO.0
AgrLcolture a                    5.512             3.1      -3.3       3.3      2.s         S9.9   56.9   62.5   53.4   46.7  46.9  469
Industry fA                     1,493             7.9      -3.2       6.4      3.6           7.7    9.4   11.3   12.7   13.8  13.1  12.7
Services La                     4*749             4.9        3.3       8.1     4.1          30.1   30.0   26.2   34.0   39.6   40.0  40.4
Consumption                       11.351            4.4      -0.7        6.0      2.2         92.4   92.0   99.2   98.0  103.6  98.3   96.6
Crosa dmestic inestmet             1.02             10.9    -10.9        2.0      0.7          4.9   11.3    5B.    16.7   13.9  16.4   33.7
Exports of goods A nat             1,116             0.8    -11.7        3.4      7.4         10.0     8.3    3.0      7.6     7.7    5.3   9.s
Imports of goode A set            2.565              5.8    -22.0       6.1       1.1          9.3   12.3   10.3   22.5   25.2  23.2  21.8
Groan ntional savings                04             26.5    -37.7       22.1    19.7           0.9    6.1      2.0    4.0   -1.0    6.0    7.2
haunt
(million 03                     Compitios of Mercbandise Trade CZ)
in current prices)                          n currant  Srices)
PS4                        flU       n7   fzl        fQ  r l           li
HERCEAAUISE TRDE
Merchandise exports                 822                         100.0   100.0  100.0    100.0   100.0   100.0
Primary                           241                         41.8    31.5   29.7    31.9    33.3    34.2
Manfatcturas                      541                          58.2   64.3   70.3    68.1    66.7    654.
Merchandise imports                2.333                        100.0   100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Food                              494                         47.6    "4.4   33.4    14.0    19.3    21.0
Petrolem                          355                           3.9    11.1   16 .2    22.3    19.7    15.1
Macbinery 6 equipmeot             666                          12.5    11.3   23.0    23.9    29.5    23.3
Other                              838                         35.7    33.0   27.A       40.8    31.3    35.6
n7L4  nzX n7 7 so r2zin
PIEICE AM TEMS Or TRADE INDICES (1972/73-100)
GDP DOfletor                                     140.6   240.7   183.1   177.2   203.6   216.8   252.7    267.3   293.9   331.4   371.2
Exchange rate (mIff]                               7.9661   3.8759  14.8521  15.4667  15.1215  15.2228  15.4777   16.3647  20.0400  23.760D  24.9500
Export price  inde                               104.5    119.0   203.    108.9   126.5   140.9   196.9    175.7   147.7   151.5   181.5
Import price index                               14.9   187.8   120.2   178.2   168.7   208.9   234.9    263.9   259.9   237.4   225.2
Term of trade iedes                               72.1    634       574      61.1    75.0    77.0    84.7         66.6    36.8    65.1    80.6
As 2 of CDP
(at curreant prices)
FY75     nn77     n o          62     F3       P4
PIOLIC FINAWNC
Current reveme                                     53         9.5      10.5       11.6    10.7    10.1
Current expenditure                                 4.5      7.8        7.7       8.4       8.5    8O4
Current surplus C) or deficit (-)                   0.9    *1.7       * 2.3 8      3.2    *2.2    +1.7
Capital expenditure                                 3.1       9.5      13.3       12.4     11.8    10.3
Foreign financing                                   2.       6.0        8.2        3.0    11 4       835
rn-70       mFo7075      f7e           nT
oTHER INDICATORS
CGP growtb rate (2)                                4.2         -0.6           645         5.4
CGP per capita growth rate (Z)                      1.5         -3.0           4.0        2.8
- wt available
- net applicable
/a At market price.
Lk Raw jute. tea and fibheries.
A 3ARA
May 31. 1985



-219-
D A  M     L C _  UX~~CITAL AM DR!S
(millioe VI3$, L  carreot priess)
BALAKEI OP PAYNENTI
Acitual                                           -     ..iiu,.
flU   ml -Z   07.  LM  at  UL  Elt  EU  JIE..  Un
Nut exports of goods                            -1,059    -903    -470    -859    -946  -1.650  -1.822  -1.946  -1,623   -1,531   -1766
Exports of goods                                 344      372     405      490     510      722     711      626     686       622       934
Imports of goods                              -1,403  -1,275    -a75  -1.349 -1.556  -2,372  -2.533  -2,572  -2,309   -2.353   -2.700
Nut exports of services                              21     - 7     -29      -32     -28        4       IS     -70    -112       -33       -38
Workers' raittaucem                                  35      29       60     113      143     210      379     424      628      552       442
Current account balance                         -1  D03    d       -439        J    =AU   -1435  -1428 :159  -1107   L102   -LAU2
Direct private iVestment.
NLT loans (net)                                     498     497      238     390      420     580      513     508      476      563       575
Crants  grant-like flows                           382     245      265     394      551     592      584     687      709      697       840
Other capital flaws (net)                           274      11       17     -39     -16      144      307     255      164      -82      -14
Cbange in reserves (- - increase)                 -151       53      -8;     2i    -124       119       24     142    -242      -166       143
luterntional reserves (end of period)              266      213     294      269     393      271      249     1O0      350      516       373
Reserves as month  of imports of nat year          2.5      2.9     2.6      2.1     2.0      1.3      1.2     0.6     1.8       2.6       1.7
______ ______ _____   Actual
glOss Dl L                                                           Z D1B1 HTL
Total gross disburassemts                     519       563     268      435     477      630     562      543     549
Concseiou.al                                458       533     244      401     456      600     541      463     483
Bilateral                                 343       390     144      262     213     273      287      232     213
IDA                                       112      128       B6       88     153     1 2      170     153      190
Other multilateral                          3       15       14       51      91     176       84       7B      8O
Uos-concession.l                             60        30      24       35      20       30      21              67
Bilaterial                                 45       16        6        2       3      17        2        7      28
T*RD                                        -        -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -
Other alcilateral                           -        I        -       -        -       -        1       31      12
Private                                    15       13       18       32      17      13       19       42      26
NET DISIIESE QE                                   498       497     238      398     420    5B        513     508     476
OCT OTASTANDII
Total outstanding and disbursed             1,355    1,797   2,053    2,571  2.951   3,216   3,615   3,979   4,470
Official                                  1.233    1,689   1,940    2,436  2,BD8   3,067   3,491   3,834   4,317
ItD                                        55       55       55       55      55      55       55      55       55
rDA                                       255      30D      464      554    707       859   1,027   1,1l    1,366
Otber                                     923    1,254   1,419    1,e27  2,047   2,154   2,409   2,599   2,S96
Private                                     122       ice     113       135    142      149     124      145     153
Undisbursed debt                            1,019       948   1.016    1,335  1,659   1,719   2,104   2.619   2,773
D03B SEIVICI
Total debt service                             31        Be      59        69     95       94       91      B7     123
Amrtization                                  21        66      30        37     57       50      50       40      74
Interest                                     10       22       28        32     38      43       42       47      49
SBD debt  ervice                                0         2       3         3      4        4       4        4       3
TD debt service                                 1         2       3         4      4        6       7        8       8
Average interest rate
Official                                    1.B      1.2      1.3       1.2    1.3      1.2     1.6      1.8     1.0
Private                                     2.3       8. 9    7.2       6.2    6.1      6.9    10.8      8.6     L6
average iturity
Official                                   35.1     42.9    38.6       38.5   36.2    34.2    35.1    35.5    39.5
Private                                    15.3      11.3    11.0       9.5   14.8    19.2      7.7    11.7    1:.9
AS  GROWP EIPOSUfl ()
DnD DODJtots1 DOD                               4         3       3         2      2        2       2        1       1
KND disbursemsnts/total disburseseant           0         0       0         0      0        0       0        0       0
!BlD debt srriceltotal debt service             0         2       6         5      4        4       4        4       3
IDA DOD/totl DMD                               19        21      23        22     24       27      28       30      31
IDA disbursemen:s/total disbursemets           22        23      32        20     32       24      30       29      35
IDA debt servieeltotal debt service             3         3       5         5      5        6       7        9       6
DM STRUCTI                                            a  Just  1983         11RD11DA IZENDING (At June 1983)    DRD    I
Maturity stracture of debt                                                Outstanding & Disbursed              54.9  1,365.8
Maturities due within 5 years                           15.1            Undisbursed                            -   1,005.0
mtutrities due witbin 10 years                          29.4            Outstanding. icl. Undiabursed        54,9 2,37D.8
Interest structure of debt
Interest du- within 1 year                               1.4
- not available
September 27, 1985



-30-
ANNE II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGIADESH /a
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND rDA CREDITS (as of March 31. 1985)
Amounts
Loan or                                                           (less cancellations)
Credit                                                               US$ Million /b
Number    Year   Borrover                Purpose              Bank       IDA    Undisbursed
One loan and 32 credits fully disbursed                       54.90 1,083.55         -
527       1975  Bangladesh  Ashuganj Fertilizer                -      62.00        0.74
542       1975  Bangladesh  Barisal Irrigation                 -      21.00        3.02
605       1976  Bangladesh  Karnafuli Irrigation               -      18.30        1.58
631       1976  Bangladesh  Rural Development                  -      16.00        5.37
725       1 977  Bangladesh  Nuhuri Irrigation                 -       21.00       6.86
7 87      1 97 8 Bangladesh  Foodgrain Storage II              -      21.00        2.78
825       1978 Bangladesh  Small-Scale Industry II             -       7.00        2.16
828       1978 Bangladesh  Agricultural Research               -       6.00        0.36
864       1978 Bangladesh  Drainage & Flood Control            -      19.00       10.83
890       1979  Bangladesh  Oxbow Lakes Fisheries              -       6.00        2.26
912       1979 Bangladesh  Vocational Training                 -      25.00       12.61
921       1979 Bargladesh  Population & Family Health II    -         32.00       12.54
934       1979 Bangladesh  Greater Khulna Power
Distribution                    -      28.00        6.41
941       1979 Bangladesh  Dacca Water Supply & Sewerage II -         22.00        1.90
955       1979  Bangladesh  Small-Scale Drainage &
Flood Control                   -      25.00       14.60
964       1979 Bangladesh  Highways II                         -      10.00        5. 91
990       1980  Bangladesh  Low-Lift Pumps                     -      19.70        2.63
1001       1980  Bangladesh  Chittagong Water Supply II         -       20.00       9.09
1023       1980  Bangladesh  Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation                  -      29.00       12.11
1032       1980  Bangladesh  Jute Industry Rehabilitation       -       20.00      12.09
1042       1980  Bangladesh  Mangrove Afforestation             -      11.00        5.24
1054       1980  Bangladesh  Education IV (Primary Education) -         40.00      22.65
1065Lc     1980  Bangladesh  Small-Scale Industry III           -       35.00      14.55
1091Lc     1981  Bangladesh  Bakhrabad Gas Development          -       85.00       8.79
1096/Lc    1981  Bangladesh  Fertilizer Transport               -       25.00      10.65
1117/c    1981  Bangladesh  Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II           -       50.00      22.26
1124Lc     1981  Bangladesh  Technical Assistance IV            -      16.00        4.51
1140Lc     1981  Bangladesh  Hand Tubewells                     -      18.00        9.52
1147L.     1981  Bangladesh  Agricultural Credit                -       40.00      11.18
1184Lc     1982  Bangladesh  Drainage & Flood Control II        -      27.00       20.68
1204Lc     1982  Bangladesh  Chittagong Urea Fertilizer         -      15.00       12.69



-31-                                ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
A. Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Baniladesh (continued)
Amounts
Loan or                                                          (less cancellations)
Credit                                                              US$ Million /b
Number     Year  Borrower               Purpose             Bank       IDA    Und isbursed
1205Jc     1982  Bangladesh  Textile Industry Rehabilitation  -       30.00      25.15
1215/c    1982 Bangladesh  ERctension & Research II            -      27.00      18.40
1247/c     1982 Bangladesh  Chittagong Port                    -      60.00      51.17
1254a.    1982 Bangladesh  Ashuganj Thermal Power              -     .92.00      78.83
1262Lc     1982  Bangladesh  Rural Electrification            -       40.00      23.84
1287/c     1 982 Bangladesh  Deep Tubewells II                 -      68.00      51.07
1300/o     1983 Bangladesh  Imports Program XI                -      110.00       7.58
1301ki     1 983 Bangladesh  First Highway Project
(Supplemental)                 -       6.00       3.56
' 31 8/c    1983 Bangladesh  Business Management
Education & Training           -       7.80       6.76
1321/c     1983 Bangladesh  Telecommunications III             -      35.00      30.45
1349/c    1983 Bangladesh  Public Administration
(Training and Personnel
Mamagement)                    -      12.00        9.37
1357k      1983 Bangladesh  Energy Efficiency and
Refinery Rehabilitation        -      28.50      25.47
1384/c    1983 Bangladesh  Rural Development II                -     100.00      87.75
1396k      1983 Bangladesh  Agricultural Training II           -       8.10       7.12
1399  /d  1983 Bangladesh  Sugar Rehabilitation and
Intensification                -       20.00     17.94
1402/c /e  1983 Bangladesh  Petroleum Exploration Promotion  -         23.00     19.66
1440Lc /d  1984  Bangladesh  Fifth Technical Assistance       -        25.00     23.59
1455kc /f  1984 Bangladesh  Second Agricultural Research      -        24.50     24.50
14671c g   1 984 Bangladesh  Water Development Board          -        41.50     41.50
1471LC /t  1984 Bangladesh  Import Program XII                 -      140.00     69.86
1477k Lg  1984 Bangladesh  Textile Industry Rehab. II         -        23.00     23.00
F0221c kk  1984 Bangladesh  Textile Industry Rehab. II         -       22.00     22.00
1490/c  e  1984 Bangladesh  Technical Education               -        36.00     33.60



-32-
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
A. Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Ban2ladesh (cintinued)
Amounts
Loan or                                                           (less cancellations)
Credit                                                               US$ Million /b
Number     Year   Borrower               Purpose              Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
1504-0/c/f 1984 Bangladesh  SAP - 725 ED                        -       10.00       8.68
1504-1/c/f 1984 Bangladesh  SAP 1023 BD                         -        5.00      4.76
1504-2Lcf 1984  Bangladesh  SAP 1247 BD                         -        7.00      6.64
1504-3/cf 1984 Bangladesh  SAP 1262 BD                          -        8.00      7.53
Total                                                     54.90  2,882.95    998.35
of which repaid                                           -        6.16     -
Total now outstanding                                     54.90  2.876.79
Amount sold                                              0.00      0.00
Total now held by Bank and IDA                            54.90  2.876.79
Total undisbursed                                                 I998.35    998.35
/a  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
/b  The original principal of credits under replenishments 1 to 3 has been increased
by the amount of the translation adjustment as a result of the devaluation of
the United States dollar in 1972 and 1973.
0c Credits funded out of IDA's 6th Replenishment denominated in SDRs. Amounts
of principal are calculated at the rate of exchange in effect at the time of
negotiations; amounts undisbursed are calculated at the rate of exchange in
effect on September 30, 1984, and the llS$ equivalent for fully disbursed credits
funded out of IDA's 6th Replenishment is calculated at the rate of exchange
in effect on the dates of disbursement.
/d Became effective on June 19, 1984.
/e Effective December 20, 1984.
/f Effective October 25, 1984.
/S Not yet effective.



-33-
ANNMX II
Page 4 of 4
/usrO6/asadd/ceny/PRESREP/aunez2/4-19-85
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31. 1985) /a
Fiscal                                                             Amounts in US$ Million
Year           Oblisor               Type of Business             Loan  Equity    Total
1969   Karnaphuli Paper Hills Ltd.   Pulp & Paper Products         5.60    0.63      6.23
1979    Highspeed Shipbuilding &
Heavy Engineering Co., Ltd.   Shipbuilding                 1.20     0.36     1.56
1980    Industrial Promotion and
Development Company of        Development
Bangladesh, Ltd.              Finance Company               -       1.05     1.05
Total gross commitments                                            6 80      2.04     8.84
less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales           5.60     0.63     6.23
Total now held by IFC                                              1.20      1.41     2.61
Total undisbursed                                                  0.65      -        0.65
La The following IFC investments have been approved but not yet signed:
Date of
AipDroval
9/21/82  Bata Shoe Co.                Sboe Manufacturing
(Bangladesh) Ltd.            and Tannery                  2.7       .5      3.2
11/13/84 Industrial Development
Leasing Co. of Bangladesh
(IDLC)                       Capital Market               1.8       .2      2.0



ANNEX III
Page 1
BANGLADESH
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
Nine months
(b) Agency preparing the project:
REB
gc) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
September 1984
5d) Date of completion of negotiations:
September, 1985
(e) Planned dite of effectiveness:
January, 1985
Section II:     Special IDA Implementation Action:
None
Section III:    Conditions of effectiveness are:
(a) approval of the Project Proforma (paragraph 58).
(b) execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Government and REB (paragraph 59);



-35-                                ANNEX III
Page 2
Other conditions are:
(a)  the Government would ensure that the construction of
planned transmission and distribution capacity by BPDB
to provide reliable power supply to the PBSs to be
established under the project are completed as planned
(paragraph 64);
(b) REB would carry out a study to determine the causes of
high system Losses and formulate specific action plans
to deal with the individually identified causes of
losses (paragraph 65);
(c) REB will ensure that its administrative expenses and
interest payments shall not exceed 75X of its revenues
and that its internal sources of funds shall cover at
least 1.5 times the debt service requirement
(paragraph 68);
Cd) Government would carry out a power tariff study based on
long run marginal cost (LRMC) together with an assess-
ment of the financial burden placed on the Government by
the rural electrification program. Based on the above
study, REB's financial objectives would be reviewed and
necessary revisions would be made to maximize cost
recovery (paragraphs 71 and 74);
Ce) the Government wouLd continue to subsidize PBSs during
the first five years of their operations (paragraph 74);
Cf) REB would ensure that each PBS take such measures to
ensure that it would meet all its operating costs by the
sixth year of operation and generate a surplus of cash
equivalent to 201 of its average capital expenditure
from the seventh year (paragraph 76);
(g) REB would submit to IDA, not later than twelve months
before the commercial operation of each PBS under the
project, a program for the recruitment and training of
required staff (paragraph 63); and
(h) the Government would reevaluate the bulk supply tariff
rate for the following fiscal year by March 31, 1986,
and by July 1, 1986 implement a revised bulk supply
tariff rate satisfactory to IDA (paragraph 72).



r  \                                         ~~~~~~~~BANGLADESH
* \    vs1                           ~~~~~~RURAL ELECTRIRCATION PROJECT 11
%  ljF ax 9   .                    ~~~~~Area Coverage - Rural Ekctrfication Plogram
.--.:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PK    M- z ^   _ 
P"Ac I cvEM" WFNW
Js;si -   --~~~~~~~~ sr-t L-}A .,,=0MOR    -------
'9 _ _-' Y "'t-'/                    {' ~~~~~~~~~KITIX  HA LATR
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                      T
r F t7- 6-  
t  *w D9^ "'-_,.                          t           !   "\\ 
C Z _. .__ ........ _0_e 11 @ wi O~~~~~~
-W                          PA _'                        ---.                                         \>      C



