Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14785
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1633-BD)
JUNE 30, 1995
Resident Mission in Bangladesh
Country Department I
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =    Taka (Tk)
Taka I                    Paisa 100
Taka 1                   US$ 0.0342'
Taka 1                   US$ 0.02482
US$1                 =    Tk 29.25'
US$1                 =    Tk 40.252
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 kilometer (km)     =    0.6214 miles (mi)
1 meter (m)               39.37 inches (in)
1 kilovolt (kV)      =    1,000 volts (v)
1 megawatt (MW)           1,000 kilowatts (kW) = 1,000,000 watts
1 gigawatt hour (GWh) =    1,000,000 kilowatt hours (kWh)
1 MVA                =    1,000 kilovolt amperes
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACRE   -    Area Coverage Rural Electrification
ADB    -   Asian Development Bank
BPDB   -   Bangladesh Power Development Board
BST     -   Bulk Supply Tariff
CIDA    -   Canadian International Development Agency
EIRR    -    Economic Internal Rate of Return
GC      -   Gilbert Commonwealth
GOB    -   Government of Bangladesh
IDB     -   Islamic Development Bank
KFAED  -   Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
LRMC   -    Long-Run Marginal Cost
MEMR  -   Ministry of Energy & Mineral Resources
NRECA  -   National Rural Electric Cooperatives Association
OPEC   -   Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PCR     -   Project Completion Report
PBS     -   Palli Bidyut Samity (Rural Electrification Cooperative)
RE      -   Rural Electrification
REB     -    Rural Electrification Board
SFD     -    Saudi Fund for Development
USAID  -    United States Agency for International Development
WTP    -   Willingness to Pay
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
'Conversion rate at appraisal
2Current conversion rate



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office Of Director General
Operations Evaluation
June30, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Bangladesh
Second Rural Electrification Project (Credit 1633-BD)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Bangladesh: Second Rural
Electrification project (Credit 1633-BD, approved in FY86) prepared by the South Asia Regional
Office. The Borrower provided Part II. It commends IDA's help during project supervision.
The project had three objectives: (i) to continue the expansion of electricity supply to rural
areas; (ii) to support institutional development associated with the creation of more Rural
Electrification Cooperatives (PBSs); and (iii) to seek financial viability of the Rural Electrification
Board (REB) and the PBSs.
The first two objectives were met by adding power connections to about 86,000
households, 16,000 commercial places, and 5,000 small farmers; building 8,900 km of lines and 26
power distribution centers; creating seven new PBSs; and providing training to PBSs and REB.
However, the Government will have to subsidize REB during the initial years of operation of the
PBSs because the flow of funds from PBSs to REB depends on the revenues collected by the PBSs
from an increasing number of customers. The latter needs about seven years to reach the project
design level.
The project was completed with a two-year delay but on budget at a cost of US$112.2
million. The credit financed US$80.1 million and the Borrower the balance. Due to the
appreciation of the SDR, SDR16.8 million was canceled. Benefits valued at consumers'
willingness to pay and a modest 2 percent per year demand growth rate, yield a 13.6 percent
project economic rate of return (12.7 percent appraisal estimate).
IDA's and Borrower's perfomiance were satisfactory and marginally satisfactory,
respectively. IDA contained time overruns by prompting the Govemment to order the Bangladesh
Power Development Board (BPDB) to transfer the distribution lines and consumers existing within
BPDB's concession area, and supply bulk electricity to the PBSs. The mismatch of the on-lending
terms of the Govermment to REB and of REB to the PBSs had a negative impact on REB's
finances. IDA and the Borrower overlooked this anomaly, but corrected it later.
The outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory and its institutional development as
substantial. The project's sustainability is uncertain since the finances of the REB and PBSs are
not yet sound.
The PCR contains a satisfactory account of project implementation and results. No audit
is planned at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. 






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1633-BD)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface
Evaluation Summary ...
PART I  PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE   . .
1. Project Identity .1
2. Background .1
3. Project Objectives and Description.                                               2
Project Objectives.                                                       2
Project Description.                                                      2
4. Project Design and Organization.                                                  3
Project Concept.                                                          3
Project Design.                                                           3
Project Organization.                                                     4
5. Project Implementation.                                                           4
Credit Effectiveness and Project Start-up.                                4
Implementation Schedule.                                                  4
Procurement.                                                              5
Project Costs and Financing Plan.                                         5
Disbursements.                                                            5
Credit Allocation.                                                        6
6.  Project Results  .........................   6
Project Objectives  .........................  6
Physical Results .........................  6
Project Impact .........................  6
REB's Financial Performance ...........           ..............  7
PBSs' Financial Perfornance ..........          ...............  8
PBSs' Operations .........................   9
Tariffs .........................                                         9
Economic Analysis .........................  10
Environment ..........................  10
Risk Identification  .........................  10
This document has a restricted distinbution and may be used by rcipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wihout World Bank authorization.



7.   Project Sustainability . .11
8. IDA Performance . ............................................. 11
9. Borrower Performance.12
10. Project Relationship  ............            ............................... 12
11. Consulting Services.12
12. Project Documentation and Data  ................................... 12
PART II    PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BORROWERS'S PERSPECTIVE  ....                         ....... 13
PART III STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related IDA Credits .17
2.   Project Timetable ........17
3. Credit Disbursements .18
4. Project Implementation .19
5. Project Costs and Financing .20
A. Project Costs .20
B. Project Financing .20
6. Project Results .21
A. Direct Benefits .21
B. Economic Impact .21
7. Status of Legal Covenants .22
8. Use of Bank Resources .28
A. Staff Inputs .28
B. Missions .28
ANNEXES
1. PBS Areas and Thanas in the Project .29
2. Selection Criteria for Areas to be Electrified .30
3. Procurement Schedule .31
4. Project Details .32
5. REB's Financial Statements .35
6. Performance Indicators of Project PBSs .38
7. Economic Analysis .44



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(Credit 1633-BD)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Rural
Electrification Project in Bangladesh for which Cr. 1633-BD in the amount of
SDR 79.4 million (US$79.0 million equivalent) was approved on November 12,
1985. The credit was closed on December 31, 1993, two years behind schedule.
Final disbursement was made on May 13, 1994, on which date the undisbursed
balance of SDR 16.8 million (US$ 24.3 million equivalent) was cancelled.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Bangladesh Resident Mission of
the South Asia Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III)
and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started in October 1993 during IDA's
final supervision mission for the project and is based, inter alia, on the
Staff Appraisal Report, the Development Credit and Project Agreements,
supervision reports, correspondence between IDA and the Borrower, progress
reports of the Borrower and internal IDA memoranda.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(Credit 1633-BD)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.        In 1978 the Rural Electrification Board (REB) developed a
comprehensive rural electrification (RE) master plan to achieve country-wide
rural electrification. The Second Rural Electrification Project (Credit 1633-
BD for US$ 79.0 million) was IDA's second lending operation in support of the
plan. REB was the executing agency for the project. The Palli Bidyut
Samities (PBSs) or Rural Electrification Cooperatives formed under the project
have been its ultimate beneficiaries.
Obiectives
2.        The project achieved its principal objective of expanding
electricity supply in the rural areas (para 6.1). Seven new PBSs were formed
in the project areas and expansion and rehabilitation works were carried out
in ten additional PBSs. However, the project's financial objectives were
achieved only partially (paras. 6.5 and 6.7).
I:mlementation Experience
3.        Despite a two year delay, overall project implementation was
satisfactory. Project implementation was delayed because of problems with (a)
transfer of lines by the Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB) to the
Project PBSs (para. 5.3), (b) energizing of the PBS sub-stations (para. 5.3),
and (c) GOB's ban on the procurement of single phase meters (para. 5.5).
Results
4.        The physical targets were achieved substantially as planned.  A
total of 26 substations have been constructed and energized, 8,885 km of lines
constructed, 1,269 km of lines rehabilitated, and 106,984 consumers connected
(para. 6.2). However, improvements in the financial performance of both REB
and the Project PBSs have taken longer than envisaged at appraisal. Prior to
FY93, REB could not meet the financial objectives agreed under the project,
i.e., (i) beginning in FY86 its annual administrative expenses and interest
payments should not exceed 75% of the aggregate interest earnings from PBSs
and other revenues received from all sources during that FY; and (ii) its
internal source of funds in any FY should cover at least 1.5 times its debt
service requirement (para. 6.5). REB's failure to meet these objectives was
mainly due to: (a) PBSs' inability to service their debts to REB, and (b) a
mismatch in timing between REB's servicing its debt to GOB and PBSs servicing



- iii -
their debts to REB (para. 6.5). The PBSs could not achieve financial
viability mainly because of unfavorable consumer mix, low consumer density,
inadequate tariffs, high system losses (in some PBSs), frequent load shedding,
and low load factors (para. 6.7). The problem was further exacerbated by the
lack of rational criteria for demarcation of service areas of the different
power utilities, which led to under utilization of assets and delays by BPDB
in energizing the PBS substations and transfer of lines and consumers (paras.
4.4, 5.3).
Sustainabilitv
5.        while significant benefits were achieved through the project, the
RE program depends on subsidies through: (i) operating subsidy during the
first five years of a PBS's life, (ii) a bulk supply tariff which is below the
long run marginal cost, and (iii) grants and soft onlending terms on loans to
finance investments (para. 7.1). The operating subsidy is the only real
demand on GOB's budget and supports the PBSs during their infancy. The RE
program provides high economic benefits (para. 6.11). Financial viability of
the PBSs can be enhanced by rational integration of BPDB/DESA areas with the
rural electrification system that will lead to improved consumer mix and load
density.
Findings and Lessons Learned
6.        The main lessons to be learned from the project are:
(a)  individual PBSs' projected financial performance should have been
considered in selecting them for inclusion under the project
(para. 4.2);
(b) network designs should have considered absorption of existing BPDB
facilities in order to avoid duplication of investments
(para. 4.4);
(c) specific criteria for a rational demarcation of service areas of
the PBSs should have been agreed with GOB and enforceable covenants
should have been incorporated to ensure transfer of BPDB lines to
the PBSs and energization of PBSs' substations in a timely manner
(para. 5.3);
(d) the onlending terms for Credit funds should have been established
properly so that there would have been no mismatch between REB's
servicing its debt to GOB and PBSs servicing their debts to REB
(para. 6.5);
(e) since the individual PBSs have different characteristics, a cash
generation covenant applied uniformly to all PBSs was not
appropriate and had to be replaced by individual performance target
agreements (para. 6.7);



- iv -
(f) the organizational concept of consumer-owned cooperatives, with
independent salary structure and absence of labor unions, operating
under the supervision and arms-length control of a Government owned
organization is sustainable (para. 6.8);
(g) IDA's continued involvement in the rural electrification program
encouraged the Government to establish (i) annual performance
criteria for the PBSs, (ii) a formula for providing subsidies to
the PBSs, and (iii) uniform on-lending terms for loans to REB and
the PBSs (para. 8.1); and
(h) technical assistance for institution building should be continued
over a sufficiently long period to ensure a sustainable impact
(para. 11.1).






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(Credit 1633-BD)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Prolect Identity
Name                     Second Rural Electrification Project
Credit Number            1633-BD
RVP Unit                 South Asia Region
Country                  Bangladesh
Sector                   Energy
Sub-sector               Power
2. Background
2.1       In 1976, although over 90% of Bangladesh's population lived in
rural areas, and agriculture accounted for 60% of its gross domestic product
and employed over 75% of the labor force, only approximately 3% of the rural
residents had access to electricity. The extension of electricity to the
rural areas, therefore, became an area of major concern and high priority for
the Government of Bangladesh (GOB). For this purpose, GOB created the Rural
Electrification Board (REB) in 1977. Prior to this, the Bangladesh Power
Development Board (BPDB) was responsible for all generation, transmission, and
distribution of electricity. In 1978, REB developed a comprehensive rural
electrification (RE) master plan, with the assistance of the National Rural
Electric Cooperatives Association and Gilbert Commonwealth (NRECA/GC) and
financed by the United States Agency for International Development (USAID).
The plan envisaged country-wide rural electrification in five phases by the
year 2000, through autonomous member-owned cooperatives called Palli Bidyut
Samities (PBSs). Because of resource constraints the target date for program
completion is now 2005 and may be delayed further.
2.2       Phase I of the RE program, financed by USAID, Kuwait Fund for Arab
Economic Development (KFAED) and Asian Development Bank (ADB), was completed
in 1986. Phase II was completed in 1990 with financing from IDA, USAID and
Finland. Phase III was completed in June 1994 with financing from IDA, USAID,
Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), and Saudi Fund for
Development (SFD). IDA's Second Rural Electrification Project is a part of
REB's Phase III program. Phase IV is being implemented with financing from
IDA, KFAED, CIDA, Finland, Norway, Japan, Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries (OPEC), and Islamic Development Bank (IDB) and is expected to be
completed by 2000. REB is seeking additional external resources to cover the
financing gap for Phase IV.
2.3       The RE program's main objectives are:(a) replacing costly
alternative energy sources (mainly imported petroleum products) for lighting
and irrigation pumping by electricity generated to an increasing degree from
domestic natural gas; (b) easing the population pressure on urban areas
through the creation of additional employment opportunities in rural areas by
encouraging multiple cropping and new small and cottage industries facilitated
by more economical energy for irrigation and motive power; and (c) improving
the quality of life in rural areas and providing infrastructure in hitherto
less developed areas of the country.



-2-
2.4       IDA's lending strategy in the power sub-sector has been designed
to: (a) strengthen investment planning to meet forecast demand for electricity
at least cost, (b) improve sectoral institution's performance, and
(c) optimize the use of available resources through appropriate energy pricing
and conservation measures. This strategy is consistent with GOB's strategy as
outlined in its Five-Year Plans. IDA's involvement in the sub-sector started
in 1979, and during 1979-93 it supported seven investments in the sub-sector.
IDA projects mainly focused on electricity distribution, but also included
generation and transmission. The Rural Electrification Project (RE-1)
(Cr.1262-BD, for US$40.0 million), approved by IDA's Board in 1982, was the
first IDA-financed project in support of Bangladesh's RE program. An
additional US$8.0 million was provided to the project through a Supplemental
Assistance Credit (Cr.1504-3-BD) approved by IDA's Board in 1984. Second
Rural Electrification Project (RE-2), (Cr.1633-BD, for US$79.0 million) and
Third Rural Electrification Project (RE-3), (Cr.2129-BD, for US$105.0 million)
were approved in 1985 and 1990 respectively. RE-2 was completed about two
years behind schedule in December 1993, while RE-3 is under implementation.
3. Prolect Obiectives and Description
3.1       Project Obiectives:  The project's principal objective was to
expand electricity supply in the rural areas, thereby supporting GOB's overall
objectives for the RE program (para. 2.3). The project also supported
institutional development associated with the creation of PBSs for which
technical assistance was provided by USAID. In addition, the project
contributed to establishing financial performance targets for REB and the
PBSs, which were adopted for the overall RE program.
3.2       Prolect Description:  The project included the following:
(a) installation of new distribution networks in six new PBSs (Kishoregonj,
Narshingdi-II, Sylhet, Naogaon, Patuakhali and Barisal); (b) rehabilitation of
existing distribution networks in the areas of the proposed PBSs; and
(c) expansion of networks in five existing PBSs (Laxmipur, Jessore, Bogra,
Rangpur-I, and Rangpur-II). Subsequently, Laxmipur was segregated from the
Noakhali PBS (of which it was a part) and a new PBS was established (Laxmipur
PBS) and the project areas, planned for expansion under Rangpur-II, were
instead integrated with Rangpur-I. In December 1992, the project scope was
expanded to provide for rehabilitation of distribution lines taken over from
BPDB in ten additional PBSs (Pabna-II, Hobiganj, Chandpur, Feni, Mymensingh-I,
Dinajpur-I, Joypurhat, Pirojpur, Jamalpur-I and Thakurgaon). The PBSs and
areas covered are listed in Annex 1.
3.3       The project included construction of about 5,660 km of 33-kV and
11-kV three-phase and single-phase primary lines, about 2,850 km of 400/230
volts secondary lines, and 22 substations (33/11-kV each of 5 MVA). Through
this construction about 117,000 domestic, 15,000 commercial, 5,000 irrigation
pumps, and about 1,700 industrial enterprises were expected to be connected by
1992. Rehabilitation of lines in the project areas was also included in the
project scope, but the length was not quantified. In December 1992,
rehabilitation of about 650 km of lines taken over from BPDB in the ten
additional PBSs was added to the project scope (para 3.2).



-3-
4. Prolect Design and Organization
4.1       Prolect Concept:  The project is based on the concept of "Area
Coverage Rural Electrification" (ACRE) which provides for the systematic
construction of a power network to serve a defined area (rather than a
skeletal network targeted to feed specific applicants or smaller supply areas
where connections are guaranteed). Using the ACRE concept an overall RE
program of the country was developed in 1978 for implementation in five phases
(para. 2.1). This design approach ensures a sound backbone system that could
sustain a rapid increase in the density of domestic and productive consumer
connections. The model was first successfully developed in the United States
of America (USA) to electrify rural areas on a planned basis. It has also
been implemented in the Philippines.
4.2       Project Design:  Feasibility studies were carried out by REB in 140
thanas (administrative areas) in 43 potential PBS areas throughout Bangladesh
to select the PBSs for Phase III. The PBSs included under the project were
based on this feasibility study and were selected based on a set of criteria
(Annex 2) which included existing infrastructure, availability of power supply
and roads, and potential number of consumers. The criteria used should
generally provide for the viability of the PBSs. However, no specific
financial viability analysis was conducted and, during appraisal, financial
projections were made only for a hypothetical PBS with average
characteristics. Since the PBSs have different characteristics, financial
projections of each candidate PBSs should have been carried out by REB, and
only those areas showing good prospects for achieving financial viability
should have been selected (para. 6.7). REB has accepted the need to carry out
financial projections of individual PBSs to examine their financial viability
and computerized financial models are being developed, with the help of Bank
staff, for carrying out this exercise and to monitor their financial
performance.
4.3       The system designed for the project comprise 11-kV three-phase
primary circuits, with three-phase and single-phase secondary circuits.
Distribution transformers were generally to be single-phase units serving
single-phase 230 volt secondary circuits. Existing BPDB distribution lines
and consumers within the PBS areas were to be taken over by the PBSs and
rehabilitated. The design standards introduced by REB significantly improved
those followed by BPDB in terms of cost and reliability. The 33/11 kV
substations constructed under the project were to be the source of power to
the PBSs networks. These substations were to be energized by BPDB from its
grid substations.
4.4       Network designs allowed for the absorption of adjoining BPDB lines
(other than in major cities or municipalities) which had been constructed in
the project areas prior to the establishment of the PBSs. However, the design
did not make use of the possibilities of integration with existing networks to
optimize investment (and operational) costs. In particular, existing BPDB
primary sub-stations feeding areas targeted for eventual takeover by the PBSs
were not incorporated in the design thus leading to duplication of substation
capacity. In many instances the backbone and other 11-kV lines already in the
project areas have also been duplicated. This problem underlines the need for
effective coordination between the key entities involved in project
implementation. To address the coordination problem, as a condition for
negotiations of RE-3, a joint Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources



-4-
(MEMR)/REB/BPDB engineering and planning group was created but this group has
not been very effective.
4.5       Project Organization:  REB was responsible for organizing the
prospective consumers into PBSs, controlling and assisting the PBSs through
prescribing standards for their technical and administrative work, approving
their tariffs, and taking measures for their development. REB was also
responsible for preparing and implementing the project, including procurement
of materials and construction of new and rehabilitation of existing
distribution systems. REB prepared the engineering design and la'yout of the
backbone distribution system. Specialized local consultants and contractors,
whose staff were trained intensively by REB and NRECA, carried out detailed
system design, layout of the village distribution systems and actual
construction respectively. Once constructed, REB handed over the system to
the PBSs for operation and management.
4.6       The PBS's main responsibilities starts after the construction work
is completed and the systems handed over to them. The PBSs purchase
electricity from the BPDB grid at 33-kV, undertake consumer connections,
operate and maintain the distribution facilities, undertake meter-reading,
billing and collection, fix tariffs (subject to REB's approval), and provide
technical and financial assistance to electricity consumers for wiring their
premises and for acquiring and installing electrical appliances. It was
envisaged that the PBSs formed under the project would be subject to
substantial control and supervision by REB over a fairly long period.
Considering the level of staffing at the PBSs and REB's extensive experience
and technical know-how, this was considered appropriate.
S. Prolect Implementation
5.1       Credit Effectiveness and Prolect Start-up:  Cr.1633-BD was signed
on December 19, 1985 and declared effective on May 20, 1986. Delays in
approval of the Project Proforma and execution of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement delayed Credit effectiveness by two months.
5.2       Implementation Schedule:  Overall, compared with other projects in
Bangladesh, the project's physical implementation was satisfactory. The
project was originally expected to be completed by December 31, 1991, but due
to (i) delays in transfer of lines and consumers by BPDB to the PBSs and
energization of sub-stations (para. 5.3), and (ii) GOB's ban on procurement of
single phase meters (para. 5.4), project completion was delayed by two years.
5.3       In planning of PBSs distribution networks, REB assumed that
existing BPDB 11-kV lines and consumers within PBSs areas would be handed over
to the PBSs. However, since the specific criteria for demarcating the supply
areas of the different power utilities was absent, the transfer of lines from
BPDB and the energization of substations (one substation is still not
energized) became major issues during implementation of the project. These
aspects were not anticipated during appraisal, particularly as BPDB cooperated
with the RE program during the initial stage and, therefore, no specific
covenants to address this issue were included in the Legal Documents.
However, there were serious difficulties in effecting such handover and
energization of the sub-stations constructed, due to the resistance of labor
unions.  Because of duplication of investments (para. 4.4), and delays in
transfer of lines and energization of sub-stations, the facilities constructed



-5-
remained underutilized for many years. Following discussions between BPDB and
REB an agreed program of line handing over was drawn up. This program had
many drawbacks. Firstly, the program was not targeted to the project area but
consisted of lines scattered in various PBSs all over the country. Secondly,
the lines taken over did not enable a composite area of PBS supply to be
established. The BPDB/DESA and the PBS systems remained intermixed, with
their lines often running parallel to each other or intersecting at frequent
intervals.
5.4       Procurement:  During appraisal it was planned that procurement
under the project would be carried out in four tranches, with contracts for
the first tranche being awarded in May 1986. Procurement, however, was
carried out in seven tranches, with contracts for the first tranche being
awarded in March 1987, and some materials under the last tranche being
received as late as December 1993.   As a result, all materials procured under
the project have not yet been installed. The project's procurement schedule
is shown in Annex 3.
5.5       Compared to other organizations in Bangladesh, REB's procurement
performance under the project has been reasonably satisfactory. The only
problem which led to significant delays in project implementation was a
restriction imposed by GOB in September 1988, to protect domestic
manufacturers, on the import of single-phase meters. Due to this restriction,
meters could not be imported by REB from July 1989 to December 1992 and the RE
program suffered because (i) new consumer connections could not be provided by
the PBSs, (ii) the meters of consumers handed over by BPDB to the PBSs, most
of which were not functioning properly, could not be replaced, and (iii)
illegal consumers inherited from BPDB could not also be regularized and
provided with meters. This issue was addressed during negotiations of RE-3
when GOB confirmed that the ban on the import of meters will not be applicable
to IDA-financed projects.
5.6       Prolect Costs and Financing Plan:  The project's estimated cost at
appraisal was US$ 110.6 million, including duties and taxes and interest
during construction. The foreign exchange cost of the project was estimated
at US$ 63.8 million (based on mid-1985 prices). The IDA Credit of US$ 79.0
million was to finance 100% of the direct foreign exchange cost and 49% of the
local costs, excluding taxes & duties and interest during construction. The
remaining 51% of the local costs, together with local taxes & duties and
interest during construction, were planned for financing by GOB. GOB was to
on-lend the Credit proceeds to REB at an interest rate of 2% per annum, with a
repayment period of 25 years, after a grace period of five years during which
a rate of interest of 0.75% was to be applicable but capitalized. Upon
completion, REB was to transfer the cost of constructing the distribution
networks (loans and grants) to the PBSs as loans on the same terms as the
onlending from GOB to REB, except that a 3% interest rate was to be charged
after the grace period. The project cost was revised in December 1992 when
the project scope was expanded (para. 3.2). Financing of this expansion from
the Credit proceeds was carried out through the utilization of savings and was
possible due to the appreciation of the SDR against the US$. The original,
revised and final project costs and financing plan are shown in Table 5 of
Part III.
5.7       Disbursements:  The estimated and actual disbursements are shown in
Table 3 in Part III. Disbursements were delayed due to delays in



-6-
implementation (para. 5.2). The Closing Date, originally December 31, 1991,
was extended twice to December 31, 1993. Although REB applied for a third
extension of the Closing Date to complete procurement under the seventh
tranche, this was not accepted by IDA. Disbursements of SDR 59.6 million
(US$80.1 million equivalent) against eligible expenditures were made till
May 13, 1994 and an outstanding balance of SDR 16.8 million (US$24.3 million
equivalent) was canceled.
5.8       Credit Allocation:  The original and revised allocations and actual
disbursements are shown in Table 5, Part III.
6. Prolect Results
6.1       Project Obiectives:  Overall, the project was successful in meeting
its principal objective of expanding electricity supply in the rural areas.
Through the project, new electricity distribution networks were installed,
existing networks rehabilitated in the project areas, new consumer owned
cooperatives created, and financial performance targets institutionalized.
6.2       Physical Results:  The project's physical targets were achieved
substantially as planned. Details are shown in Table 6, Part III and in
Annex 4. Construction of 26 substations (compared to 22 estimated during
appraisal although total MVA capacity remained about the same), and 8,885 km
of lines (compared to 8,510 km planned at appraisal) have been completed.
Moreover, 1,269 km of lines have been renovated in the project PBSs areas.
However, consumer connections have not been up to expectations. Compared to
appraisal estimate of 139,288 consumer connections only 106,984 consumers were
connected. Among these connections, only the number of industrial and
commercial connections exceeded the appraisal estimate. Delays and resistance
by BPDB in providing power to substations and handing over of lines and
consumers were the main reasons why the appraisal targets could not be met
(para. 5.3).
6.3       Proiect Impact:  Since the new PBSs constructed under the project
have not yet completed five years of commercial operations, a detailed project
impact study has not been carried out and the project's actual impact cannot
be quantified. In December 1993, consultants financed by USAID carried out a
limited impact study of USAID's Rural Electrification III Project. The study
indicated that the RE program contributed to economic and social developments
in several ways. These are: (a) by facilitating expanded use of electricity
in irrigation technology resulting in increased agricultural productivity
through multiple cropping, net increases in irrigated acreage, cost savings
relative to diesel pumps and crop diversification, and (b) by providing
employment to the local labor force for erecting the distribution works and
through the economic activities set in motion as a result of the program's
backward and forward linkages. Although the RE program has not yet been able
to boost the agro-industrial sector as expected, it has facilitated a
significant net growth in the size of small commercial centers and in the
sales of individual shops by allowing longer hours of business. The extension
of electricity supply also had a positive impact on women, although mainly in
the higher income groups. Female advisors have been made a part of the PBS
Boards. In addition, some staff positions, especially those related to
revenue, have been reserved for women. At the community level,
electrification of public facilities such as dispensaries, schools, offices
and places of worship has resulted in better services to the residents. In



the household sector, relevant data does not exist to measure quality of life
impacts. However, as reflected in OED's draft report "Rural Electrification
in Asia: A Review of Bank Experience", electric lighting makes it easy to do a
wide range of tasks that cannot be accomplished with kerosene lamps, and
additional electric lighting can provide significant additional benefits,
including allowing people to pursue individual activities in different parts
of a room, with all enjoying the benefits of greater light. Further, lighting
for security also plays an important part in the perceived benefits of
electrification.
6.4       REB's Financial Performance:  REB operates as the implementing
agency responsible for the construction of rural electrification schemes and
as the financial intermediary and supervising agency after the completed
schemes are handed over to PBSs. In implementing the RE program, the loans
received by GOB from the donor agencies are on-lent to REB for a period of 30
years including a grace period of five years, at an interest rate of 0.75% per
annum during the grace period (which is capitalized and added to the loan
balance) and 2% per annum during the repayment period. After completion of
the scheme, REB on-lends its loans (and any grants received for construction
from GOB) to the individual PBSs on the same terms and conditions, except that
an interest rate of 3% is charged during the repayment period. This
difference in interest charges is REB's main source of revenue.
6.5       During appraisal, it was agreed that REB's financial objectives
were to be based upon its ability to realize a reasonable net income and to
generate sufficient funds to cover its debt obligations. Accordingly, the
financial covenants agreed were to ensure that (i) REB's administration
expenses, including interest charges, did not exceed 75% of its operating
revenues, and (ii) REB's internal sources of funds along with repayments
received from PBSs to be not less than 1.5 times its annual debt service
requirements. Except for the most recent years, REB was not in compliance
with either of the covenants (Annex 5). This was mainly because of REB's
reduced level of earnings on account of: (i) PBS's depreciation fund policy:
Although, most of the PBSs were making operating profits, only a handful of
them had actually serviced their debt to REB; thus REB's earnings were less
than anticipated and this resulted in REB's non-compliance with agreed
financial covenants. A major reason that explains the PBSs' poor debt service
performance was the earlier depreciation fund policy prescribed by REB.
According to this policy, each PBS was required to fully fund its depreciation
charges; compliance with this policy took precedence over debt service
payments to REB. This had led to PBSs accumulating large balances in their
depreciation fund accounts while, at the same time, owing substantial amounts
to REB as unpaid debts. During processing of RE-3, this policy was amended
and as a result PBSs' annual debt servicing to REB improved significantly; and
(ii) Unfavourable grace periods: For REB operations that involved formation
of new PBSs, a two to three years time lag existed between the execution of
REB loans with GOB and the relevant PBSs' registration date. Thus, the 5-year
grace period on each GOB loan to REB-expired before the end of the 5-year
grace period on the corresponding REB loan to a PBS, that was effective on the
PBS's registration date. This tandem relationship had two adverse
implications for REB's cash flow. First, during the grace period of REB loans
to PBSs, REB could not avail itself of any interest revenues from the PBSs to
cover its operating expenses (administrative expenses and interest on GOB
loans) since interest charges on REB loans to PBSs are capitalized and added
to PBSs' loan balances. Second, REB had to service its debt to GOB before the



-8-
PBSs start repaying the funds on-lent to REB. This issue was addressed during
processing of RE-3 and REB's grace period for repaying its loans to GOB was
increased from five years to eight years. With the increased cash flow from
PBSs to REB and delayed accrual of debt service obligations to GOB, REB's
financial position improved steadily and its latest FY93 audited accounts
indicate compliance with both the covenants.
6.6       The table below compares REB's actual financial performance with
the targets that were agreed:
Covenant        I FY84 I FY85 I FY86 I FY87 I FY88 | FY89 | FY90 I FY91   FY92
Administrative cost (including interest payments to GOB) as a % of operating revenues not to exceed
Agreed level      75  T       75                             75    75    75
Achieved level a/                       99    129 J 133 |           84  J 68
Debt Service coverage Ratio: internal Sources (including repayments from PBSs) to cover REB's debt service
obligations not to be less than
Agreed level       1.5    1.5    1.5    1.5    |    1.5             1.5    1.5
Achieved Level    -1.9 |0_6  _05TI-7  0| 06  |0-7  |1  |_ 1_I_ T1-
a/  With almost no earnings from PBSs during FYs84-86, the administrative
costs were over 1000% higher than the operating revenues.
6.7       PBSs' Financial Performance:  As the PBSs under the RE-1 project
were under construction, their actual financial performance could not be
evalued. Thus, during appraisal, it was agreed that, in line with the
agreements reached under the RE-1, as a measure of satisfactory financial
performance, a Project PBS would be required to: (a) during the sixth year of
its operation earn sufficient revenues so that it did not require any further
subsidy from GOB, and (b) starting from its seventh year of operation,
generate funds from its internal sources that would cover 20% of its average
(3-year moving average) investment requirements. Subsequently, financial
analysis of PBSs that had stepped into their seventh year of operation
revealed that, since individual PBSs have different operating characteristics,
such a cash generation target applied uniformly to all PBSs was not
appropriate and resulted in non-compliance with agreed covenants. The
unsatisfactory financial performance of the project PBSs is attributable to
several mutually reinforcing factors, including unfavorable consumer mix, low
consumer density, high system losses (in some PBSs), frequent load shedding
and low load factors.  The problem was further exacerbated by delays in
transfer of lines (and the associated consumers) from BPDB to the PBSs
(para. 5.3). Finally, weak PBS accounting and auditing practices, combined
with inordinate delays in REB's scheme closing procedure (legal transfer of
assets from REB to the PBSs after completion of construction), rendered
meaningful determination of finaAcial performance almost impossible. Over the
past few years, PBSs' accounts and auditing functions have improved and the
limitations in selecting a uniform cash generation covenant was replaced by
individual performance target agreements (PTAs) during processing of the RE-3
(para. 6.8). Based on individual PBSs' unique characteristics in terms of
growth potential, consumer mix, and load factor, at the beginning of each
year, REB now enters into an annual performance target agreement with



-9-
individual PBS; these targets cover a wide range of performance parameters
related to PBSs' operations and finance. The system appears to be working
well and through close monitoring will ensure better management and control of
the PBSs. Financial performance of the PBSs could further improve if the
demarcation of supply boundaries of the PBSs are rationalized. This will
provide PBSs with more consumers, thus generating additional revenues and will
ensure greater utilization of existing and new investments.
6.8       PBSs Operations:  To ensure satisfactory operational performance,
REB has entered into Performance Target Agreements (PTAs) with the PBSs (as a
condition for RE-3's effectiveness). The criteria incorporated in the PTAs
include: targets for accounts receivable, accounts payable to BPDB, system
loss, collection performance, debt service coverage, annual growth of
consumers, load management and power factor management, and allows REB to
penalize the PBSs for poor performance and reward them for good performance.
Except for four Project PBSs, the others have maintained their accounts
receivable at a satisfactory level (below three moths of average billing) and
all Project PBSs have maintained their accounts payable to BPDB for power
purchased below the covenanted level of two months. Collections have also
been satisfactory, with average collections of all operating PBSs in FY94
being 99% (compared to 81.2% for BPDB and 78.5% for DESA). Again, system
losses are within the projected level. With two exceptions (Narshingdi-II and
Patuakhali), system losses in the PBSs are also satisfactory. In FY94, the
average system loss of all the PBSs was 15.5% (compared to 23.8% for BPDB and
31.4% for DESA) and, out of 40 operating PBSs, system losses of 26 PBSs were
below 15%. System losses are higher in those PBSs where comparatively more
lines have been transferred from BPDB. This indicates that those PBSs have
inherited the problem of theft and pilferage so common in BPDB and DESA. One
reason for this better performance (compared to BPDB and DESA) lies in the PBS
organizational concept, since the PBSs are member-owned cooperatives and their
managements are accountable to the consumers. The PBSs' staff salary
structures are also independent of GOB's salary structure, and because trade
unions are banned in PBSs, staff may be terminated from service for poor
performance. This organizational concept is a novel feature in power sector
institutions in the region and is somewhat of a mid-way arrangement between
Government parastatals and private power companies.
6.9       A large part of rural consumption takes place at peak time, which
strains the power supply system. The Tariff Study (para. 6.10) recommended
measures, such as load management and peak reducing tariff structures to
reduce demand during the peak hours, but REB/PBSs have taken no action. Under
RE-3, load management measures are now being enforced. The load factor in the
Project PBSs is low because the predominant load is from domestic consumers.
During appraisal, it was agreed that REB shall, by June 30, 1986, propose a
dated program, including the installation of capacitors to ensure that the
power factor does not fall below 0.85. The PBSs have been successful, through
compulsory installation of capacitors, in keeping the power factor at the
33/11 kV substations over 0.95, which is quite satisfactory.
6.10      Tariffs:  Under the RE-1, GOB agreed to carry out by December 31,
1984 a study of the bulk and retail tariffs of all supply authorities in the
power sector, which would be based on long run marginal cost (LRMC), and to
implement by July 1, 1985 a new tariff structure in BPDB and PBSs, based on
the recommendations of the study. During negotiation of RE-2, it was agreed
that by December 31, 1986, the Borrower shall implement in phases revised



- 10 -
tariffs satisfactory to the Association, by March 31, 1986, recalculate the
bulk supply tariff rate for the next fiscal year and till the revised tariffs
are implemented, the average price per kWh of Project PBS shall not be less
than the average price per kWh sold by BPDB. Due to delays in obtaining donor
financing, the Tariff Study was finalized in June 1986. Based on the study's
results, BPDB has periodically increased its tariffs, including bulk supply
tariffs (BST). However, the last tariff adjustment was made on September 1,
1991, when the BST was set at Tk. 1.41/kWh. Following adjustments of BST by
BPDB, the PBSs also adjusts their tariffs. Through these adjustments, the
PBSs have maintained their average retail electricity rates above the average
retail rates of BPDB. The current PBS average rate of Tk. 2.91/kWh is 25%
higher than the BPDB's average rate of Tk. 2.32/kWh. However, even with these
high tariffs, most of the PBSs have not yet achieved financial viability
(para. 6.7).
6.11      Economic Analysis:  The economic internal rate of return (EIRR) has
been estimated using consumers' willingness to pay (WtP) for incremental sales
to quantify benefits. A conservative estimate of WtP was made as follows: (a)
for residential and commercial users it was based on the cost of lighting
using either kerosene wick lamps or pressurized kerosene lamps; and (b) for
industrial and irrigation consumers it was based on the cost of running a
diesel plant using imported high speed diesel oil. For each consumer group a
WtP-based benefits estimate was prepared as follows. First, to estimate
benefits for those electricity sales which would represent a substitution of
electricity for an alternative fuel, WtP was measured as indicated in (a) and
(b) above. Second, the incremental electricity sales which have occurred or
are forecast to occur over the project's economic life as a response to the
lower price of electricity vis-a-vis its substitutes and as a response to the
availability of electricity supply were valued assuming a linear demand curve
with a maximum WtP and a minimum equal to the 1994 tariff rate. Based on
assumptions outlined in Table 6B, Part III, the EIRR for the project is
estimated to be 13.6% (Annex 7), which compares favorably with the appraisal
estimate of 12.7%. However, this return would have been higher if the
forecast of the future consumption had not been severely constrained to grow
at only 2% per annum, reflecting the shortage of available power generation
capacity in Bangladesh.
6.12      Environment:  The project's direct adverse environmental impact is
limited to the construction of distribution lines and substations and PBS
headquarter facilities. There is also an indirect, but very limited, impact
caused by increased irrigation schemes and expansion of small scale
industries. On the other hand, the project has had a positive environmental
impact by providing a higher quality of life by replacing kerosene lamps with
electricity, which is efficient, clean and relatively safe compared to
kerosene lamps. The replacement of diesel and gasoline engines has also
reduced local air pollution and led to a net improvement in air quality since
the grid generating plants are more efficient and generally burn natural gas.
6.13      Risk Identification:  During appraisal, shortage of linemen and
delays in procurement were identified as possible risks for the project. To
address the first risk, an intensive lineman training program was conducted
which developed the necessary capacity. To address the second risk, standard
bidding documents, for procurement under international competitive bidding,
were developed. A risk which was not recognized but did adversely affect
project implementation was BPDB's inability/reluctance to transfer its lines



- 11 -
to the PBSs and energize the substations on time (para. 5.3). This issue has
been addressed under RE-3.
7. Project Sustainability
7.1       Although RE projects typically have high economic rates of return,
it is recognized that financial subsidies are required during the initial
period of operation. These aspects were reviewed by IDA which has accepted
the need for subsidies for RE programs. There are three subsidies involved in
transactions between GOB and REB/PBSs. These are : (a) direct operating
subsidy during the first five years of a PBS's life; (b) subsidy through the
bulk supply tariff (BST) for power sold by BPDB to the PBSs, which is below
long-run marginal cost (LRMC); and (c) subsidy through grants and soft
on-lending terms on loans to finance investments. The operating subsidy is
the only real demand on GOB's budget which supports the PBSs during their
infancy. The cumulative operating subsidy received since FY81 by all the 44
operating PBSs, as of June 30, 1994 was Tk. 812.8 million (US$ 20.2 million).
However, 33 PBSs that have been in operations for more than six years are no
longer receiving operating subsidy from GOB. Of these 33 PBSs, 12 are
financially viable while 11 more are expected to be financially viable within
the next few years. However, there are doubts about when the remaining 10
PBSs will become financially viable and REB plans to undertake a study which
will recommend alternate plans for making these PBSs financially viable. For
the new PBSs created under this project, the cumulative operating subsidy
provided was Tk. 89.2 million (US$ 2.2 million).
7.2       It was recognized that the PBSs would need to be subsidized
initially but expected to break-even by the sixth year of operation. However,
the actual results indicate that for most PBSs it would take somewhat longer.
In 1993, NRECA carried out a study which showed that the 40 PBSs (operating at
that time) taken together are financially viable and only 18 PBSs are non-
viable if considered individually. The study also showed that achievement of
financial viability by the PBSs in the long term and their ability to service
their debts depends on their consumer mix, revenues per km of line, reduction
of system losses and adequate tariffs. GOB is paying increasing attention to
rationalizing the distribution network by transferring BPDB/DESA lines to the
PBSs to improve their consumer mix and load factors. This will ensure
financial viability of the PBSs and the long term sustainability of the RE
program.
8. IDA Performance
8.1       Although the RE Program in Bangladesh started with assistance from
USAID, IDA's support gave the program added dynamism. IDA became involved in
the program by financing Phase II of the program and at present is the largest
contributor (US$ 230 million, about 40% of the total funds for the RE program)
to the program. Further, through its involvement, IDA encouraged GOB to
establish Ci) performance criteria of the PBSs (para. 6.8), (ii) a formula for
providing subsidies to the PBSs (under RE-1), and (iii) uniform onlending
terms for loans to REB and the PBSs (under RE-1 and RE-3). In addition,
substations constructed under IDA and other donor financing could be energized
and lines from BPDB could be transferred because of IDA's insistence.
8.2       IDA's performance in the preparation, appraisal and supervision of
the project has generally been satisfactory, with the following exceptions.



- 12 -
While the appraisal of the original project was satisfactory, considering the
information available at that time, in retrospect it could have focused more
attention on REB and PBS finances and sought enforceable agreements requiring
BPDB to energize the PBS substations and hand over of lines and consumers in
the PBS areas in a timely manner. The assumption that all PBSs would be
financially viable within five years was also optimistic.
8.3       The project has been closely supervised by IDA.  During the project
life 13 supervision missions were fielded by IDA (mostly in conjunction with
other activities). In addition, the Bank's Resident Mission provided support
on a continuous basis which helped in effective implementation of the project.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1       Table 7 of Part III shows the status of compliance of covenants by
the Borrower (GOB) and the executing agency (REB). Except for not being able
to cause BPDB to expand its transmission capacity and provide power supply to
the PBS substations at all times, GOB complied with all covenants. REB's
performance was also satisfactory, except for compliance with the financial
covenants. However, REB's financial performance has gradually improved and in
FY93 they met both the financial covenants (para. 6.5)
10. Prolect Relationship
10.1      IDA's relationship with the Government and REB has been excellent.
11. Consulting Services
11.1      The main consultancy support for the RE program has been financed
by USAID and the consultants (NRECA) have been involved since inception. REB
and the PBSs have benefitted from this continuity. The consultants have been
successful in providing guidance for institution building and transfer of
knowledge. Their overall performance has been satisfactory. The noteworthy
institution building results suggests that the consultancy period should be
sufficiently long to have a permanent impact. Another important, often
ignored factor is that the host institution's management and staff have to be
receptive to outside support for it to have a meaningful impact. In this
case, both REB and the PBSs have been receptive to the consultants' support.
11.2      The local consultants benefitted greatly from the training given by
NRECA, and their performance was satisfactory. After PBSs are in operation,
the local consultants remain attached to the PBSs and provide technical
support on engineering aspects. Their performance has also been satisfactory.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.1      The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement were
adequate and appropriate for achieving project objectives in the key
organizational and financial areas. The Staff Appraisal Report provided a
useful framework for both IDA and REB for review of project implementation.
Quarterly Progress Reports and the monthly Management Information System
reports, prepared by REB, were useful for monitoring the project's progress
and the performance of REB and the PBSs. However, the format of REB's
quarterly progress reports needs to be improved so that actual project
implementation, compared with the appraisal estimates and project requirement,
could be monitored easily.



- 13 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(Credit 1633-BD)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE1
A.    Analysis of Key Issues:
1.        Infrastructure plays a significant role in the process of growth
and development of all economics specially at their developing stage. As a
traditional society, the economy of Bangladesh is, in essence, dependent on
large rural sector where agriculture and other allied activities contribute
the lion share to the Gross Domestic product (GDP). A break through in her
efforts to develop the national economy, therefore, calls for development of
rural sector.
2.        Rural Electrification is one of the major components of overall
rural infrastructure, implementation of which, it is held, can accelerate the
pace of economic growth, employment generation, alleviation of poverty and
improved living standard. Keeping in view of the development of overall
national economy, the IDA has continued it's support to rural electrification
program through financial assistance.
3.        The area coverage Rural Electrification Phase III-A project
envisages establishment of 7 (seven) Palli Bidyut Samities (PBSs) encompassing
44 thanas of the country. A credit agreement was signed between the GOB and
the IDA for implementation of the above project on 19.12.85. But the
effectiveness of the credit was subject to fulfillment of the following
conditions by the GOB/REB:
(a)  The subsidiary loan agreement has been executed on behalf of the
borrower and REB pursuant to the provision of Section 3.01(B) of
the agreement; and
(b)  The Project Proforma for carrying out the project has been approved
by the borrower.
The Credit became effective from 20.05.86 on fulfillment of the
above conditions by the concerned authorities.
4.        A Credit of SDR 76.4 million was approved by IDA's Board on
November 12, 1985. The project financed under the credit provides for the
electrification of 7 (seven) new PBSs and the expansion of distribution
facilities for 4 (four) existing PBSs. The project consisted of the following
components:
1/ Part II is the Borrower's unedited product and its content are not
attributable to IDA.



- 14 -
(a) Construction of about 5,600 k.m. of 33 kV and 11 kV three phase and
single phase primary lines and about 2,850 k.m. of 400/230 volts
secondary lines.
(b) Construction of 22 sub-stations 33/11 kV each of 5 MVA.
(c) To provide connection to about 139,000 (117,000 domestic, 15,000
commercial, 5,000 irrigation, 1670 industrial). The original
closing date of the credit was fixed on December 31, 1991. But
because of prevailing unavoidable circumstances the credit closing
date was extended up to 31st December 1993 though IDA made special
arrangement to disburse outstanding amount against the credit up to
11th April 1994.
B.   Banks Performance
5.        Area coverage Rural Electrification Phase-III-A has been the second
project of IDA. Before that IDA provided financial assistance to RE Project
ACRE Phase-II-B.
6.        In line with the policy guidelines of IDA, pre-appraisal and
appraisal were undertaken by the Bank for the project. During the pre-
appraisal and appraisal of the project IDA came to the conclusion that, market
prospects for future rural electrification developments appear to be good.
IDA also observed that, experience with earlier RE projects indicate excellent
prospects for large sales of electricity to industrial as well as other types
of consumers. IDA's involvement into the project was justified in the
following manner:
(a) Extend the public supply of electricity to rural consumers, thereby
substituting electricity generated using indigenous energy
resources.
(b) Increase the supply and availability of electricity for irrigation,
in order to encourage multiple cropping and the creation of both
new small scale industries and rural employment 8pportunity.
(c) Improve efficiency by reducing system losses.
(d) Strengthen the institutions concerned with rural electrification by
improving their accounting systems.
7.        During negotiation of the project GOB/REB had to ensure IDA
regarding fulfillment of certain conditionalities which in turn has helped
obviously the Executing Agency (REB) in shaping and catering the need of the
project and the overall RE program as well. At the implementation stage IDA
has also played very significant role which has resulted in many long
outstanding issues resolved. During the project implementation, transfer of
PDB/DESA lines to REB appeared to be a crucial problem. This prompted IDA to
take up the matter very seriously with the Government and because of close
persuasion the demarcation of PDB-REB-DESA geographical area came into force
with government order. IDA also played a very important role towards
preparing an agreed dated action plan for handling of PDB/DESA lines to REB
and energization of long awaiting constructed sub-stations. This has helped
REB to avoid duplication of investment thus saving public money to a great



- 15 -
extent. Considering the necessity of renovating taken over PDB lines, IDA has
also earmarked special fund out of the savings of this credit for
rehabilitation of 650 k.m. distribution lines within the geographical area and
10 PBSs. This will help the concerned PBSs in improving their system and
bring down the system loss at an acceptable level.
8.        Procurement of project materials has been completed in seven
tranche. Excepting a delay of 5 (five) months which IDA took to approve the
5th tranche Bid Package in December 1990 procurement under this credit was
found smooth with the all - out help and cooperation extended by IDA. But
because of time constraint in making the final settlement against each
contract REB had to face severe problem. A period of six months for fixing
the final settlement would have been much convenient for REB. An extension of
1 (one) year period by IDA towards the closing date of the credit could help
REB to utilize the surplus money thus enabling to cover more areas by
construction of more lines.
9.        In regard to compliance with some of the financial covenants like
approval of UOLT and it's implementation, timely close out of completed work
orders and transfer of asset value to the PBSs, improvement of DSL payments of
PBSs, REB faced some problem at the initial stage. Under the constant
monitoring of IDA and due to recommendations made in the Aid-Memoire from time
to time, REB could attain compliance with most of the covenants. Mention may
also be made here that, the financial model for IDA financed PBSs has also
been completed. REB did not encounter any problem with regard to
reimbursement/disbursement procedure of IDA.
10.       IDA's overall role during project implementation in general and
it's involvement in solving many outstanding issues in particular was found
beneficial for continuous and uninterrupted success of the program as a whole.
REB would appreciate IDA's such valuable role at any critical juncture of
future program as well.
C.   Bank Officials
11.       Quite a good number of Bank officials including Resident Mission
members were involved in the implementation of the project. The supervision
missions were composed of officials having sound Economic/Finance and Energy
planning and monitoring background who have contributed by rendering their
thoughtful advice and intensive monitoring to achieve the cherished goal of
the project in a smooth manner. REB deeply acknowledges their relentless
efforts and professional advice without which implementation of the project
would have been bumpy and hazardous.
D.   Evaluation of Borrower's own Performance
12.       The project constituted a basis for construction of 5660 k.m. of
33/11 kV and 11 kV three phase and single phase primary lines, and about 2,850
k.m. of 400/230 volts secondary lines, construction of 22 sub-station 33/11 kV
each of 5 MVA and allied facilities including civil construction under 7
(seven) PBSs. Although construction of component infrastructure under the
project progressed relatively smooth at the initial stage, but the unlikely
attitude of the other utilities under the MEMR caused serious impediments
toward achieving it's goal within the projected timeframe. As a result the
original project completion period had to be extended by two years which has



- 16 -
caused local currency cost overrun. REB has been able to achieve the
component wise project target, but the taken over problem of PDB/DESA lines
obstructed the line rehabilitation problem under the project despite the
sincerest efforts made by all parties concerned. REB could not achieve target
timely in one/two PBSs under this project (Barisal PBS-1 & Patuakhali PBS) due
to riverainity and excessive monsoon.  Most of the areas under these PBSs are
inaccessible and remote and construction could not be done more than five
months in a year.  Although REB has constructed 26 Nos. of sub-stations (some
of which have been augmented) but inordinate delay in energizing the sub-
stations by PDB has retarded the consumer and load growth which in turn is
likely to have a negative effect on the viability of the project compared to
the projection. Unless this inescapable historical phenomena, as it appears
until now, can be removed totally by taking host of measures the future growth
of rural electrification program might be stagnant for which REB is seriously
concerned. In other words, REB is gradually getting captive for
circumstances, on which it has no control. The situation calls for immediate
redressing.
13.       The civil construction component of the project was carried out
smoothly by overcoming usual hustles in acquiring land for the PBS
headquarters and sub-stations.
14.       The most remarkable achievement that REB has achieved with the
advice of IDA is the introduction of Performance Target Agreement (PTA). This
system has started yielding positive results.
15.       Although in some of the PBSs under this project, the rate of system
loss is much beyond acceptable level, REB and the PBS management has put
maximum efforts by infusing various means to redress this grave issue. REB is
very optimistic that, with the timely and expeditious renovation work of
recently taken over PDB lines, while the system loss will come down to an
acceptable level, the performance of accounts receivable will also increase
substantially.
E.    Assessment of Effectiveness of Relationship between the Bank and the
Borrower
16.       The good and effective bond of relationship which was established
between IDA and REB during the RE-I project implementation has further
intensified and strengthened during the implementation of the reporting
project. Due to confidence developed on REB during the last couple of years
by working together on a defined objective, IDA has once again extended
financial assistance to RE-III project which bears the testimony that, the
rural electrification program in Bangladesh has been a success story.



- 17 -
PART III: Statistical Information
1.     Related IDA Credits
Credit No.  IProject                                            J    Year of            Status
I    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    j   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   j A p i rov al. J _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
934-BD         Greater Khulna Power Distribution                       1979        Completed
1254-BD         Ashuganj Thermal Power                                  1982        Completed
1262-BD &       Rural Electrification                                   1982        Completed
1504-3-BD
1648-BD         Power Transmission & Distribution                       1986        Completed
1999-BD         Energy Sector Adjustment Credit                         1989        Completed
2016-BD         Power Distribution (16-Towns)                           1989        On-going
2129-BD         Third Rural Electrification                             1990        On-going
2.      Proiect Timetable
Item                          Date Planned                       Date Actual
Identification                                                                    06/84
Pre-appraisal                                                                     08/84
Appraisal                                       10/84                             10/84
Negotiations                                  04/15/85                            09/85
Board Approval                                06/25/85                          11/12/85
Credit Signature                                                                12/19/85
Credit Effectiveness                          03/21/86                          05/20/86
Credit Closing                                12/31/91                          12/31/93
Project Completion                            12/31/90                          06/30/94



- 18 -
3.   Credit Disbursements
(US$ Million)
IDA      Semester    Estimated       Actual       Actual as
Fiscal Year             Cumulative    Cumulative    % of SAR
FY86         1               0.0           0.0
2               3.9           3.5          89.7
FY87         1               7.8           3.5          44.9
2              15.7           3.5          22.3
FY88         1              33.3           6.7          20.1
2              50.9          13.5          26.5
FY89         1              58.1          20.8          35.8
2              65.3          27.5          42.1
FY90         1              70.9          36.9          52.0
2              76.6          41.9          54.7
FY91         1              77.4          45.3          58.5
2              79.0          51.9          65.7
FY92         1              79.0          53.7          68.0
2              79.0          56.1          71.0
FY93         1              79.0          63.9          80.9
2              79.0          71.9          91.0
FY94         1              79.0          75.3          95.3
2              79.0          80.1         101.4
Notes:
(a) Final Disbursement Date: May 13, 1994
(b) Canceled Amount: SDR 16.84 million (US$24.32 million equivalent)
(c) Due to appreciation of SDR against US$, the available
amount of the Credit was US$104.39



- 19 -
4.   Project Implementation
Indicators             Planned Completion       Actual Completion
1.   Procurement
Ist Tranche              February, 1987             February, 1988
2nd Tranche              October, 1987              March, 1989
3rd Tranche              August, 1988               June, 1990
4th Tranche              February, 1990             May, 1991
5th Tranche                                         June, 1992
6th Tranche                                         December, 1993
7th Tranche                                         December, 1993
2.   PBS Headquarters Construction March, 1989 (for all PBSs)
Kishoreganj                                         February 15,1992
Narshingdi - II                                     September 30,1991
Sylhet                                              February 29,1992
Naogaon                                             January 31,1992
Patuakhali                                          August 30,1993
Barisal - I                                         May 31,1992
Laxmipur                                            October 15,1991
3.   PBS Establishment           December, 1987 (for all PBSs)
Kishoreganj                                         February 25, 1989
Narshingdi - II                                     April 14,1990
Sylhet                                              May 10, 1990
Naogaon                                             April 14,1990
Patuakhali                                          May 10, 1990
Barisal - I                                         April 16,1990
Laxmipur                                            May 10, 1990
4.   Substation Construction    IDecember, 1989           [26 completed
(22 Substations)                                [ 1(25 energized)
5.   Line Construction           December, 1990            l
Primary Line (5660 km)                              5,703 km
Secondary Line (2850 km)                            3,181 km
6.   Line Rehabilitation        [December, 1993           |1,269 km
7.   Connection Targets          December, 1990
Residential (117,349)                               85,766
Commercial (15,202)                                 16,004
Irrigation (5,017)                                   2,406
Industrial (1,720)                                   2,172
Others                                                636
8.   Villages to be Electrified  December, 1990             1,825
(1058 Villages)



5.    Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
(US$ Million)
Category                     Original                    Revised                      Actual
Foreign   Local    Total   Foreign [ Local    Total   Foreign   Local    Total
Line & Substation Materials       48.2      14.1     62.3     62.2      14.7     76.8     62.2      10.5     72.7
Support Commodity                  2.5      0.6       3.1      1.6       0.3      1.9      0.0       0.1      0.1
Line & Substation Construction     0.0      4.6       4.6      0.0       5.7      5.7      0.0       4.8      4.8
General Plant                      0.0       2.7      2.7      0.0       3.6      3.6      0.0       4.7      4.7
Engineering & Consulting Services  1.6       2.5      4.1      0.0       2.0      2.0      0.3       1.1      1.4
REB Overhead & Other Expenses      0.0       7.8      7.8      0.0       9.2      9.2      0.0      12.4     12.4
Total Baseline Costs              52.3     32.3      84.6     63.8      35.5     99.3     62.5      33.6     96.1
Physical Contingencies             3.9      2.4       6.3      0.7       1.1      1.8      0.0       0.0      0.0
Price Contingencies                7.6      9.7      17.3      6.5       3.0      9.5      0.0       0.0      0.0
Total Project Costs               63.8     44.4    108.2      71.0      39.6    110.6     62.5      33.6     96.1
Interest During Construction        -       2.4       2.4      0.0       4.7      4.7      0.0      16.1     16.1
Total Finance Required            63.8     46.8    110.6      71.0      44.3    115.3     62.5      49.7    112.2            o
B. Project Financing
(US$ Million)
Category                     Planned                      Actual
IDA      GOB      Total    IDA       GOB      Total
Line & Substation Materials       64.7      11.9     76.6     72.7       0.0     72.7
Support Commodity                  3.2      0.6       3.8      0.0      0.1       0.1
Line & Substation Construction     5.7      0.9       6.6      3.2       1.6      4.8
General Plant                      0.0      4.0       4.0      3.0       1.7      4.7
Engineering & Consulting Services  5.4      0.0       5.4      1.2      0.2       1.4
REB Overhead & Other Expenses      0.0      11.8     11.8      0.0      12.4     12.4
Interest During Construction                2.4       2.4      0.0      16.1     16.1
Total                             79.0     31.6    110.6      80.1      32.1    112.2
Note: Project cost was revised in December 1992 to reflect change in project scope. Financing plan was not revised.       U,



- 21 -
Table-6
6.     Proiect Results
A. Direct Benefits
Indicators                   Appraisal Estimate                    Actual
1. Substations                              22 Nos.                          26 Nos.
2. Line Construction
Primary Lines                           5,660 km                         5,703 km
Secondary Lines                         2,850 km                         3,181 km
3. Line Rehabilitation                    not specified                      1,269 km
4. Connections
Residential                              117,349                          85,766
Commercial                                15,202                          16,004
Irrigation                                 5,017                           2,406
Industrial                                 1,720                           2,172
Others                                                                      636
5. Village Electrified                        1,058                            1,825
B. Economic Impact
Appraisal
Estimate                              Actual
Economic Rate of Retum                  12.7%                                 13.6%
Benefits on WtP basis
Assumptions for Economic Analysis
1.             The benefit period of the program extends from 1986 to 2015, when the equipment provided under
the program is expected to have substantially completed its useful life.
2.             All cost streams have been expressed in 1985 prices. All foreign costs were measured using
border prices. Local costs for materials, equipment and services were expressed in terms of
equivalent border prices using the standard conversion factor of 0.80.
3.             Existing and new consumers "Willingness to Pay" (WtP) for electricity services are the same in
real terms throughout the program.
4.             From 1987 on, operation and maintenance costs are constant, equal to 3% of the capital already
disbursed at the beginning of that said year. Benefits and electricity purchases are based on the
actual sales and electricity purchases up to 1994; and are forcasted from then on, using a 2% a
year rate of growth in supply and assuming 15% losses to forecast the sales.
5.             No residual values of fixed assets are taken into account, as their present values would not be
significant.



7. Status of Legal Covenants
Bangladesh
Second Rural Electrification Project
(Credit 1633-BD)
Cove-                 Original     Revised
nant                  Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Agreement            Section      Type      Status      Date         Date         Description of Covenant                      Comments
Development Credit  3.04          5         CD                                    The Borrower shall cause BPDB to timely     After some delays, all sub-stations have now
expand its transmission and distribution    been energized.
capacity so as to ensure that adequate power
supply will be available to the PPBSs at all
times.
4.01(a) &    2         C                                     The Borrower shall carry out a study of:    The LRMC study was completed in June
(b)                                                          (i) the subsidies provided to the rural     1986.
electrification program, and (ii) the bulk and
retail tariffs to be applied in the power sector,
taking into account the long-run marginal cost
of supplying electricity and other ftnancial
considerations; and promptly furnish the
findings and the recommnendations of such
study.
4.01(c)     2          CD          12/31/86                  By December 31, 1986 or such later date as  GOB increased the BST to Tk. 1.14/kWh
IDA may agree, the Borrower shall implement  from May 1, 1987. This was further
in phases revised tariffs satisfactory to IDA,  increase to Tk. 1.19/kWh during FY89, to
based on the recommendations of the above   Tk. 1.28/kWh during FY90, and to
study (Section 4.01(a)), and such other     Tk. 1.41/kWh during FY91, which has since
measures as the Borrower and IDA may        remained unchanged.
agree.
0la
oH 



Cove-                Original     Revised
nant                 Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Agreement           Section      Type      Status      Date        Date         Description of Covenant                    Comments
4.01(d)     2         CD          03/31/86                 By March 31, 1986, recalculate the bulk-   See Section 4.01(c) above.
supply tariff rate for the next fiscal year based
on methodology satisfactory to IDA; and by
July 1, 1986 or such other date as IDA may
agree, implement until such time as the
revised tariffs are introduced pursuant to
Section 4.01 (c) above, a bulk-supply tariff
rate acceptable to IDA.
4.02(a)     2         C                                    The Borrower shall upon transfer of the
Schemes to the PPBSs provide during the first
five years of operation of the Schemes, such
funds as may be required each year to cover
the difference between (a) the tariffs charged
by BPDB to the PPBSs on the basis of the cost
of supplying the PPBSs with power and (b) the
tariff paid for such power by the PPBSs based
upon their respective cost recovery
capabilities. To this end, a formula
satisfactory to IDA, shall be applied in order
to calculate the amounts to be provided by the
Borrower.
4.02(b)     2         CP                                   The Borrower shall (i) cause REB to adjust the  This covenant has been superseded by a
future lending rates charged to the PPBSs so    covenant under Cr. 2129-BD, under which
as to enable REB to comply with the        Performance Target Agreements (PTAs) have
provisions of Section 4.02 of the Project  been introduced.
Agreement; and (ii) take all such actions as
may be necessary to enable REB to comply
with the provisions of Section 4.03 of the
Project Agreement.
4.03(c)     4         C                                    The Borrower shall (i) promptly provide REB
as grant contributions the Borrower's share of                                la
the local funds that may be required for the
purposes of the Project; and (iu) as and when                                 fD
required, cover any deficit derived from
REB's operations.                                                             



Cove-                Origina      Revised
nant                 Fulfilment  Fulfillment
Agreement           Section      Type      Status      Date        Date         Description of Covenant                    Comments
Project             4.01(b)      1         C           March 31                 REB shall, and shall cause each PBS to, have
its accounts and fnancial statements and the
Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to 1DA, and furnish to
IDA, no later than nine months after end of
each fiscal year, cenified copies of statements
and auditors' report.
4.01(c)     1         C           March 31                 For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit
Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure, REB shall, and shal cause each
PPBSs to, mainain separate record and
accounts reflcting such expenditures, amd
submit a separate opinion by the auditors as to
whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn
in respect of such expenditures have been used
for the purpose for which they were provided.
4.02(aXi)    2        CD                                   REB shall ensure that in any FY its internaly   In compliance from FY93. Debt-service
generated funds are not less than 1.5 times its   coverage ratio has improved from 1.4 in
debt service.                              FY92 to 2.0 in FY93.
4.02(a)(ii)   2       C                                    REB shall ensure that in any FY, beginning in
FY86, its administrative costs and amounts
paid by REB as interest and other charges on
its debt shall not exceed 75% of the aggregate
amounts received by REB as interest on its
oans and investments and as other revenues.
4.03(a)     2         C                                    REB shall cause each PPBS to take al such
measure as shal be necessary to ensure that,
until such time as the revised tariffs referred                               4
to in Section 4.01(c) of the DCA are
implemented, the average price per kWh sold
by such PPBS shall not be less than the                                        o
average price per kWh sold by BPDB.



Cove-                 Original     Revised
nant                  Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Agreement            Section      Type      Status      Date         Date         Description of Covenant                      Comments
4.03(b)      2         CP                                    REB shall cause each PPBS to take all such   This covenant has been superseded by a
measures (including, without limitations,   covenant under Cr. 2129-BD, under which
adjustments of the structure or levels of its  Performance Target Agreements (PTAs) have
retail tariffs) as shall be required to produce,    been introduced.
in each FY: (i) as of the sixth year of
operation of the respective Scheme, gross
revenues from all sources related to such
PPBS's operations sufficient to meet its
electricity purchases, administrative expenses,
depreciation and interest expenses; and (ii) as
of the seventh year of operation of the
respective Scheme, funds from internal
sources equivalent to not less than 20% of the
annual average of such PPBS's capital
expenditures incurred, or expected to be
incurred, during such FY and the preceding
and next following FY.                                                              N
4.03(c)     2          CP                                    Three months before the start of each FY,    This covenant has been superseded by a
REB shall, on the basis of forecasts to be  covenant under Cr. 2129-BD, under which
prepared by each PPBS, on a basis satisfactory   Performance Target Agreements (PTAs) have
to IDA, cause such PPBS to review the       been introduced.
adequacy of its tariffs to meet the requirement
set forth in Section 4.03(b) for the current and
next following FY and shall furnish to IDA a
copy of such review upon its completion.
4.04(a)     5          C                                     REB shall ensure that the account payable in
each PPBS for the electricity purchased from
BPDB shall, at no time, exceed the equivalent
of the preceding two months purchases of
electricity by such PPBS.
4.04(b)     5          C                                     REB shall make available to each PPBS, as
shot-term loans, all sdlh funds as may be
required by such PPBS: (i) as working capital                                   (t 
for its operations; and (ii) to provide Credit to
the customers for the purchase of appliances                                      (h
and house wiring.                                                                   



Cove-                Original     Revised
nant                 Pulfillment  Fulfillment
Agreement           Section      Type      Status      Date        Date         Description of Covenant                    Comments
Schedule 2   5        C           12/31/85                 REB shall: (a) by December 31, 1985, appoint
Clause I                                                   consultants to carry out a study to identify
areas of high system losses in PBSs; (b) by
June 30, 1986, cause such consultants to
recommend dated action programs to remedy
each of the specific causes of system losses;
and (c) thereafter implement such programs as
shall be agreed with IDA.
Schedule 2   5        NC          12/31/85                 REB shaDl, not later than December 31, 1985,   Prospects for load management in the present
Clause 2                                                   introduce appropriate load management      load mix is limited. REB wiD however
measures and regulations, satisfactory to IDA,   investigate possible use of battery energy
to ensure an adequate annual system load   storage systems (BESS) using grid power.
factor.                                    Once related lines and customers are handed
over to REB, GOB/BPDB/REB should
negotiate a tariff which wiDl include peak
demand charges to the PBSs.           Ms
Schedule 2   5        C           06/30/86                 REB shall not later than June 30, 1986
Clause 3                                                   propose a dated program, satisfactory to IDA,
including the installation of capacitors, to
ensure that the power factor does not fall
below 0.85; and thereafter carry out such
program
Schedule 2   5        C                                    REB shall furnish to IDA, not later than 12
Clause 4                                                   months before the commercial operation of
each PPBS is due to commence, a program for
the recruitment and training of the staff
required for each such PPBS and a timetable
for implementation of said program.
Schedule 2   6        C                                    REB shall ensure that any rights of way
Clause 5                                                   required for the purposes of the Project will
not have any adverse impact of wildlife
preserves.                                                                       3
Ue 
0o-



Key
Covenant types:
I  Accounts/audit                                                                 8  Indigenous people
2  Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries                       9  Monitoring, review, and reporting
3  Flow and Utilization of project funds                                           10 Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
4  Counterpart funding                                                             11 Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
5  Management aspects of the project or executing agency                           12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
6  Environmental covenants                                                         13 Other
7 Involuntary resettlement
Status:
C       = covenant complied with
CD      = complied with after delay
NC      = not complied with
SOON   = compliance expected in reasonably short time
CP      = complied with partially
NYD    = not yet due
Covenant Effectiveness
1.      Since the consumer mix of individual PPBSs varies, the uniform covenants related to their financial performance have not been appropriate. Under Cr. 2129-BD, instead of those
covenants, a new covenant requiring REB to execute Performance Target Agreements with the PBSs have been incorporated. The selection of other covenants has been appropriate.
2.      The covenant related to load management could not be met by REB because of load mix of the PPBSs.
tD
0I-
oHt-



- 28 -
8.      Use of Bank Resources
A.  Staff Inputs
Stages of Project Cycle                                      Actual
Through Appraisal                                           22.9 SW
Appraisal through Board Approval                            69.2 SW
Board Approval through Completion                           78.5 SW
Total                                                       170.6 SW
B.  Missions.
Month/ Number of Days in    Specialization Represented    Performance     Types of
Year    Persons *  Fields                                  Rating        Problems
Senior Financial Analyst
05/86      3         26   Power Engineer                      2
Consultant
Senior Financial Analyst                  Managerial
12/86      4         16   Power Engineer                      2      Technical
Consultant
02/88      2         23    Power Engineer                     2      Managerial
Consultant                                Technical
Financial Analyst -2                      Technical
10/88      5         16   Power Engineer - 2                  2      Managerial
_Energy Economist
Senior Power Engineer                     Financial
04/89      4         13   Senior Energy Economist             2
Financial Analyst
Senior Operations Officer
Financial Analyst                         Financial
12/89      3         16   Power Engineer                      2
Economist
05/90      2         11   Financial Analyst                   2      Financial
Power Engineer
Senior Program Officer                    Managerial
11/90      3         9    Financial Analyst                   3      Financial
Power Engineer
Senior Program Officer                    Managerial
04/91      3         8    Power Engineer                      2      Financial
Financial Analyst
Senior Program Officer                    Managerial
12/91      3         12   Power Engineer                      2      Financial
Financial Analyst
05/92       2        8    Senior Program Officer              2      Managerial
Financial Analyst                         Financial
Senior Program Officer                    Managerial
Financial Analyst                         Financial
12/92      5         26   Senior Power Engineer               2
Power Engineer
Procurement Asst
Senior Program Officer                    Managerial
10/93      3         16   Financial Anayst                    2      Financial
Power Engineer                            I



- 29 -
Annex I
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(Credit 1633-BD)
PBS Areas and Thanas included under the Proioct
A. New PBSs                                                B. Exnansion PBSs
SI. No. Name of PBS         Thum                           SI. No. Name of PBS         ThanaS
Hosainpur                         1   Jeuore - I          Bagherpera
Karimgonj                        2    Bogra                Adamdighi
Katiadi                                                    Dupchachia
I   Kishoreganj          Kishoregon;                      3    Rangpur - I          Pirgacha
Pakundia                                                   Sundargon;
Iahwargonj
Nandail
Belabo                        C. Rehabilitation PBSs
Monohordi
Raipura                       SI. No. Name of PBS         Than"
2    Narshingdi -II      Shibpur                           I   Pabna -11            Pabna
Bajitpur                                                   Shahjadpur
Bhairab                          2    Hobigonj            Hobigonj
Kuliarchar                                                 TLarhai
Balagonj                         3    Chandpur            Chandpur
Beanibazar                                                 Matlab
Fenchugonj                       4    Feil                 Mirrarai
3    Sylict              Golapgonj                                                  Fadi
Sylhet                           5    Mymeasl_nh - I      Gopelpur
Zakigonj                                                  Madhupur
Bishwanath                       6    Dinajpur - I         Birol
Manda                                                      Dinajpur
Mohadebpur                       7    Joypurhat           Panchbbbi
4    Naogaon             Naogaon                                                    Morrelgonj
Niamatpur                        8    Pirojpur             Swarup}ati
Raninagar                                                  Pirojpur
Atrai                            9    Jamalpur - I        Sherpur
Amtdli                                 _Jampur
Barguna                          10   Thakurgaon          Thakurgaon
5    Patuakhali          Bauphal
Betagi
Miragonj
Patuakhali
Bakergonj
6    Barisa - I          Barisal
Hijla
Muladi
Lxumipur
7    Laxmipur            Raipur
Ramgonj



- 30 -
Annex 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(Credit 1633-BD)
Selection Criteria for Areas to be Electrified
The criteria employed by REB (developed jointly by REB and NRECA, with GOB and USAID
approval) to study, rank, and select new areas of the country for electrification, place emphasis on infrastructure
and numbers of potential consumers. The steps followed by REB in identifying priority areas are as follows:
(i)    Selection of a large number of prospective thanas for detailed study: these areas are distributed
throughout the country to achieve regional balance in the initial stages of identification.
(ii)    Collection of detailed data for each thana (or group of thanas) covering the following subjects:
-     available power supply: this covers available MW capacity on 132/33 kV substations, after
assessing total installed transformer capacity and maximum demand at the substation, and
capacity of 33 kV lines;
-     number of villages in the area;
-     area population;
-     number of households;
-     area in square miles;
-     miles of paved road in the area;
-     percentage of land area likely to be flooded regularly;
-     number of institutions (bank branches, extension offices, etc.) in the area;
-     extent of irrigated land;
-     numbers of tubewells and diesel-driven pumps, covering shallow and deep tubewells, and low-
lift pumps;
-     number of commercial establishments; and
-     number of small, medium, and large industries.
(iii)    Each major infrastructure and consumer potential indicator is ranked among areas, using a straight
numeral ranking beginning with 1 for the top area in the category, after eliminating those areas that do
not have surplus substation and 33 kV line capacity. Weighting factors, developed in the Phase I
feasibility study and ranging from 0.3 to 1.0, are then applied to the rank of each category. The sum of
the adjusted ranks of categories for each area constitutes that area's final overall ranking: the lowest
number represents the highest overall rank.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(Credit 1633-BD)
Procurement Schedule
Tranchv- 1             Tranche-2                Tranche-3               Tranche-4               Tranche-5            Tranche-6           Tranche-7
Procurement         SAR        Actual       SAR        Actual       SAR        Actual       SAR        Actual      SAR       Actual     SAR        Actual     SAR   Actual
Bid Invitation      1985        1986        1986        1987        1987        1988        1988        1990        -         1991        -         1992        -        1993
December    July         August       May         June        May      December   January          -        June        -         July        -       January
Bid Opening         1986        1986        1986        1987        1987        1988        1989        1990        -         1991        -         1992        -        1993
February    October    October        July       August       July      February    March         -      September      -      September      -       March         w
Contract Award      1986    Mar. 1987-    1987    Dec. 1987-    1987    Oct. 1988-    1989    July 1990-            -     Jan 1992 -      -      Jan 1993-      -      June 93 -
May    Oct. 1987    January   Oct. 1988  November  Feb. 1990           May       July 1992      -      August 92      -     August 93      -       Sept. 93
Delivery 100%       1987        1988        1987        1989        1988        1990        1990        1991        -         1992        -        1993         -        1993
February   February    October       March       August       June     February       May         -        June         -      December       -     December



- 32 -
Annex 4
Pare 1 of 3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(Credit 1633-BD)
A. Sub-station Construction
Name of      Name of PBS     Capacity      Date of    Year of Construction
Sub-station                   in MVA      Energization     Completion
Kishoreganj HQ  Kishoreganj         5         11-26-89          FY90
Nandail        Kishoreganj          5         11-19-91          FY91
Pakundia       Kishoreganj          5         11-20-91          FY92
Morjal         Narshingdi-II        5         04-03-90          FY90
Kuliarchar     Narshingdi-II        5         08-14-92          FY92
Monohardi      Narshingdi-II        5         11-22-92          FY92
Sylhet HQ      Sylhet               5         11-20-92          FY90
Golapganj      Sylhet               5         05-14-90          FY90
Balaganj       Sylhet               5         08-21-92          FY90
Beanibazar     Sylhet               5         04-28-93          FY91
Naogaon HQ    Naogaon               5         11-20-89          FY90
Niamatpur      Naogaon              5        01-27-92           FY91
Manda          Naogaon              5         01-26-92          FY91
Mahadebpur    Naogaon               5         08-20-94          FY94
Patuakhali     Patuakhali           5         05-01-92          FY92
Betagi         Patuakbali          1.5        01-20-93          FY92
Amtali         Patuakhali          1.5       01-19-93           FY92
Barguna        Patuakhali          1.5       01-19-93           FY93
Baufal         Patuakhali          1.5        01-17-93          FY93
Badarpur       Patuakhali          1.5       01-25-93           FY93
Bakerganj      Barisal-I           1.5        11-03-92          FY92
Muladi         Barisal-I           1.5        12-09-92          FY92
Laxmipur       Laxmipur             5         07-29-90          FY91
Bagherpara     Jessore-I            5         08-30-93          FY93
Dhupchachia    Bogra                5         04-30-93          FY92
Sundarganj     Rangpur-I            5         12-12-91          FY91



- 33 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 3
B. Line Construction.
(in km)
Name of PBS       Three Phase      Single Phase   Secondary          Total
New     Ren.    New    Ren.    New  I Ren.    New       Ren.
A. New PBS'S
1. Laxmipur            372.4   33.2    96.5    6.6   401.9   18.0   870.7    57.8
2. Sylhet               546.4   43.3   188.8    2.1   528.7   15.0  1263.8    60.3
3. Narshingdi - II      432.1   201.1   173.8   40.3   277.4  139.0   883.3   380.3
4. Kishoreganj          666.6   39.5   163.8    3.3   414.1   11.5  1244.5   54.3
5. Naogaon              869.6   146.3   213.1    6.6   419.5   21.6  1502.3   174.5
6. Barisal - I          191.7   49.8   256.4    9.6   380.0   19.4   828.1    78.8
7. Patuakhali           354.4    5.9   135.5    1.8   274.1    8.3   764.1    16.1
Sub - Total         3433.2  519.1   1227.8   70.3  2695.6  232.8  7356.6   822.2
B. Expansion PBS'S 
1. Jessore - I          146.9    0.0    96.8    0.0   116.9    0.0   360.6        0.0
2. Bogra            j  219.2    0.1    91.0 j   0.0   130.2    0.0   440.4    0.1
3. Rangpur - I      j  241.5   60.2   127.4 |  0.6   172.7   18.9   541.6   79.6
Sub - Total       j  607.6   60.4   315.2    0.6   419.8   18.9  1342.6   79.8
C. Rehabilitation PBS'S
1. Pabna - II            0.7   43.6       3.2    0.0      6.4    0.0    10.3    43.6
2. Hobigonj               0.6   23.1      1.4    0.4      1.5    0.1      3.5    23.7
3. Chandpur              0.0    1.1       0.5    0.7      2.9    1.7      3.4     3.5
4. Feni                   0.0   18.1      0.0   14.1      0.0   34.9      0.0    67.1
5. Mymensingh - I        0.0    12.0      0.0    9.7      0.0   35.2      0.0    56.9
6. Dinajpur - I         40.1    0.0    17.5    0.0    20.1    0.0    77.7    0.0
7. Joypurhat             21.7    0.0    11.0    0.0    12.1    0.0    44.9        0.0
8. Pirojpur              0.0    14.7      0.0   11.8      0.0   41.6      0.0   68.1
9. Jamalpur               0.0   46.5      0.0    4.4      0.0    6.1      0.0    57.0
10. Thakurgaon            4.0   47.0    18.5    0.0    23.1    0.0    45.6    47.0
Sub - Total           67.1   206.2    52.1   41.2    66.1  119.5   185.3   366.8
Total                  4107.9   785.6  1595.1  112.0  3181.5  371.2  8884.5  1268.8



-34 -
Annex 4
Page 3 of 3
C. Connections.
Name of PBS                                  Connections
|Residential 2ommercia I D.T.W I S.T.W. I L.L.P. I Industry I Others I Total
A. New PBS'S
1. Laxmipur              8671       1795      8       0    101       156        15    10746
2. Sylhet                10359      1858       1      1       4       181       59    12463
3. Narshingdi - II        8982      2343    253    505       45      372        59    12559
4. Kishoreganj            9463      2930    107      89      20      405        47    13061
5. Naogaon               20058      1856    301    179       96      499        41    23030
6. Barisal - I           10097      1177       1      0       4       73        38    11390
7. Patuakhali             3455       529      0       0       0       67        19     4070
Sub - Total           71085     12488    671    774    270        1753      278    87319
B. Expansion PBS'S
1. Jessore - I           2606        160     21      77       0       24        19     2907
2. Bogra                  5274       202    107    223        0       45        66     5917
3. Rangpur - I           2029       1046     21    204        0       90        42     3432
Sub - Total            9909      1408    149    504        0       159       127    12256
C. Rehabilitation PBS'S
1. Pabna - I              486        216      3       1       1       55        31      793
2. Hobigonj                243       108       1      0       1       30        14      397
3. Chandpur                 54        24      0       1       0         8        2       89
4. Feni                    607       268      3       2       2       70        53      1005
5. Mymensingh - I          513       228       3      1       1       48        26      820
6. Dinajpur - I            702       312      3       1       0        12       18     1048
7. Joypurhat               405       180       1      0       0        9        16      611
8. Pirojpur                612       272      0       1       1        9        29      924
9. Jamalpur                513       228       2      1       1        13       26      784
10. Thakurgaon             637       272       4       2       1        6       16       938
Sub - Total            4772      2108      20      10      8       260      231      7409
Total (Actual)       |   85766 |   16004    840 | 1288 |  278 |   2172 |    636 | 106984
Total (SAR Estimate)    117349      15202   1147   2827   1043       1720             139288
* Others - Street Light



BANGLADESH
RURAL ELECRIFICATION BOARD
SECOND RURAL ELECTRICATION PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Income Statements
Tk. Million
Fiscal Year ending              1984             1985             1986            1987             1988             1989              1990             1991            1992
June 30                       Apr.    Act.    Apr.    Act.    Apr.    Act.    Apr.    Act.    Apr.    Act.    Apr.    Act.    Apr. I  Act.    Apr.    Act.    Apr.    Act.
Revenues
Interest from PBSS            54.4     0.0    58.0      0.0    63.7      4.2    65.0    59.4    94.3    68.4   175.6    94.3   178.7    99.9   208.1   151.2   366.1   222.3
Other Revenues                17.6     2.3      6.5     4.1     7.5      2.2     8.6     4.1      9.9     4.5    11.4      5.4    13.1      3.5    15.0      5.1    17.3     6.5
Total Revenues                72.0     2.3    64.5      4.1    71.2      6.4    73.6    63.5   104.2    72.9   187.0    99.8   191.8   103.4   223.2   156.3   383.4   228.8
Adminisrtive                  15.4    11.5    17.1    14.5    19.0    19.3    21.1    21.7    23.4    24.9    26.0    27.8    28.8    30.4    32.0    32.2    35.5    42.0
Depreciation                   2.8     2.5      5.6     3.1     8.2      2.9    11.0     3.4    11.4      4.4    11.1      5.1    10.7      6.2    10.6      7.5    10.3    10.0
Other Misc. Expers             0.0     3.9      0.0     5.6     0.0      7.0     0.0      7.3     0.0     7.9      0.0    11.2      0.0    12.1     0.0    10.5      0.0    16.9
Total Expenwes                18.2    17.9    22.7    23.1    27.2    29.2    32.1    32.4    34.8    37.2    37.1    44.1    39.5    48.7    42.6    50.3    45.8    68.9
w
Operating Income              53.9   -15.6    41.8   -19.0    44.0   -22.8    41.5    31.1    69.4    35.7   149.9    55.7   152.3    54.8   180.6   106.0   337.6   159.9                   wL
Interest on borrowing         21.8    15.4    21.7    29.4    24.5    38.8    23.5    34.1    37.7    61.4    73.8    93.5    74.3    71.8    85.9    88.5   164.9    97.4
Prior Pd'a Adjustment          0.0   -13.9      0.0     0.7     0.0      0.1     0.0    22.0      0.0     0.4      0.0     0.8     0.0      0.2     0.0   -66.0      0.0     0.0
Net Income                    32.1   -44.9    20.0   -47.8    19.6   -61.4    18.0    18.9    31.7   -25.3    76.1   -37.0    78.0   -16.9    94.7   -48.5   172.7    62.4
Administrative cost net of
depreciation as a % of
revenuer:                       52    1354      60    1196       61    1019       61      99       59     129      53      133      54      III      53      84       52      68
9)
tc}
18
018
tfJ X



BANGLADESH
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION BOARD
SECOND RURAL ELECrRIFICATION PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Sources and Applications of Funds Statements
Tk. Million
Fiscal Year ending              1984             1985             1986            1987             1988             1989              1990             1991            1992
June 30                       Apr.    Act.    Apr.    Act.    Apr.    Act.    Apr.    Act.    Apr.    Act.    Apr.    Act.    Apr.    Act.    Apr.    Act.    Apr.    Act.
Sources:
Internal Sources
Operating Income              53.9   -15.6    41.8   -19.0    44.0   -22.8    41.5    31.1    69.4    35.7   149.9    55.7   152.3    54.8   180.6   106.0   337.6   159.9
Depreciation (Incl. Adj.)      2.8     0.0      5.6     2.1     8.2      2.7    11.0      3.6    11.4     3.7    11.1      4.5    10.7      6.3    10.6      6.3    10.3     9.9
Total Internal Sources        56.6   -15.6    47.4   -16.9    52.2   -20.1    52.5    34.7    80.8    39.4   161.0    60.2   162.9    61.1   191.2   112.3   347.9   169.8
Prior Year's Adjustment        0.0   -13.9      0.0     0.7     0.0      0.1     0.0    22.0      0.0     0.4      0.0     0.8     0.0      0.2     0.0    66.0      0.0    -0.0
External Sources
Foreign Grants                 0.0     0.0      0.0     2.8     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    27.3      0.0    96.0     0.0   104.8      0.0   610.6      0.0    88.0
GOB Contribution             233.6   233.6   278.8   214.9   381.0   385.1   459.1   417.9   497.7   331.6   544.2   391.8   551.5   485.7   551.5   452.5   551.5   432.5
Capital axins                  0.0    31.6      0.0    20.3     0.0    23.1      0.0   143.0      0.0    46.9      0.0    41.3     0.0    96.6      0.0    91.4      0.0   -99.7
Borowing                     341.4   316.5   600.0  102S.6  1083.8   791.0   969.1   996.0   865.0   805.2  1121.9   737.3  1006.9  1694.8  1014.5   207.0  1055.9   752.3
Total External Sources       574.9   581.6   878.8  1266.5  1464.7  1199.2  1428.2  1556.9  1362.7  1211.0  1666.1  1266.4  1558.4  2381.8  1566.0  1361.4  1607.4  1173.0
Sale of Assets                 0.0  1236.2      0.0    65.0     0.0   109.7      0.0   546.7      0.0  1206.7      0.0   822.3     0.0  1127.7      0.0  1218.7      0.0  1064.5              W'
Repayment recd. from PBSs     62.7     0.0    71.4      0.0    76.7      0.0    83.4     0.0   123.9      0.0   235.0    50.1   254.2   115.1   291.5   172.9   478.6   230.3
Deffered and other Liabilities  0.0    44.7    0.0   -45.2      0.0    56.4      0.0      8.1     0.0    65.3      0.0   -85.7     0.0    22.5      0.0   130.6      0.0   327.7
Tota Sources                 694.3  1833.1   997.6  1270.1  1593.7  1345.4  1564.1  2168.3  1567.4  2522.8  2062.1  2114.1  1975.5  3708.5  2048.7  3062.0  2433.8  2965.3
Applications
Total Investment Program     641.5   516.2   815.2   477.6  1435.9   356.4  1407.8   315.0  1337.4   975.0  1645.1   910.3  1513.8  1091.5  1515.7  1383.2  1562.1   854.7
Loans to PBSs                  0.0  1241.9     0.0    76.7      0.0   126.2      0.0   565.2      0.0  1217.0     0.0   758.7      0.0   805.4      0.0  2635.8      0.0  1770.9
Special Pund and Deposits      0.0    -4.5     0.0    41.2      0.0    16.8      0.0     0.1      0.0    18.5     0.0    30.8      0.0    79.6      0.0   342.9      0.0   417.4
Loan to Employees, Ins. & Clai    0.0  5.9     0.0      6.5     0.0      2.6     0.0     6.0      0.0    31.1     0.0   106.4      0.0   100.2      0.0   613.2      0.0   102.4
Change in Store in Transit     0.0    -2.1     0.0   233.1      0.0      4.5     0.0   -98.8      0.0    59.5     0.0    78.9      0.0  -119.5      0.0    44.2      0.0  -178.2
Debt Service:
Ammortization                 38.0     0.0    43.8      0.0    47.2     0.0    53.4      0.0    83.9      0.0   155.5    77.3   166.9    88.0   191.3   223.0   322.6   183.9
Interest Payment              21.8    15.4    21.7    29.4    24.5    38.8    23.5    34.1    37.7    61.4    73.8    93.5    74.3    71.8    85.9    88.5   164.9    97.4
Total Debt Service            59.8    15.4    65.5    29.4    71.7    38.8    76.9    34.1   121.6    61.4   229.3   170.8   241.2   159.8   277.2   311.5   487.5   281.3
to
Change in Working Capital:                                                                                                                                                                t
Chage in Cash                -18.0    55.0    59.7   -57.4    60.0    16.9    16.4    38.4    56.0    48.0    99.7         5.2    29.2    75.0   106.4   -92.5   158.6    39.7            O  t
Ch.in W.C. other than Cash    11.0     5.3    57.3   463.0    26.0   783.2    63.0  1308.3    52.4   112.3    88.0    52.9   191.4  1516.4   149.3 -2176.4   225.6  -323.0                " X
Net change in Working Capital    -7.0    60.3   116.9   405.5    86.1   800.1    79.3  1346.7   108.4   160.3   187.6    58.1   220.6  1591.3   255.7 -2268.9   384.2  -283.3             u  tn
Total Applications           694.3  1833.1   997.6  1270.1  1593.7  1345.4  1564.1  2168.3  1567.4  2522.8  2062.1  2114.1  1975.5  3708.5  2048.7  3062.0  2433.8  2965.3
Debt Service Coverage Ratio:   2.0    -1.9     1.8    -0.6      1.8   -0.5       1.8     1.7      1.7     0.6      1.7     0.7     1.7      1.1     1.7      1.1     1.7     1.4



BANGLADESH
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION BOARD
SECOND RURAL ELBCTRIFICATION PROJECT
PROJECT COMPIEIION REPORT
Tlc. Million
1984            1915            1916            1917            1911             1919             1990            1991             1992
As on Im 30                  Apr.    Act.    Apr.    Act    Apr.    ACL    Apr.    Act    Apr.    AcL    Apr.    ActL   Apr.    Ac.L   Apr.    Act    Apr.    AcL
Fimed Assetb
Gran Fitzd Asst              56.4    53.4    S1.7   149.3   110.1   191.7   113.7   90.5   111.0    94.5   107.0   113.6   105.8   123.9   102.8   159.3   103.9   168.2
Law: Acc. Depreciation       11.5     3.S    17.2    10.9    25.3    13.6    36.3    17.2    42.0    20.9    46.0    25.5    52.5    31.3    57.1    38.1    65.5    45.1
Net Fixed Ast                44.9    44.6    64.6   138.4    84.1   171.1    77.4    73.3    69.0    73.6    60.9   "2.1    53.2    92.1    45.6   121.6    38.4   120.1
Work - I - Progres          561.7   127.5   739.8   444.2  1407.5   64U.5  1404.2   517.9  1334.4   2M2.3  1642.1   351.2  1510.2   304.7  1512.7   367.4  1559.1   149.2
1.o  to PBS                1616.8  1597.0  2107.0  1673.6  2120.2  1799.8  4144.2  2365.0  5424.5  3582.0  6523.9  4290.7  7911.9  4921.1  9131.2  7443.9 10165.3  8914.5
Other Spocal Depods           0.0    17.1     0.0    53.3     0.0    75.1      0.0    75.2     0.0    95.7     0.0   124.5     0.0   204.1     0.0   547.0    0.0   964.4
C rtAscb
CA                           34.6    33.1   94.3    26.4   154.4    43.3   170.7    31.7   226.7   129.6   326.4   134.8   355.6   209.3   462.0   117.3   620.5   157.0
b(odiummSbowt te,mLomn        0.0    10.8    61.3     4.4   100.2     4.5   163.1      5.2   214.1     4.6   302.3     8.0   497.0     6.9   646.4      9.6   172.9     6.9             w
Misc. Curmet Asst            11.2   4n7.2    15.3   914.9    23.1  1704.9    28.1  3016.6    26.7  3110.3    32.8  3i1o.9    30.2  4716.2    30.3  2655.2    31.2  2211.9               '
TlctjCurrat Ame              45.9   521.3   171.9   945.3   282.7  1752.7   361.9  3103.5   467.5  3244.6   667.5  3323.7   382.8  4932.9  1133.6  2732.1  1524.7  2375.8
LO to!Biayes                  0.0     0.1     0.0     1.2     0.0      1.7     0.0     3.5     0.0     4.8     0.0     6.9     0.0     9.1     0.0    11.5      0.0    13.4
Str is Tislit                 0.0     0.0     0.0   233.1     0.0   237.6      0.0   138.1     0.0 Io   A      0.0   277.2     0.0   157.7     0.0   302.0    0.0    23.1
I.azumaad odbeckam            0.0     5.9     0.0    11.2     0.0    13.3     0.0    17.6      0.0    47.4     0.0   151.8     0.0   249.3     0.0   360.6     0.0   961.1
TAds   A                   2269.2  2314.0  3133.4  3505.9  4595.2  4706.9  5917.7  6294.9  7295.5  7526.7  U84.5  8614.1  10353.7 109I1.4 11.2  12336.2 13217.5 13592.4
1oeign arms                   0.0   544.9    0.0    18.6    0.0    15.6       0.0      0.0     0.0    27.3     0.0   123.3     0.0   228.1     0.0   838.7    0.0   926.7
GoB Ctnbuion               1017.0  1017.0  1295.3  1231.9  1676.1  1617.0  2135.9  2035.0  2633.6  2366.6  3177.3  275.4  3729.3  3244.1  4280.8  3696.6  4332.3  4129.1
Capl Gain                     0.0    31.6    0.0    51.3      0.0    74.9     0.0   217.9      0.0   264.8     0.0   306.1     0.0   402.7     0.0   494.0    0.0   394.3
1tgs.d Ehglp                -41.5   -97.1   -21.4  -144.3    -1.9  -206.3    16.1  -187.3    47.8  -212.6   123.9  -249.7   201.9  -266.5   296.6  -315.0   469.3  -252.6
Total Equity                975.6  1496.4  1274.4  1157.5  1674.9  1504.3  2152.0  2065.5  2681.4  2446.1  3301.7  2938.1  3931.2  3603.4  4577.4  4714.3  5301.6  5197.4
lb
Lg Tetm Liabilities        1271.2   741.1  1327.4  2300.0  2863.9  3093.6  3779.6  4111.2  4560.7  4919.3  5527.1  55s3.3  6367.1  7192.8  7190.3  7247.5  7923.5  7909.2
Total Crret Liabilities      22.5    25.1    31.6    43.5    56.3    50.3    56.2    54.4    53.4    35.2    65.7    56.2    60.4    74.1    60.5   192.3    62.4    69.3
Deferred Liabilities          0.0    50.6     0.0     4.9     0.0    58.7     0.0    63.8      0.0   126.1     0.0    36.4     0.0    56.2     0.0   182.1      0.0   416.5            u
Toal      & labijtl        2269.2  2314.0  3133.4  3505.9  4595.2  4706.9  5987.7  6294.9  7295.5  7526.7  8894.5  8614.1  10358.7 10931.4  11828.2 12336.2 11327.5  13592.4



- 38  -                                           Annex  6
Page I of 6
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(Credit 1633-BD)
Performance Indicators of Proiect PBSs
KISHOREGONJ PBS
Energization date:30-03-90
FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94
Electricity Purchased (MWh)           N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A        18      844    4164    6272    9246
Electricity Sold (MWh)                N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A         6      718    3002    5046    8021
Average Tarrifs (Tk/kWh)              N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A      N/A      2.54     2.67    2.68     2.74
System Loss(%)                        N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A    64.6%    13.9%    27.4%    19.1%    13.3%
Load Factor (%)                       N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A      N/A      N/A    17.8%    21.3%    27.6%
Coilection (%)                        N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A    66.2%    73.5%    77.7%    85.8%   101.1%
Accounts Receivable (Months)          N/A      N/A     N/A      N/A       2.4      3.6      3.6      3.8     2.5
Accounts Payable to BPDB (Months)     N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A       1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0
NARSHINGDI-II PBS
Energization date:05-04-90
FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94
Electricity Purchased (MWh)           N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A         5     918    4259    6137   10544
Electricity Sold (MWh)                N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A         5     528    2330    4463    7158
Average Tarrifs (Tk/kWh)              N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A      N/A      2.71     2.60    2.52     2.54
System Loss (%)                       N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A      N/A    40.1%   44.7%   26.8%   32.1%
Load Factor (%)                       N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A      N/A      N/A    29.8%    18.2%    22.8%
Collection (%)                        N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A    35.1%   76.3%    74.8%    86.5%    90.6%
Accounts Receivable (Months)          N/A      N/A     N/A      N/A      57.6      3.3      4.0      3.7     3.5
Accounts Payable to BPDB (Months)     N/A      N/A     N/A      N/A      N/A       1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0
NAOGAON PBS
Energization date: 19-04-90
FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94
Electricity Purchased (MWh)           N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A       557    4911    8810   13099   19640
Electricity Sold (MWh)                N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A       235    3543    7705    11376   17213
Average Tarrifs (Tk/kWh)              N/A      N/A     N/A      N/A      N/A      2.64     2.57    2.56     2.50
System Loss (%)                       N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A    57.8%    27.6%    12.2%    12.9%    12.4%
Load Factor (%)                       N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A      N/A    31.1%    42.3%    29.6%    34.7%
Col'ection (%)                        N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A    30.2%    82.9%    92.5%    94.6%    96.1%
Accounts Receivable (Months)          N/A      N/A     N/A      N/A       3.2      2.8      2.2     2.1       1.9
Accounts Payable to BPDB (Months)     N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A       1.8      2.1      1.0      0.9      1.0



- 39 -                                            Annex 6
Page 2 of 6
SYLHET PBS
Energization date:02-06-90
FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94
Electricity Purchased (MWh)           N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A       681    2297    4124    6128
Electricity Sold (MWh)                N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A       472    1871    3370    5171
Average Tarrifs (Tk/kWh)              N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A      2.43     2.35     2.34     2.30
System Loss (%)                       N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A    30.2%    18.3%    17.8%    15.6%
Load Factor (9)                       N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A      N/A    24.7%    30.6%    13.5%
Collection (%)                        N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A    70:3%    89.8%    93.3%    95.1%
Accounts Receivable (Months)          N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A       1.6      2.1      2.0      1.9
Accounts Payable to BPDB (Months)     N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A       1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0
LAXMIPUR PBS
Energization date: 16-08-90
FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94
Electricity Purchased (MWh)           N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A      417      957    2816    4832
Electricity Sold (MWh)                N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A      348      831    2265    4066
Average Tarrifs (Tk/kWh)              N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A      2.38     2.37     2.45     2.50
System Loss (%)                       N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A    13.8%    11.4%    18.8%    16.5%
Load Factor (%)                       N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A    18.4%    22.0%    24.3%
Collection (%)                        N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A   131.0%    94.0%    87.7%   92.9%
Accounts Receivable (Months)          N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A       0.9      1.5      2.2      2.0
Accounts Payable to BPDB (Months)     N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A        1.7     1.0      1.0      1.0
BARISAL-1 PBS
Energization date:01-09-90
FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94
Electricity Purchased (MWh)           N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A      226    1156    2217    3448
Electricity Sold (MWh)                N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A       171      903     1843    3032
Average Tarrifs (Tk/kWh)              N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A      2.30     2.35     2.37     2.36
System Loss (%)                       N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A    24.1%    21.6%    16.2%    12.1%
Load Factor (%)                       N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A      N/A      N/A      8.0%    26.9%
Collection (%)                        N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A    79.1%   85.0%    95.9%   93.7%
Accounts Receivable (Months)          N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A       1.3      2.5      1.6      1.8
Accounts Payable to BPDB (Months)     N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A       1.1      1.0      1.0      1.0
PATUAKHALI PBS
Energization date: 10-09-92
|  FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94
Electricity Purchased (MWh)           N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A      N/A      N/A       123    1063
Electricity Sold (MWh)                N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A      N/A        92      836
Average Tarrifs (Tk/kWh)              N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A      N/A      N/A      2.53     2.61
System Loss (%)                       N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A      N/A      N/A    23.7%    21.3%
Load Factor (%)                       N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A      N/A    80.9%    18.6%
Collection (%)                        N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A      N/A    90.9%    88.9%
Accounts Receivable (Months)          N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A      N/A      N/A       1.1      1.6
Accounts Payable to BPDB (Months)     N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A      N/A      N/A       1.0      1.0



-40-                                            Annex 6
Page 3 of 6
MESSORE PBS-I
Energization date:26-06-81
FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91    FY92   FY93   FY94
Electricity Purchsed (MWh)         12644   13671   16787   20031   18542   21900   26143   28961   29593
Electricity Sold (MWh)              9776   10702   13701   17232   16009   18965   22721   25304   25964
Average Tarrifs (IV}Wh)             2.08     1.71    2.22    2.25    2.45    2.57    2.54    2.53    2.54
System Loss (%)                     22.5%   22.2%   18.2%   13.8%   13.5%   13.2%    12.9%    12.5%    12.3%
Load Factor (%)                      N/A     N/A     N/A      N/A    29.8%    34.3%   36.0%    31.6%    33.0%
Collection (%)                      95.0%   96.9%   94.4%   98.8%   97.6%   100.1%   98.8%    98.3%   98.8%
Accounts Receivable (Months)         3.4      3.4     3.0      2.3     2.6      2.0     1.9      1.9     2.0
Accounts Payable to BPDB (Montds)    11.4     1.6      1.7     2.0     1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0
RANGPUR-I PBS
Energization date: 11-03-84
FY86   FY87   FYS8    FY89   FY90   FY91    FY92   FY93   FY94
Electricity Purchased (M%)          4261    7760   10483   11757   10518   13518   19835   18652   22762
Electricity Sold (MWh)              3489    5259    7391    9693    8641   11593   16231   15928   19812
Average Tarrifs (Tk/kWh)             1.88    1.77    2.25    2.27    2.58    2.68    2.65    2.69    2.65
System Loss (%)                     17.9%   32.1%   29.4%    17.4%    17.6%   14.1%   18.0%   14.4%    13.0%
Load Factor (%)                      N/A     N/A      N/A     N/A    31.3%   39.0%   55.0%   41.8%    39.7%
Colloction (%)                      76.6%   76.9%   78.8%    80.4%   102.0%   96.2%   89.9%   103.6%   99.4%
Accounts Receiable (Months)           3.9     5.2     5.6      6.6     6.1      4.9     4.8      4.2      3.6
Account Payable to BPDB (Months)     15.1     4.1     3.4      2.8     2.1      1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0
BOGRA PBS
Energization dato:23-09-86
FY36   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91    FY92   FY93   FY94
Electricity Purchased (MWh)          N/A      904    4893   10145   11878   17172   20983   24304   30342
Eloctricity Sold (MWh)               N/A      767    4094    8398   10301   14439   17856   20219   25335
Average Tarrifs (TCMWh)              N/A     1.53    2.00    2.09    2.37    2.46    2.45    2.47    2.48
System Loss (%)                      N/A    14.0%   16.1%   17.1%   13.1%   15.8%    14.8%    16.7%    15.2%
Load Factor (%)                      NIA     N/A      N/A     N/A     N/A      N/A    34.0%   35.2%   39.3%
Collection (%)                       N/A    84.9%   83.7%   85.6%   97.9%   91.8%   98.5%   94.2%   100.7%
Accounts Receivable (Months)         N/A      2.0     2.3      3.0     2.6      2.8     2.4      2.8     2.1
Accounts Payable to BPDB (Months)    N/A    -0.5      0.9      2.5     1.0      0.3    -0.2      1.0      1.0
CHANDPUR PBS
Energization date: 14-12-I1
FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91    FY92   FY93   FY94
Electricity Purchsed (MWh)          8561    9816   11095   13673   12109   14027   14915   16795   19947
Electricity Sold (MWh)              6110    7478    8859   10756   10096   12111   13070   14275   17378
Average Tarrifs (TkckWh)             1.89    1.65    2.09    2.11    2.38    2.56    2.54    2.55    2.55
Sydem Lou (%)                   2|.0%    23.6%    19.9%   21.1%    16.3%    13.4%    12.1%   14.7%    12.9%
Load Factor (%)                      N/A     N/A      N/A     N/A    34.6%   27.9%    30.0%    30.6%    31.9%
Collection (%)                      95.2%   89.4%   95.0%   86.9%   103.6%  100.9%   102.8%    98.2%    98.8%
Accounts Receivable (Months)          2.9     3.6     3.2      3.8     2.9      2.3     1.7      1.8      1.7
Accounb Payable to BPDB (Months)      3.7     2.6      1.0     1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0



- 41  -                                          Annex  6
Page 4 of 6
HOBIGONJ PBS
Energization date:02-05-82
.   FY86   FY87   FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94
Electricity Purchased (MWh)         12889   14684   16455   18889   19335   21621   22703   26664   29787
Electricity Sold (MWh)              11093   12675   14324   16062   16813   19048   20032   23896   27148
Average Tarrifs (Tk/kWh)             2.33     1.70    2.23    2.27    2.47      2.64     2.61    2.63     2.61
System Loss(%)                       13.8%    13.5%    12.6%    14.8%    12.8%    11.7%    11.6%    10.2%  8.9%
Load Factor (%)                      N/A      N/A     N/A      N/A    39.6%    46.5%    47.0%    48.4%    49.8%
Collection (%)                      97.0%    98.1%   91.2%   95.8%    98.0%    97.0%   100.4%    99.2%    93.2%
Accounts Receivable (Months)          1.9      2.1     2.6      2.8     2.6      2.4      2.2     1.9      2.0
Accounts Payable to BPDB (Months)     3.1      0.5     1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0
PABNA-II PBS
Energization date:21-01-82
| FY86   FY87    FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91    FY92   FY93    FY94
Electricity Purchased (MWh)          6366   10057   13355   14574   14825   14140   13262   11741   14191
Electricity Sold (MWh)               5382    8719   11772   12596   12868   12050   11387   10159   11689
Average Tarrifs (Tk/kWh)             2.31    1.76    2.30    2.30    2.56    2.61    2.52    2.47    2.49
System Loss (%)                      15.2%   13.1%   11.7%   13.5%   13.1%   14.6%   13.9%   17.1%   16.6%
Load Factor (%)                      N/A      N/A     N/A      N/A    38.5%   47.2%   41.5%   37.2%    38.9%
Collection (%)                      90.3%    89.6%    89.3%    91.2%    91.9%    93.2%    98.3%   110.1%  103.2%
Accounts Receivable (Months)          3.3      2.9     3.0      3.7     4.1      4.9      1.7     4.9      4.0
Accounts Payable to BPDB (Months)     6.8      2.0     1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0
FENI PBS
Energization date: 16-02-84
FY86   FY87   FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94
Electricity Purchased (MWh)          4637    7503    9481   11118   12472   14162   17158   20326   26425
Electricity Sold (MWh)               3203    5258    6643    8079    9301   11394   14214   16807   21995
Average Tarrifs (Tk/kWh)             1.82     1.55    1.91     1.98    2.32     2.54    2.51     2.54    2.54
System Loss (%)                     30.6%    30.0%    30.0%    27.0%    25.0%    19.4%    17.0%    18.2%    16.8%
Load Factor (%)                      N/A      N/A     N/A      N/A    29.1%    32.7%    36.0%    34.5%    38.4%
Collection (%)                      81.9%    86.5%    83.7%   89.6%    86.0%   103.0%   101.7%   100.9%    95.2%
Accounts Receivable (Months)          3.7      3.5     4.2      4.5     5.2      3.5      2.7     2.3      2.3
Accounts Payable to BPDB (Months)     5.3      2.5     1.9      2.2      1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0
MYMENSINGH-I PBS
Energization date: 16-03-84
FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91    FY92   FY93    FY94
Electricity Purchased (MWh)          3907    5356    7433   11207   10961   17844   19553   23871   27370
Electricity Sold (MWh)               3078    4057    5846    9644    9487   15574   17936   19878   23321
Average Tarrifs (Tk/kWh)             2.48     1.63    2.06    2.09     2.34     2.49     2.48    2.58     2.60
System Loss (%)                     20.8%   24.0%    21.1%    13.7%    13.2%    12.5%    8.1%    16.6%    14.8%
Load Factor (%)                      N/A      N/A     N/A      N/A    19.3%    21.4%    26.0%    21.3%    24.3%
Collection (%)                      61.4%   79.2%    80.5%    75.6%   110.5%    85.0%    85.5%  109.3%   102.2%
Accounts Receivable (Months)          5.9      6.5     5.5      6.4     4.3      4.4      5.6     3.6      2.8
Accounts Payable to BPDB (Months)    11.8      7.4     2.6      5.2      1.0     1.0      1.7     1.0      1.0



-42  -                                          Annex 6
Page 5 of 6
DINAJPUR-I PBS
Energization date:01-1 1-84
FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91    FY92   FY93   FY94
Electricity Purchased (MWh)         4265    8704   12052   14620   14928   19150   24568   23028   27358
Eloctricity Sold (MWh)              3252    6979    9427   12028   12208   15968   20773   19567   23488
Average Tarrifs (Tk/kWh)             1.62    1.83    2.28    2.31    2.60    2.67    2.65    2.67    2.66
System Loss (%)                     23.5%    19.7%   21.7%    17.6%   18.1%   16.5%    15.3%    14.9%   14.1%
Load Factor (%)                      N/A     N/A      N/A     N/A    35.5%   39.8%   38.0%    39.8%   44.5%
Collection (%)                      91.0%   86.8%   90.7%   95.7%   94.4%   98.0%   96.9%   100.5%   98.6%
Accounts Receivable (Months)          2.6     2.7     2.7      2.6     3.0      2.5     2.3      2.2     2.1
Accounts Payable to BPDB (Months)    13.0     2.2     2.0      1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0
JOYPURHAT PBS
Energization date:09-02-86
FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91    FY92   FY93   FY94
Electricity Purchased (MWh)          N/A      830    3653    5603    5875    9007   11933   12029   15622
Electricity Sold (MWh)               N/A    1155    2788    4163    4902    7940   10561   10547   13032
Average Tarrifs (Tk/kWh)             N/A     1.67    2.07    2.10    2.31      2.44    2.47    2.48    2.48
System Loss (%)                      N/A    39.9%   23.5%   25.5%    16.3%    11.7%    11.3%    12.1%    15.1%
Load Factor (%)                      N/A     N/A      N/A     N/A     N/A      N/A    25.0%   42.2%    30.9%
Collection (%)                       N/A    90.0%   90.0%   74.0%   95.1%   99.4%    95.9%   99.8%   99.8%
Accounts Receivable (Months)         N/A      2.0      1.9     4.6     4.1      2.5     2.4      2.3      1.8
Accounts Payable to BPDB (Months)    N/A   -14.1      4.0      1.0     0.7      1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0
PIROJPUR PBS
Energization date:08-05-86
FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93    FY94
Electricity Purchased (MWh)          N/A      553    1333    1730    2053    2981    3377    4811    5996
Electricity Sold (MWh)               N/A      376     814    1237    1699    2313    2697    3501    4915
Average Tarrifs (Tk/kWh)             N/A     1.62    1.98    2.08    2.29    2.56    2.55       2.57    2.61
System Loss(%)                       N/A    30.4%   38.1%   27.9%   16.5%   21.8%    19.6%   26.9%    18.0%
Load Factor (%)                      N/A     N/A      N/A     N/A     N/A      N/A    28.0%   30.0%   24.8%
Collection (%)                       N/A    94.7%   55.9%   76.8%   86.9%   89.7%   103.4%   97.0%   95.2%
Accounts Receivable (Months)         N/A      1.7     5.9      6.5     6.1      5.3     4.1      3.4      3.2
Accounts Payable to BPDB (Months)    N/A   -12.3       1.6     2.1     1.0      0.5     0.9      1.0     0.9
JAMALPUR-1 PBS
Energization date:01-06-86
FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91    FY921 FY93   FY94
Electricity Purchased (MWh)          N/A      749    2801    4976    5531    9906   12284   12671   15218
Electricity Sold (MWh)               N/A      571    2253    4346    4613    8692   10813   11184   13365
Average Tarrifs (Tk/kWh)             N/A     1.55    1.98    2.07    2.30    2.46    2.43    2.47    2.48
SystemLoss(%)                        N/A    22.7%    19.1%   12.3%   16.3%    12.1%    11.8%    11.5%   12.2%
Load Factor (%)                      N/A     N/A      N/A     N/A      N/A     N/A    24.0%    22.9%    22.9%
Collection (%)                       N/A    83.8%    81.9%   71.9%   93.2%   88.2%   100.8%  101.2%   94.5%
Accounts Receivable (Months)         N/A      2.1     2.6      4.7     4.7      3.9     3.1      2.8      3.0
Accounts Payable to BPDB (Months)    N/A      1.5      1.0     1.0      1.1     1.0     0.3      1.0      1.0



- 43                                             Annex 6
Page 6 of 6
THAKURGAON PBS
Energization date: 11-09-86
FY86   FY87   FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94
Electricity Purchased (MWh)           N/A      772    2153    4077    6232    9857   15230   15428   18762
Electricity Sold (MWh)                N/A      605    1831    3590    8154    8195   12956   13226   16720
Average Tarrifs (Tk/kWh)              N/A     1.78     2.28    2.31     2.36     2.47    2.45     2.44     2.44
System Loss (%)                       N/A    21.4%    14.4%    11.6%    17.0%    16.7%    14.8%    14.1%   10.9%
Load Factor (%)                       N/A     N/A      N/A      N/A     N/A      N/A    35.0%    37.0%    26.5%
Collection (%)                        N/A    36.4%   100.1%   85.8%    76.3%    80.0%   108.0%   107.5%   104.8%
Accounts Receivable (Months)          N/A      7.6      1.9     2.7      4.5      5.5      3.1     1.7      2.0
Accounts Payable to BPDB (Months)     N/A      0.6      1.0      1.0     2.5      2.5      1.0      1.0     1.0
ALL PBS
| FY90   FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94
Electricity Purchased (MWh)                  38129  575374  685054  773503  906250
Electricity Sold (MWh)                       31272  480767  576135  651832  765174
Average Tarrifs (Tk/KWh)                         -    2.53      2.52    2.53     2.53
System Loss (%)                               16.8%    16.3%    15.7%    15.6%    15.5%
Collection (%)                               96.0%    95.0%   97.2%   100.6%   99.0%
Accounts Receivable (Months)                   3.4      3.3      3.1     2.6      2.4
Accounts Payable to BPDB (Months)               1.3     1.0      1.0     1.0      1.1
Note: Energy sales, as reported, exclude energy consumed by PBSs' own facilities. As these are not included in PBS System loss either,
the reported System loss figures are approximations. The issue has been taken up with REB and will be addressed during future
supervisions of the on-going Third Rural Electrification Project (Cr. 2129-BD).



- 44 -
Annex 7
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(Credit 1633-BD)
Estimate of Economic Rate of Return
Fiscal  Capital   O&M    Cost of Consumer  Total    WtP       Other    Total   Balance
Year Investment  Cost  Electricity nvestment  Cost   Benefits  Benefits  Benefits
(Tk.M)  (Tk.M)  (Tk.M)  (Tk.M)  (Tk.M)  (Tk.M)   (Tk.M)   (Tk.M)   (Tk.M)
1986      6.8      0.0     25.3     21.2     53.3     42.0      2.7     44.7    -8.6
1987     18.5      0.2     63.2     26.1    108.0    98.3       7.4    105.7    -2.3
1988    302.3      0.8    112.2     22.6    437.9    175.4     13.2    188.6  -249.3
1989    455.8      9.8    160.8     27.6    654.0    252.5     21.1    273.6  -380.4
1990    341.4     23.5    166.3    29.6    560.8    281.9      20.0    301.9  -258.9
1991    301.6     33.7    242.3     43.8    621.4    395.2     31.4    426.6  -194.8
1992    118.6     42.8    322.7    46.2    530.3    527.7    41.8    569.5        39.2
1993    411.3     46.4    369.6     37.9    865.2    607.6     37.5    645.1  -220.1
1994    290.8     58.7    494.6     40.9    885.0    823.0     50.2    873.2   -11.8
1995              67.4    504.6     45.9    617.9    839.1     53.6    892.7    274.8
1996              67.4    514.7     49.8    631.9    855.7     56.4    912.1    280.2
1997              67.4    525.0     50.8    643.2    872.6     60.1    932.7    289.5
1998              67.4    535.5     51.8    654.7    890.1     63.8    953.9    299.2
1999              67.4    546.1     52.8    666.3    907.8     67.7    975.5    309.2
2000              67.4    557.0     53.9    678.3    925.6      72.9    998.5    320.2
2001              67.4    568.0     54.9    690.3    944.0      73.9   1017.9    327.6
2002              67.4    579.7     56.0    703.1    963.3     75.0   1038.3    335.2
2003              67.4    591.2     57.2    715.8    982.6     76.1   1058.7    342.9
2004              67.4    603.0     58.3    728.7   1002.3      77.2   1079.5    350.8
2005              67.4    615.0     59.5    741.9   1022.5     78.4   1100.9    359.0
2006              67.4    627.2     60.7    755.3   1042.7    79.9   1122.6    367.3
2007              67.4    639.8     61.9    769.1   1063.5      81.5   1145.0    375.9
2008              67.4    652.5     63.1    783.0   1084.6    83.1   1167.7    384.7
2009              67.4    665.6     64.4    797.4   1106.3     84.8   1191.1    393.7
2010              67.4    678.7     65.7    811.8   1128.3      86.5   1214.8    403.0
2011              67.4    692.3     67.0    826.7   1150.9      88.2   1239.1    412.4
2012              67.4    706.2     68.3    841.9   1173.7     90.0   1263.7    421.8
2013              67.4    720.0     69.7    857.1   1196.6    91.8   1288.4   431.3
2014              67.4    734.4     71.1    872.9   1220.3      93.6   1313.9    441.0
2015              67.4    749.0     72.5    888.9   1244.5    95.5   1340.0   451.1
Economic Rate of Return:      13.6%
WtP Estimates
Tariff          Average             WtP             Economic          Assumed
Category       Consumption         Estimate           Benefit         Ec. Benefit
(kWh/y)          (Tk/kWh)          (Tk/kWh)          (Tk/kWh)
Residential          350             30.72              11.15             11.10
Commercial           400             30.54              12.42             12.40
Irrigation          5000              7.54              5.04               5.00
Industry           17000              6.93              4.43               4.40












,: C. :'     i C-      - .I
D    2    ~~~~~~~~~1             1 .- T . I -     c i   |N   1 



