- C  DIT NUMBER 1633 BD
Project Agreement
(Second Rural Electrification Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION BOARD
Dated                              ,1985


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1633 BD
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                                198 , between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and the
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION BOARD (hereinafter called REB).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between People's Republic of Bangladesh (the Borrower)
and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
seventy six million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 76,400,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that REB
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Assoclation as are
set forth in this Agreement;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and REB, the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available
to REB on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS REB, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context othe-wise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) REB declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity


﻿-2-
with  appropriate   administrative, finncial, engineering     and
public utilities practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, REB shall carry out the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Association and REB.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be govern..., by the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Before the completion of a given Scheme under
the Project, REB shall:
(a) establish a New PPBS or extend the area covered by an
Existing PPBS, as the case may be, with by-laws satisfactory to
the Association, to assume responsibility for such Scheme; and
(b) promptly thereafter, enter into a Sub-loan Agreement
with such New or Existing PPBS, as the case may be, providing for
the transfer of the completed Scheme to such PPBS under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association including, inter alia,
a repayment period for the principal representing the cost of
such Scheme of 25 years after a 5-year grace period and an
interest rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum during the said grace period and an interest rate of three
percent (3%) per annum thereafter; provided, however, that such
terms and conditions shall be subject to adjustment as necessary
in light of the findings and recommendations of the subsidies and
tariffs study referred to in Section 4.01 of the Development
Credit   Agreement.  Each   such  Sub-loan   Agreement  shall   be
substantially in the form of a model Sub-loan Agreement
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.04. (a)   Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 2.03 of this Agreement, REB undertakes that, urless the
Association shall otherwise agree, any Sub-loan will be made on
terms whereby REB shall obtain, by written agreement or other
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests


﻿-3-
of the Association and of REB, including, in the case of any such
Sub-loan and to the extent that it shall be appropriate: (i) the
right to require each PPBS to operate the Scheme transferred to
it with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound
administrative, financial and public utilities standards and to
maintain adequate records; (ii) the right to require that the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit be used exclu-
sively in the carrying out of the Project; (iii) the right of
the Association and of REB to inspect such goods and the sites,
works, plants and construction included in the Project, the
operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents; (iv)
the right to obtain all such information as the Association or
REB shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing, to the
administration, operations and financial condition of each PPBS
and the benefits to be derived from the Project; and (v) the
right of REB to suspend or terminate the right of each PPBS to
operate the scheme upon failure by such PPBS to perform its
obligations under its agreement with REB.
(b) REB shall exercise its rights in relation to each Sub-
loan in such manner as to (i) protect the interests of the
Association and of REB, (ii) comply with its obligations under
this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and (iii)
achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.05. REB shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.06. REB shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, REB shall not take or cincur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof,.
Section 2.07. (a) REB shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) REB shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the


﻿-4-
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by REB of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of REB
Section 3.01. REB shall, and shall cause each PPBS to, carry
on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with
sound administrative, financial and public utilities practices
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. REB shall, and shall cause each PPBS to, at
all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, equipment
and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed,
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accor-
dance with sound engineering, financial and public utilities
practices.
Section 3.03. REB shall, and shall cause each PPBS to,
take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other
provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appro-
priate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) REB shall, and shall cause each PPBS to,
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices its operations and financial
condition.
(b) REB shall, and shall cause each PPBS to:
(i)  have   its  accounts   and   financial  statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) and the Special Account
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;


﻿-5-
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so
audited, (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested, and
(C) plans for corrective action as necessary based
upon said auditors' comments; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and financial statements
as well as the audit thereof and said records, as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements
of expenditure, REL shall, and shall cause each PPBS to:
(i) maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii) retain,   until   at  least   one  year  after   the
Association has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account was made,   all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives    to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounits are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a s-parate
opinion by the said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures have been used for the purpose
for which they were provided.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the A.sociation may otherwise
agree, REB shall ensure that in any fiscal year:


﻿-6-
(i.)  its internally generated funds are not less than
1.5 times its debt service requirement; and
(ii) beginning in fiscal year 1986 its administrative
costs and the amounts paid by REB as interest and
other charges on its debt shall not exceed 75% of
the aggregate amounts received by REB as interest
on its loans and investments and as other reve-
nues.
(b) For the purpose of this Section:
(    the term "internally generated funds" means gross
revenues from all sources related to REB's operat-
ions, and the repayments received on loans by REB,
less all expenses incurred on account of such
operations, including expenses of administration,
taxes or payments in lieu of taxes, if any, and
dividends, but before any provision is made for
depreciation and interest and other charges on
debt;
(ii)  the term "debt" means any debt incurred by REB
maturing by its terms more than one year after the
date on which it is originally incurred;
(iii)  the term "incurring *of debt" includes the assump-
tion and guarantee of debt and any renewal, exten-
sion or modification of the terms of the debt or
of the assumption or guarantee thereof;
(iv) debt shall be deemed to be incurred (A) under a
contract, loan agreement or other instrument pro-
viding for such debt or for the modification of
its terms of payment, on the date and to the
extent the amount of the loan is drawn down and
outstanding pursuant to such contract, agreement
or instrument, and (B) under a guarantee agree-
ment, on the date the agreement providing for such
guarantee has been entered into but only to the
extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding;
(v) the   term  "debt service requirement" means the
aggregate   amount   of   amortization   "including
sinking fund payments, if any), interest payable
and other charges on debt; and


﻿-7-
(vi) whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of the currency of
the Borrower debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made at the prevailing
official rate of exchange at which such other cur-
rency is, at the time of such val.uation, obtain-
able by REB for the purposes of servicing such
debt or, in the absence of such rate of exchange,
at a rate acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree:
(a) REB shall cause each PPBS to take all such measures as
shall be necessary to ensure that, until such time as the revised
tariffs referred to in Section 4.01 (c) of the Development Credit
Agreement are implemented pursuant to the provisions of said
Section, the average price per kWh sold by such PPBS shall not be
less than the average price per kWh sold by BPDB.
(b) REB shall cause each PPBS to take all such measures
(including, without limitation, adjustments of the structure or
levels of its retail tariffs) as shall be required to produce, in
each fiscal year: (i) as of the sixth year of operation of the
respective scheme, gross revenues from all sources related to
such PPBS's operations sufficient to meet its electricity pur-
chases, administrative expenses, depreciation and interest ex-
penses; and (ii) as of the seventh year of operation of the
respective scheme, funds from internal sources equivalent to not
less than 20% of the annual average of such PPBS's capital expen-
ditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, during such fiscal
year and the preceding and next following fiscal years.
(c) Three months before the start of eaTh fiscal year, REB
shall, on the basis of forecasts to be prepared by each PPBS on a
basis satisfactory to the Association, cause such PPBS to review
the adequacy of its tariffs to meet the requirement set forth in
the preceding paragraph (b) for the current and next following
fiscal year and shall furnish to the Association a copy of such
review upon its completion.
(d) For the purpose of this Section:
(i) The term "funds from internal sources" means, in
respect of each PPBS, the difference between:


﻿-8-
(1)  the sum of revenues from all sources related
to operations, consumer deposits and consumer
contributions in aid of construction, net
non-operating income and any reduction in
working capital other than cash; and
(2) the sum of all expenses related to opera-
tions, including administration, adequate
maintenance and taxes and payments in lieu of
taxes (excluding provision for depreciation
and other non-cash aperating charges), debt
service requirements, all cash dividends and
other cash distributions of surplus, increase
in working capital other than cash and other
cash outflows other than capital expendi-
tures.
(ii) The term "capital expenditures" means, in respect
of each PPBS, all expenditures incurred on account
of fixed or capital assets related to its opera-
tions.
Section 4.04. (a) REB shall ensure that the account payable
in each PPBS for the electricity purchased from BPDB shall, at no
time, exceed the equivalent of the preceding two months purchases
of electricity by such PPBS.
(b) REB shall make available to each PPBS, as short-term
loans, all such funds as may be required by such PPBS: (i) as
working capital for its operations; and (ii) to provide credit to
the customers for the purchase of appliances and house wiring.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of REB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following tjo dates:


﻿- 9 -
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date 30 years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
REB of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
For REB:
Rural Electrifeation Board
No. 26 Road No. 10A
Dhanmondi R.A.
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address:                   Telex:
RURELEC                           642205 REBD BJ
Dhaka
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of REB may be taken or executed by the Chair-
man, Member (Finance), or Director (Finance), REB or such other
person or persons as said Chairman, Member or Director shall
designate in writing, and REB shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
7,      Regional Vice President
South Asia
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION BOARD
ByAe
Authorized Representative


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures  described   in, Part  A   hereof,  goods  manufactured   in
Bangladesh may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56
of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works related to lines and substations, including pole
foundation and control room building, shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally under procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Equipment estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$100,000 each, up to an aggregate amount of $750,000 equivalent,
may be procured under contracts awarded through limited inter-
national bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and com-
parison of bids invited from a list of at least three qualified
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with
the procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
3.   Contracts for equipment estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $100,000 each, up to an aggregate amount of
$750,000 equivalent, may be awarded following competitive bidding
advertised locally in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Association.


﻿- 13 -
Part D.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3
(the Special Account Schedule) to the Development Credit
Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding paragraphs (a) and (b)
shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Association
has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis
of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist REB in carrying out the Project, REB
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on
the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.   REB shall: (a) by December 31, 1985, appoint consultants to
carry out a study to identify areas of high system losses in
PBSs; (b) by June 30, 1986, cause such consultants to recommend
dated action programs to remedy each of the specific causes of
system losses; and (c) thereafter implement such programs as
shall be agreed with the Association.
2.   REB shall, not later than December 31, 1985, introduce
appropriate load management measures and regulations, satisfac-
tory to the Association, so as to ensure an adequate annual
system load factor.
3.   REB shall: (a) not later than June 30, 1986, propose a dated
program, satisfactory to the Association, including the installa-
tion of capacitors, to ensure that the power factor does not fall
below 0.85; and (b) thereafter carry out such program.
4.   REB shall furnish to the Association, not later than 12
months before the commercial operation of each PPBS is due to
commence, a program for the recruitment and training of the staff
required for each such PPBS and a timetable for implementation of
said program.
5.   REB shall ensure that any rights of way acquired for the
purposes of the Project will not have any adverse impact on
wildlife preserves.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   /        day of          ,
198
FOR SECRETARY


