CREDIT NUMBER 1633 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Rural Electrification Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                      7 198S


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1633 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   A;!Aed4          /,        198S, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the Rural Electrifi-
cation Board established by the Borrower's Rural Electrification
Board Ordinance 1977 (hereinafter called REB) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will
make available to REB the proc6eds of the Credit as provided in
this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and REB;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and REB of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;


﻿-2-
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and REB pursuant to Sec-
tion 3.01 (b)  t this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(d) "BPDB" means the Bangladesh Power Development Board
established and operating under the laws of the Borrower;
(e) "PBS" means    a Palli Bidyut Samity, a       cooperative
organization established or to be established to operate and
manage a Scheme to be installed or expanded; and "PESs" mean the
Palli Bidyut Samities collectively;
(f) "PPBS" means a Project PBS established or to be
established to operate and manage a Scheme to be installed or
expanded under the Project; and "PPBSs" means the Project PBSs
collectively;
(g) "New PPBS" means each of the Kishoreganj, Naogaon,
Sylhet, Patuakhali-Barguna, Narsingdi and Barisal PPBSs;
(h) "Existing PPBS" means each of the Laxmipur, Bogra,
Rangpur-I, Jessore and Rangpur-II PPBSs;
(i) "Project Areas" means collectively the areas for which
the New PPBSs are responsible and the extended areas for which
the Existing PPBSs are responsible;
(j) "Sub-loan" means a loan made, or proposed to be made,
by REB to a PPBS pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.03 (b)
of the Project Agreement; and
(k) "Scheme" means an area coverage rural electrification
scheme.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section  2.01.   The  Association  agrees  to   lend  to  the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in


﻿-3-
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to seventy-six million four hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 76,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Projer;t,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in the Bangladesh
Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1991
or such later date as the Association shall eatablish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time.   The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be
cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the   Association  shall  reasonably  request;   (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.


﻿-4-
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 15
and October 15 commencing April 15, 1996, and ending October 15,
2035. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on October 15, 2005 shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restric-
tion upon any of its other obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement, shall cause REB to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of
REB therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable REB to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
REB under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and REB, under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association and which shall include, inter
alia: (i) a repayment period of 25 years after a 5-year grace
period; (ii) an interest rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum during the said grace period, and an
interest rate of two percent (2%) per annum thereafter; and (iii)
the foreign exchange risk to be borne by the Borrower;
provided, however, that such terms and conditions shall be
subject to adjustment as necessary in light of the findings and
recommendations of the subsidies and tariffs study referred to in
Section 4.01 of this Agreement.


﻿-5-
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1
to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respec-
tively) shall be carried out by REB pursuant to Section 2.05 of
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause BPDB to timely expand
its transmission and distribution capacity so as to ensure that
adequate power supply will be available to the PPBSs at all
times.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall:
(a) within a time-frame, under arrangements and in accor-
dance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Association,
carry out, or cause to be carried out, a study of: (i) the subsi-
dies provided to the rural electrification program and of (ii)
the bulk and retail tariffs to be applied in the power sector,
taking into account the long-run marginal cost of supplying
electricity and other financial considerations;
(b) promptly furnish to the Association the findings and
recommendations of such study;


﻿-6-
(c) by December 31, 1986 or such later date as the Associa-
tion may agree, the Borrower shall implement in phases revis,d
tariffs satisfactory to the Association, based on the recommenda-
tions of such study, and such other measures as the Borrower and
the Association may agree; and
(d)  (i) by March 31, 1986, recalculate the bulk supply
tariff rate for the next fiscal year based on methodology satis-
factory to the Association; and (ii) by July 1, 1986 or such
other date as the Association may agree, implement until such
time as the revised tariffs are introduced pursuant to para-
graph (c) above, a bulk supply tariff rate acceptable to the
Association.
Section 4.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall:
(a) upon transfer of the Schemes to the PPBSs pursuant to
the provisions of Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement, provide
during the first five years of operation of the Schemes, in a
timely manner, such funds as may be required each year to cover
the difference between (A) the, tariffs charged by BPDB to the
PPBSs on the basis of the cost of supplying the PPBSs with power
and (B) the tariff paid for such power by the PPBSs based upon
their respective cost recovery capabilities. To this end, a
formula satisfactory to the Association shall be applied in order
to calculate the amounts to be provided by the Borrower;
(b)  (i)   cause REB to adjust the future lending rates
charged to the PPBSs so as to enable REB to comply with the
provisions of Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement; and (ii)
take all such action as may be necessary to enable REB to comply
with the provisions of Section 4.03 of the Project Agreement; and
(c)  (i)   promptly provide REB as grant contributions the
Borrower's share of the local funds that may be required for the
purposes of the Project; and (ii) as and when required, cover any
deficit derived from REB's operations.
AITICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the folowing additional events are specified:


﻿-7-
(a) REB shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(b) A default shall have occurred in the performance by the
Borrower or by REB of any of their obligations under the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement.
(c) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date  of   the  Development  Credit  Agreement, an    extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
REB will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(d) The Rural Electrification Board Ordinance, 1977 of the
Borrower shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived so as to affect materi4lly and adversely the ability of
REB to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agree-
ment.
(e) The Borrower or any other 4uthority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of REB or for the suspension of its operations.
(f) A subsidiary or any other entity shall have been
created or acquired or taken over by REB, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would materially and Adversely affect
the conduct of REB's business or REB's financial condition or the
efficiency of REB's management and personnel or the carrying out
of the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Association to the Borrower and REB; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (d), (e) and (f) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit


﻿-8-
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and REB pursuant to the provisions of
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement; and
(b) the Project Proforma for carrying out the Project has
been approved by the Borrower.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by REB, and is legally binding upon REB in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and REB and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and REB in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date 90 days after the date of this Agree-
ment is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.04 and 4.01 (c) of this Agreement and the provisions of para-
graph (b) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on the date 30 years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, or any Additional Secretary,
Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section Officer of the
External Resources Division of the Ministry of     Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People's
Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address:                        Telex:
BAHIRSAMPAD                        642226 SETU BJ
Dhaka, Bangladesh
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocati,n of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works               5,500,000         85%
(including
erection and
commissioning)
(2) Equipment,               62,000,000         100% of foreign
vehicles and                               expenditures,
materials                                  100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 70%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(3) Consultants'              4,200,000         100%
and inspection
services
(4) Unallocated               4,700,000
TOTAL              76,400,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and


﻿- 12 -
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
the installation and improvement of its area coverage rural
electrification schemes in the Project Areas.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
(a) Installation of new electricity distribution networks
and expansion of the existing networks, including, inter alia,
33/11 kV substations, 33 kV and 11 kV lines, 400/230 V distri-
bution lines and consumer connections, including associated civil
works.
(b) Rehabilitation of existing distribution systems cur-
rently being operated by BPDB to be taken over by REB.
(c) Provision of support equipment, materials and vehicles.
(d) Provision of consultants' services to assist in (i)
carrying out the Project, (ii) institution-building, and (iii)
carrying out a study on system losses.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1990.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2) and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiv-
alent to SDR 3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
the Association that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdra-
wals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible


﻿- 15 -
expenditures. Each such deposit shall be withdrawn by the Asso-
ciation from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expendi-
tures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) when the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories for the
Project, minus the amount of any outstanding
qualified agreement to reimburse made by the
Association   and   of  any   outstanding   special
commitment   entered   into  by   the   Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall be equal to the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories for the Project shall follow such procedures
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice have been or will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.


﻿- 16 -
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association for crediting to the Credit Account) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. No further deposit by the Association into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made
such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day ofA6
1983
FOR SECRETARY


