Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY   FILE  COPY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION                    Report No P-2555-1E
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S. A.
WTTH THE GUARANTEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
May 15, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Unit - Peso (Mex$)
Since September 1, 1976 the Mexican peso has been floating and
has fluctuated around Mex$ 22.60 to the US Dollar since mid-1977. On
May 4, 1979, the peso traded at 22.83 per US dollar.
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Abbreviations
ACF     =   Average yearly cost of borrowed funds to financieras
(investment banks and investment banking departments of
commercial banks)
BANXICO =   Banco de Mexico
FOGAIN  =   Fondo de Garantia y Fomento a la Industria Mediana y Pequena
(Trust Fund for Guarantees and Development of Medium and
Small Scale Industry)
FOMEX   =   Fondo de Fomento a las Exportaciones de Productos Manufacturados
(Trust Fund for Promotion of Exports of Manufactured Products)
FONEI   =   Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial
(Trust Fund for Industrial Equipment)
IDB     =   Inter-American Development Bank
IFAD    =   International Fund for Agricultural Development
NAFINSA =   Nacional Financiera, S.A.
PEMEX   =   Petroleos Mexicanos S.A. (Mexican Petroleum Company)
PIDER   =   Investment Program for Rural Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Nacional Financiera, S.A. (NAFINSA)
Guarantor:           United Mexican States
Project Executing
Agency:            Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial (FONEI), a Federal
Government trust fund managed by Banco de Mexico, would
carry out the industrial credit project. Studies on
human resources would be coordinated by the Guarantor's
Ministry of Education.
Amount:              US$175 million equivalent
Terms:               Seventeen years, including four of grace, at an
interest of 7.9 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:    For FONEI's ordinary credit operations (about US$163
million of the proposed loan would be applied to such
operations) industrialists would receive loans in pesos
and pay interest at two points above the average cost of
funds to financieras (ACF); for technology subprojects
interest would be three points below the ACF and pollution
control subprojects would be financed at between two
points above and three points below the ACF. Interest
rates would be adjusted every six months to reflect
changes in the ACF. (ACF stood at 16.25 percent in
January 1979.)
Project
Description:       FONEI would provide medium and long term financing
to industrial enterprises through the commercial banking
system to help finance machinery, equipment and services
for high priority industrial projects, including projects
to help develop technology and control pollution. The
Bank loan would finance the foreign exchange component of
FONEI financing over a period of about two years. The
project would also help finance a training program on
industrial project evaluation and supervision for financial
intermediaries and FONEI's staff. A national study of
human resources and technical and vocational training
needs for further industrial development would be included
in the project. The project presents a low level of risk
with respect to the soundness of subprojects it would
finance since FONEI is a mature financial institution;
its institutional objectives may take longer to achieve.
On the whole, the project presents a moderate level of
risk.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost
and Sources of
Financing:                                                          US$ million      %
A.   Total cost of industrial subprojects          733
Financing:
Project Sponsors                          202         27.6
Participating intermediaries              110         15.0
Other local and foreign banks             110         15.0
FONEI, of which:                          311         42.4
Internally generated funds
and local borrowing                  (138)       (18.8)
Bank loan for subprojects              (173)       (23.6)
733       100.0
B.   The cost of training programs for financial interme-
diaries and FONEI staff is estimated at up to
US$500,000 equivalent; half of the cost would be
financed by FONEI from internal resources and half
from the loan;
C.   The cost of studies of human resources and technical
and vocational training needs is estimated at up to
US$4.0 million equivalent; the loan would finance
47 percent of such costs and the Government would
finance the balance.
Projected Loan
Disbursements:
in US$ million
Fiscal Years          1980   1981   1982   1983
Annual                17.6   96.8   52.8    7.8
Cumulative            17.6  114.4  167.2  175.0
Staff Appraisal
Report:            No. 2473b-ME of May 10, 1979



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Nacional Financiera, S.A. (NAFINSA) with the guarantee of United
Mexican States for the equivalent of US$175 million to help finance: (i) the
foreign exchange component of the Industrial Equipment Fund's (FONEI's)
financing over a period of about two years and (ii) the cost of a national
study on human resources and training needs for further industrial development.
The loan would bear interest at 7.9 percent per annum and would have a
repayment period of 17 years, including 4 years of grace. For FONEI's
ordinary credit operations (about US$163 million) resources would be onlent
in pesos with final borrowers paying a fully adjustable interest rate two
points above the average borrowing rate of financieras (ACF); for technology
subprojects, interest would be at three points below the ACF and for pollution
control subprojects interest would be at between two points above and three
points below the ACF. The Government would carry the foreign exchange risk
on the loan amount; FONEI would take the risk on interest and other changes.
PART I: THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        Some of the major features of the Mexican economy were analyzed in
"An Updating Report on the Economy of Mexico" (1110-ME), distributed to the
Executive Directors on March 23, 1976. A special economic mission visited
Mexico in April-May 1977. Its report has been discussed with the Mexican
authorities and is about to be circulated to the Executive Directors. The
discussion which follows reflects the principal and updated findings of the
mission.
Past Performance
3.        For most of the three decades preceding the mid-seventies, Mexico
was outstandingly successful in achieving rapid economic growth while main-
taining stability in prices and the balance of payments. From 1940 to 1970,
average GDP growth exceeded 6 percent per year in real terms, inflation
averaged less than 5 percent per year from the mid-1960s to 1972, and the
dollar value of the peso, fixed in 1954, was maintained until the September
1976 devaluation.  The Government's role in this achievement was to carry
out direct investments in infrastructure and in key industries such as power,
steel and petroleum, while creating a stable regulatory and institutional
framework, as well as good profit prospects, to induce private sector growth.
1/   Part I is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for a
Second Fertilizer Project (R79-68) of March 30, 1979.



- 2 -
4.        This strategy produced rapid growth, but did little to reduce
contrasts within the Mexican economy. While land redistribution under the
reform of 1915 was continued, most of the peasants who received land could
not improve their economic status as they could not benefit from basic
infrastructure, credit and technical assistance. Rapid population growth
made social equity even more difficult to achieve. Population growth in
Mexico accelerated steadily, primarily as a result of reduced death rates,
and reached 3.4 percent per year by 1970. Despite economic growth, the high
demographic growth rate made adequate absorption of the labor force in
productive employment difficult. Some 40 percent of the labor force is
either relatively unproductive and poorly paid, or openly unemployed.
5.        During the 1970s, Mexico experienced increasing public sector
deficits, inflation, large balance of payments deficits, capital flight
and a marked slowdown in the real rate of growth of GDP, which dropped to
less than 2 percent in 1976--the lowest annual growth rate experienced by
Mexico since the mid-thirties. On September 1, 1976 the authorities
abandoned the fixed exchange rate of 12.50 pesos per dollar that had remained
unchanged since 1954 and let the peso float; in recent months it has remained
rather stable at rates fluctuating around 22.60 pesos per dollar. Following
the devaluation, Mexico obtained major support from the IMF. In the last
quarter of 1976, Mexico was able to draw on the Fund for US$480 million. For
1977-79, an Extended Fund Facility accompanied by a comprehensive three-year
stabilization program was negotiated. The new Government ratified the agree-
ment with the IMF shortly after taking office on December 1, 1976, and to
date has complied with the program agreed upon with the IMF.
Current Economic Policy
6.        The present Government inherited a difficult situation.  High
inflation, large public sector deficits, increasing foreign indebtedness and
lack of confidence in economic management indicated a need for economic
stabilization. However, the situation also called for more expansionary
policies; economic activity had slowed down, net private investment was
virtually nil, and the gap between new job creation and growth of the labor
force was increasing. High world prices for petroleum offered profitable
investment opportunities in the petroleum sector; indeed, increased production
for export of these products seemed by far the best way to meet a large part
of Mexico's high debt service requirements in the coming years.
7.        Faced with these conflicting needs and opportunities, the Mexican
authorities have adopted a mixed strategy aimed at reducing lower-priority
public expenditures and increasing public revenues, while proceeding with
petroleum and other high-priority investments.  The objectives of the Govern-
ment's program include control of inflation together with a return to high
rates of economic growth. Better management of public sector expenditures,
more rational pricing and cost control in public sector enterprises, promotion
of private savings, limiting wage increases to justifiable levels, and more
effective cooperation with the private sector are important parts of the
Government's economic strategy.



8.        The measures instituted by the current Administration have produced
good results. Inflation was brought back to 18 percent in 1978, down from an
annual rate of more than 60 percent in the last quarter of 1976, immediately
after the devaluation. The deficit in the current account of the balance of
payments peaked at $4.2 billion in 1975 and declined to $2.0 billion in 1977.
The favorable oil prospects and increasing capital inflows allowed it to
increase again and it is estimated to have been $3.1 billion in 1978.
Public sector net deficit also peaked at 8.6 percent of GDY in 1975 and
declined to 5.4 percent of GDY in 1978. Mobilization of savings by the
banking system has also been recovering at a strong pace. The GDP rate of
growth is estimated at 6.5 percent in 1978 as compared to less than 1 percent
in 1977. The outlook for 1979 is favorable; the rate of growth of the
economy should increase while efforts to control the rate of inflation
will have to be continued; the deficit in the current account of the balance
of payments and the public sector's financial requirements are likely to
remain at the 1978 levels in real terms.
Economic Issues and Prospects
9.        A comprehensive social program is gradually emerging.  It is
aimed at strengthening the political system, improving income distribu-
tion and the living conditions of the poor, increasing public sector
efficiency and accelerating growth. The program takes into account two
overriding economic priorities--energy development and adequate supplies
of foodstuffs--and takes the form of a three stage economic strategy. The
first stage--the stabilization period--was devoted to overcome the serious
economic problems the present Government inherited. The second stage will be
devoted to establishing the basis for attaining a high, equitable and stable
rate of growth. During this stage--1979-80--efforts will be made to overcome
supply bottlenecks, increase agricultural production, improve the marketing
system, increase the efficiency and competitiveness of the country's indus-
trial sector and create the conditions necessary for a more just distribution
of the benefits of growth. Accelerated and equitable growth would be the
characteristics of the third stage.
10.       Mexico has the human, institutional and natural resources necessary
to attain these ambitious goals. The short-run disequilibria that have
affected the country during the mid-70s have been brought under control;
the new petroleum riches and the country's ability to exploit them have
greatly relaxed the financial constraints on growth. In his last State of the
Union speech President Lopez Portillo announced that Mexico's present oil and
gas reserves amounted to 20 billion barrels on July 31, 1978 and that probable
and potential reserves amounted to 37 billion and 120 billion barrels, respec-
tively. These figures were revised upward in January 1979 and proven oil and
gas reserves put at about 40 billion barrels. Exploitation of these reserves
should allow Mexico to increase production of crude oil, natural gas and
petrochemicals from the equivalent of about 1.2 million bbl/day in 1976 to
about 3.3 million bbl/day in 1982 and export earnings are projected to rise
from about US$600 million in 1976 to approximately US$11 billion in 1982 (on
the basis of very conservative price assumptions), not counting potential gas
exports.



- 4 -
11.       The challenge ahead is how to use these vast riches to help resolve
Mexico's long-term development problems which include the following:
(i) Population and Poverty. Many Mexican families have not partici-
pated in the sustained economic growth of the last several decades.
As of 1975, about 3.6 million Mexican families--35 percent of the
total--receive incomes less than one-half the national average. The
members of most of these families work--more than half of them in
agriculture--but they produce little and receive little. Mexico's
labor force is now growing at about 3.1 percent per year; during the
1960s this growth rate was 2.0 percent per year. The challenge of
providing productive jobs for both new entrants and existing under-
productive workers is awesome;
(ii) Stagnation in Agriculture. Crop and livestock production
in Mexico, which had grown by 6 percent per year during
1945-55 and 4.2 percent per year during 1955-65, grew at
only 2.1 percent per year during 1965-75, resulting in
increased imports of corn and wheat;
(iii)  Regional Imbalances.  The heavy concentration of people,
production, and public services in the Mexico City area--
which has currently a population of about 12 million and
is growing at over 5 percent each year--and the scarcity
of productive employment and services for rural Mexicans
are challenges to urban management, economic development,
and social justice. They imply diversion of some of Mexico
City's future growth to other regions, as well as the
gradual concentration of scattered rural populations into
small towns so that basic public services could be provided
more economically and productive activities would have a
better chance of developing.
12.       In the medium term the prospects for resumption of economic growth
with relative price stability are good. Poverty will remain a problem but
the Government is taking steps to address it. The alleviation of the external
constraint on growth brought about by the expected petroleum earnings (para.
15), together with the Government's efforts to increase public sector savings
and to stimulate private investment, could produce economic growth of 7 to 8
percent per year in the remaining four years of the present administration.
Resumption of economic growth combined with the intensification of the Govern-
ment's family planning program, 1/ the new emphasis on rainfed agriculture,
and the implementation of specific programs aimed at increasing productive
employment, should help to address the structural problems mentioned above.
1/   On October 28, 1977, President Lopez Portillo announced the ambitious
goal of reducing the population growth to 2.5 percent per year by 1982,
then progressively to 1.8 percent by 1988, 1.3 percent by 1994, and
1 percent by the year 2000. About two-thirds of Mexico's population
live in urban areas, well served by hospitals and health centers, with
good family planning education and services. The program is now being
extended to rural areas.



13.       In agriculture, the current administration has undertaken a far-
reaching administrative reform that will allow broader and more effective
Government action in the sector. Emphasis is laid on productivity gains
and yield increases in both irrigated and rainfed areas. The previous goal
of self-sufficiency in agricultural goods is being rephrased in terms of
the sector's overall capacity to pay for its own imports. Irrigation is
fostered through programs for construction of irrigation and drainage works
and for rehabilitation of existing irrigation districts to increase efficiency
of water use. The new emphasis on rainfed agriculture, relatively neglected
in the past, should lead to an increase in the productive potential of vast
areas currently under-exploited and to a reversal of past trends towards
larger income disparities between the modern and traditional agricultural
subsectors. These initiatives, together with the realistic exchange rate,
promise a resumption of production growth for both domestic and export
markets and an improvement in the living conditions of the rural poor.
14.       Industry has potential for considerable growth in many sectors,
including import substitution in chemicals, petrochemicals and capital goods
as well as exports of many different manufactured products. The Mexican
Petroleum Company (PEMEX) has already started an ambitious investment program
to produce a variety of primary petrochemicals on a large scale for both
domestic consumption and export, and it is expected that the private sector
will complement this by investing in the production of secondary petrochemicals.
Tourism export earnings are also expected to increase.
15.       Paramount among the benefits of recent public sector investments
are the new possibilities opened to the Mexican economy through the dis-
coveries of rich petroleum fields. The Government has decided to use these
large hydrocarbon resources to help manage Mexico's heavy debt service
burden and to enhance the country's development prospects. The additional
domestic demand likely to occur, due to increased public investment and
programs aimed at increasing employment and the productivity of the poor,
will have to be satisfied partially through increased imports. The import
capacity will be increased considerably, however. Rapidly increasing
petroleum exports and favorable tourism earnings prospects, the recovery of
agricultural exports and resumption of growth of manufactured exports have
strengthened the balance of payments outlook and will keep the current
account deficit at reasonable levels despite higher imports.
16.       Mexico's public debt service ratio has been increasing over the
recent past and reached 48 percent in 1977. This comparatively high ratio is
more a reflection of the low level of exports relative to GNP and the high
proportion of Mexican borrowing from commercial banks than it is an indication
of a high level of external debt relative to the size of the economy. When
middle income developing countries are ranked by the ratio of external public
debt to GNP, Mexico ranks as average. The public debt service ratio is
estimated to have peaked above 50 percent in 1978 and, mainly as a result of
the rapid expansion of petroleum exports, is expected to decline to levels of
around 40 percent in the early 1980's. Debt service on Bank loans amounts to
about 4.3 percent of public debt service; this ratio is projected to decrease
over the next years to some 3.6 percent in 1982. The Bank currently holds



- 6 -
about 7 percent of Mexico's total medium- and long-term public debt, and this
ratio is not likely to change in any significant way over the next few years.
Mexico remains creditworthy for borrowing on conventional terms considering
economic strategy which the Government has adopted to realize it.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO 1/
Bank Operations
17.       As of March 31, 1979, Mexico had received 57 loans from the Bank
amounting to US$3,128.9 million net of cancellations and terminations; of
these, 33 loans totalling US$1,486.4 million were fully disbursed. The Bank
held US$2,595.3 million of which US$1,086.2 million had not yet been disbursed.
Some 40 percent of Bank lending has been for agriculture and rural development
(19 loans for US$1,264.4 million), 23 percent for power (12 loans for US$704.8
million) and 17 percent for transportation projects (12 loans for US$546.7
million); the remaining 20 percent has been for industry (US$352.5 million),
water supply (US$130 million), tourism (US$114 million), and urban development
(US$16.5 million) projects. Mexico was carrying out a stabilization program
(para. 9), and because of scarcity of counterpart funds some projects fell
behind schedule in 1976 and 1977. Adequate budget support for Bank projects
has now been secured. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as
of March 31, 1979 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
IFC Operations
18.       As of March 31, 1979, IFC has made investment commitments in
17 companies in Mexico, for a total of US$202.4 million, of which US$130.5
million had been sold, repaid or cancelled. The balance held by the
Corporation, US$71.9 million, consists of US$62.1 million in loans and US$9.8
million in equity. A summary statement of IFC investments as of March 31,
1979, is presented in Annex II.
Bank Strategy
19.       The main objectives of Bank lending in Mexico have been to:
(i) support policies and programs leading to a wider distribution of the
benefits of economic growth; (ii) help finance projects that make directly or
indirectly, significant contributions to output, exports, and employment; and
(iii) help resolve critical adjustment problems that Mexico is currently
facing. Therefore, the Bank is preferentially supporting projects of high
social priority that help the rural or urban poor, projects that promote
higher levels of employment and production and those that help to decentralize
economic activity.
1/   Part II is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for a
Second Fertilizer Project (R79-68) of March 30, 1979.



- 7 -
20.       Because of the difficult structural problems of Mexico's agricul-
ture and the sector's crucial importance to the country's further development,
the Bank has made agriculture the leading sector for its lending. The Bank
agricultural lending program for Mexico has four goals: first, to increase
productivity of presently cultivated lands through selected programs of irri-
gation rehabilitation and on-farm improvements; second, to improve the pro-
ductivity of small farmers who receive the benefit of most Bank lending through
programs for (a) rural development, (b) rainfed agricultural development,
(c) bringing new areas under cultivation, and (d) establishing irrigation and
drainage units; third, to complement infrastructure investments with general
support services including agricultural extension and marketing programs and
provision of medium-term credit; and fourth, to promote off-farm employment
opportunities in rural areas through programs of agro- and rural-industries.
The Bank has made nine loans in FY 72 through 78, totalling US$835 million,
for irrigation, rural development and agriculture and livestock credit
programs. A US$25 million supplemental loan for the Rio Panuco Irrigation
Project and US$60 million loan for a small-scale agricultural infrastructure
project were approved by the Executive Directors in FY79. A US$92 million
loan for the Rio Sinaloa/Rio Fuerte Irrigation Project has been submitted to
the Executive Directors for their consideration. Projects for rehabilitation
of irrigation districts, water control, rural development and support services
are in preparation for possible future support from the Bank.
21.       Past Bank lending for industry has been aimed at (a) assisting
the Government's efforts to reduce the balance of payments deficit, (b) de-
centralizing industrial activities away from the major and increasingly
congested urban areas and (c) promoting greater employment in the sector by
supporting medium and small scale industry. A large steel project is now
operating in a previously underdeveloped area on the west coast of Mexico.
A fertilizer project strengthens development of the resource-rich southeast
region and the central area and a $80 million loan for a fertilizer project
approved by the Executive Directors in FY79 gives further support to the
development of an industrial center on the west coast of Mexico. A project
to promote the development of small- and medium-scale enterprises and a third
industrial equipment fund project were approved by the Executive Directors in
FY78; both offer support to the private sector at a time of rapid expansion.
The proposed project aims at strengthening financial intermediation and would
support industrial subprojects with a significant production and employment
impact. A capital goods industry project is under study for possible Bank
support.
22.       As regards infrastructure, the Bank's operations have been focused
on investments in key areas of the country as well as on institutional reforms
and sector policies aiming, inter alia, at suitable pricing mechanisms to
help generate additional resources for investment financing. The airports
development project (FY74) was designed to support the Government's policy
of regional integration; the third railway project (FY76) supported improve-
ments of institutional aspects and financial management of the sector. The
Mexico City (FY73) and medium cities (FY76) water supply projects have been
instrumental in the establishment of specialized institutions for efficient
provision of drinking water and in the pricing of water at levels more closely
related to costs. A highway sector project loan was approved by the Executive
Directors in FY79. A second airports project is being processed.



- 8 -
23.       The Government and the Bank have long recognized the regional
economic disparities prevailing in Mexico (para. 11). In June 1976 the
Government adopted the Law of Human Settlements to provide a new institu-
tional framework to deal with the pressing problems of over-concentration of
economic activities in the larger metropolitan areas. The Government has
recently adopted a National Urban Development Plan that spells out its
regional development priorities in operational terms, and several projects
are now being prepared to meet the needs for basic urban services for poor
families and to provide key regional infrastructure in selected priority
cities. One such project, to assist in the development of the Lazaro
Cardenas conurbation area on the West Coast, was approved by the Executive
Directors in FY78, and another project for the southeast part of the country
will be appraised in the coming months.
24.       The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is the second largest
source of multilateral aid to Mexico. The IDB has made loans totaling
US$1,830 million. Over sixty percent of this lending has gone for agri-
cultural and rural development projects, and the balance for transportation,
industry, and tourism infrastructure. In 1978, the IDB approved three loans
totaling US$236 million for coal mining, irrigation, and tourism projects.
The IDB and the Bank have worked in parallel on several projects; most
recently the IDB and the Bank have each made loans for the National Program
for Small-Scale Agricultural Infrastructure, the Investment Program for Rural
Development (PIDER), agricultural and livestock credit, small- and medium-
scale industries, and hotel development. The International Fund for Agricul-
tural Development (IFAD) is also considering a rural development project in
the state of Oaxaca; Bank staff is assisting in project preparation and
appraisal.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
25.       From 1960 to 1973, manufacturing output increased at an annual
rate of over 8 percent and the share of manufacturing in CDP increased from
19.2 to 22.8 percent in the same period. Growth rates began to slacken in
1974, mainly as a result of uncertainty in the private sector due to infla-
tion, unclear policies towards the private sector, public sector preemption
of credit and imports becoming unreasonably cheaper than domestically
produced goods. The stabilization program started in 1977 following the
massive devaluation of the previous year, did much to restore confidence,
and by 1978 investment by the private sector was taking place at a rapid
pace in most industrial subsectors, in many cases to make up for investments
which had been postponed during the earlier period of uncertainty. Pre-
liminary estimates indicate that industrial output increased by 10 to 11
percent in 1978 and that many industries are approaching the limits of their
installed capacity.
26.       Structural changes associated with a growing population and
increasing incomes have emerged within the sector since 1960.  The share
of traditional consumer goods in manufacturing value added has fallen,
while that of intermediate goods and engineering industries has risen. The
production of durable consumer goods rose quite substantially over the past



- 9 -
decade, but production of capital goods did not grow much, and this subsector
is less developed in Mexico than in other countries of comparable size and
stage of development. Mexico has relied heavily on imports for its capital
goods needs and these accounted for one third of its total imports in 1977.
Protection
27.       The import substitution approach to industrialization used in the
past depended heavily on import controls with generally moderate tariff
levels. Nevertheless, internal competition made possible by the relatively
large internal market and open border areas, contributed to the growth
of a reasonably efficient industrial sector in most branches.  The Mexican
authorities have sought since 1976 to improve the efficiency of the
industrial sector, to adapt it to international conditions and make it
more export oriented. Imports began to be liberalized at the end of 1977 by
reducing the number of products subject to import licenses. By the beginning
of 1979, slightly more than two-thirds of the items in the customs nomencla-
ture were no longer subject to prior licenses; however, items still subject
to controls accounted for two thirds of the value of total imports in 1978.
An inter-ministerial committee is currently studying effective protection
to develop a program for further liberalization.
Exports
28.       Measures initiated in 1970 to develop manufactured exports were
quite successful. These included reimbursement of indirect taxes, credit
on concessionary terms and institutional support for export promotion.
Between 1970 and 1974 the value of manufactured exports increased almost
four-fold and their share in total merchandise exports increased from 20
percent at the end of the 1960's to over 40 percent in 1974. From 1974 on,
the worsening exchange relationship affected exports and in 1976 these
were 20 percent below their 1974 level in real terms. The massive peso
devaluations at the end of 1976 and beginning of 1977 restored competi-
tiveness to Mexican manufactured exports, and by 1978 exports exceeded the
1974 peak by about 10 percent in constant terms. Despite the prospects of
large export earnings from oil, the Government proposes to continue promoting
the export of manufactured goods,avoiding an overdependence on hydrocarbons.
Industrial Development Strategy
29.       The Government announced in March of 1979 a new long term program
to develop industry. Its general objective is to expand employment oppor-
tunities so as to provide a minimum level of income and comfort to the bulk
of the population. To this end, the industrial development strategy would
(i) emphasize the production of basic consumption goods required by the
majority of the population, (ii) develop priority subsectors to increase
exports and substitute imports efficiently, (iii) develop lines of industry
which process domestic primary materials or provide needed inputs - such as
machinery and equipment - for other branches of industry, (iv) decentralize
economic activity by encouraging investments in coastal, border and other
regions, and (v) reduce concentration of industrial ownership by promoting
medium and small scale industries.



- 10 -
30.       Public sector investments in oil, power, primary petrochemicals,
transport and other subsectors, would provide the main thrust of an industrial
and economic expansion. The private sector would participate by providing
many of the inputs required for the expansion of public sector enterprises -
including capital goods - and would benefit from energy and petrochemical
inputs at favorable prices to produce goods for the domestic and export
markets. It is visualized that, besides being the most important means of
transforming export earnings from hydrocarbon sales into increased employment
and income for a significant proportion of the population, the industrial
sector would gradually bolster foreign exchange earnings through expanded
exports.
31.       The package of measures adopted in support of this strategy include
both direct measures which would be taken by the Government itself and incen-
tives for the private sector to invest. They consist of: (i) programmed
investments by the Government and public sector enterprises in important
sectors of the economy, (ii) subsidized energy and some industrial inputs for
certain industries in areas of high priority (paras. 34-35), (iii) fiscal
incentives, (iv) credit, and (v) the rationalized tariff structure mentioned
in paragraph 27 above. The package of benefits gives clear preference to new
enterprises located in priority geographic regions and to small scale enter-
prises.
Small Scale Enterprises
32.       While recognizing that larger enterprises have played, and are
likely to continue to play, an important role in industrial development
by introducing technological improvements and developing foreign markets,
the authorities wish to increase competition and pay special attention
to the needs of medium and small scale enterprises. The latter, in parti-
cular, are considered to require special attention because they are more
vulnerable to market fluctuations, have limited access to credit and fre-
quently suffer from management problems, while providing a higher level of
employment per peso invested than larger enterprises. For these reasons the
authorities introduced the fiscal incentives for small scale enterprises
mentioned in paragraph 36 below.
Measures in Support of the Industrial Development Strategy
33.       Public sector enterprises already play an important role in key
sectors of the economy, in particular in the fields of energy, basic petro-
chemicals, steel and fertilizers. The procurement programs of such enter-
prises will be made known in advance so that national producers of capital
goods can gear their production programs to meet them. Procurement guide-
lines were devised in 1978 by which national producers of capital goods
are favored, provided their offers are within the price prevailing in
major capital goods producing countries and transport costs to Mexico, plus
15 percent. The duty exemption which was granted to public sector enterprises
on capital goods imports will be abolished.



- 11 -
34.       Under the announced strategy, Mexico has been divided into areas of
high, medium and low priority for purposes of industrial development. Four
port areas have been given high priority (Coatzacoalcos and Tampico on the
Gulf Coast and Lazaro Cardenas and Salina Cruz on the Pacific Coast) with
some additional cities which are also considered of high priority. In the
second group, specific areas which State and Federal authorities might
designate for special promotion will be included. The third group will
include areas in which industrial growth is to be regulated strictly; Mexico
City and adjacent municipalities form part of the low priority areas. The
Government will undertake substantial investments in physical and social
infrastructure in high priority areas, and public sector enterprises will
carry out a number of their investment projects in them. These measures, as
well as the investments which the private sector may make in response to
incentives, should enable the achievement of a critical mass of industrial
activity in each area, and of external economies which should attract yet more
investment.
35.       In addition, natural gas, fuel oil and power will be sold at
30 percent less than in the rest of the country in the four industrial ports
mentioned above,provided such inputs are used by new production facilities.
Moreover, primary petrochemicals will be sold at a 30 percent discount to new
enterprises located in the priority areas if they produce specified secondary
petrochemicals and export at least 25 percent of their production in three
years.
36.       The above measures will be complemented by new fiscal incentives
introduced in early 1979 which are designed to create employment by stimulat-
ing investment and the domestic production of inputs. The value of the
incentives--which will be granted as tax credits-- will depend on the geographic
location of the project, the size of the enterprise carrying it out, the
priority of the industrial activity it is engaged in, the volume of employment
generated and the value of domestic equipment purchased. For instance,
enterprises engaged in priority industrial activities (i.e., agroindustries,
the manufacture of capital goods and some designated consumer and intermediate
products) which intend to locate their facilities in geographic areas of
high priority, would receive a tax credit equivalent to 20 percent of
their fixed assets and a further tax credit equivalent to 20 percent of the
wage bill resulting from new employment during a period of two years. The
value of these credits is somewhat lower if high priority industries are
located in geographic areas of intermediate priority. In addition to these
incentives, a 5 percent tax credit will be granted for the purchase of
domestic capital goods, regardless of where the industry is located or the
industrial activity engaged in. A credit equivalent to 20 percent of the
wage bill for two years resulting from the employment of additional shifts is
also offered, except to enterprises located in Mexico City. Lastly, enter-
prises designated as "small" 1/ would receive a 25 percent credit on the value
of their investment, regardless of their location or the industrial activity
they are engaged in.
1/   With fixed assets equivalent to less than 200 times the yearly minimum
wage in the Federal District, or about US$430,000 equivalent.



- 12 -
37.       The availability of credit on appropriate terms, which is discussed
in paras. 38 to 41, completes the package of measures adopted to promote
industrialization. This gives clearer signals on subsectoral and geopraphic
priorities than has been provided in the past. The strategy for industrial
expansion makes a bold attempt to overcome the challenge presented by Mexico's
rapidly expanding labor force by encouraging the domestic private sector to
supply an important proportion of the inputs needed for investments in the
public sector, thus creating job opportunities in industries, such as capital
goods, which are more labor intensive than the sectors the Government has
been investing in.
The Financial System
38.       Mexico's banking system, comprising more than 200 public, private
and mixed ownership institutions, has been the primary source of financing
for industry. Commercial banks and investment banks (financieras) make
industrial loans and investments primarily from resources they mobilize in
the private sector via current accounts, deposits, and the issue of certifi-
cates and bonds, but they also have access to discounting facilities with
public sector trust funds. During the late 1960s and early 1970s, the
banking system grew rapidly and the volume of outstanding credit grew faster
than GDP. Mexico's open financial system allowed a free flow of capital, and
the long period of exchange rate stability encouraged foreign deposits in
Mexican banks and foreign borrowings by Mexican firms. Credit was readily
obtained by industrial firms judged to be a reasonable credit risk. Never-
theless, certain structural weaknesses were apparent by the early 1970s. One
was an excessive conservatism in credit allocation. Guarantees in excess of
the legal minimum (133 percent of credit granted) were required, and even
credit for projects requiring term financing was decided primarily on the
basis of the collaterals offered, rather than on the basis of appraisals of
the merits and income earning characteristics of investment projects. The
excessively short-term structure of the banking system's non-monetary liabi-
lities resulted from, among other things, insufficient interest rate premiums
to savers for longer term deposits. This limited the amount of longer term
financing that banks could provide.
39.       To improve the amount and nature of credit available to industry,
the financial authorities developed a system of trust funds, which provide
partial financing to banks for term loans for projects meeting eligibility
requirements. Trust funds are in two groups; Nacional Financiera, S.A.
administers three which are designed to support mainly the development of
small and medium scale industry, while the Banco de Mexico administers two
other closely related trust funds: Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial (FONEI)
and Fondo de Fomento a las Exportaciones de Productos Manufacturados (FOMEX).
FONEI provides medium and long term financing for investment projects
designed to increase exports or efficiently substitute imports, and FOMEX
provides shorter term export sales financing and has recently been given
additional resources to finance the sale of domestic capital goods to
Mexican buyers. FONEI, which has received three previous Bank loans, will
be the executing agency for the proposed project. A Bank loan to assist
small and medium industry through the trust funds administered by Nacional
Financiera was approved by the Executive Directors in FY 78.



- 13 -
40.       The financial crisis experienced in 1976-77 when the public
made massive withdrawals of funds from the banking system, convinced the
authorities of the urgent need to strengthen the sector. In December
1978 the Government passed a series of amendments and additions to the
Banking law which were the most substantial since the original law was
enacted in 1941. Several amendments encourage the grouping of specialized
banks into full service multibanks. This is expected to raise the efficiency
of the system by lowering administrative costs through economies of scale,
by improving access to clients outside the bigger cities to a full range of
financial services, and by improving the financial base of smaller banks
enabling them to compete better. Several multibanks have already been
formed and the trend towards them seems to be firmly established. The
amendments also eliminate the requirement that loans must have minimum
collateral of 133 percent, establishing that loans may be granted on the
economic feasibility of the business undertaking and that repayment terms
should be set on the basis of a project's expected cash flow. These prin-
ciples have been promoted by FONEI since it started operations in 1971.
41.       To boost domestic savings, improve the term structure of bank
liabilities and reverse capital flight, the authorities raised interest
rate ceilings on time deposits in late 1977. These higher interest rates
and the renewed confidence of savers in the country's economic management,
helped increase the non-monetary liabilities of the financial system from 19
percent of GDP in 1977 to 21 percent in 1978. The authorities have stated
their intention of continuing to review the structure of interest rates to
ensure a healthy growth in financial savings. Financial institutions have
been increasingly adopting variable interest rates for longer term lending
operations since 1974. The change from fixed interest rates, which had been
used in the past, came after an acceleration of inflation in 1973. By 1977,
practically all term loans were made at variable interest rates linked to the
average cost of funds (ACF) to financieras and investment banking departments.
This is the weighted average interest rate paid on bonds, notes and certifi-
cates of deposit, and excludes checking and savings deposits. Between the
last quarter of 1977 and January 1979 the ACF increased from 14.3 percent
to 16.25 percent. Banks charge their clients a premium over the ACF base
which varies depending on compensating balances maintained by clients, other
business done by the borrower, and risk. At the present time, the cost of
term funds fluctuates between 18 and 23 percent yearly.
The Securities Market
42.       The securities market had not been an important source of financing
for industrial enterprises in Mexico up to recently. Firms were reluctant
to sell shares to the public to avoid disclosure of information and for
fear of losing control. Investors, on the other hand, found shares less
attractive than fixed return securities, many of which were guaranteed
redemption at par. The authorities carried out a number of reforms in
1976-77 aimed at strengthening the securities market; these included the
consolidation of two regional security markets into the main one in Mexico
City, better regulation of brokerage firms and measures to speed up security
transfers. The tax treatment of profits and losses resulting from stock
ownership was also improved. These measures, and the abolition in 1977 of



- 14 -
fixed interest securities which were redeemable on sight, have had positive
results on stock trading, which increased from Mex$5.8 billion in 1977 to
Mex$30.3 billion in 1978, with industrial shares accounting for almost
two-thirds of turnover in the latter year. Twenty five new stock placements
took place in 1978 - a record number - and ten debenture issues were made.
The securities price index also rose significantly during 1978 reflecting
interest in securities which offer a better hedge against inflation and
rising expectations of profitability in industry. The measures taken by the
authorities should make the securities market a more significant source of
investment funds for industry in the future.
The Outlook for the Future
43.       The industrial sector is showing a strong recovery from the
recession it experienced in the mid-1970's and investment is taking place at
a rapid pace. The economic development strategy outlined by the Government
for the medium term gives the industrial sector a pivotal role in generating
employment and prosperity, and the private sector will have an important
role in this scheme. However, the financial system has not yet developed
sufficiently to provide and allocate long-term resources in the most effective
manner. In this situation, the trust funds managed by the Government have an
important role to play by supplementing and guiding credit provided by the
financial system. The proposed Bank loan to FONEI through NAFINSA would help
strengthen the financial system during a critical period of its evolution
and, when taken with the Small and Medium Scale Industry Development Project
Loan of May 1978, would round off Bank support for the sector.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
44.       The proposed project would support FONEI's policies and therefore:
(a) help finance projects expected to have a substantial economic and employ-
ment impact, particularly those sponsored by medium size enterprises and enter-
prises located outside the main established industrial centers, (b) strengthen
FONEI's efforts to build up project appraisal and project supervision capabili-
ties in the participating intermediaries so as to improve resource allocation,
and (c) introduce credit programs to help develop technology and finance
industrial pollution control projects. The project would also help finance a
training program on industrial project evaluation and supervision and a
national study of human resources and technical and vocational training needs.
A brief project description may be found in the Loan and Project Summary at
the beginning of this report. The Staff Appraisal Report (Number 2473b-ME of
May 10, 1979) entitled "Fourth Industrial Equipment Fund (FONEI) Project" is
being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. The project was
appraised in January/February 1979 and negotiations took place in Washington
in May 1979. The Mexican negotiating team was headed by Mr. Arturo Ortiz of
Nacional Financiera, as financial agent for the Government, and included
Mr. Jesus Villasenior, Director of FONEI.



- 15 -
The Institution
45.       The Bank participated actively with the Government in 1971 in the
establishment of FONEI as a trust fund of the Federal Government administered
by the Banco de Mexico. FONEI provides term financing through commercial
banks and financieras to enterprises which produce goods and services for
export markets or which substitute imports efficiently. In support of these
objectives, the Bank made a US$35 million loan to FONEI in 1972, which is
fully disbursed and a second, of US$50 million, in April 1976, which is
totally committed. A third Bank Loan (1560-ME) of US$100 million, was
approved by the Executive Directors in May 1978 and signed in September of
that year. FONEI has already committed over eighty percent of it and expects
to commit it fully by July or August 1979.
46.       FONEI's highest decision making body is its Technical Committee,
which includes high level government officials. The Director of Public
Credit of the Ministry of Finance is Chairman of the Committee, which takes
an active interest in FONEI's activities. The Committee meets regularly and
authorizes all financing proposals above Mex$15 million; decisions on
credits below this amount are delegated to FONEI's Director to help speed up
processing. The Banco de Mexico, as trustee, provides FONEI with the
required staff, office facilities and administrative services. FONEI has a
streamlined administration with relatively low administrative costs. Its
staff is well qualified, competent and dedicated.
Operating Policies and Procedures
47.       FONEI's Operating Regulations define the type of project that
it may finance, the terms and limits of subloans, its interest rate policies,
criteria for project selection, the responsibilities of intermediaries and
final beneficiaries and procedures to authorize financing. By terms of
previous Bank loans and of the proposed loan (Section 2.01(c) of the Draft
Project Agreement) Banco de Mexico (BANXICO), FONEI's trustee, will consult
the Bank before any changes in the Operating Regulations are made. The
Operating Regulations specify that, in selecting projects for financing,
FONEI will consider inter alia the following criteria: (i) the project's
economic rate of return, (ii) the project's foreign exchange generating or
savings potential, (iii) its employment impact, and (iv) its industrial
decentralization aspects. The maximum amount of financing which FONEI can
provide to a single project is normally Mex$100 million and the minimum is
Mex$4.5 million, which matches the upper limit of investment financing
provided by FOGAIN, the trust fund managed by Nacional Financiera which
participates in the Small and Medium Scale Industry Development Project being
financed by the Bank. FONEI's subloans have a maximum maturity of 13 years,
including three years of grace.
48.       FONEI requires that financial intermediaries and beneficiary
enterprises participate in the financing of projects. Final borrowers
are required to finance at least 25 percent of the fixed asset costs of new
projects and 20 percent in the case of expansion projects. Intermediaries
are required to provide at least 15 percent of FONEI's financing for new
projects, which in turn is limited to 65 percent of project costs, and 11
percent in the case of expansion projects, where FONEI could provide up to 72
percent of project costs. On the average, FONEI financed about 40 percent of
project costs.



- 16 -
49.       FONEI has successfully introduced the use of variable interest
rates based on the ACF index in all its operations. The cost of FONEI
funds to final borrowers is two percentage points above the ACF, which in
January of 1979 stood at 16.25 percent, resulting in a cost to final bor-
rowers of 18.25 percent per annum (see paragraph 41). This is reasonable
compared to the rate of inflation, which decreased from 29 percent in 1977 to
18 percent in 1978; the Government intends to reduce the rate of inflation
to international levels by 1982. In the event that inflation should increase,
the ACF should be a suitable base for determining FONEI's lending rate in view
of the Government's announced intention of maintaining borrowing interest rate
levels which permit an adequate resource flow into the financial system.
50.       At the time FONEI was established, few, if any, financial inter-
mediaries had developed capabilities to carry out detailed project appraisals
or to supervise projects in execution. Decision on loans were largely based
on collateral offered. FONEI took upon itself the responsibility of evaluat-
ing projects with its own staff and/or consultants, while encouraging inter-
mediaries to develop their own project appraisal capabilities. Mainly
because the number of operations per intermediary has been comparatively
small, intermediaries have not yet advanced much in developing their project
appraisal capabilities. In the context of the third Bank loan, FONEI decided
to allow interest rate spreads in addition to the normal two points margin to
intermediaries undertaking project appraisals (0.5 percent for loans of up to
Mex$30 million, and 0.25 percent for amounts above this). To facilitate the
preparation of detailed appraisals, FONEI also encouraged client companies to
undertake feasibility studies using FONEI subloans. As a result of these
measures, more projects are now being analyzed by intermediaries and it is
expected that those which make greater use of FONEI funds will be able to
maintain small appraisal units. FONEI is also considering added margins
to induce intermediaries to undertake full project supervision, thus assuring
fuller utilization of the units assigned to investment banking. While these
changes take place, FONEI will continue to carry out project appraisals
itself with the help of consultants. Its appraisals are of good quality and
include an adequate analysis of the organizational, marketing, technical,
financial and economic aspects of projects. In recognition of this,FONEI's
free limit for committing Bank resources for operations other than those
involving technology, pollution control and service export subprojects would
be increased from US$1.5 million to US$2.0 million (Section 2.02(b) of the
Draft Loan Agreement). This will enable the Bank to review about 40 percent
of the subprojects involving ordinary operations and about 60 percent of the
loan amount.
Past Operations and Impact
51.       As of year-end 1978, FONEI had financed a total of 142 investment
projects involving Mex$14.8 billion in total costs and Mex$5.1 billion in
FONEI financing. About half of the financing provided by FONEI went to
industries producing metal and electrical products, including a substan-
tial number of capital goods industries, which are of high priority to the
Government. Chemicals and petrochemicals industries accounted for about a
quarter of FONEI's loans, while other manufacturing activities accounted
for the bulk of the remaining loans; service activities only accounted for
3 percent of total approvals.



- 17 -
52.       Projects financed by FONEI have had a positive balance of payments
impact. Of the total number of projects financed, about 30 percent were
projected to earn at least enough foreign exchange in the first five years
of operations to cover the foreign exchange cost of the project. About
another 28 percent involved some exports, while the remaining 42 percent
substituted imports only. An ex-post evaluation by Bank staff in 1978,
showed that a sample of enterprises financed by FONEI under the first two Bank
loans had performed well in exporting and substituting imports efficiently
relative to the projections they had presented during appraisal.
53.       FONEI has made an important contribution to the Government's
policy of decentralizing industrial activity. Projects located in the
three main urban concentrations and established centers of industry -
Mexico City, Guadalajara and Monterrey - accounted for only 38 percent of
the total number of projects and 28 percent of the financing provided to
year-end 1978. This compares favorably with the performance of the banking
system as a whole, which is estimated to channel over 80 percent of its
financing to activities in these areas.
54.       Projects financed by FONEI have had a positive effect on employment.
The average cost per direct job created in all projects financed by FONEI to
date was projected to be US$29,600 equivalent, which compares well to the
employment impact of medium and large scale industry in countries of similar
stage of development. Ex-post analysis of a sample of enterprises showed a
favorable employment creation impact relative to the projections considered
by FONEI at the time of its appraisal; the actual number of jobs created was
15 percent above expectations.
55.       FONEI has followed a policy of distributing its resources as widely
as possible among industrial clients in Mexico. As of January 1979, no
single industrial group had received more than 9 percent of the total value
of loans granted by FONEI and its five largest client groups accounted for 35
percent of its total lending, which is not an unreasonably large proportion
considering the ownership distribution of Mexican industry and the tendency
of financial intermediaries--who carry the credit risk--to favor better
established enterprises. However, to make FONEI's policy of favoring medium
size enterprises more explicit and to insure that the distribution of its
resources is as wide as possible among industrial firms, FONEI's management
intends to alter its Operating Regulations to establish a normal cumulative
limit of Mex$300 million for loans to a single enterprise. As an incentive
for intermediaries to lend to medium rather than large enterprises, it plans
to grant an additional interest rate spread or margin (of about 0.25 percent)
for loans to enterprises with an equity capital of less than Mex$50 million.
The amendment of FONEI's Operating Regulations to this effect in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank, and the introduction of appropriate regulations for
technology and pollution control subloans, would be a condition of effective-
ness of the proposed loan (Section 6.01 of the Draft Loan Agreement).
56.       The economic rate of return on projects financed by FONEI has
been satisfactory. The bulk of them had ex-ante economic rates of return
of more than 15 percent in real terms, with the weighted average being about
28 percent. Financial rates of return, although somewhat lower, were also
satisfactory, with a majority having returns above 15 percent. Though



- 18 -
for practical reasons it has not been possible to calculate ex-post economic
and financial rates of return, there is reason to believe that they were
close to expectations since most subprojects are being carried out success-
fully, with actual output, exports and employment exceeding expectations.
Financial Structure and Results
57.       The Government made an initial equity contribution of Mex$125
million to FONEI when it was created in 1971. By terms of the first and
subsequent loan agreements with the Bank, the Government agreed to take
the foreign exchange risk on Bank loans and to repay them, increasing FONEI's
capital as repayments are made to the Bank. FONEI, however, takes on the
foreign exchange risk on interest and other charges on Bank loans. To
complement Bank resources and finance the local cost of subprojects, the
Government has provided FONEI with Mex$2.5 billion, mostly in the form of
long-term loans at concessionary interest rates. Since FONEI is a second-
tier credit institution the credit risk on its operations are negligible.
In view of the arrangements made by the Government to capitalize FONEI,
and of the low risk inherent in its loans, FONEI's financial position can be
considered sound.
58.       Because FONEI took the foreign exchange risk on interest and other
charges on Bank loans while its lending rates were fixed in pesos, it expe-
rienced operating losses in 1976 and 1977, after the devaluation. Since the
adoption of a variable lending interest rate, its operations have become
profitable, and in 1978 it earned a surplus of Mex$11 million. With the
growth of its lending volume, FONEI's administrative expenses have declined
considerably, from 2.9 percent on average total assets in 1974 to 0.91 percent
in 1978. FONEI is an efficiently run institution.
59.       FONEI's accounts are audited in a form acceptable to the Bank by a
reputable Mexican auditing firm. All audit reports on FONEI's accounts have
been unqualified.
Future Operations
60.       With the prospect of growing demand for investment credit over
the next two years as a result of renewed confidence in the private sector
and the Government's clear guidelines for future industrialization, FONEI
anticipates a substantial increase in resource needs. It also intends to
initiate two new programs to help resolve critical aspects of industrializa-
tion in Mexico: one to help finance technology improvement projects and
the other to finance investments in industry to control pollution.
61.       Technology improvement will become increasingly important in
the future to Mexican industry, which has reached a relatively high degree
of sophistication and has a substantial pool of well developed engineering
and technical staff. To increase further domestic value added and compete
effectively in world markets, there is a need to stimulate the development of
new or improved products, more efficient production methods and new tech-
nologies to exploit available raw materials efficiently. Though the Govern-
ment has taken several steps to encourage technological improvements, there



- 19 -
are few opportunities in Mexico for enterprises to finance technology projects.
FONEI intends to fill this gap by offering a limited amount of medium and
long term credit with interest charges at three percentage points below
the ACF; this differential is justified in view of the high risk associated
with individual technology development projects and of the broad benefits to
Mexican industry of the program as a whole.
62.       Industrial pollution, coupled with pollution caused by an extremely
rapid growth of vehicular traffic, has become a serious problem in almost
all industrial areas of Mexico. Legislation has been enacted since 1971 to
prevent and control environmental pollution and more is in preparation.
In support of this legislation, FONEI intends to offer credit to firms
which wish to meet the standards of the legislation and require industrial
pollution control equipment and technical assistance in the design and/or
selection of such equipment. Loans granted for pollution control projects
would be made at an interest rate of between two points above and three
points below the ACF. FONEI intends to start offering credit for this
purpose at the interest rate for its normal operation (i.e. two points above
the ACF) but would be prepared to lower it for plants established before the
legislation was enacted if demand is slack. Eligible investments would not
normally add to the production capacity of enterprises but would benefit the
population at large, so an element of subsidy in such financing is justified.
Resource Requirements and the Proposed Bank Loan
63.       FONEI is currently facing strong demand for investment financing.
Loan recoveries and profits from operations, as well as a US$105 million
equivalent loan from BANXICO (Section 2.01(b) of the Draft Project Agreement),
would provide it with resources of about US$138 million equivalent to finance
operations for about two years. The proposed loan of US$173 million equi-
valent would enable it to finance the foreign cost of subprojects represent-
ing investments of over US$700 million equivalent.
64.       The proposed Bank loan would be made to NAFINSA, as financial agent
for the Government, and up to US$2.0 million would be available to help
finance the cost of studies to assess the human resources and technical and
vocational training needs for industry in the light of the Government's
industrial development strategy.  These studies would be coordinated by the
Ministry of Education and the Bank would review the terms of reference.
65.       Not less than US$173 million of the loan would be transferred to
BANXICO, as trustee responsible for managing FONEI.  Of this amount, up to
US$5 million each would initially be allocated to technology improvement and
pollution control subprojects; should actual demand exceed expectations, the
Bank would be prepared to consider increasing these allocations.  Not more
than US$10 million would be available to finance service export projects. Up
to US$250,000 would be available to finance training activities related to
FONEI's program to build up project appraisal and supervision capabilities in
participating institutions. As in previous Bank loans, the Government would
carry the foreign exchange risk on the loan amount and undertake to repay the
principal to the Bank. It is proposed that the Bank loan be repaid over 17
years, including four of grace.



- 20 -
66.       To obtain a reasonably wide distribution of Bank funds, not more
than US$5 million would be onlent for a single subproject (Section 2.02(c) of
the Draft Loan Agreement). Since the technology and pollution control
programs are new, the Bank would review the first three subprojects of each
kind and the free limit thereafter would be lower than for FONEI's ordinary
operations: US$500,000 in the case of technology subprojects and US$750,000
in the case of pollution control subprojects. As in the case of the previous
loan to FONEI, all service export subproject (e.g. repair services in border
areas) would be subject to prior approval by the Bank (Section 2.02(b) of the
Draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
67.       Procurement procedures for goods and services financed under the
proposed loan would be the standard ones for industrial credit operations.
FONEI would be responsible for ensuring the competitiveness of items procured
in terms of price and quality, and their suitability for the purposes
intended.
68.       Disbursement of Bank loan funds would be on the following basis:
100 percent of foreign expenditures for directly imported items; 70 percent
of total expenditures for imported items purchased off-the-shelf in Mexico;
25 percent of total expenditures for domestically manufactured machinery and
equipment and the cost of installation and industrial construction; 40 percent
of total expenditures for technology subprojects and 50 percent of total
expenditures for training activities. The above percentages represent the
estimated average foreign exchange cost. The disbursement percentage for the
human resources studies would be 47 percent. The foreign exchange cost of
these could vary considerably depending on the extent to which foreign consult-
ants are used; the percentage represents a rough estimate of the foreign
component of the studies and is the same as recently approved for studies in
a Highway Sector Loan to Mexico.
Benefits and Risks
69.       The proposed project is expected to have an important institutional
development impact in assisting FONEI to improve the project appraisal and
supervision capabilities of financial intermediaries in Mexico. This would
contribute to the Government's goal of improving resource allocation by the
financial system and help give support to the more dynamic activities in the
industrial sector. The proposed loan would also give financial assistance
to firms sponsoring high priority subprojects in the industrial and related
fields not served by the Small and Medium Scale Industry Development Project,
for which a Bank loan was granted in FY78. Based on past experience,
around 150 subprojects would be financed under the proposed loan and their
employment, industrial decentralization and economic impact can be expected
to be significant.
70.       As FONEI is evolving into a reasonably efficient and mature financial
institution, the project presents no special risk with respect to the soundness
of the projects it would finance. The institutional goals are more difficult



- 21 -
to achieve over the short run; however, the combination of policies embodied
in the new banking law, FONEI's new system of varied spreads to intermediaries
and its promotional efforts, as well as the training program which would be
undertaken under the project, greatly increase the chances of success in the
near future. The Government's new incentive scheme for industry will promote
its employment, export and industrial decentralization goals and improve the
prospects of sustained industrial development. On the whole, the project
presents a moderate level of risk.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and NAFINSA, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the United Mexican States and the Bank, the
draft Project Agreement between the Bank and Banco de Mexico, and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. A condition of effectiveness would be that FONEI's Operating
Regulations be amended in a manner satisfactory to the Bank (para. 55).
72.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by I.P.M. Cargill
Attachments
May 15, 1979



- 22 -                                               ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
MEXICO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
MEXICO                                                   /
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                    - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            1972.5                                                    SAME         SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     950.0                                   MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   360.0       660.0    1110.0            ID66.7      867.2       1796.4
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      770.0       1047.0    1221.0            911.1       578.3       1525.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                         36.0         50.4      64.2
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 50.7          58.7       63.3             57.9       46.2         52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        18.0         26.0       33.0             25.6       50.8         27.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      36.0         52.0       68.0             77.6       93.3        116.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          45.8         46.2       46.3             42.0       42.9         34.8
15-64 YRS.                          50.9         50.1      50.3             52.2        53.5         56.0
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.3          3.7        3.4              3.7        3.5          5.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               3.1          3.4        3.5              2.7        2.5          1.6
URBAN                               4.9          4.8        5.1              4.3        4.7          3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       46.1        43.8       42.0             35.8        37.8        27.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       14.0        10.2        8.6              9.1       10.8          9.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.2         3.1        3.0              2.6         2.5         1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..        25.1      608.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..       13.1             15.1       20.0         19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)              87.5        100.0       99.1            102.1      107.3        103.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   107.0        105.0      117.0            103.9      105.3        110.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           65.0         65.0       66.9             60.3       63.0         77.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        29.0         28.0 /f   27.5              26.7       21.7         22.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       12.7         9.8        8.4              8.7         8.0         1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    56.3          62.4       64.7             62.6       57.2         63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             74.0        68.5       52.0             56.9       53.9         38.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         54.0       62.0             60.7       56.8         67.7
URBAN                                 *-        71.0       70.0             78.0       79.0         83.5
RURAL                                ..         29.0       49.0             34.9       31.8         41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..         ..             61.1       30.9         70.3
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..             80.3       45.4         90.7
RURAL                                 *-        13.0       14.0             25.4       16.1         38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            1800.0      1480.0         ..           1899.3     2706.8       1310.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       2830.0 /    1620.0 /h      ..           1220.1     1462.0        849.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             1900.0       960.0      830.0            422.3      493.9        275.4
URBAN                                ..        780.0         ..            258.2      229.6        129.9
RURAL                                ..       1310.0 /i      ..           2281.6     2947.9        965.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..           ..        ..             25.6        22.1        18.9
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.4         5.7         *-              5.2        5.2          3.9
URBAN                                5.7         5.7         ..               ..        5.0
RURAL                                5.2         5.8         ..               ..         5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                2.9         2.5         ..              2.0         2.0         0.9
URBAN                                2.6         2.2         ..              2.1         1.5         0.8
RURAL                                3.4         3.2         ..              2.7         2.7          1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..         59.0         ..             51.2       64.1         59.2
URBAN                                 ..        80.7         ..             77.3       67.8         78.0
RURAL                                 ..        28.0         ..             12.8        34.1        12.5



A15NNEX I
- 23 -                                           Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
llEXICO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
MEXICO                                                  /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 Lb     1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lb       REGION /c   GROUP 1d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 80.0        10740      112.0            103.5       99.8         97.6
FEMALE                77.0        102.0     109.0            102.9        93.3        87.4
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  11.0         22.0       30.0             37.2       33.8         47.8
FEMALE                 8.0         17.0      29.0             37.9        29.8        42.6
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 24.0          24.0         ..             14.7       12.8         22.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            44.0         46.0      46.0             32.8        34.9         25.4
SECONDARY                          13.0         14.0       17.0             17.8       22.2         24.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         62.0        74.0       76.0             74.9       71.8         96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         14.0         24.0       40.0             26.9       12.4         32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         95.0        276.0      301.0            173.5      104.5        201.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         19.0         59.0      84.0              69.4       28.1         97.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   79.0          ..         ..             72.8       45.2         70.9
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA 10.0           5.0        4.1              4.3        4.6          4.4
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    11300.0       13000.0   16600.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   15.2         17.4       18.5             21.4       25.7         17.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              54.0         45.0       41.0             37.8       46.2         38.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 19.5         22.9      24.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                30.2         28.8       28.8             30.8       33.8         33.7
MALE                                  51.1        47.4       46.8             47.2       48.1         50.8
FEMALE                                 9.2        10.1       10.7             13.2       17.3         12.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.6         2.0        1.8              1.7         1.4         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   28.7 /h       27.9         ..             28.9       23.6         20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  58.8 /h       58.3         ..             57.7       52.3         47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.5 /ih       3.4         ..              3.2        4.3          3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   10.3 Ah       10.5         ..             10.7       13.1         13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..            251.9      191.9
RURAL                                ..           ..      350.0            200.6      193.1        157.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOKE
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      484.0            403.1      319.8        448.8
RURAL                                ..           ..      345.0            258.0      197.7        313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..       29.0             24.8       19.8         23.2
RURAL                                ..           ..       40.0             65.2       35.1         54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric mans, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c Latin America & Caribbean; /d Intermediate Middle Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976); le Upper
Middle Income ($1136-2500 per capita, 1976);  /f  Av. 1964-66;   /R  Including midwifery and nursing
auxilliaries;   /h  1963;   /i Data refer to rural health centers only.
September, 1978



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DEFfINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
A lrr'ccgo rh  dots ore drwn from  ft 00005 generaly judged the mostauhrtiv   and reliable.  tsol,loh   oe   Otte    a   o   ainr
voinl"cspasl   eas  o   h   oho  aederdieed definitions and -C-noPt. used by different  onre   ncletn   the data.  The data  re   ontbeleas.
uoeful tc desribe ordoc  of nagnitude, indirtot  trends, and obera.ttriee eartein maJor differencestbetwano. contries.n
Il-head (As Ld group ovearoee f.,or nau  indicator are popul.tion-ve ighted geove tric  eas  emuluding tbe exrmevluso  the indicator and the  oa
populaed cnrntru  n eac  gr,u.  Tc'c'roge pf oontriaaogteidorr  dpends on  -vilability of dat  so srtuifon.Ifut   ath of data.
utOuf OOvufettAr  ,aita  Surplus All Sopor toreand Indicatrs  facaet   ae  andnoreo   aoa h,ovualug.  income dietrihution and poverty are
simple  ouuir-egtdgennetric  eans withot the  -ocluion of entran.caal
LAND AREA 'ttclanuuaudandinuad-waer).Populatio   a  hospIta                                                      Ie   ttl  uban. and rural - Population (total,
Total -. I'ol  turac  aaournlgluarandnadwaeaurban, anPd'rural iie  byttheir respective number of hospital beds
Agiripkicolucl - tout rece"t eatiute uf agiculturol areas used tamporerily                   avIlable In public and private general and sperilaifed boapital and in-
or ......e...   for oP., postures, orket oud kitchen gardens or to                        hahtlitation centere.  Hospitals are establishmente permanently staffed hy
Ito follow,                                                        a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t least one physician.  Esteblisbments providing principally custodial
tare. are nor included. Rural hospitals, howe.ver, include health and ..di-
NP fR CAITA(IS)  -  NS pot copita  -utite  at .  current market price.,                cal centera not permanently ataffed by a physician (but by e medicalas
cululaod  y nve  uuurolcc  ue-hud eo Wurld Sank Atlos (1975-77 hels.i);            ietaent, nremIdwife, et-.) which uffer In-pti-et arcommodation and
1961, 1970, aud 1977 dotu.                                                                provide a limited range of medical facilitie..
Admiaona pr hoam'Ita1 bed - Total numbe r of adminsiona to or dinuhargen
ENERGY CONSUMPPTION PER CAPITA - Annual unusuptioss of comeercial energy                      from" hoptals, divided by the number o fbedo.
(coal sod lignite, petroleum, natural gas sand bydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in ksilograms of coal equivalent Par naPit..                     HOUSINGf
Aeag  si.e of household (persons per house.hold) - total, urban, and rural -
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                               A b uushold coit  of a group of individuala who obare liviog quarters
Total population. mid-year  millions)  - as  fJlab               e   avialeIn  hermimoe. A hoarder or lodger may or may not he included in
averae of  wo ad-yea  eatiates   1960, 1970, and 197 7 data,                     the house.hold for otatlatical purpossa.  itatistical definitions of house-
Urban poultion (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                         hold vary.
to;different defionitons of urban areas map affect comaparability                   Average number of personPa pr room -totl, urban, and rural - Averge nuM-
of data among countries,                                                                  ber of persona per r oom in all, urbat  and rural occupied co-etiona I
Population density                                                                          dwellings, respectively.  Dcelliog. esulude non-permanen t at ruotures and
Per  an. ha. - Mid-ysar population per square kilomater (100 hactare.)                     unoccupied parts.
of total ores.                                                                          Au cess to aleutricity (percent of delns    total, urban, and rural -
Per sq. ks.. ogri.uiture iand - Coaputed as above for arolcrlland                          Co-nv dotlooI dvellioge with electricity in living quertnerse p-eg
only.                                                                                     of total, urban, and rural dwellingn reapectively.
population aae structure (percen.t) - Children (0-li years), working-age
(15-64 Years), und retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-                EDUiCATION
yea  popoloticn.                                                                      Adusted enrollinto ratIos
Populati on growth ran(Percent,    total, end urban - Compound annual                     Primary schoul - total' snd female - Total and female1 enrollment of .1  ages
growth rutee of Eocl sd urban aid-year populations for 1950-60,                            ttepIaylvla   ecnoe   irsetvl   rmr   tho-g
1965-Ti, sod 1970-7).                                              ~~~~~~~populations; normlly includes children agedpb-Il yesrbuthat djuted for
Crudeirirt  (Pe  thousa.nd)  - Annual live births par thousand of                           different lengths of primary edUCation; for countri.xo wthuiversa   du-
old-year pupulatioe; ten-year arithmetic averages ending inI1960 and                      cation enrolment may enceed 100 percent since cone. pupilu are below o
1070 sod five-yea  average ending in 1975 for meat recent asetate,                        abov  the official ochool uge.
Crude doath rats(er thous..and) - Annual deaths per thousand of aid-                      iSuondary school - total, and female - Computed as shoe;secondary educs-
year populstion; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 end 1970                     tion requires at least four years of approved primary Inatruccion; pro
ond  loe-ear  verae eding in 1975 for meet recent estimae.                          idee general v-caLune.., or teacher training Instructtions for pupils
Itenrptdcto  rate -Aeae number of daughters.    oe   ilha                              usually of 12 to 17 years of age; c-repondenee coursee are generally
in her normal rproductive per iod If she  Paeprienn.s present age-                        eoluded.
.peciffo teri ity erns.; usualIly five-year averges ending Io 196f,                     Voslna nol       lmnt,Put          o   eoday -   cuosiitnton l-
1970, usd 1975.                                                                           clods technical, indus.tirial, or othr Programs which operate independently
Fonllo panriog - acceptors, annua  (thousands) - Annual number of                           or ase departoeot  of secondary institution..
ac ceptors of hitch-con.trol devicesunder auspio.s of national fenily                  PupIl-teachen,r:ratio  - primary. and eecondary - Totul students enrolled in
pianoing program.                                                  p~~~~~~~~~rimry adscndary levels divided hy numbers of teachers in the corre-
Family Planning - usrs (Percent of married women.) - Peru...taga of                         -Pndgiveo
married coe  of child-hearing egg (15-44 years) who use birtb-control                  Adul t literacy rate (percent) - Literats adults (able to read sod write) a
devices to' uImaried women in same age group.                                                ercentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
rOil AN0i1 NUTRITION                                                                     CONSUMPTION
loden of fod peodruction per capita (1970-100) - Inden nuber of per                      PIesnanercaret(per thousand population)  - Pasenger. c--ars oomprise moto%r crn
capita anua  pr,oduction of all food  oomoditias.                                       seating  .ems than eight persons; emcludes ambulanceo, hearses an dmiior
per capita supply of calo.ries (Poroent of resuirseents) - Computed fro                   vehicles.
energy equivalet cf net food supplies available in country per cpita                   gadic receivers (per thousand population) - All typee of receiv-r  for radio
per ds.  Avuilable aupplies comprise domestic poduction, imports lees                  hrudcst  to general public per thousand of population; encludes unlicensed
esporte, and thanges in stock. Nist supplies exclude animal feed, seeds, receivers in co..uniree and in years wheo registration of radio sets eus in
quantilteeosn d in food prosig,so                    L.sa  i  distribution.  R.-        offect; dots for roen.t ysa.r  may not  . eooporsble sinc  moan coutnrio
quiceme,tt  were ostieatnd by PAO base.d on physiological needs for nor-                sbuliuhed licens.ing.
ml o-tlolty und healtIt coo..idering environmental temperature, body                   TV reeivers (per thousan.d popuistion) - TV tcnciveru for br-dcat tc genert1
weightn,  ogetcod sep diotnibutione of population, and allowing ii per-                   publico per1 cho.oandwpopulstioo; encde  unlicensed TV receivers in cu--
cotfocan athousehold levei.                                                              tries ond in yesre whergitaonfTVsscn too,effect.
Petcait  sply of protein (urn  Per day) - Protein content of perNwaor   ciulto(pen,rIthouand pouaion) - ihowothef average circoII--
capit  ce  su.pply of food Pe r day.  Nanspply of food is defined s                       tino of "daily general interest newpaper", defined s   perIodicoI publi-
abov.-   Requleemneot  for all coun.tri.:esetablisey     b .    A pruvide foe             catIon devtdpiaiyt erriggnrlnw. it is cnuidce  cv
o  ininu 1 allowanc  of A0Stgrms or tonal prtIn per day and 210 gr.n.                    be "diy   fi   per   tIstfu   ineu                      k.
of animalI and pulse protein, of which ii grams should he animal protein.              Cioema annual attendance par uspita per year - Base d on cie nuhnr of tickets
Obese orndards ore lower than thofte of 75 grns of total protein n.oddrn   h   er    nldn   disost   rv-ncnnsudohl
23 grm   of anima1 protein as an average for the world, propose.d by                      units
A00 Ic the Third World Pod gurney.
rpcaltu proteo supply from animal aud pulse - Protein supply of food                   EMiPLOYMENT
derived fro  anml   nd pls:en i  gram  pe a.Total labor force (thousands)  -fc-nvnlclly a.ttl- persons, ioc1uding armed
Chil  (aes. 1-A) mortalt  rae(e huand) - Annual deaths par thous-                           for.o o,n-d_uonplo~yed but enludlug houecives, students, etc.  leftin-
ftnd in age grcop 1-A  -cearo  to children in this .ag  group.                            ttoe n   vaIous uouotrien7 orenot           . 0eprble.
feae(pret  - F .oele lobor force as p.percentge of total lobor force.
H10LT9                                                                                    Agiutur  (percet)- Labor force in forming, forentry, hunting and fishiog
Life eupec atunyat hirth (years) - Average number of years of life                          aft percentage of total labor force
reminisg ut bI rt h; usualy fIve-year averages ending in 1960. 1970,                   Industry (percent) - Labor forte in mining, construction, m-ofucturiog and
and 1975.                                                                                 electricity, estr.sod gas as percentage of toteI labor forco.
Inototul'Ly rtate (per thnuoendl    Annual deaths of infants under                  Particinatio-ae(ecn)-ttl   ae,cdfnl      nu,nb    n
onI ee   f agserh_ounnd livebIrhts.                                                      female lohb. ore fOPercnae ohi   esetv    opltos
Acc-a  to o_ufe  este  (percent of poulation  -total, urban, and ruralI -                    These are ItO's adjusted purtipripni ratet, reflecting av-se
Number of people (ttr,  urban, and rurel) wit h rassonabe a ccess to                      strour  of the  "oootc.n  long 'i-P  -red.
-ufe outer supply (includesceoa  oufc             atersr  nltfesated hut               tocunic de~pend e-c  rti   Ratio of populti-r under 15 ar  65 and voerco
urcncairuted water such a  that fr.e Protected horeholee, aptings,                      the labor force in age grcup  f 15-64  out
und-nootary cello) on p-oercstgeo of their res pective populations.
So, onurbo  area !apbi   ountain or standpoet located not more                        INCOME DlISTIBitTION
iron 201 meters ffromua house may he considered as haing vithtn re.-                   Peecnaeo,rot   noe(ohIpcu   n   id    eevdS-Ihs
console access of that bousee.  In  rurl are. as ee .ablnel  access would                 percnt.  richant 2i percpnt. pcoe_t 25 Perco,_ und  ocreu ..t  pervert
laply chat rho housecife or mombers of the house hold do not have to                      of househotdn.
spendl u diuproportiopute part of the day in fenoling the family's
color Irdu.                                                                           POVERoY TARCET IROTfOS
Access cc eoorota dIsposaI (percent of population) - total. urban. and                   folited absolute poverty incom.         ee.TS.e   elt)--bt  arc curd1
'coo'- Nucer  fepol   tta,uhn nd rsral) served by secrets                               Absolute poverty iboone  1levl Is thut ruelvl boSon ohicSa'ii
di,p Inlatpercertoge of ther repective popolatiens.  foorter                               nutrlions... a1ydequato dIet pi.. esuecou  nor-food y  uOO   0I  u
di,-.pal -oy loulude thep cuiectio  n sd disposal, with or without                         affordable.
...un..c c. vu.a .euceta and waste-water by water-borne systema                     E,is taed rear          - pvrty too      - lve  (Ull per capita) -urhunuo.d rurl.-
22   A  cut prioco- and nimilar installations.                                    ieIati_e poverty  iorne  ovel lo fthat --om  leve  I..u thor ono-chir-d
-fuAr-1tcy-siolan - PopulatIon divided by nuber of practicing                        per us.pits pomon 1..  ircm    f teonov.
TOy- -      q,.uuified fr,,n a medIcal schoc1atunivearsity level.                      issiosted populutionbeopvrtinmelel.rcc)-,cu    lrra -
''ARL>ffl_kr.orogpsu - Populatiop dividedtby number of                                      f          Iccco  populotuor,  ) urbunan  ruru.l) .uSc ore    e hr"sultpO'A
POOtl.ittcut par  feru.le gruduae  ureo  procticain.r.... .nd                         "e toPcor" ohi ich_erIu  roe
fotvcud Soc cl U-La f-uvic-
focuonta  nulvoin udPretio   outet



- 25-                                                                          ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
MEXICO - ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET
Actual                                Estimates           Prol:cted              Greath Rates                   As of GDY
1965          1970         1975          1976          1977          1978         1982         1966/70  1971/75  1976/82   1965          1975      1982
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                                          Constant 1972 PTeris. US5 Millio-s
Grees Dtmentic ProduCt                     26,603.2      36,978.6    48,506.9        49,283.5      4Q,709.3      52,940.5    74,721.2              6.8       5.6     6.4    99.96        99.1       95.9
Gaine from Terns of Trade                        8.0          88.1        680.5         504.4         149.9         497.1      3,234.0           61.6      50.5    24.9       0.04        0.9        4.1
Crest Domestic Inc-me                      26,611.2      37,066.7    49,107.4       49,787.9       49,859.2      53,437.6    77,955.2             6.9        5.8     6.8   100.00       100.0     100.0
Imports (tncluding NFO)                     2,754.0       7,850.8       5,804.2       4,843.5       4,722.2       5,534.2     10,332.2             6.9      8.8      8.4    10.4         11.5       13.3
Eoports (impcrt capocuto)                    7,489.9       3,090.2      4.147.0       4,050.9       4,642.0       5.150.7    10,072.3              4.4      6.1    13.5       9.9         8.1       12.9
Resouece CaP                                  764.2          760.6      1,737.2         792.6          80.2         383.5        259.9            23.6     18.0   _23.8       0.5         3.4        0.4
Consumption                                22,304.8      30,662.1    40,397.0       40,645.3       40,753.8      43,354.4    60,614.0              6.6      3.7      6.0    81.6        80.9       78.1
Investment                                  4,5771.3      7,165.       10.527.6       9,935.2       9,185.6      10,406.7    17,401.1              9.4      8.0      7.4    18.9        22.5       22.3
Croee Domnestic Istegs                      4,872.0       6,404.6       6,790.3       9,142.6       9,105.5      10,063.2    17,141.1              5.6      6.5    10.0    18.3          19.1      22.0
Crose NationaL Innings                      4,520.0        6,100.4      6,005.8       8,205.9       8,133.0       8,942.9    15,757.9              6.2       5.6    10.2    17.0        L1.9       20.2
TRADE TN GOODS AND NFS                                                        C-eet Vrice-. US$ Nili.ont                                                                             As  tf 7 of TgtaL
TIMPORTS  TOTA2                                 2,073.2       3,416.9      8,636.7       8,241.5       7,582.6       9,842.1    24,070.0             10. 5     20.4    16.3   100.0        100.D      100.0
Food                                             5.5          74.6        443.0         148.1         270.5         339.1        504.7           66.1      42.8      1.9      0.3         5.1        2.0
Pe_roleom sod Producca                          20.7          54.2        291.1         279.9         109.1         192.5        -                15 7     40.0      -        1.3         3.4        -
Other Coeds                                  1,527.3      2,223.4       5,879.7       5,643.3       5,138.7       6,897.7    18,665.3              7.8     21.5    17.9    73.6          68.1       75.1
Non.-actor Socouces                            513.6       1,064.7      2,022.9       2,170.2       2,064.3       2,412.8      5,699.8            15.7     13.7    15.9    24.8          23.4      22.9
EXPORTS, OTAL                     1/            1,964.6       2,745.5      t.081.7       6,770.3       7.454.t       9,160.1    24,244.2              6.9      17.2    21.8   180.0        100.0      100.0
Selected Agrioaltoral Goods -                 642.4          711.6        954.2       1,220.2       1,414.7       1,384.5      1,966.5             2.1      6.0    10.9    32.7          15.7       8.1
-  Petroieume amd Products                     40.1           38.4       460.1          557.0         915.8       1,874.4    11,065.1             -0.9     64.3    57.5       0.0         7.6      45.6
Selected Minerale                              189.7        244.3        457.6          464.3         510.4         558.1      1,008.5             5.2     13.4    12.8       9.7         7.5       4.2
ttaonfarturee                                  132.5         326.9      1,369.3       1,190.8       1,390.6       1,516.8      3,005.3            19.8     26.8    15.9       6.7        17.6       12.4
Other Coo                                      153.0          26.6         63.3          43.8          46.7          53.6         87.4          -29.6       18.9     4.7      7.8         1.0        0.4
Non-F-t-o  S-ervices                           806.0       1,397.7      3.077.2       3,294.2       3,175.9       3,772.7      7,111.4            11.6     17.1    12.7    41.1          50.6      29.3
TRADE TNDICES                                                                         Aoerage 72-100
Emport Pruce Indem                              77.7          86.3        16            166.4         165.9         196.0        354.6             2.6      13.9    13.4
Tmport Price loden                              74.6         85.9         149.0         152.9         160.6         177.8        240.7             2.9     11.8      7.9
TeIse cf Trade                                 104.0         102.8        113.2         108.8         103.3         110.7        147.3            -0.3       1.9     5.2
VALLE ADDED BY SECTOR                                                      Constant 1972 Peioes, Us$ Millions                                                                       At of Yof Total
Primary                                     3,644.6       4,139.0      4,483.2       4,347.1       4,480.6        4,614.5      5,191.7            2.6       1.6      2.1    19.2         12.7       6.9
Secoodaey                                   9,139.9      12,416.9    1t,948.2        17,420.6      18,710.2      20,004.7    32,443.0              8.8      6.4      9.7    26.4         30.5      43.4
Teriay1u,S81.7                                           20,4 27.7    27.i75.5      27,507.8       27, 138.5     28,321.3    37,085.7              6.6      5.8      0.6    54.4         56,8      49.7
Totl (COP)                                 26,603.2      36,978.6    40 ,506.9      49,283.5       49,709.3      52,940.5    74,721.2              6.8      5.6      6.4   100.0        100.0     100.0
CONSOLIDATED PUBLIC S1COCTR PINACES                                                                                                                                                 As T of GDT
Current Receipt-                            3,042.0        5,388.0      9,763.0      10,129.0      10,579.1      11,540.2    21,335.3             12.1     11.4    12.7    11.5          18.8       27.4
Cuerert Expendi-uaes                        2,329.0        3,853.2      8,345.3       8,837.3      89964.6        9,627.3    15,715.8             10.6     16.7      9.5      8.8        17,0       20.2
Poblic Savings                                713.0       1,334.0         917.7       1.292.6       1,614.5       1,912,9      5,619.5            16.6     -9.8    29.5       2.7         1.8        7.2
ROe..rcee for T--eseot                        776.3        1,612.6        967.1       1,392.1       1,701.9       2, 19.8      5.775.4           23.2    -14.8    207 2/  2.9             2.0        7.6
1,741.5       2,279.5      5,234.5       5,1023.       4,226.2       4,894.4      9,888.7             5.5      18.1     9.5-   6.9          10.6       12.7
Deficit (net)                                  965.2         666.9     4,347.4        3,711.7       2,524.3       2,874.6      4.113,3            -7.1     44.8    -0.5       3.6         8.6        5.3
ALLOCATION OF CBOSS PUOLIC SECTOR                                                                                                                                                   As 2 of Total
EXPENDITURES
2nergy                                         -             -         5,372.8        5,194.6       6,303.6         _            _                  _         -3.            27.0        30D.0
Transport and Communnicatin                                 _          4 752.6        1,2 .7        1 75.6 2                     -                  -        -                  388       7.9
Social Welf-er                                 -             -           225.6       4,590.3       4,461.2          ---                                      -        -      21,3       20.5         -
Industry                                      _              -         1,641.4        1,511.4       1,531.3         -            -                  -        -        -      8.3          7.0
Ageicu_lt-re                                  _                        1,978.8        1,459.9       1,575.1         -            -                  -        -        -      10.0         7.3
General Admini-tration  and Defense            -             -         3,293.7        3,783.9      4,764.7          -            -                 _         _        _      16.6        22.0
Gnmernce                                                    I_         1 53.1         1,214.0       1,290.4         -            -                  -        -        -       7.7         5.9
Tonriem                                        -             -             63.3          64.3          71.6         -            -                  -        -        -       0.3         0.3
Total                                         -              -        19861         19.562.1      21,723.5          -            -                  -        -        -    100.10       1o0.0
SELECTED INDICATORS                                                                                                                                                            09h7D  1971/75  1976/82
ICOD                                            2.49           5.66         5.32         13.56         23.43          2.84         2.86            -         -        -       3,26     3.90      3.28
Tmport Ela-tirity                               0.75           1.29         0.07        - 4.04        -14.42          2.65         1.42            -         -        -       1.11      1.44     1.47
Marinal Sa-ngs Ratio                           -0.16         -              0.04        - 0.10          0.73          0.24         0.19             -         -       -       0.15      0.16     0.28
Valoe Added net Warker (1972 pric:sl
In Millions      As . nof Total   1960-1970                                  7, of doeea, e
LABOR FORCE AND OUTPUT PEE WOREEE               1960    1970    1960    1970   Ceowth RDte    196D           1920          1960         1970       Geo-th Rte
Agric-lt-re                                  5.4      5.1    50.5    39.2         -0.6        608.8       939.0         34.7         33.0           4.4
Industry                                     2.1      3.0    19.6    23.1          3.6      2,468.9    4,134 9         140.6        145.0            5.3
3oe L  ID.2    43.9    29O.9  7.77   4.4      3,722.8    4,044.8          183.6        142.0           2.3
Ontal                                       10.7     13.90  100.0   100.0         2.0      1,755.6    2,047.0         100.0        100.0            5.0
0/   TIclodes sugar
7    This Ion rate of gr-ath is c:sed by a peak - public investmene in 1975.  Tho projected rate foe 1977-82 is abhot 13%



rS              iiS?aWB4    U>H~O-i-i fS-N   nn c              c     Xrit Cs   ci    ir.-'O0 C'  iti~            _~c         N 
eo nw' v eO c ccc    c  i tccc-rH,           >n   ci         c n nc         N      -'c- 'p  ON            -   ''-in>    XnS    n
iti-         ccn-ccittc'-                                citnOX==               Qo5q1a n  C  =>=n  D         1ni bc-=  r, --n  it NC-r -
cc              3c         enS.n  ccJ =ccii   c3'  in  B                c      o t     n      nI  n      Vc    ncW=tg'n 3li-sac3   c i
'li Ri v                          &0   Rn  cR-c iV  3-'-                                       c,          cit Cc                   N
ccn              nuci    Oc       a   -t-i  '---nc                                   'ac                   05 0c              z
c-                cc     nci        c Cc:ta-                   -                       c            nc
ccc           iti           i-i  cc    S                               n              I-iwXo~t; vx    N o    sSW          0      nS_S       
a                                  ~~~~~~~~~I   ,_                                         A I -            I   -  I                     A~ -   
ci~~~~~~~~~ I I,                                         C        C       i I                   -,I       snJ                  O 
~~~~~~~~~~~1  a                                                 A_jaww-  1c 
ci  cicicSici_ciocicici           it - vcnc          I~   c-i-cic  NNicnsiv tiiu_  _      '-  0   rv
-   .0    ci  ci    it  it-it   C-cN-    -i o          iiicc    ci.D    lo   o)N      ~Ni  accaccnc IX &VOro_ o            .rw
th a ~ _vO t3 A_ S  W ~F 4I                              _                           n1  
>   _  u   _  _   __   w-ac-cm W ci              oo -ci   cic   it-0>qS~sr ai NcPii. i, icicir _Ni
it  ci         -i          ns no v o    cn   V       cicii Oi    NcliNcci 0t N_oOOcicicic.l-' ci                           _  O          W
ci~~~~ ~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ci  N   c-                                             01~   ID-~    c-  sDcco~r~   i'coi i.c  Ca
vo  o        D  IJ t_D   _        In       @   _ Q   _   c-- 
14 0 W 0   ~~~~ lC'2 W O sO W @ _ ~~~~ I O O
O ~     ~     tcc  -~ ni             ci               N      ci-cliNii                                
g~~~~~~~ C                                      '    'I -- '-                   -z --       i g N  twogooo91_oo    /Jv
_ ~~~cni                 it     =     i c c n             it-riiacioNit voio-Zioc                         Ir,~~ < 
ci      a   c-t   ciicc 5- Dciii  a    it  cii-.coiaacicoic_cico_icisacici                                  o 
cw  Ciiit c    it          C                   I            I 4 | g@O _V_\        :      
c' t- 1-        S 0t                                         itN-cc  ciC-ccC3icic= 
itc  -      l> N
_                      C/  _  r                                                                                                n
O~ U1       !  W'DaW_1   X_DV
o ~ ~    ~ ~ I wIiiiccc  Nciciacicici cc- 



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
A.   Statement of Bank Loans (as of March 31, 1979)
Loan                                                        Amount iess    Undis-
No.    Year          Borrower              Purpose         Cancellations   bursed
33 loans fully disbursed                        1,486.4
793      1972  NAFINSA                     Tourism                22.0         0.5
909      1973  NAFINSA                    Water Supply            90.0        37.7
968      1974  NAFINSA                     Roads                  90.0        45.3
969      1974  NAFINSA                     Irrigation             77.0         6.7
970      1974  NAFINSA                     Irrigation             47.0        41.5
1022      1974  NAFINSA                     Airports               25.0        10.9
1053      1974  NAFINSA                     Integrated Rural
Development          50.0        43.9
1110      1975  NAFINSA                     Integrated Rural
Development         110.0        37.5
1111      1975  NAFINSA                     Irrigation             50.0        49.0
1112      1975  FERTIMEX and NAFINSA        Industry               50.0         9.2
1186      1975  BANOBRAS                   Water Supply            40.0        35.4
1205      1976  NAFINSA                     Industry               50.0        10.8
1217      1976  NAFINSA                     Agricultural and
Livestock Credit   125.0          3.3
1232      1976  Ferrocarriles Nacionales
de Mexico and NAFINSA    Railways                100.0        71.2
1420      1977  NAFINSA                    Tourism                 42.0        41.5
1462      1977  NAFINSA                     Integrated Rural
Development         120.0       102.0
1524      1978  NAFINSA                     Tourism                50.0        50.0
1552      1978  NAFINSA                     Industry               47.0        47.0
1553      1978  NAFINSA                     Agriculture            56.0        56.0
1554      1978  BANOBRAS                    Urban Development      16.5        16.5
1560      1978  NAFINSA                     Industry              100.0        91.1
1569      1978  NAFINSA                     Agricultural Credit  200.0        194.2
969-1    1979  NAFINSA                     Irrigation             25.0        25.0
1643      1979  NAFINSA                     Small-scale Agri.      60.0        60.0
TOTAL                                            3,128.9 2/ 1,086.2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank               524.0
Total now outstanding                            2,604.9
Amount sold                     92.3
of which has been repaid        82.7                 9.6
Total now held by Bank 1/                        2,595.3
Total Undisbursed                                            1,086.2
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/   In addition, a $120 million loan for a Highway Sector Project was approved by
the Executive Directors on March 20, 1979, and a $80 million loan for a
Second Fertilizer Project was approved on April 12, 1979. These loans
have not yet been signed.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
B.     STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1979)
Fiscal                                                              US$ Million
Year           Obligor                  Type of Business       Loan   Equity  Total
1958/59    Industrias Perfect
Circle, S.A. 1/          Industrial Equipment       0.8      --     0.8
1958        Bristol de Mexico,
S.A. 1/                  A.C. Engine Overhaul       0.5             0.5
1961       Acero Solar, S.A. 1/        Twist Drills               0.3      --     0.3
1962/65/   Compania Fundidora
66/68       Fierro y Acero de
Monterrey, S.A.          Steel                      2.3    21.4   23.7
1963        Tubos de Acero de
Mexico, S.A. 1/          Steel                      0.9      0.1    1.0
1963       Quimica del Rey,
S.A. 1/                  Sodium Sulphate            0.7      --     0.7
1964/66    Industrial del Hierro,
S.A.                     Construction Equipment   --         2.0    2.0
1970       Minera del Norte, S.A,   Iron Ore Mining               1.5      -       1.5
1971       Celanese Mexicana, S.A.  Textiles                     12.0      --    12.0
1972       Promotora de Papel
Periodico, S.A. de
C.V.                     Pulp and Paper              2/       2/     2/
1973       Cemento Veracruz            Cement                    10.5      --    10.5
1974       Cancun Aristos Hotel        Tourism                    1.0      0.3    1.3
1975/78    Mexinox, S.A.               Steel                     12.0      3.2   15.2
1978       Papeles Ponderosa, S.A.  Pulp and Paper                9.0      2.6   11.6
1978       Tereftalatos Mexicanos,
S.A.                     Petrochemicals            19.0        -   19.0
1979       Empresas Tolteca de
Mexico, S.A. 3/          Cement                   100.0        -  100.0
1979       Hotel Camino Real
Ixtapa, S.A.             Tourism                 _           2.3    2.3
Total Gross Commitments                             170.5    31.9  202.4
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayment
and Sales                                         108.4    22.1  130.5
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                    62.1      9.8   71.9
1/   Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off,
sold redeemed or repaid.
2/   US$25,000.
3/   Loan of US$100 million, of which US$85 million has been sold to
paticipants.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION: PROGRESS AND PROBLEMS 1/
Ln. No. 793    Zihuatanejo Tourism Project:  $22 Million Loan of January 22,
1972; Effectiveness Date: March 30, 1973. Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
All infrastructure works at Ixtapa and in the town of Zihuatanejo
are complete. The international airport at Zihuatanejo is now
being served by 35 flights a week from Mexico City. A new
bilateral air agreement between Mexico and the US was signed
in January 1978 that allows Mexican and US air carriers to
serve Zihuatanejo directly from 23 US cities.  A comprehensive
hotel staff training program has been approved by the Bank and
is under implementation.
Ln. No. 909    Mexico City Water Supply Project:  $90 Million Loan of
June 18, 1973; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1974.
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Project works are well advanced except in the Texcoco Region.
Overall, more than half of the project works as originally
defined have been completed, and the works in progress are
expected to be completed by early 1980. The Government has
proposed that savings in carrying out some components of
the projects be applied to finance new works which would
serve the same objective of increasing bulk water supply to the
Mexico City metropolitan area. A recommendation on changes in
the project description will be submitted to Executive Directors
shortly.
Ln. No. 968    Seventh Highway Project:  $90 Million Loan of March 1, 1974;
Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974. Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Substantial initial delays have been encountered in project
works because of the shortage of budgetary allocations.
Substantial cost increases caused by price escalation were also
encountered. Taking this into account, a reduction in the scope
of the project was made in August 1977, from 16 roads (1,975
km) to ten roads and part of an eleventh road (1,216 km) which,
because of cost increases, have the same total cost as the
original project. The roads remaining in the project continue
to be well justified as benefits have kept pace with costs.
Completion is now expected in early 1981, or about two and a
half years behind schedule.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in that sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Ln. No. 969    Rio Panuco Irrigation Project;  $77 Million Loan of
March 1, 1974; Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974.
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Construction is over 60 percent completed and termination of
all works is scheduled for 1980. About 67,000 ha were planted
in the previous season; on full development the project will
provide irrigation to 137,000 ha. The technical assistance
program and the land settlement program are proceeding satis-
factorily.  However, inflation has been greater than estimated
at the time of appraisal, and project costs have risen from the
original estimate of US$208 million to about US$366 million
equivalent. A US$25 million supplemental Bank loan has been
approved July 11, 1978 to help finance the increase in cost
of this project (see Ln. No. 969-1 on page 8 of this Annex).
Ln. No. 970    Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:  $47 Million Loan of
March 1, 1974; Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974.
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Construction of major project works remain substantially
behind the original schedule; the pace is, however, acceler-
ating as additional budgetary support is being provided.
Project authorities have rephased project construction; a
substantial reduction in project scope was approved by the
Executive Directors (R79-51 of March 13, 1979).
Ln. No. 1022   Airport Development Project:  $25 Million Loan of
May 28, 1974; Effectiveness Date: September 16, 1974.
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project originally included the construction of seven
regional airports and the expansion of an existing one at
Campeche. Of these, the Cuaymas airport works have been post-
poned by the Government because of interim improvements of the
existing airport carried out by the local municipality with its
own resources. At Campeche, the Government has decided to
construct a new airport with its own funds instead of improving
the existing airport.  Loan proceeds allocated to Cuaymas and
Campeche were reallocated in August 1977 to complete construction
of the six airports retained in the project. The Poza Rica
airport has been completed and works in the other five airports
are proceeding satisfactorily.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
Ln. No. 1053   Papaloapan Integrated Rural Development Project:  $50 Million
Loan of November 15, 1974; Effectiveness Date: January 27,
1975. Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Project implementation is accelerating after delays due to
inadequate budget support. Budget levels were raised for 1979
and a reprogramming of the project is planned during mid-1979
to adjust for these delays.
Ln. No. 1110   Integrated Rural Development Project (PIDER I):  $110 Million
Loan of May 8, 1975; Effectiveness Date: October 29, 1975.
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project investments are generally on schedule. An in-depth
mid-term evaluation was carried out in late 1978 and early
1979. Management is taking actions to further strengthen
project implementation. Special inter-agency agreements regard-
ing the development credit, agricultural extension, and farmer
organization components are being implemented. PIDER management
is taking steps to ensure the proper operation and maintenance
of earlier PIDER investments. Emphasis is also being given to
improved cost recovery, investment analysis and programming,
monitoring, and rural industries.
Ln. No. 1111   Seventh Irrigation Project - Bajo Rio Bravo and Bajo Rio
San Juan: $150 Million Loan of May 8, 1975; subsequently
reduced to $50 Million; Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
In view of the project's size, complexity, and high cost, the
Government and the Bank agreed to phase project development over
a longer period of time and substantially reduce the scope of
the project to be financed under the Bank Loan (R77-305 of
December 13, 1977). A recent mission found progress under the
revised project to be satisfactory and confirmed the economic
viability of the reduced project (R79-56 of March 19, 1979).
Ln. No. 1112   Fertilizer Project:  $50 Million Loan of May 22, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1975. Closing Date:
March 31, 1980.
Construction delays were encountered early in 1977 due to a
shortage of resources following the peso devaluation, and
the problem was aggravated by changes in the company's manage-
ment at about the same time. Progress on the Salamanca project
has been slow and culminated in termination of the main con-
struction contract in March 1978. Since the appointment of a
new contractor in May 1978, the FERTIMEX construction manage-
ment organization has been strengthened, the speed of the work



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
has improved and completion is now scheduled for July 1979.
Construction of the 1,500 TPD urea plant at Coatzacoalcos is
also behind schedule, but work in this project is now proceed-
ing satisfactorily and is expected to be completed by February
1980.
Ln. No. 1186   Medium Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  $40 million
Loan of January 13, 1976; Effectiveness Date: April 26, 1976.
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Subloan agreements have been signed with five cities, where
construction has begun. The additional subprojects (which
would fully commit the loan funds) are being reviewed by the
Bank. Several positive measures have been taken by the Mexican
authorities to accelerate project execution, including the
preparation and implementation of guidelines for project
design and the reorganization of the Special Project Unit in
charge of project execution. Construction in three cities is
substantially on schedule and in two others, construction is
expected to begin in early 1979.
Ln. No. 1205   Industrial Equipment Fund (FONEI) Project:  $50 Million Loan of
April 30, 1976; Effectiveness Date: August 30, 1976. Closing
Date: December 31, 1979.
The loan is now fully committed.
Ln. No. 1217   Fifth Agricultural and Livestock Credit Project:  $125 Million
Loan of March 11, 1976; Effectiveness Date: August 30, 1976.
Closing Date: January 1, 1980.
The medium-income producers' category is fully disbursed and
priority is being given to accelerating the project component
benefitting low-income farmers. The entire loan is expected
to be disbursed by mid-1979, six months ahead of schedule.
Ln. No. 1232   Third Railway Project:  $100 Million Loan of April 30, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: June 16, 1976. Closing Date: June 30,
1981.
Operating and technical improvements on the railway continue.
The traffic took an upward swing in 1977, continued to rise in
1978, and is expected to increase substantially in 1979. As a
result, the operating and working ratios improved significantly
in 1977 and 1978 and the outlook for 1979 is even better. Due
to budgetary cuts imposed by the Government in 1976-1977, the
railway has prepared a revised investment plan on the basis of
which revised financial targets and a revised list of goods
have been prepared with, and accepted by, the Bank. Due to
delays incurred in 1976-1977, the project will be completed
in late 1980, about two years behind schedule.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
Ln. No. 1420   Baja California Tourism Project:  $42 Million Loan of
July 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date: June 28, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Construction of infrastructure at both project sites has begun.
The first 250-room hotel at Loreto is also under construction.
*                        Project implementation is slightly behind schedule.  An outline
for the ecological and environmental study is being reviewed
in the Bank. The marketing studies of domestic as well as
North American tourism are complete and the economic study of
tourism will be completed by June 1979.
Ln. No. 1462   Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER II:  $120 million
Loan of July 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date: October 28, 1977;
Closing Date: July 31, 1981.
Implementation is on schedule. Project authorities have made
important progress in implementation of inter-agency agreements
to improve investment planning and execution.
Ln. No. 1524   Tourism Development Project:  $50 million Loan of March 21, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
A cofinancing loan of US$25 million was provided to the borrower
on December 1, 1978 by a group of commercial banks. Progress
of commitments is satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1552   Small- and Medium-Scale Industrial Development Project;
US$47 million Loan of May 4, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
January 12, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Management of the project has now been integrated with that of
FOGAIN, one of its main components. Training of the first
group of extension agents has started and submission of sub-
projects is expected to start soon.
Ln. No. 1553   Tropical Agricultural Development Project:  US$56 Million Loan
of September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date:  January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Implementation is on schedule. Technical assistance teams are
working with beneficiaries in the first two pilot project areas.
Investment plans for four additional pilot projects are in
advanced stages of preparation and will soon be submitted for
Bank approval.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Ln. No. 1554   Lazaro Cardenas Conurbation Development Project:  US$16.5
Million Loan of September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
February 14, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Progress on institutional and on some work related aspects
of this project has advanced beyond original expectations.
Ln. No. 1560   FONEI III:  US$100 Million Loan of September 27, 1978;
Effectiveness Date:  January 12, 1979;                                        *
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Demand for industrial investment financing is proving to be
stronger than anticipated. FONEI has committed US$81.6 million
of the Bank loan to date.
Ln. No. 1569   Sixth Agricultural Credit:  US$200 Million Loan of
September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Implementation is on schedule.
Ln. No. 969-1  Rio Panuco Irrigation Project:  US$25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Implementation is on schedule. See earlier reference to this
project (Ln. No. 969) on page 4 of this Annex.
Ln. No. 1643   Small Scale Agricultural Infrastructure Project:  US$60 Million
Loan of February 6, 1979; Effectiveness Date: April 13, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Implementation is on schedule.
Ln. No. 1671   Highway Sector Project:  US$120 Million Loan of
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The loan has not yet been signed.
Ln. No. 1686   Second Fertilizer Project - Lazaro Cardenas:  US$80 Million
Loan of                ; Closing Date:  October 31, 1982.
The loan has not yet been signed.



- 35 -
ANNEX III
MEXICO
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare project:  About 6 months
(b)  Project prepared by:                         Banco de Mexico staff
(FONEI)
(c)  First preparation mission:                   October 1978
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:              January 1979
(e)  Negotiations completed in:                   May 1979
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:               August 1979
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a)  Interest on normal operation subloans would be two points above the
average borrowing rate of financieras (ACF) and would be adjusted
every six months (paragraph 49);
(b)  amendment of FONEI's Operating Regulations, to encourage a wide
distribution of its resources among industrial enterprises, would
be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (paragraph 55);
(c)  interest rates on technology subprojects would be three points
below the ACF (paragraph 61);
(d)  interest rates on pollution control subproject would be between
two points above and three points below the ACF (paragraph 62);
(e)  to ensure a reasonable distribution of Bank funds, no more than
US$5 million would normally be onlent to a single subproject
(paragraph 66);
(f)  FONEI would have a free limit in the use of Bank resources of
US$2.0 million (paragraph 50), except that in the case of technology
subloans the limit would be US$500,000 and for pollution control
subloans the limit would be US$750,000 and Bank approval would be
required for the first three projects of each type. All service
export subloans would be subject to prior approval by the Bank
(paragraph 66).



