Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FILE COPY
Report No. 2473b-ME
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MEXICO
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FO
May 10, 1979
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Peso (Mex$)
US$1 = Mex$22.70
Mex$1 = US$0.044
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
ACF       Average Cost of Funds to Financieras
ATA       Average Total Assets
CEDI      Indirect tax rebate certificates
EDI       Economic Development Institute
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
FIDEIN    Fideicomiso de Conjuntos, Parques y Ciudades Industriales,
y Centros Comerciales
FIRA      Fondo Instituido en Relacion con la Agricultura
FOGAIN    Fondo de Garantia y Fomento a la Industria Mediana y Pequena
FOMEX     Fondo para el Fomento de las Exportaciones de Productos
Manufacturados
FOMIN     Fondo Nacional de Fomento Industrial
FOVI      Fondo de Operacion y Descuento Bancario a la Vivienda
FOGA      Fondo de Garantia y Apoyo a los Creditos para la Vivienda
FRR       Financial Rate of Return
IFC       International Finance Corporation
IMIT      Instituto Mexicano de Investigaciones Tecnologicas
NAFINSA   Nacional Financiera, S.A.
SARH      Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos Hidraulicos
SMI       Small and Medium Industries
SSA       Secretaria de Salubridad y Asistencia
SSMA      Subsecretaria de Mejoramiento del Ambiente
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.  THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR  ..........I..* ....................     1 
A.   Recent  Performance   ...............................    I
B.   The National Industrial Development Plan                 3
C.  Major Issues Facing Implementation .7
D.   Outlook for Industrial Growth                            9
II. THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM.                                           9
A.  The Banking System ..............                         9
B.  The Trust Funds ............ I ................... . .   11
C.   The Securities Market .....    .......................    12
D.   Credit Availability and Interest Rate Policy  .....    14
E.  Prospects .....       ...................................    16
III.   THE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) ....     .............    16
A.   Background .......................................      16
B.   Oroanization and Management .....    .................  16
C.   Operating Regulations and Policies       ...............    17
D.   Operating Procedures .... .........................    21
E.   Past Operations and Impact ............ ...........    26
F.   Development Strategy Paper .............. I  ........    30
G.   Financial Structure and Results ..................    30
H.   Future Operations and Resource Needs      .............    32
IV.   THE PROJECT ..........................................    34
A. Project Objectives            . . .34
B. The Proposed Loan             . . .35
C. Benefits and Risks .38
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .39
A.   Agreements Reached ..     . .................           39
B. Recommendation ..40
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Mexico in January/February, 1979. The mission comprised Messrs. N. Santiago,
N. Hughes (LCPI2); G. Castaneda, D. Sarfaty and J. Baranson (Consultants).
Mr. I. Baskind assisted in the preparation of this report, and Ms. A. Velarde,
in the preparation of statistical tables.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
LIST OF ANNEXES
1.   Variable Interest Rates and the ACF Index
2.   Organization Chart
3.   Operating Regulations of the Industrial Equilpment Fund (FONEI)
4.   Financing Technological Development at the Enterprise Level
5.   Federal Legislation Pertaining to Environmental Pollution
6.   FONEI's Declaration of Operational and Institutional Strategy
7.   Estimation of the Foreign Exchange Component of Domestic Fixed
Assets Financed by FONEI
8.   Estimated Quarterly Schedule of Bank Loan Disbursements
9.   Supporting Tables
T-1 Rates of Growth of GDP by Sector of Origin 1965-78
T-2 Gross Domestic Products by Sector of Origin 1965 and 1975-77
T-3 Structure of Value Added in Manufacturing, Selected Years 1960-77
T-4 Indices of Industrial Production 1970-77
T-5 Import of Machinery and Equipment and Domestic Production of
Machinery and Transport Equipment
T-6 Gross Fixed Investment
T-7 Indices of Employment in Manufacturing 1970-78
T-8 Composition of Exports
T-9 CEDI's Indirect Tax Rebate Certificates, 1973-78
T-10 Credits Granted by FOMEX for Export Promotion and Import
Substitution 1964-78
T-11 Structure of Manufacturing Industry
T-12  Institutional Structure of the Financial Sector
T-13 Financial Development
T-14 The 12 Largest Banks as of December 31, 1978
T-15  Financial Indicators of the Private and Mixed Banks
T-16 Multibanks' Share of Operations of Private and Mixed Banks
T-17 Securities Traded Annually
T-18 Securities Exchange Price Index
T-19 Authorized Security Issues in 1978
T-20 Banking System Credit by Sectors 1970-78
T-21 Regional and Sectoral Distribution of Credit
T-22 Lending Terms of Financial Institutions in 1977
T-23 Liabilities of the Financial Intermediaries (end of year)
T-24 Financial System Interest Rates
T-25 Interest Rate Differentials
T-26 Indicators of Resource Mobilization and Credit Availability
T-27 Classification of FONEI's Operations by Financial Intermediaries
T-28 Characteristics of FONEI Subprojects
T-29 Projected and Realized Exports in 1977 by a Sample of Enterprises
Financed by FONEI
T-30 Projected and Realized Import Substitution in 1977 by a Sample of
Enterprises Financed by FONEI
T-31 Number of New Jobs Created by a Sample. of Projects Financed by FONEI
T-'32 FONEI: Past and Projected Balance Sheets
T-33 FONEI: Past and Projected Sources and Applications of Funds
T-34 FONEI: Past and Projected Income Statements



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
T-35  FONEI:  Operations Projections (1979-1983)
T-36  FONEI:  Loan Commitments and Resources (1979-1983)
T-37  FONEI:  Resource Position (1979-1983)
T-38  FONEI:  Principal Assumptions Used in the Financial Projections
10. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP



I. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
A.   Recent Performance
1.01      Since 1974, the Mexican economy has undergone sharp fluctuations.
Prior to that year the country had experienced two decades of virtually
uninterrupted economic expansion with GDP growth rates averaging 7% annually
(Annex 9, T-1), levels of inflation generally in line with international price
movements and only moderate balance of payments pressures. The four-year
period 1974 through 1977, on the other hand, was marked by considerably
reduced GDP growth rates, averaging 3.5% p.a., high inflation rates exceeding
20% p.a. and substantial fiscal and balance of payments deficits.
1.02      In 1978 the situation was radically reversed once again and there
were indications of the initiation of a new period of accelerated development.
Far outstripping the expectations held at the beginning of the year, GDP rose
by an estimated 8-9% while inflation was reduced, falling to around 18% from
29% in 1977. Moreover, expanding exports, increased tourism revenues and
substantial capital inflows permitted exchange accumulation in spite of
a record level of imports.
1.03      These developments occurred in a changed policy framework established
by the government which took office at the end of 1976, stressing efficient
allocation of resources. These policies are characterized by (i) measures
to achieve levels of real interest rates conducive to increasing the mobiliza-
tion of private savings; (ii) a realistic exchange rate policy; (iii) further
liberalization of imports; and (iv) renewed efforts at export promotion.
This was further buttressed by increasing knowledge of the extent of the
country's hydrocarbon resources which may virtually eliminate foreign exchange
restraints on development policy in the future.
1.04      Manufacturing.  From 1960 through 1973 manufacturing output increased
at an annual rate exceeding 8%, its share of GDP rising from 19.2% to 22.8%
(Annex 9, T-2). During the four-year period 1974-77, the growth rate decreased
more than 50%, averaging less than 4% p.a. The recovery in 1978 caused output
expansion to rise to record rates, the preliminary estimate being 10-11%.
1.05      Since 1960, structural changes associated with growing population
and incomes have emerged within the sector. The share of the traditional
consumer goods industries in manufacturing value added (i.e. food, beverages
and tobacco, textiles, clothing and shoes) has fallen somewhat from 54% in
1960 to 51% in 1977, while those of intermediate goods and engineering indus-
tries have risen (Annex 9, T-3). The engineering industries have experienced
a particularly rapid expansion, with the share rising from 12.8% in 1960 to
18.3% in 1977. However, a substantial portion of this output is accounted for
by durable consumer goods; production of capital goods remains at a relatively
low level. As a consequence, to meet increasing investment requirements the
country has had to rely heavily on imported capital goods (Annex 9, T-5) and
this now has become the largest import category, representing more than a
third of total imports.



-2-
1.06      Exports of manufactured goods 1/ have risen sharply since 1970,
reflecting the efforts initiated at that time to develop this trade (Annex 9,
T-8). The measures have included indirect tax rebates (CEDI), 2/ credit on
concessionary terms and institutional support for external promotion. Between
1970 and 1974 the value of these external sales 3/ rose almost fourfold, and
their share in total merchandise exports rose from about 20% at the end of the
1960s to over 40%. While their share in the gross value of industrial output
also rose, their contribution has remained at relatively low levels not much
above 5%.
1.07      Domestic inflation and recession abroad made themselves felt in
1975, when manufactured exports fell to US$1,069 million, 13.5% below the 1974
level of US$1,236 million. The subsequent recovery abroad resulted in some
increase in the value of these exports in 1976 (to US$1.191 million) but the
failure to adjust the exchange rate in line with the difference between domestic
and foreign inflation rates continued to influence external sales; as a result,
the,1976 level was; almost 20% below the 1974 peak in real terms. The massive
peso devaluation iLn September 1976 restored a substantial degree of competi-
tiveness to Mexican exports of manufactured goods, and in 1977 the value of
those exports rose to a new peak level of US$1,391 million, although still
some 10-15% below the 1974 volume in real terms. This expansion continued
into 1978, with the exports value rising to about: $1,800 million, exceeding
the 1974 level in real terms by about 10%. Moreover, this sharp rise occurred
at a time when growing domestic demand was putting increasing pressure on
exportable supplies.
1.08      The government's incentive programs have continued to support
the turnaround in exports. Export transactions receiving CEDIs and
CEDI-related sales in 1978 were twice the level of the preceding year,
which had been affected by the suspension of the CEDI program immediately
after devaluation (Annex 9, T-9). A modified system was reintroduced,
however, in mid-1977. The percentage of the taxe!s rebated to sales
remained virtually at the same level in 1977 and 1978--6.77% and 6.87%,
respectively. The CEDI program in its present form is scheduled to terminate
beginning in 1980, when the Value Added Tax takes effect. The government
intends, however, to continue the export incentive program, and procedures
to this effect are under review.
1.09      Another element which has aided exports has been the availability
of resources to finance both working capital neecls for production of export
orders and longer-term credits for these sales, through FOMEX, the special
1/   Excluding assembly ("maquila") industries.
2/   Indirect tax rebate certificates.
3/   This discussion also excludes exports of sugar, which are included in
the category of manufactured products in most Mexican sources. In 1970
sugar represented some 22% of manufactured exports, declining to about
11-13% during 1973-75. Since 1976, sugar exports have virtually dis-
appeared.



-3-
trust fund of the Banco de Mexico created in 1964 (Annex 9, T-10). While the
value of FOMEX export operations rose in 1978, the increase was less than the
rise in the value of eligible exports. This reflected the upward adjustments
made during 1978 in the interest rate charged by FOMEX for its operations, in
line with the government's policy to achieve positive real interest rates. 1/
1.10      Import liberalization.  A key element in the goal of the present
authorities to open the Mexican economy further is to liberalize import
policy. In the past the import substitution approach to industrial develop-
ment depended heavily on import controls, with generally moderate tariff
levels. Nonetheless, internal competition, made possible by the relatively
large market, the relatively open borders and various investment incentives,
contributed to the growth of a reasonably efficient industrial sector with
the exception of a few branches. With increasing emphasis being given to
further improvements in international competitiveness, which would lead to
higher levels of exports of manufactured products, the government began to
liberalize imports at the end of 1977, reducing the number of products
subject to prior licenses. Further products were freed in June and December
1978. Thus, by the beginning of 1979, slightly more than two-thirds of
the items in the customs nomenculature were no longer subject to prior
licenses. Nevertheless, the items still subject to controls accounted
for about 65% of total imports in 1978. The inter-ministerial committee
which is responsible for commercial policy is currently undertaking studies
of effective protection and actual tariff levels, in order to develop the
program for further liberalization integrated with moderate tariff levels
appropriate for the industrial strategy which Mexico is now elaborating.
B.   The National Industrial Development Plan
1.11      With substantial progress having been achieved in meeting the short-
term goals of stabilization, reviving economic growth and restoring investor
confidence, attention is now being focussed on medium- and longer-term elements
affecting the growth of the economy and the industrial sector. After consider-
able preparation and detailed discussions within the government, the Secretaria
de Patrimonio y Fomento Industrial (SEPAFIN) published in March 1979 the
National Industrial Development Plan, 1979-1982. The quantitative aspects of
the Plan document are presented in a simulation over the time span 1979-1982
of a number of important economic variables, based mainly upon historical expe-
rience. However, it takes into account the considerably higher rate of public
investment and iaports which are made possible by the exports of hydrocarbons.
Thus, the Plan is not allocative but rather indicative of growth potential.
Moreover, the aggregates which are extrapolated are already obsolete due to
GDP growth higher in 1978 than expected, the continuation of that growth in
1979 again above the expected level,and the recent increases in international
oil prices. Nevertheless, the Plan represents a fundamental document in that
it sets out basic sectoral objectives of the Mexican Government and provides
the rationale for using specific policy tools.
1/ See discussion of the financial sector, para. 2.06.



- 4 -
1.12      The overall growth strategy of the Plan integrates certain key
objectives, including (a) accelerating the generation of employment oppor-
tunities; (b) increasing real income of the population; (c) promoting indus-
trial growth in accordance with the human and nat:ural resources available in
the country; (d) promoting industrial investment in accordance with regional
and sectoral priorities; (e) orienting industrial, production towards external
markets; and (f) providing impetus to indigenous technological growth in
industry. To achieve these objectives, it is proposed to use a wide-ranging
set of policy instruments,including substantial public investment in economic
and social infrastructure, with emphasis on the new geographical areas for
industrial growth, and in certain directly productive subsectors such as
petroleum and petrochemicals, procurement practices for public sector insti-
tutions which would favor efficient local production of capital goods, and
fiscal and other incentives for the private sector to channel investment into
the priority geographic zones and the priority sutbsectors and to promote
employment. A significant element in the Plan is the critical role assigned
to the private sector. While private fixed capital formation (including agri-
culture, mining, tourism and commerce as well as manufacturing industry) is
expected to decline as a share of total fixed capital formation, this change
in relative shares reflects basically the expected sharp increase in public
sector investment made possible through the increased financial resources from
exploitation of the hydrocarbon resources. The rate of growth of private
investment, in fact, is expected to rise sharply from the 7% p.a. level
achieved in 1970-75 to 10% p.a. in the period 1977-82, with a peak of 14%
in 1982.
1.13      The major policy tools affecting the private sector have already
been put in place through the issuance of five presidential decrees. Regional
priorities were defined in a decree published in the Diario Oficial of
February 2, 1979 and sectoral priorities were set out in a decree published
March 9, 1979. The specific fiscal incentives in accordance with those prior-
ities were contained in a decree published on March 6, 1979. This decree
included additional fiscal incentives to achieve other objectives,including
promotion of small industry and generation of additional employment opportun-
ities through better utilization of existing capacity. Promotional pricing
for certain inputs for new industries in the highest priority zones, espe-
cially export-oriented secondary petrochemicals, was provided for in a decree
published on December 29, 1978. Finally, a decree establishing an interminis-
terial committee to oversee the implementation of the Plan, and which outlined
the general objectives, was published on March 19, 1979.
1.14      In terms of general economic magnitudes, industrial growth over the
last 20 years averaging 8% p.a. has been able to provide an employment
increase of no more than 3% p.a., about equal to the annual percentage increase
in the labor force. Based on the increased import capacity provided by the
hydrocarbon resources, the Plan considers it possible to achieve 10-12% annual
increases in industrial output with increases in employment of the order of 5%.
In addition, considerable emphasis will be given to the development of agro-
industries, which will have important backward linkages to the agricultural
sector, generating demand for those products and consequently offering further
employment and income opportunities to those employed in agriculture and dis-
tribution.



1.15      Among the industrial branches highest priority is given to expan-
sion of capital goods producing industries and of output of certain interme-
diates critical to the rest of the economy (steel and cement), as well as to
the development of agroindustries. Capital goods currently represent the
largest category of imports and their production is characterized by relatively
low investment costs over new jobs created.  Anticipated demand for these
branches of industry indicate the ability to reach levels of output which will
be technically efficient for a number of key product lines; however, appro-
priate commercial policies will also have to be designed to ensure economically
efficient levels.
1.16      Along with the focus on employment opportunities, the main objective
of the regional decentralization effort is to achieve a better spatial distri-
bution of industry and to control the growth in the main cities, in particular
Mexico City, where the burgeoning population has already created serious
social, economic and ecological problems. Top priority is given to the
development of four "industrial ports" (Zone IA), embracing the areas around
Lazaro Cardenas, Salina Cruz, Coatzacoalcos and Tampico, and selected other
areas (Zone IB) whose development has been considered important within the
nationwide Urban Plan. The second group of areas (Zone II), which are con-
sidered state priorities, are still to be specified in agreements to be reached
between the federal and state authorities. Growth in the Federal District and
its immediate environs (Zone IIIA) and other nearby regions (Zone IIIB) is
to be controlled 1/ and investment in those areas is. practically excluded
from receiving incentives, except for expansions of existing enterprises in
Zone IIIB. Finally, as regards the rest of the country (i.e., the areas not
specifically included in Zones I, II or III), the incentives to be offered to
investment are lower than for the two priority areas (Zones I and II).
1.17      The zonal and subsectoral priorities are reflected in the varying
amounts of fiscal incentives which are to be granted. These will be given in
the form of certificates which can be used for practically any federal tax
payment. The main characteristics of the incentives are summarized in Table
1.1. The basic incentives refer to the value of investment (either new or
expansions, as appropriate) and to the number of jobs which that investment
will create. The value of the latter, on which the tax incentive depends,
is computed by multiplying the number of jobs by the annual minimum legal wage,
which varies among the geographic zones. By this means it is expected to
offset any tendency for investment incentives to encourage inappropriate
capital intensive production processes.
1/   The intention of the Plan is to channel 70% of new industrial investment
away from this area of concentration which currently accounts for about
50% of manufacturing ioutput.



TABLE l.l:      SUMMARY OF PRINCIPAL FISCAL INCENTIVES FOR INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT a/
Priority  Sectors                                                  All Industrial Activities
Geographic Location                                                                                  Other          Purchase  of        Employment Generated
of Investment        Small Enterprises b/   Activity Category 1 c/  Activity Category 2 d/  Industries           Local Equipment    by Additional Shifts
Zone I
Preferential            25% Investment           20% Investment            15% Investment           -                  5%              20% Additional
20% Employment           20% Employment            -                                      Employment
Zone II
State Priorities        25% Investment           20% Investment           10% Investment            -                 5%               20% Additional
20% Employment           20% Employment            -                                      Employment
Rest of the Country       25% Investment e/        20% Investment            10% Investment e/        -                  5%              20% Additional
20% Employment           20% Employment e/                                                Employment
Zone III
A. Controlled growth            -                                                                    -                  5-
B. Consolidated growth  25% Investment e/         20% Investment e/         10% Investment e/        -                  5%              20% Additional
20% Employment e/        20% Employment e/         -                                      Employment
a/ Geographic zones are defined in the decree published in Diario Oficial, February 2, 1979.  Fiscal credits can be used for the payment
of any federal tax which is not imposed for a specific use. The percentages shown in the table for investment are applied to the total
value of construction and installations and the purchase of new machinery and equipment directly related to the production process; it
is granted at the time of undertaking of the expenditure- in the case of emplo-ment, the percentagp is applied for a period of two years
on the new employment valued at the annual minimum wage.
b/ Enterprises with fixed assets not exceeding 200 times the annual minimum salary in the Federal District.
c/ Includes agroindustries, capital goods producing industries and strategic inputs for the industrial sector (e.g. steel, cement)
d/ Includes non-durable consumer goods, durable consumer goods and intermediate products specified in decree published in Diario Oficial,
March 9, 1979.
e/ Applied only to expansions of productive capacity in the same industrial activity.
Source:  Secretaria de Patrimonio y Fomento Industrial, Plan Nacional de Desarrollo Industrial, 1979-1982 (Mexico, 1979) p. 181.



-7-
1.18      Fiscal incentives are also given in accordance with other criteria.
Small industries, 1/ irrespective of product and location (except for the Federal
District), receive higher fiscal incentives as regards investment than any other
type of industry. Also, enterprises of all sizes which employ an additional
shift will receive tax credits in proportion to the new employment generated
(again with the exception of those located in the Federal District); the eligi-
bility conditions for those credits are defined in the decree. Finally, as a
means to promote the sale (and consequently the production) of domestically
produced machinery and equipment, all enterprises investing in such items get
a 5% tax credit of the value of the purchase.
1.19      In addition to the fiscal incentives, special prices for inputs
provided by public sector entities are to be offered to favor investment in
industries in the four industrial ports (cited in para. 1.16). All new indus-
tries established in those areas are to receive a 30% discount on the prices
of energy supplied to them (in the form of electricity, natural gas or fuel
oil). Moreover, new enterprises producing specific secondary petrochemicals
will receive a 30% discount on the prices of their requirements of basic
petrochemicals, provided that they export at least 25% of their output.
1.20      Finally, the magnitudes of the public investment which will be under-
taken both in infrastructure and the directly productive sectors are now being
analyzed and are expected to be reflected in the annual budgets prepared by
the federal government. Closely linked to this will be the investment of the
state governments which are to be spelled out in agreements reached between
officials of those areas and of the federal government.
C. Major Issues Facing Implementation
1.21      Given these overall objectives, a complex network of questions
remains to be confronted: reviewing production-consumption balances
for critical materials to avoid future shortages (beyond those already
apparent); adapting the incentive programs to the revised spatial and
sectoral priorities (for exports, import substitution, new industries, small
industry, rural development, etc.); establishing the targets for increasing
the production of capital goods, particularly the requirements of the petroleum
industry and of electricity generation; integrating the procedures for elimin-
ating the quantitative restrictions on imports and substituting them for
flexible tariff systems; organizing for the procurement of technical assis-
tance; and the formulation of procedures for monitoring the progress achieved.
One of the major issues to be solved concerns the provision of adequate
professional and technical personnel that will be needed by each sector. In
this connection, the Bank would finance under the proposed loan a study to
1/   These are defined as enterprises whose fixed assets do not exceed 200
times the annual minimum salary for the Federal District, equivalent
to approximately US$400,000 at the present time. In this connection,
the program of assistance to SMI supported by Bank Loan 1552-ME is
expected to play an important role in providing that sector with required
financial and technical assistance.



- 8 -
assess the requirements of human resources, and technical and vocational
training for the industrial development of the country.
1.22      While it is evident that the government. and the private sector are
facing the future with optimism, there are several potential bottlenecks that
could impede the expected progress. Many of them represent the types of
short-term problems that face an economy experiencing a period of rapid
recovery and expansion. The recent surge in industrial output, combined with
reduced levels of fixed investment during the mid-70s, has led to relatively
high rates of capacity utilization. Utilization of capacity in 1978 is
estimated to have exceeded 80% for the manufacturing sector as a whole, with
the rate approaching 90% for nondurables, and is expected to rise further in
1979. Industrialists interviewed by the appraisal mission in early 1979
reported some shortages of intermediate goods and construction materials,
and there have been cases of congestion in ports as well as shortage of
railway facilities. Although substantial capacity expansion has been under-
taken since the end of 1977, normal lags in bringing these projects into full
operation suggest that these shortages may persist for some time. In addition,
firms which export important shares of output were having difficulty in meeting
these deliveries, as domestic demand was absorbing an increasing share of their
production.
1.23      In these circumstances, control of inflation, its effects on the
real exchange rate, and the competitiveness of Mexican exports of manufactured
products remain high on the agenda of priorities. Recent performance has
demonstrated the wide range of products which the Mexican manufacturing sector
can export with appropriate exchange rate policy. Official forecasts indicate
a further drop in ithe rate of inflation from the 18% rate in 1978 to about 15%
in 1979, thus bringing Mexico's rate close to external inflation. Attaining
this objective will be particularly difficult. Increasing revenues from
petroleum production will enable the Mexican Government to proceed quickly
with urgently needed infrastructure and social programs. Shortages of mate-
rials and skilled Labor, as well as capacity limit:ations, are already being
experienced in various sectors and geographical areas.  However, failure
to achieve the desired inflation target will make the export program for
manufactured goods difficult to attain, unless compensating changes take
place in the foreign exchange rate. Furthermore, continuation of the existing
level of inflation (not to mention any aggravation of it) would undoubtedly
bring forth demands; for substantial adjustments in wage rates, and this
would complicate further the matter of export competitiveness. The govern-
ment is well aware of the interconnections betweern the rate of inflation
and export competitiveness, between an appropriate! scale of production and
competitiveness in national and international markets, and the crucial role
of the exchange rate in the whole strategy. Since resort to price controls
is seen as the less desirable alternative, the government may have to exercise
spending restraint to avoid feeding the inflationary process. At the same
time, import liberalization can be effective in helping to reduce inflationary
pressures as well as in easing short-term supply bottlenecks for critical
intermediate goods.



-9-
1.24      The objectives of pushing ahead with export promotion, with all
that this entails in terms of opening the economy further and of increasing
employment, still must be regarded as being of the highest importance. In
this regard, the results of the decree published with respect to the automobile
and automotive parts industries (1977) are encouraging. Under this system,
manufacturers are offered the choice of conserving foreign exchange by
raising the national content of domestic production and/or of increasing
the value of exports on a programmatic basis, leaving the specific decision
to the firm. Similar systems may be appropriate for other industries, such
as capital goods.
D.   Outlook for Industrial Growth
1.25      The annual rate of growth of total industrial production through
1981 is expected to reach the government's target levels of 10-12%.  The
relatively strong sectors will be petroleum, petrochemicals, electricity, and
manufacturing industries. Petroleum production is expected to reach and
possibly exceed its first-stage target of 2-1/4 million b/d in 1980 and will
show further growth in 1981. Electric energy generation is expected to record
annual increases of 8%, but could grow faster as capacity will increase at an
annual rate of 10%. For manufacturing output to meet the goal of 10-11%
annual growth rates, it will be necessary to solve certain physical problems--
start-up problems with the incoming new capacity, materials shortages, trans-
port, and availability of additional trained workers. Not to be overlooked is
the time required for the physical/economic decisions to be made with respect
to new product lines and production levels for combined domestic-and-export
markets. While for the immediate future there appears to be an adequate
pipeline of projects ready for financing in both the public and private
sectors, in the longer run there may be a need to strengthen project preparation
mechanisms, particularly in view of the more complex nature of the new product
lines to meet the needs of the rapidly expanding economy.
II. THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM
A.   The Banking System
2.01      Institutional structure.  Mexico's banking system consists of
Banco de Mexico (the Central Bank), 22 public banks, and 132 institutions of
private and mixed ownership (Annex 9, Table 12). Traditionally, the institutions
were specialized as deposit and savings banks, financieras or investment banks,
and mortgage banks. In recent years, however, the authorities have encouraged
a large number of mergers which reduced the number of banks by 66 over a period
of about 1-1/2 years. The dominant type of institution is now the multi-
purpose bank (multibank), which is able to offer a full range of financial
services through branch offices. Despite the sharp drop in the number of
banking institutions, the number of branch offices increased somewhat from
3,540 in September 1977 to 3,770 at year-end 1978, and as of mid-1978 banking
services were offered at 726 centers, providing a fairly broad regional
coverage of the country.



- 10 -
2.02      Relative to Mexico's level of economic development, its banking
sector is not yet well developed. Although the system experienced a period
of rapid deepening from 1967 to 1972 when the ratio of private sector
deposits 1/ to disposable income increased from aLbout 0.28 to 0.36, this
trend was reversed when the economic uncertainties that ultimately led to
the massive peso devaluation in 1976 began to manifest themselves, leading to
significant capitaLl flight. The ratio now stands at about 0.28 (Annex 9,
Table 13). Other structural weaknesses in the financial sector have also
become increasingly apparent. One is excessive traditionalism in credit
allocation, with collateral requirements normally far in excess of the credit
amount being asked for. The system is also highly concentrated, with about
80% of the banking system's assets being accounted for by 12 of the largest
banking groups. F'urthermore, administrative expenses of banks are rather
high, and exceed 5% of liabilities on average. 2/ Finally, due in part to the
liquidity prefererLce of savers, liabilities of tbhe banking system are highly
skewed towards short-term obligations and have forced the intermediaries into
a high degree of term transformation to finance investment projects.
2.03      Amendments to the Banking Law.  The financial crisis experienced
in 1976-77, when the public made massive withdrawals of funds from the
banking system, convinced the authorities of the urgent need to strengthen
the sector. Thus, they introduced major changes in the operation and
organization of the financial system that could have significant effects
on its future development. In December 1978 the government passed a series
of amendments and additions to the Banking Law, 3/ which are the most substan-
tial since the original law was enacted in 1941. Several of the amendments
complete a series of steps that have been taken since 1970 to favor the
grouping of specialized banks into multibanks. T'his move is expected to
raise the efficiency of the system by increasing competition through the
increased financing capacity of the smaller banks, by lowering administrative
costs of the system through economies of scale, by facilitating the implementa-
tion of monetary and credit policies, and by improving access to the full
range of financial services for clients outside of the biggest cities. As of
year-end 1978, 26 multibanks had been formed. The capital requirements for
banks were also changed, with the requirements now being linked to the risk
classification of assets instead of to liabilities. Under this system,
loans made using F'ONEI and other trust fund resources are classified as having
relatively low risks.
2.04      The amendments, which include elimination of the 133% minimum colla-
teral requirements,establish clearly the principles that loans should be
granted taking into account the economic feasibility of the project being
considered, and that repayment periods should be set on the basis of a project's
expected cash flow. This new policy fully coincides with the lending principle
1/   With private and mixed banks.
2/   This figure would increase if taken as a percentage of risk assets.
3/   Ley General dLe Instituciones de Credito y Organizaciones Auxiliares.



- 11 -
promoted by FONEI since its establishment in 1971. The new legislation also
includes some measures to limit excessive concentration of bank ownership and
protect the Lnterest of minority shareholders. Some overall exposure limits
per client have also been set to avoid excessive concentration of portfolio
risks of individual banking institutions. These measures should go a long way
towards increasing the efficiency of the Mexican banking system and have been
well received by the financial community.
B. The Trust Funds
2.05      The government, through the years, has set up a number of trust funds
to promote the economic and social development of the country, by allocating
credit on appropriate terms to priority activities. These funds derive their
resources principally from the legal reserves of the banking system. While as
of September 1978 there were a total of 204 government trust funds, few of
them are of great significance. The most important among them are the trust
funds managed by Banco de Mexico and those administered by Nacional Financiera
(NAFINSA). The group administered by Banco de Mexico includes FONEI, FOMEX
(industrial export promotion), FIRA (agriculture) 1/ and FOVI FOGA (housing),
and NAFINSA administers FOGAIN (credit to small and medium industries), FOMIN
(equity to small and medium industries) and FIDEIN (industrial parks). The
Bank has made three loans to assist FONEI. A separate Bank project (Loan
1552-ME) supports the objectives and operations of the three trust funds
administered by NAFINSA. 2/ A summary description of the most important trust
funds (other than FONEI) designed to support industrial development follows.
FONEI's operations are described in detail in Chapter III of this report.
2.06      The main objective of FOMEX (Fondo para el Fomento de las Exportaciones
de Productos Manufacturados) is to contribute to the improvement of Mexico's
balance of trade through the promotion of manufactured exports and import sub-
stitution activities, principally by providing trade financing. It rediscounts
post-export commercial banks credit at rates of 6-8% p.a. in US dollars to
the final borrower. FOMEX also provides pre-export credits (up to 180 days)
and promotes import substitution by financing the production and sale of
locally produced capital goods; these credits are granted in local currency
at floating interest rates, 2 points above the ACF index (Average Cost of
Funds to Financieras, see Annex 1). In addition, it grants export credit
guarantees and finances the commercialization of consumer goods in border towns
and free trade areas. In 1977 FOMEX granted export credits in the amount of
Mex$17,461 million, 32% of which went to finance pre-exports and 68% to
1/   FIRA has received six Bank loans for agricultural credit, and has parti-
cipated in three other Bank projects.
2/   For a more detailed description of these trust funds, see Report No.
1811b-ME dated April 3, 1978.



- 12 -
finance exports (Annex 9, Table 10). FOMEX supported 39% of Mexico's manufac-
tured exports during the year. While the value cf FOMEX export operations
rose in 1978 (to Mex$20,447 million), the increase was less than that of
eligible exports. Import substitution credit reached only a small fraction of
export financing. Of the Mex$309 million total in 1977, Mex$184 million went
to the production of capital goods and Mex$125 million for the commercializa-
tion of consumer goods. FOMEX also granted Mex$2,431 million in export credit
guarantees.
2.07      FOGAIN (Fondo de Garantia y Fomento a la Industria Mediana y
Pequena), which was created in December 1953, is the oldest development-
oriented trust fund in Mexico and Latin America. Its main function is to
supply term financial resources to small and medium size industrial firms
(SMI), for working capital, fixed assets and debt restructuring. It redis-
counts up to 100% of credits granted to SMI enterprises by financial inter-
mediaries, including credit unions established by groups of small enterprises.
FOGAIN policies favor industrial decentralization., employment creation, manu-
facturing exports, and import substitution; its main purpose is to lay the
basis for future growth of small enterprises. In 1978 FOGAIN approved 5,380
operations to 4,363 enterprises for a total amount of Mex$4,278 million, and
disbursed 4,050 loans to 3,545 enterprises for a total of 'tex$2,858 million.
The interest rates charged were colucessional and varied according to the
regions where the loans were made, 14% p.a. in Zone 1, 13% p.a. in Zone 2,
and 12% p.a. in Zone 3. 1/ Sixty percent of the loans were granted to firms
in Zones 2 and 3.
2.08      FOMIN (Fondo Nacional de Fomento Industrial) was created in 1972
to help in the creation and expansion of SMI firms by contributing equity, on
a temporary basis, up to one-third of each firm's share capital requirements.
FOMIN's operations are still rather limited. From 1973 to year-end 1978 FOMIN
invested Mex$413 m,illiion in 108 firms. In 1978 alone it invested Mex$133
million in 17 enterprises, of which 8 involved new projects and 9 were expan-
sions. FOMIN's investment operations are carried out directly with the
enterprises concerned.
C. The Securities Market
2.09      Mexico's securities market is relatively small and has not yet
developed into a sufficiently important mechanism to finance industrial firms.
In 1975 the government initiated, with the passing of the Seclrities Market
Law, a series of reforms aimed at accelerating the development of this
market, 2/ which has been retarded by a series of factors. As in many other
1/   Zone 1 comprises Mexico City, Guadalajara and Monterrey; Zone 2, the
areas adjacent to Zone 1 and several intermediate cities near Mexico
City; and Zone 3, the rest of the country. As noted in Chapter I, this
system was recently modified in connection with the new National Industrial
Development Plan. FOGAIN is expected to raise its interest rate level in
connection with Loan 1552-ME and to take the system under the new Plan
into account.
2/    IFC has given technical assistance to the authorities to improve this market
mechanism.



- 13 -
developing countries, firms in Mexico resist going public, so as to minimize
outside interference and to avoid the information disclosures required for
publicly traded securities. On the other hand, savers had found share yields
in the past less attractive than those of fixed return securities, which had
lower risks and par value redemption on demand. In addition, some fiscal and
legal considerations tended to hamper the development of an active market.
2.10      Responsibility for control and supervision of the security exchanges,
which in the past involved the Banking Commission, now rests solely with the
National Securities Commission (Comision Nacional de Valores). The Mexican
Security Exchange was created in 1894 as a private institution, and until 1976
two other exchanges, one each in Monterrey and in Guadalajara, existed. The
autlorities decided to close these two exchanges as pact of a strategy to
develop a central exchange, capable of giving efficient service. The new law
also authorized the creation of brokerage houses, which are better organized
and capable of delivering the required service to the market, to supplement
the existing individual broker agents. As of December 1978, 30 brokerage
houses had been established, several of them associated with the largest
banks. The Institute for the Deposit of Securities has also been created
to expedite the rapid and efficient transfer of securities in the market.
Other measures taken by the government to stimulate the development of the
securities market include the introduction of exemptions from taxation of
capital gains arising from securities traded in the exchange, and the autho-
rization to enterprises to deduct, for tax purposes, the losses arising from
operations in the securities market.
2.11      The measures taken to promote the securities exchange appear to have
had positive results. Although the volume of securities traded fell from
Mex$167.8 billion in 1977 to Mex$95.3 billion in 1978, the trading of
stocks registered an impressive increase, rising from Mex$5.8 billion to
Mex$30.3 billion (Annex 9, Table 17). The significant reduction in the fixed
return securities traded has been due to the July 1977 abolition of financial
and mortgage bonds, which had liquidity on sight and tended to distort the
market. It is expected that the papers of this type still in circulation will
be withdrawn by October 1979. While the security exchange price index also
recorded an impressive increase of more than 128% from December 1977 to
December 1978 (Annex 9, Table 18), industrial stocks registered the largest
increase in the volume traded between 1977 and 1978, growing from 45% of all
shares traded in 1977 to nearly 63% in 1978.  In 1978 the National Securities
Commission authorized the placement of a record number of 23 new share issues,
and nearly all of them were placed well above their nominal prices. There
were 10 issues of "obligaciones quirografarias," 1/ most of them at 7 years
and carrying a net interest rate between 16.5% and 17.5% (Annex 9, Table 19).
Other factors that had contributed to the boom in the stock exchange included
the acceleration of inflation up until 1977, which forced many investors to
look for better alternative investments than bonds and bank deposits yielding
negative real returns, and the high profits generated by firms in 1977 in
1/   Medium and long term obligations of firms, which no longer carry repur-
chase guarantees on sight, and now bear an adjustable interest rate.



- 14 -
the wake of industrial recovery. The supply of securities also increased due
to the number of Eirms which were forced to go public and issue equity after
the peso devaluation which weakened the financial structure, particularly of
enterprises that had large foreign currency liabilities.
2.12      The prospects for the continuation of securities market growth are
good. In January 1979 a new record was set in trading with an increase of
more than 22% in the price index. The Mexican Sescurity Exchange is preparing
a training program and carrying out a promotional campaign to increase investor
interest in the market. A similar promotional campaign is being considered
for the near future, aimed at the potential issuing firms. All in all, these
measures, combined with the earlier policy changes instituted by the government,
should make the security market a more significant source of investment funds
for industries in the future.
D. Credit Availability and Interest Rate Policy
2.13      Industrial credit, which reached Mex$162 billion in September 1978,
accounted for about 26% of the credit granted by the banking system. Within
the industrial sector, manufacturing accounts for two-thirds of credit granted
(Annex 9, Table 20). Like industrial value added, industrial credit (Annex 9,
Table 21) was also very heavily concentrated in the Mexico City area (about
67% of industrial credit in September 1978), in the state of Nuevo Leon, which
contains Monterrey (about 13%), and in the state of Jalisco, including
Guadalajara (4%).
2.14      Loans are heavily concentrated in the short to medium term
range, due to the excessively short maturity structure of the banking system's
liabilities. Only about 40% of the loans granted by the private and mixed
banks exceed a term of one year (Annex 9, Table 22). However, the uncertain-
ties which prevailed in 1976-77 aggravated this situation even further, as
massive withdrawals of funds by savers caused considerable difficulty for banks
that had made loans on much longer terms than would have been indicated by the
term structure of their liabilities. In this situation the trust funds, such
as FONEI, have been playing an increasingly crucial role in solving these
shortcomings of the system. Foreign savings also considerably complement
internal savings (Annex 9, Table 23). It is estimated 1/ that US bank loans
to Mexico reached, US$13 billion at year-end 1976, equivalent to about 45%
of the outstanding credits of Mexican banks. In addition, other industrialized
economies had estimated credit claims on the Mexican economy of about US$4.9
billion. 2/ The share of foreign loans in domestic credit has probably
decreased since then in percentage terms but has remained an important source
of funds.
1/   Donald Baer, "Caribbean Basin Economic Survey," Atlanta Federal Reserve
USA, June-July 1977.
2/   BIS, "Eurocurrency and Other International Banking Developments," fourth
quarter, 1976, quoted by Donald Baer.



- 15 -
2.15      To boost domestic savings, improve the term structure of the banks'
liabilities and reverse capital flight, the Mexican authorities raised the
ceilings on time deposit interest rates in the second quarter of 1977. These
rates range from 7% for call money to 18.5% on 2-year certificates of deposit 1/
(Annex 9, Table 24). The authorities also increased the interest rate premium,
relative to US$ or Eurodollar rates, to reverse the capital flight being
experienced by the system (Annex 9, Table 25), but US banks still registered
an increase in short-term obligations to Mexican residents in the amount of
US$770 million in 1977. Total non-monetary liabilities of the financial
system, which had reached 32% of GDP in 1972, fell to about 21% in 1976 and
even further to 19% in 1977 (Annex 9, Table 26). The development achieved up
to the early 1970s was encouraged by relatively low inflation rates, sound
interest rate policies, a long period of exchange rate stability and an
open financial system which allowed free movement of funds, but this upward
trend was interrupted by the problems which became evident in the mid-1970s.
However, the above-mentioned actions by the Mexican authorities have helped to
improve the situation, and non-monetary peso liabilities of the financial
system inched up to 21% of GDP in 1978. The authorities have stated their
intention to continue to adjust interest rates if necessary, to sustain a
healthy growth in financial savings.
2.16      Since 1974, financial institutions in Mexico have been adopting
increasingly a variable interest rate system for term lending operations.
The change from the previous practice of fixed rate lending came when infla-
tion accelerated after 1973 and after the aforementioned raising of deposit
interest rates by Banco de Mexico. By 1977 practically all term loans were
made at variable interest rates, using as an index the average cost of funds
(ACF) to investment banking departments of intermediaries (Annex 1). This is a
weighted average of interest rates paid on bonds, notes and certificates of
deposit and excludes checking and savings deposits. The monetary authorities
encouraged the development of this system as a way of preventing an even more
rapid contraction of the financial system in response to the uncertainties
created by inflation, and it was adopted readily by banks as a way of avoiding
a possible severe profit squeeze on term-transformed resources. Borrowers who
wanted to avoid being locked into existing high interest rates in nominal
terms also accepted the idea readily.
2.17      Between the last quarter  of 1977 and January 1979, the ACF index increased
from 14.30% to 16.25%. Part of this increase reflects the increased weight of
medium term instruments, which in turn reflects the increased willingness of
savers to hold longer term deposits. The margins that banks charge their
clients over ACF generally range from less than 2 to about 7 points, implying
interest rates ranging from about 18% to 23%. The number of points charged to
a particular client varies principally in relation to the "reciprocity"
obtained by the bank, or compensating balances and other business offered by
the borrower. The aforementioned rates are somewhat above the rate of infla-
tion, which was estimated at 18% in 1978 and is expected to decrease gradually
to world levels by 1982 (para. 3.14).
1/   Gross of taxes.



- 16 -
E. Prospects
2.18      As noted in Chapter I, the industrial sector has now recovered and
is expected to grow at 10-11% p.a. in the next few years, compared to less
than 4% p.a. from 1974 to 1977. However, the banking system is not yet in a
position to properly allocate and provide significant long-term financial
resources, and the securities market, although growing at a fast rate, has not
yet developed into an important source of finance for industrial firms. In
this situation, the trust funds have a crucial role to play in supplementing
and guiding industrial credit provided by the financial system.  The proposed
Bank loan to FONEI would contribute to the institutional development of partici-
pating financial intermediaries and help finance efficient projects during a
period of long-term credit scarcity in Mexico.
III. THE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FIJND (FONEI)
A.   Background
3.01      FONEI was established in 1971, following extensive discussions
between Mexican authorities and the Bank on the dlesign of appropriate mecha-
nisms to address industrial inefficiency and ina'propriate structure of
industrial financing, and to help improve the country's balance of payments.
FONEI was set up as a trust fund of Banco de Mexico, to provide supplemental
term financing through commercial banks for efficient industrial projects,
which would have a positive impact on the balance of payments through higher
exports or import substitution. Additional operational objectives were
emphasized as FONEI became a more mature institution, the most important being
for it to contribute to efficient allocation of resources through the financial
system by inducing banks to make their lending decisions increasingly on the
basis of comprehensive project appraisal, and to promote industrial efficiency
by encouraging enterprises to prepare detailed feasibility studies. To help
achieve these objectives, the Bank has made three loans to FONEI totalling
US$185 million. The first Bank loan (824-ME), for US$35 million, was signed
in June 1972 and was fully committed in September 1975, a year behind schedule
due to some start-up delays. The second loan (1205-ME), for US$50 million,
was signed in April 1976 and except for a small remaining amount is fully
committed. The third loan (1598-ME), for US$100 million, presented to the
Board in May 1978, was signed in September and is expected to be almost fully
committed by FONEI by mid-1979, about a year ahead of schedule.
B.   Organization and Management
3.02      FONEI's highest decision-making body is its Technical Committee,
which is composed of high level government officials. Its chairman is the
Director of Public Credit of the Ministry of Finance, and other members include
representatives of the Ministries of National Patrimony and Industrial Develop-
ment, and of Commerce, Banco de Mexico, Nacional Financiera, Instituto Mexicano



- 17 -
de Investigaciones Tecnologicas (IMIT), 1/ and two representatives of the
private sector nominated by the chambers of commerce and industry. The
Committee, which takes an active interest in FONEI's activities, meets once
a month to decide on all proposals for FONEI financing above Mex$15 million.
Decisions for credits below this amount are delegated to FONEI's director
to help speed up loan processing.
3.03      Banco de Mexico, as trustee, provides FONEI with the required
staffing, office facilities and administrative services. Thus, FONEI's
staff is subject to Banco de Mexico's regulations and salary scales, which
are generally competitive. FONEI's chief executive is its director, and it
has had three since inception. Mr. Villasenor, who has held this position
since December 1976, is well qualified, dynamic and has paid particular
attention to expanding FONEI's activities, promoting FONEI's operations
throughout Mexico, and more recently, to developing subproject appraisal and
supervision capabilities of participating intermediaries as far as possible.
Heading a staff of 19 professionals, Mr. Villasenor is assisted by three
subdirectors--Mr. Rodriguez, who has overall responsibility for the technical
department, Mr. Acevedo, who has overall responsibility for loan administration
and financial matters, and Mr. Romero, who heads the promotions department
(organization chart, Annex 2).
3.04      FONEI has a streamlined organization with relatively low administ-
rative costs. Following the change in the presidential administration in
Mexico in late 1976, FONEI experienced substantial staff turnover. This has
declined significantly since then and, although second-level management
and staff are relatively young, they have adequate experience. However,
due to rapidly expanding operations and FONEI's desire to open some small
offices in the interior to broaden its regional coverage of Mexican industry,
there is a need to increase staff significantly. Plans have already been made
to increase professional staff to 32 within one year, which would enable FONEI
to cope with the expected growth in operations. FONEI is also planning to
further strengthen its project evaluation and supervision capabilities by
providing appropriate training for its staff (para. 3.22). These plans, which
are reflected in FONEI's Strategy Paper (para. 3.38), would deserve full Bank
support through funding under the proposed loan and through Bank-sponsored
training programs including EDI courses.
C.   Operating Regulations and Policies
3.05      Nature of projects eligible for financing.  The policies and pro-
cedures which govern FONEI's operations are set forth in its Operating
Regulations (Annex 3), which may be modified by FONEI's Technical Committee in
consultation with the Bank. They define the types of projects that may be
1/   IMIT is a semi-public research and development institution partially
financed by Banco de Mexico, and is frequently used by FONEI for project
appraisals.



- 18 -
financed by FONEI, terms and limits of subloans, interest rates, criteria
for project selection, responsibilities of the intermediaries and final
beneficiaries, and procedures for FONEI's authorization of financing. These
Operating Regulations specify that in the selection of each project for
financing FONEI should consider, inter alia, the following economic criteria:
(i) the project's foreign exchange generation or savings; (ii) its economic
rate of return; (iii) its utilization of labor and its value added; and
(iv) industrial decentralization aspects.
3.06      The Operating Regulations permit FONEI to support projects involving
the production of industrial goods as well as service activities. Although
FONEI has financed only the production of industrial goods in the past,
last year the government assigned to it the task of promoting and assisting
selected projects desi.gned to expand exports of services from the northern
border zone. In thit connection, FONEI may now Einance projects involving
the construction of factory buildings for lease to foreign assembly plants,
setting up of car repair centers and similar buiLding complexes for the
purpose of selling services and replacement parts to visitors, and the
construction of large-scale commercial centers designed principally to
sell Mexican goods and services to foreign visitors. Since FONEI has
limited experience with this type of activity, it: is approaching service
projects cautiousLy and to date has presented onLy one such project for
Bank financing.
3.07      Technology develoCment projects.  FONE:t's management has been
searching for new and innovative ways of broaden:Lng FONEI's impact on
industrial development, particularly high priority industries such as
capital goods production. In this connection, FONEI recently introduced
modifications to its Operating Regulations to permit it to finance tech-
nology development projects. To date it has supported a prototype develop-
ment project for an oil well pumping system and a pilot plant facility
for a building materials project.  Technology development will become
increasingly important for Mexican industry in the future, as it has now
reached a relatively high degree of sophistication and has a substantial
pool of well-developed engineering and technical skills. To further
increase local vaLue added and compete efficient:Ly in world markets, there
is a need to broaden efforts aimed at stimulating industrial growth
through the development of new or improved products, of more efficient
production methods, and of new technology to exp:Loit available raw
materials on a cost-efficient basis.
3.08      Recognizing the importance of technology issues, Mexican authorities
have introduced in recent years various policies and institutional support
to reinforce the technological development of Mexican enterprises (Annex 4).
Several institutions have been formed to formulat:e and implement relevant
national policies, to provide technical information as well as research and
development (R&D) facilities, and to review foreign licensing agreements. The
government also aLlows preferential tax treatmeni: of research and development
expenditures, permitting firms to apply accelerat:ed depreciation schedules to
R&D-related fixed asset investments and to consider current R&D expenditures
as normal business expenses. However, despite a:Ll these measures, very



- i94 -
few opportunities exist in Mexico for ente-rprises to finance technology
development projects. FONEI could help to fill this gap by concentrating oi-
financing those technology development projests relatively close to commer-
cialization and sponsored by enterprises with the capability to implement
problem-specific technical solutions, with either internal resources or some
external help. FONEI's technology development activities would be supported
through an experimental component which would be included under the proposed
loan.
3.09      FONEI also instituted recently a guarantee mechanism through which
it would cover up to 90% of the credit (principal and interest payments)
granted by an intermediary for technology development projects and prefeasibil-
ity studies. Intermediaries wishing to avail themselves of the guarantee
mechanism would pay a one-time charge of 0.5% of the credit granted. The
guarantee scheme is designed for loans made to smaller enterprises unable to
offer adequate collateral to banks.
3.10      Pollution control projects.  Aided by the experience of Bank
DFC operations elsewhere (in particular the most recent Colombian financiera
loan No. 1598-CO), FONEI would finance, for the first time, industrial pollu-
tion control subprojects under the proposed operation. Industrial pollution,
coupled with pollution caused by extremely rapid growth in vehicular traffic,
has become a problem in almost all industrial areas in Mexico, and has
reached critical levels in cities with high population density and industrial
concentration, such as Mexico City and Monterrey. A Law for the Prevention
and Control of Environmental Pollution was enacted in 1971, and further laws
were passed in 1972 and 1973 establishing responsibilities for formulating
and implementing specific detailed regulations (reglamentos) for controlling
pollution (Annex 5). At present, legislation has been implemented only through
the establishment of appropriate reglamentos covering atmospheric pollution
caused by smoke and dust. A draft reglamento dealing with gaseous emissions
is being prepared. Two agencies, which would cooperate with FONEI under the
proposed project, have primary responsibility for establishing, implementing
and monitoring compliance with pollution control legislation. The Secretaria
de Salubridad y Asistencia (SSA), through its Subsecretaria de Mejoramiento
del Ambiente (SSMA), is responsible for air pollution control, while the
Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos Hidraulicos (SARH) is responsible for
water pollution control.
3.11      A component would be included under the proposed loan covering the
purchase of industrial pollution control equipment and technical assistance
required in the design and/or selection of such equipment. If included
in new plants or expansionsof existing plants, pollution control equipment
would be financed as part of the increase in production facilities of a parti-
cular enterprise, since such enterprises would, in any case, need to meet
the environmental impact standards established under Mexican law. The
purpose of establishing a separate project component would be to provide,
through FONEI, financial assistance and technical expertise particularly to
those firms with existing pollution problems. Experimental pollution control
financing through FONEI would also permit the Bank to gain valuable experience,
which may lead to much more extensive Bank involvement in efforts to cope
with industrial pollution conitrol problems in the greater Mexico City area.



- 20 -
3.12      Terms and limits of financing.  Under its Operating Regulations,
the maximum amount of financing FONEI could provide to a single investment
project is Mex$100 million. In addition, to facilitate significant partici-
pation in relatively large projects considered of high priority by the
government, such as capital goods and petrochemicals, FONEI can approve
financing in excess of the above amount provided prior authorization is
obtained from the Ministry of Finance.  FONEI's minimum loan size is
Mex$4.5 million, which matches the upper limit of financing for fixed asset
loans of FOGAIN, which specializes in small and medium industry financing
(para. 2.07). FONEI's subloans have maximum maturities of 13 years,
including up to 3 years of grace.
3.13      FONEI's Operating Regulations require FONEI's funds to be complemented
by funds from clients and financial intermediaries.  To ersure that projects
are adequately capiitalized, final borrowers are required to finance at least
25% of fixed asset costs of new investment projects and 20% of expansion
projects. The intermediaries are required to finance at least 15% of FONEI's
financing for new projects, which in turn is limited to 65% of project cost,
and 11% in the case of expansion projects where F'ONEI could provide up to 72%
of project cost. In addition, the intermediary is required by FONEI to ensure
that projects have adequate working capital finan,cing. In practice, FONEI
finances about 40% of project costs on average. For technology development
projects and prefeasibility studies, up to 80% of total costs could be financed
by FONEI, as an additional incentive to client firms.
3.14      Interest rates.  Under the first Bank loan FONEI charged a fixed
interest rate of 11% p.a. in pesos to final borrcwers, including a spread of
two percentage points to the intermediary bank. Although initially positive
in real terms, this interest rate became significantly negative as the rate
of inflation rose in 1973. As a result of this experience, and after several
months of discussions between FONEI and the Bank, FONEI decided to modify its
onlending rate under the second loan in two stages towards the use of variable
interest rates based on the ACF index (Annex 1). This adjustable interest rate
mechanism has been. implemented successfully and FONEI lending for standard
investment subprojects 1/ is now made at the ACF index plus 2% to final
borrowers. In January 1979 the ACF index was at 16.25%, resulting in a
lending rate for FONEI of 18.25% compared to an estimated 18% 2/ rate of
inflation for Mexico in 1978 and to rates in the financial system ranging
from about 18% to 23% (para. 2.17). The rate of inflation, which reached
22% in 1976 and 29% in 1977, is expected to decline progressively to 15% in
1979, 12% in 1980, and to international levels by 1982. As the inflation
rate decreases, FONEI's onlending interest rate is expected to rise gradually
in real terms. In the unlikely event that inflation rises, the ACF should
I/   Excluding lending for prefeasibility studies, technology development
or pollution control.
2/   Average annual rate.



- 21 -
still be a suitable yardstick for determining FONEI's lending interest rates,
given the government's announced intention of maintaining borrowing interest
rate levels which would permit adequate resource mobilization in the financial
system.
3.15      FONEI's interest rate for technology improvement projects is five
points below its regular rate (i.e., ACF less 3%). This relatively small
subsidy appears reasonable, considering that technological adjustments of the
kind likely to be financed by FONEI can be highly beneficial to the Mexican
economy but generally involve relatively high commercial risks, and is consis-
tent with interest rate policies adopted in connection Twith Bank operations
elsewhere (e.g., Colombian financiera loans 1223-CO and 1598-CO). Loans granted for
pollution control projects would be made to final borrowers at an interest
rate of between two points above and three points below the ACF. Only subprojects
involving existing plant and equipment would be eligible for subloans at interest
rates below FONEI's regular rate (para. 4.05).  In many cases these investments
would require important cost outlays for the respective firms, which in effect
are being penalized for having purchased equipment at a time when specific
laws or regulations governing admissible pollution levels had not yet been
promulgated. In addition, pollution control investments benefit the welfare
of vast segments of the population and, consequently, some degree of cost
sharing would appear justifiable to encourage firms to utilize the proposed
component.
D.   Operating Procedures
3.16      Division of responsibilities.  When FONEI was first established,
few if any Mexican banks had the technical skills or the inclination to
carry out detailed project appraisals. Also, since the volume of FONEI's
projects channeled through individual intermediaries had been low in the
past, financial intermediaries were reluctant to set up in-house appraisal
units. Thus, FONEI had to assume responsibility for the full appraisal and
supervision of virtually all projects, while the intermediaries which carry
the full credit risk focussed on evaluating the financial plan and risk
of projects and on securing adequate collateral. Since FONEI felt it was
best to maintain a streamlined staff and not use a large portion of staff
capacity in carrying out detailed appraisals or to incur the excessive costs
of acquiring full technical in-house capacity for a wide variety of product
lines, it adopted a system of using outside consultants for detailed appraisal
work, principally utilizing the skills of IMIT. FONEI's staff could thus
concentrate on selecting and guiding the work of consultants paid for by
FONEI, on reviewing the results obtained, and on making appropriate recommen-
dations for FONEI financing.
3.17      Although clients may approach FONEI directly for preliminary
credit applications, most of them are referred by participating inter-
mediaries. Potential clients and financial intermediaries are encouraged
to consult FONEI at a relatively early stage of project preparation, and
to prepare prefeasibility studies of their projects along FONEI's suggested
guidelines. This enables FONEI to review the preliminary information and



- 22 -
determine if the project meets the basic eligibility criteria, and if so,
to indicate which areas should be covered in depth by the feasibility
study. Once the feasibility study is received, FONEI proceeds with a full
evaluation of the project, usually through a consultant or through the
financial intermediary. In some instances FONEI has used its own staff to
carry out full project evaluation,due to the large volume of projects to be
processed. When completed, the evaluation is reviewed by FONEI's technical
department, and, if the project is found adequate, it is then submitted
for consideration and decision by the Technical Committee or FONEI's director.
3.18      In connection with the second Bank loan, FONEI agreed to place
greater emphasis on increasing the role of intermediary banks in project
appraisal in order to introduce them to appraisal banking techniques. To
achieve this, the responsibility for coordination between final borrowers
and consultants during project appraisal was to be transferred gradually to
the intermediaries, and they were to be encouraged to set up in-house appraisal
units. To induce intermediaries to do so, FONEI agreed to reimburse them for
the cost of consultants' appraisals or pay them a fee for their in-house
appraisal efforts. The intermediaries were also assigned the responsibility
for coordinating the work of consultants for projects requiring subloans
in excess of Mex$30 million.
3.19      Although a few subprojects were appraised by intermediaries along
the above lines, FONEI had little success in transferring appraisal respon-
sibility to intermediaries, mainly because the number of FONEI operations
per intermediary had not yet grown to the point where even small permanent
appraisal units could be fully occupied. Consequently, the scheme of reimburse-
ment of expenses could not be expected to provide sufficient incentive to
intermediaries, and there also appears to have been a lack of a clear commit-
ment and proper publicity of FONEI's willingness; to reimburse intermediaries
for costs incurred in appraising projects. The process of project evaluation,
which took about seven to eight months on average, 1/ also diminished the
value of the appraisal as a critical input to the banks' decision-making
process regarding the loan to be granted.
3.20      In the context of the third Bank loan, FONEI took several steps to
address more effectively the above-mentioned problems. FONEI's Operating
Regulations were revised to allow an additional 0.50% spread for intermediaries
appraising projects requiring subloans up to Mex$30 million and 0.25% for
projects requiring subloans in excess of this amount, in effect making it
attractive for banks to undertake project appraisal. FONEI has also taken
several measures to pare down processing time, including encouraging pre-
qualification of projects and the delegation of authority to FONEI's director
to approve loans of up to Mex$15 million, although, due to rapid growth in
the volume of projects, these measures have had marginal results so far. To
facilitate the preparation of detailed appraisa:Ls, FONEI also encouraged
client companies to undertake prefeasibility studies,using FONEI's subloans
1/   From the date of preliminary application to the date of approval by
FONEI.



- 23 -
at preferential rates of interest. As a result of these measures, 4 sub-
projects were appraised by intermediaries in 1978 (out of 63 projects) and
6 prefeasibility studies were financed. Only 2 projects had been evaluated
by intermediaries prior to this.
3.21      Additional measures would be introduced under the proposed project
to increase the role of intermediaries in the appraisal process. Although
difficult to achieve immediately, FONEI's goals of inducing intermediaries to
take responsibility for project appraisal and to set up core units for project
lending are now more likely to bear fruit in the medium to long run, for
several reasons.   In addition to the introduction of differential spreads,
which have been accepted with enthusiasm by banks, FONEI's volume has now
grown to the point of enabling small core appraisal units in several banks to
be kept fully occupied. Whereas only 2 banks processed more than 4 FONEI
projects in 1977, 4 banks presented 5 or more projects in 1978 (Annex 9,
Table 27). With the rapid growth in FONEI's approvals, the number is expected
to increase in the future. FONEI is also planning to offer intermediaries
an additional spread of 0.25%, to be determined annually on the basis of a
specific program to induce intermediaries to undertake full subproject super-
vision (para. 3.25), thus assuring fuller utilization of intermediaries'
project evaluation and supervision units. The recently promulgated revised
Banking Law (para. 2.03) also abolished the existing legal minimum collateral
requirements and encourages intermediaries to lend on the basis of a thorough
appraisal of projects. Thus, as much as one-third of subprojects presented in
1979 may be evaluated by intermediaries, using either consultants or their own
staff.
3.22      While the process of delegation should prove beneficial in the
medium term, in the short run little manpower savings would accrue to FONEI,
as the intermediaries undergo the time-consuming learning process to develop
acceptable procedures, requiring close cooperation from FONEI's staff. In
addition to the intermediaries, the increasing number of new consultants and
FONEI's new staff would all need to have intensive training in project evalua-
tion and supervision and to familiarize themselves with the particulars of the
FONEI system. Although IMIT and FONEP (a trust fund of NAFINSA financing
principally feasibility studies) provide courses in project evaluation,
additional efforts in this respect would be required from FONEI. These
activities deserve full Bank support, and under the proposed loan funds would
be available for technical assistance to support FONEI's training programs.
3.23      In the past, IMIT evaluated most of FONEI's subprojects and, as a
consequence, there was little need for FONEI to develop its own engineering
skills. With the increasing number of evaluations carried out by inter-
mediaries and consultants other than IMIT, FONEI needs to develop access to
specialized technical skills in order to enable it to fully evaluate the
appraisals as a genuine second-tier institution. For this purpose, FONEI
is considering an increase in the use of Banco de Mexico's engineers and
other technical specialists to give summary reviews of evaluations, focussing
on the appropriateness of processes chosen, capacity of equipment to perform
at the production volume indicated and product quality required, cost competi-
tiveness and similar aspects. FONEI's institutional plans, including its



- 24 -
intention to develop project appraisal and supervision capabilities in parti-
cipating intermediaries as far as possible, and its promotional and training
plans were discussed during negotiations and incorporated in its Strategy
Paper.
3.24      Project appraisal and supervision performance.  In FONEI's early
years of operation, the quality and depth of its appraisals were uneven,
reflecting the lack of experience of consultants and of FONEI's own staff.
During a long period FONEI had limited success ini trying to impress on the
consultants the need to focus their evaluations on key issues of individual
projects. The quality of appraisals has since evolved satisfactorily and
evaluations now generally include an adequate analysis of the organizational,
marketing, technical, environmental, and financial and economic aspects of
projects, including the calculation of the financial and economic rates of
return. In the context of the third Bank loan, FONEI's free limit vis-a-vis
the Bank was raised from US$750,000 to US$1.5 million. In recognition of the
improvement in FONEI's project appraisal capabilities, the free limit for FONEI
would be increased to US$2 million for standard investment subprojects under
the proposed loan. This will enable the Bank to review about 40% of these sub-
projects which would account for about AnT of the loan amount.  nistinct free
limits would be set for pollution control and technology improvement subloans
(para. 4.08).
3.25      Project supervision.  By law, intermediaries are required to supervise
term loans to ensure that funds are utilized for the purposes intended. In
this regard, intermediaries normally carry out regular supervision visits to a
project during the construction period, but tend to forego supervision once
the project is in operation. Under its loan contracts, FONEI could require
intermediaries to submit periodic reports on the progress of FONEI-financed
projects. However, FONEI has not rigidly enforced reporting requirements
but rather has attempted to conduct its own field supervision visits to
selected projects, and these are done in depth and with reports of generally
good quality. However, due to FONEI's rapid operational growth, it has
been forced to devote its own manpower resources to evaluations, and only about
10% of clients with projects in operation were visited in 1978. All in
all, about 40% of FONEI's clients have submitted periodic reports covering
financial performance and, in most instances, balance of payments and employ-
ment impact of individual projects. FONEI realizes that it needs more exten-
sive operational feedback on a regular basis and recognizes that, given the
large number of clients it now has and the expected sharp increases in the
future, it can visit only a limited number of enterprises. Therefore, FONEI
is planning to grant intermediaries an additional margin of 0.25% to undertake
supervision of projects, involving annual or more frequent visits to client
enterprises and the submission of comprehensive reports. In addition, it is
now requiring intermediaries to become formally responsible for the submission
of summary reports from clients, involving financial statements and a
few operational indicators. FONEI's own direct supervision efforts would
be planned to supplement the results of the measures described above. The afore-
mentioned plans have been incorporated in FONEI's revised Strategy Paper and would be
included in its Operating Regulations prior to loan effectiveness.
3.26      Promotion.  FONEI recently established a promotions department to
help achieve an even wider geographical dispersion of FONEI-financed projects
than has been the case thus far (para. 3.32), and to reach more medium-sized



- 25 -
and less established enterprises. The department is headed by a subdirector
who would be directly involved in promotional activities and at the same time
would oversee the few small FONEI offices that it intends to establish in the
northern border areas and in the interior of the country. FONEI intends to
open two such promotional offices this year, each with one or two professionals,
and depending on the results, more may be opened in the future. Members of
the promotional offices are expected to pay frequent visits to groups of
bankers and industrialists in their respective regions to help them to
identify and formulate projects, and to provide some assistance to inter-
mediaries and clients experiencing minor project processing problems.
3.27      Participating intermediaries.  All of Mexico's more than 150 finan-
cial intermediaries are eligible to participate as channels for FONEI's
financing. However, the financLal system is relatively highly concentrated,
and most institutions are quite small and do not have clients with suitable
projects (Annex 9, Table 14). Thus, as of year-end 1978, only 23 intermediaries
had obtained financing from FONEI, with 5 of them having accounted for about
70% of cumulative commitments (Annex 9, Table 27). The distribution of
FONEI's approvals is shown below:
Table 3.1: DISTRIBUTION OF FONEI'S OPERATIONS
Rank among
banks in
terms of      Credit Amount (1978)   Cumulative Amount (1973-78)
asset size    No.  % Mex$ mil.  %   No.  % Mex$ mil.  %
Somex/Banco Mexicano        5th        11  17    587      26   31   16   L,205      23
Banco Nacional de Mex.      2nd        15  24    302      13   51   26   1,091      21
Banco Comercial Mexicano   4th          5   8    285      12   20   10      589     11
Banpais                     7th         5   8    232      10   14    7      377      7
Banco del Comercio          1st         7  11    185       8   16    8      397      8
Financiera Innova           n.a.        4   6    167       7    8    4      337      7
Banca Serfin                3rd         3   5    137       6   12    6      273      5
Other institutions           -         13  21    394      17   42   22      865     17
63 100  2,288    100  194  100   5,134    100
Somex/Banco Mexicano, which accounts for almost a quarter of FONEI's total ap-
provals, is a financial group majority owned by the government but with a
strong private sector representation. Banco Nacional de Mexico and all other
institutions shown above are private banks. Among the other institutions
which have participated are Banco Internactoaal (3.2% of total approvals)
and NAFINSA (2.1%), both government-owned intermediaries. The six interme-
diaries shown in Table 3.1 above (excluding Financiera Innova) account for



- 26 -
about 70% of the banking system's assets. In thLs context, the discussion in
Chapter II and the tables on the financial sector (Annex 9; Tables 12, 14, 15,
21, 22, 23, 24 and 26) provide some background on the intermediaries' charac-
teristics, including the sectoral distribution of their lending portfolios,
lending terms, revenues and expenses, liabilities, and domestic resource
mobilization performance. By and large these institutions to date have been
effici,ent channels for FONEI funds. As previousLy noted (paras. 3.16 to 3.25),
the role of the principal participating intermedLaries would be greatly
enhanced in the future.
3.28      The government's efforts in the recent past to encourage a large
number of institutions, particularly small ones, to merge to form multibanks
would tend to increase competition in the financial system in general and
probably result in a slight increase in the number of medium size banks
availing themselves of FONEI's facilities. FONEI's promotional efforts would
help in this regard. As shown above, some medium size institutions already
have begun to emerge as important channels of FONEI financing.
3.29      Procurement and disbursement procedures.  In the course of ap-
praisal of projects, FONEI verifies that goods and services procured under the
project are competitive in price and quality, and are appropriate for the
purpose intended. In addition, FONEI ensures through documentation require-
ments, direct visits, and visits by intermediaries that proceeds of financing
are used only for the goods and services authorized by FONEI at the time of
loan appraisal. Overall, disbursement procedures are thorough and have
resulted in smooth disbursement of the proceeds of the Bank loans to FONEI.
E. Past Operations and Impact 1/
3.30      Sectoral distribution.  As of year-end 1978 FONEI had financed a
total of 142 2/ investment projects involving Mex$14.8 billion in total costs
and Mex$5.1 billion in FONEI financing (Annex 9, Table 28). Although FONEI's
total portfolio amounted to only about 2.2% of total banking system credit
to private manufacturing industry, it accounted for a significant percentage
of long-term loans to the sector, roughly in the order of 15%. FONEI's
portfolio growth rate is expected to exceed that of banking system credit for
the next few years. FONEI's financing has been concentrated in the industries
producing metal and electrical products, including a substantial number of
capital goods industries, which are considered high priority by the government.
These industries accounted for about half of FONEI's cumulative approvals up
to year-end 1978, compared to their value-added share in the manufacturing
sector estimated at 18% in 1977. Chemicals and petrochemicals accounted for
/  Details will be presented in the Project Performance Audit Report for
Loans 824-ME and 1205-MF, now under preparal:ion.
2/ Excluding feasibility studies; some subprojects also received two subloans.



- 27 -
about a quarter of FONEI's approvals (8% of manufacturing value added) and
paper for 8% (3% of value added). Other industries financed included cement
(6% of approvals), textiles (4%), and other industries (4%). To date, one
subloan has been committed for a service industry project amounting to 3% of
total approvals.
3.31      Balance of payments impact.  Subprojects financed by FONEI have
had a substantial favorable balance of payments impact. Of the total number
of projects financed to date, about 30% were export projects, another 28%
involved both import substitution and exports, and 42% were pure import
substitution projects. To qualify as an export project, the borrowing enter-
prise must demonstrate to FONEI that the foreign exchange earnings generated
by the project in the first five years of its operation will cover at least
all investment and operating costs in foreign exchange. A similar criterion
involving foreign exchange savings applies to import substitution projects.
For projects financed by FONEI up to year-end 1978, the total discounted
foreign exchange earnings and savings 1/ to be generated over the first five
years of operation are projected to reach Mex$41 billion (about US$1.8 billion
equivalent at the current exchange rate), which is reasonable compared to
total investment costs of Mex$14.8 billion. About 20% of the foreign exchange
amount mentioned above would come from exports. An ex post evaluation of
enterprises previously financed by FONEI under the first two Bank loans showed
satisfactory export and import substitution performance relative to projections
in 1977 (Annex 9, Tables 29 and 30), as shown in Table 3.2 below.
Table 3.2: EXPORT AND IMPORT SUBSTITUTION PERFORMANCE
OF A SAMPLE OF FONEI'S PROJECTS
1977
No. of Enterprises a/   Projected       Actual
(US$ millions)
Exports                         25                   59.5          59.9
Import substitution             32                   84.6         142.1
a! Some projects involved both exports and import substitution.
3.32      Industrial decentralization.  In addition to their substantial
balance of payments impact, FONEI's subprojects have also contributed signifi-
cantly to the geographic decentralization of Mexican industry (Annex 9, Table
28). The three principal urban areas of Mexico--Mexico City, Monterrey and
1/ Computed in equivalent present value terms, with a 16% discount rate.



- 28 -
Guadalajara--accounted for only 28% of the total subproject financing of FONEI
as of year-end 1978, which compares very favorably with total value added for
Mexican industry originating from these areas, estimated at about 70%. Indus-
trial credit from the banking system was even more concentrated in these areas
(80-85%). FONEI's increasing promotional efforts should result in even better
geographical dispersion of activities in the future, and particularly towards
the government-designated priority areas.
3.33      Employment impact.  FONEI's operations have made a significant
contribution to providing new industrial employment. For the 121 subprojects 1/
for which ex ante data were available, the average cost per job created was
about US$29,600 equivalent, which is reasonable compared to corresponding
figures for medium-to large-scale industry in countries at a similar stage of
development. Since the bulk of FONEI's subprojects also utilize substantial
domestic inputs, they would also be expected to have a substantial additional
indirect employment creation impact. An ex post analysis of a sample of 41
enterprises financed by FONEI in the past showed very favorable employment
creation performance relative to projections made at the time of subproject
appraisal. New jobs created by these 41 FONEI subprojects amounted to 5,080
in 1978, compared to projections of 4,408 (Annex 9, Table 31).
3.34      Size of prolects and enterprises financed.  The average invest-
ment cost of projects financed by FONEI up to year-end 1978 was Mex$104
million or about US$4.5 million equivalent (Annex 9, Table 28). The average
subloan size was about Mex$36 million or about US$1.6 million equivalent. Of
the 142 projects financed by FONEI in this period, only 16 relatively small
projects did not involve Bank financing. About 55% by number of the projects
financed by FONEI were of comparatively moderate size and involved total
investment costs of Mex$50 million or less.
3.35      Although some concentration of lending to larger and more financially
solid enterprises occurred during FONEI's early years of existence when it
still had a limited pipeline of projects and had yet to establish itself in
the Mexican financial system, its present administration has pursued a policy
of distributing FONEI's resources as widely as possible among industrial
clients in Mexico. As a result, FONEI has supported an unusually high number
of new enterprises, which accounted for about 36% of total enterprises financed
as of year-end 1978. No single group 2/ of industrial enterprises has received
more than 9% of the total value of loans granted by FONEI as of the same date,
and its five largest client groups account for only 35% of total lending. The
above figures are reasonable, taking into account the ownership distribution
of Mexican industry, the tendency of financial intermediaries--who carry the
1/ Of the 21 subprojects not included in this estimate, 19 were comparatively
small expansions for which data were not available, and two subloans in-
volved one unusually large and capital intensive chemical project for
which FONEI financed only about 7% of total project cost.
2/ An informal and loose agglomeration of companies with some common share-
holders.



- 29 -
credit risk--to favor better established enterprises, and the presence of
FOGAIN (para. 2.07) which, as previously mentioned, finances smaller enter-
prises and is being supported by the Bank under a separate loan as part of
a balanced strategy to finance efficient industrial enterprises of all sizes
in Mexico. However, to make FONEI's policy of favoring medium size enter-
prises more explicit and to ensure that the distribution of its resources is
as wide as possible among industrial firms, FONEI's management intends to
amend its Operating Regulations to establish a normal limit of Mex$300 million
(about US$13 million equivalent) for loans to a single enterprise. Also, not
more than US$5 million of Bank funds would be onlent for a single subproject.
To encourage intermediaries to reorient their lending somewhat towards medium size
enterprises, defined as enterprises with total equity of less than Mex$50 million,
FONEI is planning to revise its system of spreads to give an additional margin to
intermediaries for loans to medium size and smaller enterprises. Specifically, it
is proposing the system described below:
Table 3.3: SYSTEM OF SPREADS TO INTERMEDIARIES PROPOSED
BY FONEI
Spreads to Intermediaries
Project Evaluated      Project Evaluated
Size of Enterprise                 by FONEI           by Intermediary
Large a/                         2.00%                  2.25%
Medium                           2.25%                  2.50%
a/ Defined as an enterprise with total equity of more than Mex$50 million.
3.36      The measures described above, combined with an increasingly active
promotional effort to reach medium size clients, particularly in areas out-
side of the three principal cities, should achieve favorable results. The
amendment of FONEI's Operating Regulations to reflect the system of spreads
and limitations mentioned above in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, would be
a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
3.37      Economic and financial rates of return.  Ex ante economic rates of
return (ERR) were calculated for 118 of the 142 FONEI-financed subprojects.
Of these, 116 had very satisfactory ERRs of 15% and above and only 2 had
between 10% and 15% (Annex 9, Table 28). The financial rate of return (FRR)
was calculated for a total of 124 subprojects, 28 of which had FRRs of between
10% and 15%, while the rest had projected FRRs of more than 15%. With the
exception of one firm, no serious financial difficulties are being encountered
by the enterprises financed by FONEI. Most of the firms which experienced
financial and market difficulties arising from the peso devaluation in late
1976 have recovered, and several of them are working at, or close to, full
capacity and are in the process of preparing expansion projects.



- 30 -
F. Development Strategy Paper
3.38      In connection with the third Bank loan, FONEI prepared a Development
Strategy Paper for the period 1978-80, focussing on its medium-term institu-
tional and operational goals, and its strategy for achieving them. Since the
negotiations of that loan (April 1978), FONEI has begun to institute some of
the measures chosen for the achievement of its objectives, such as differential
spreads for intermediaries. FONEI's management revised and updated its
Development Strategy Paper (Annex 6) to take into account the various aspects
of its operations discussed in the preceding sections and summarized below:
(a)  FONEI's institutional plans,including, inter alia, its strategy
to develop subproject appraisal and supervision capabilities in
the participating intermediaries as far as possible, and training
and development of the staff of FONEI, of the intermediaries,
and of consulting firms (paras. 3.23 and 3.25);
(b)  FONEI's operational priorities covering plans to induce inter-
mediaries to increase lending to medium. size enterprises, pro-
motional efforts to support industrial decentralization measures,
and pollution control and technology development activities
(paras. 3.08, 3.11, 3.26 and 3.32); and
(c)  FONEI's efforts to support priority sectors identified in national
plans for industrial development, including capital goods and
medium size chemical projects.
3.39      The Strategy Paper was presented to the Bank and discussed during
negotiations of the proposed loan.
G.  Financial Structure and Results
3.40      Sources of funds.  At the time FONEI was established in 1971,
the Mexican Government made an initial equity contribution of Mex$125 million
(then US$10 million equivalent) to enable FONEI to start operations. Later,
the government also undertook to repay the principal of three Bank loans to
FONEI,amounting to US$185 million,in order to progressively capitalize FONEI.
FONEI is responsible for servicing interest and other charges on these loans
and is thus exposed to the foreign exchange risk to the extent that interest
and other charges rise due to peso devaluation. Since Bank funds are available
only to finance the foreign exchange costs of investment projects, the govern-
ment, through Banco de Mexico, also made available to FONEI additional funds
amounting to Mex$2.33 billion out of the reserves of the banking system
in exchange for long-term bonds carrying interest: rates of 9-12% p.a. (Annex
9, Table 32). In 1978, Bank funds covered about 37% of disbursements, and
Banco de Mexico's counterpart resources about 40% (Annex 9, Table 33). In
order to bridge the gap of resources prior to the availability of the funds
from the third Bank loan, Banco de Mexico also made a short-term loan of



- 31 -
Mex$150 million (about 11% of disbursements) which FONEI would repay in 1979.
Portfolio recoveries have also become an increasingly important part of
FONEI's sources of funds, covering about 12% of disbursements in 1978.
3.41      Assets and liabilities.  FONEI's assets have grown at an explosive
rate of 64% in 1977, and 69% in 1978 when total assets reached Mex$2.9 billion
(Annex 9, Table 32). About 94% of FONEI's assets are accounted for by its
loan portfolio. At present, FONEI's equity is negative due to the accounting
treatment of foreign exchange losses suffered at the time of the peso deval-
uation in 1976. Although the government has the obligation to repay the
principal of the three existing Bank loans, in the external auditors' opinion
the disbursed amounts under these loans should be shown in FONEI's financial
statements to reflect the peso devaluation, and the corresponding exchange
loss    recorded as a reduction in FONEI's equity.  As Bank loans are repaid
by the government the exchange loss is reduced, and the difference shown as
an increase in FONEI's equity. Thus, when the Bank loans are fully repaid,
the exchange losses on account of the principal amounts of the loans will
be eliminated and FONEI's paid-in capital will have increased by an amount
equal to the peso equivalent of the Bank loans at the time of their disburse-
ment. Under these circumstances and given the fact that FONEI, as a second-tier
institution, does not incur credit risks in its operations (para. 3.43) and is
not responsible for repaying the principal amount of Bank loans, the ratio of
FONEI's total debt to its paid-in capital (16.8 at year-end 1978) is not a
meaningful figure to consider in analyzing FONEI's financial situation.  On
balance, FONEI's financial position can be considered sound.
3.42      Profitability and costs.  FONEI's operating results turned negative
in 1976 and 1977 because of the higher interest charges it had to pay on Bank
loans in pesos due to the currency devaluation, while most of its outstanding
loans were made at fixed interest rates in pesos. The peso has since become
a much stronger currency, and FONEI has raised its interest rates and now re-
quires all borrowers to accept fully floating interest rates. These measures
restored FONEI's profitability in 1978, when profits reached Mex$11 million
(Annex 9, Table 34). With the growth in lending volume, FONEI's administrative
expenses also declined markedly from 2.9% of average total assets (ATA) in
1974 to 0.91% of ATA in 1978. The latter figure, however, may prove to be
rather low in the short to medium term. taking into account the need to increase
FONEI's staff in anticipation of future growth and to provide more assistance
to participating intermediaries.
3.43      Arrears and provisions.  FONEI does not bear any credit risk in its
operations, I/ since all intermediaries are responsible for principal and
interest payments due, whether or not they receive payment from their indus-
trial clients. In practice, since FONEI is a trust fund of Banco de Mexico,
repayments to FONEI are made directly out of the accounts maintained by the
intermediary banks as part of the reserve system. Nevertheless, as part of
1/ Except in connection with its small guarantee mechanism for technology
development projects and prefeasibility studies (para. 3.09).



- 32 -
its supervision requirements, FONEI asks intermediaries to report on the
status of client repayments and is prepared, in exceptional circumstances, to
consider rescheduling the intermediaries' subloan repayments. To date this has
been necessary only in the case of one project.
3.44      Auditing arrangements.  FONEI's accounts have been audited for the
past few years by Alonso Ochoa Ravize, a reputable Mexican auditing firm.
In addition, Banco de Mexico's internal auditors also audit FONEI's accounts
periodically. All the audit reports on FONEI's accounts since inception have
been unqualified. The accounting procedures and auditing arrangements are
satisfactory.
H. Future Operations and Resource Needs
3.45      Operations forecast and project pipeline.  While Mexico's continuing
rapid economic recovery and buoyant expectations created by the recent large
oil discoveries have stimulated a sharp rise in manufacturing sector invest-
ment plans, the financial system lacks sufficient long-term resources to
cover industrial financing needs. This situation, which is likely to continue
for at least the next few years, as well as FONEI's good image with the private
industrial and financial sectors, portends sharp increases in demand for
FONEI funds. FONE['s total loan approvals doubled to about Mex$2,300 million
in 1978 (from Mex$1,160 million in 1977) and are projected to reach Mex$3,500
million in 1979, an increase of about 50%. FONEI's rather conservative pro-
jections (Annex 9, Table 34) show the growth rate of approvals (by amounts)
tapering off gradually to about 29% by 1980, 11% in 1981 and 9% in 1983. The
summary figures are shown below:
Table 3.4: FONEI'S OPERATIONS PROJECTIONS
Actual
1978      1979       1981      1983
Amount (Mex$ million)          2,288      3,500      5,000     6,000
No. of projects                    63       102        146       176
The average subloan size (Mex$36 million in 1978) is projected to decline
slightly in nominal terms (to Mex$34 million) and more sharply in real terms
in view of FONEI's intention to reach a higher percentage of medium size
enterprises. This implies that the number of projects would increase more
rapidly (by 180%) than total amounts approved (162%) from 1978 to 1983. On
the whole, the projected growth rate in approvals over the 1979-83 period of
about 22% p.a. in nominal terms is quite conservative and could be exceeded
easily, provided that sufficient additional resources will be made available
to FONEI. The higher growth rate projected by FONEI for the first three years
of the forecast period is also supported by its large project pipeline total-
ling Mex$4,200 million as of January 1979.



- 33 -
3.46      Resource requirements.  Although the third Bank loan was approved
only last May, FONEI would need additional resources for commitment by mid-
1979.  As of year-end 1978, FONEI had only about Mex$1,600 million 1/ left in
uncommitted funds to cover its expected approvals for the first half of 1979.
Over the period from mid-1979 to mid-1981, given the previously mentioned high
level of expected approvals, FONEI would need total resources amounting to
Mex$8,900 million (Annex 9, T-36 and T-37). About Mex$2,100 million of this
could be covered by internal resources derived from rapidly rising portfolio
recoveries and increasing profits. The rest of the gap would be filled
principally by the proposed loan and by additional complementary funds to be
made available by Banco de Mexico. Additional local and/or foreign resources
are likely to be required towards the second quarter of 1981. 2/
3.47      During the negotiations of the third loan, Banco de Mexico requested
the Bank to expand eligible expenditures under the loan to include the foreign
exchange content of domestically manufactured fixed asset items financed by
FONEI, estimated at about 25% of their cost (Annex 7). This, together with
the Bank's financing of direct and off-the-shelf imports, was expected to
result in the Bank's accounting for approximately 60% of FONEI's commitments
(and subsequent disbursements) in 1978 and 1979, compared to close to 50% in
the past. In practice, however, partly due to time lags arising from documen-
tation requirements and the rapid growth rate of FONEI's operations, it
appears unlikely that, even with the modifications mentioned above, the Bank
would be able to cover more than about 55% of FONEI's disbursements. FONEI is
also considering financing several types of projects (e.g., border service
industries, technology development and pollution control projects) which tend
to have high local cost components. Thus, a slightly higher amount relative
to the Bank loan would be required from the government (through Banco de
Mexico) in connection with the proposed loan. 3/ A Bank loan of US$175 million
is being proposed, of which about US$173 million would be channelled to FONEI,
to be committed as follows: US$40 million in 1979, US$100 million in 1980 and
US$33 million in 1981. Counterpart funds of US$105 million equivalent would
be required from Banco de Mexico. Since this would still leave a gap of about
Mex$430 million, FONEI is likely to require additional resources before the
end of the two-year period (i.e., by the second quarter of 1981) in the form
of new borrowings from Banco de Mexico and other sources.
3.48      Projected financial results.  Due to the rapid growth in approvals,
FONEI's total portfolio and assets are expected to expand very rapidly over
the forecast period. Assets would grow from Mex$2.9 billion at year-end
1978 to Mex$18.1 billion at year-end 1983, or at a compounded annual rate of
close to 45% p.a. (Annex 9, T-32). Total liabilities would grow at a some-
1/ Including projected portfolio recoveries and operating profits.
2/  Some of these resources could come from the government's prospective
oil revenues or from bonds which FONEI is considering issuiing in the
future.
3/ Banco de Mexico's contribution would be equivalent to about 60% of the pro-
posed loan, compared to about 85% of the first Bank loan, about 80% of the
second loan, and 45% of the third loan.



- 34 -
what slower rate of about 38%, as equity would increase very rapidly due to
the repayment by the government of the earlier Bank loans and to rapid growth
in profits (para. 3.49). Thus, total equity would increase from a negative
book value of Mex$87 million at year-end 1978 (para. 3.41) to a positive book
value of about Mex$3.2 billion at year-end 1983. In sum, FONEI's financial
structure would remain sound over the forecast period.
3.49      Net profits of FONEI are projected to rise rapidly within the
next few years as the early subloans made at low fixed peso interest rates are
repaid,and new loans made at more realistic (and floating) interest rates
account for a much larger part of FONEI's portfolio (Annex 9, T-34). Reflect-
ing this fact, total income as a percentage of average total assets (ATA) is
projected to rise from 11.5% in 1978 to over 14% from 1981 to 1983. Interest
expenses would correspondingly decline from about 10.1% of ATA in 1978 to 9.1%
of ATA in 1981 and 8.1% by 1983, due to the increasing equity base of FONEI
and the concomitant sharply decreasing debt/equity ratio over the forecast
period. The somewhat lower interest rates to be charged for pollution control
and technology improvement projects are not expected to affect significantly
FONEI's profitability, which is projected to rise. from 0.5% of ATA in 1978 to
4.9% in 1981 and 5.4% in 1983. Administrative costs would rise slightly in
1979 to a still very reasonable 0.94% of ATA, due to non-recurring costs
associated with FONEI's transfer of offices, and then stabilize at a very low
level of about 0.5-0.6% of ATA. However, much would depend on the degree to
which project appraisal and supervision responsibility could be transferred
by FONEI to participating intermediaries, which wrould have the effect of
gradually decreasing FONEI's own administrative expenses, at the same time
lowering somewhat: total income due to the increased spread granted to inter-
mediaries.
3.50      The above favorable profitability projections could be modified
by significant exchange rate movements in the future to offset differences
between Mexican and international inflation rates. However, given the
projections of a declining rate of inflation in Mexico and the expectation
that FONEI would adjust its interest rates as it did in 1977 should events
contrary to projections occur, FONEI should be able to maintain a sound
financial structure over the period up to 1983.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
4.01      The proposed project would build and expand on the accomplishments
of the past three Bank operations with FONEI. It is designed to:
(a)  help finance efficient projects expected to have a substantial
economic and employment impact, and increasingly those sponsored
by medium-sized enterprises and enterprises located outside of
Mexico's three principal cities;



- 35 -
(b)  support FONEI's efforts to build up project appraisal and super-
vision capabilities in several of the participating intermediaries
to improve resource allocation by the Mexican financial system and
expand the appraisal and supervision capacity of the FONEI system;
and
(c)  help broaden FONEI's impact on Mexican industry through two new
components to finance technology development and industrial pollution
control projects.
B. The Proposed Loan
4.02      Loan amount and terms.  The proposed loan of US$175 million would
be available to cover the foreign exchange component of FONEI-financed sub-
projects, human resource studies and training activities. Up to US$5 million each
would be allocated initially for technology development and for industrial
pollution control subprojects, respectively, and not more than US$10 million
may be utilized to finance service export projects. Up to US$250,000 would be
available to finance FONEI's training activities. The proposed loan would be
made to NAFINSA (as agent for the Mexican Governineilt) wxhich would make arrange-
ments satisfactory to the Bank for the transfer of the proceeds of at least US$173
million of the Bank loan to Banco de Mexico for the account of FONEI for
implementation of the project. In addition, the Mexican Government, as the
.twicitor, would assure availability of at least US$105 million equivalent as
counterpart resources to be provided through Banco de Mexico (as Trustee), for
channeling to FONEI under conditions satisfactory to the Bank.   Up to US$2
million of the loan would be available to help finance the cost of studies to
assess the human resource and technical and vocational training needs for
industry in the light of the government's industrial development strategy.
These studies would be coordinated by the Ministry of Education and the Bank
would review the terms of reference. To help build up FONEI's resource base,
as under prior Bank loans to FONEI, the Mexican Government would have the
obligation to repay the principal amount of the loan and the interest and
other charges on the US$2 million component for studies. FONEI would have the
obligation to pay interest and other charges on the amount of the loan chan-
nelled to it. In view of the above arrangement, the loan will be repaid
according to a fixed 17-year amortization schedule including 4 years of grace,
which are the maximum Bank terms for Mexico under the current guidelines. The
terminal date for submission of subprojects to the Bank would be June 30,
1981, and the closing date for disbursements would be June 30, 1984 (see
estimated disbursement schedule, Annex 8).
4.03      Participating intermediaries.  Any of the more than 150 financial
intermediaries of public or private ownership assisting projects eligible
for financing by FONEI could participate under the loan.
4.04      Subloans for investment projects.  The terms and conditions of sub-
loans made using the proceeds of the Bank loan would be consistent with FONEI's
Operating Regulations. The funds would be available to final borrowers at the
ACF index plus 2%, and subloans would have a maximum term of 13 years, includ-
ing up to 3 years of grace. In order to spread Bank funds over a wide number



- 36 -
of recipients, a limit of US$5 million would be placed on Bank funds that
could be provided to any single investment subpro.jject. Exceptions to this
limit could be made with the explicit approval of Banco de Mexico and the
Bank for projects of high economic merit that do not have access to alte-na-
tive sources of finance on adequate terms. As stated in FONEI's Operating
Regulations, the economic rate of return would be calculated for all investment
subprojects, except: for service export industries and other industries with
non-tradeable products, for which the financial rate of return, net balance
of payments and employment impact would be calculated.
4.05      Subloans to finance industrial pollution control projects.  Up to
US$5 million would be included in the proposed project for pollution control
subloans. Unused resources towards the end of the loan's commitment period
would be available to finance other types of investment projects. On the
other hand, should actual demand exceed expectatiLons, the Bank would be
prepared to consider increasing the US$5 million allocation. Preferential
funds under the component would be available to fiLrms which had entered into
commitments to purchase production equipment prior to the date of issuance of
the specific reglamento relevant to the pollution problem at hand. In those
instances in which subprojects for plant modernization would result in no
production increase, enterprises would also be el-Lgible for financing at
preferential rates of the cost incurred for pollui:ion control activities under
this component. Such eligibility, however, would be decided on a case-by-case
basis, after consu:Ltation between FONEI and the Bank.
4.06      In addit:Lon, pollution control subloans would also be subject
to the following special conditions:
(a) Subloans granted for the purchase of po:Llution control
equipment, or for related technical ass:istance, would
be made to final borrowers at an interest rate of
between 2.0 points above and 3.0 points below the ACF.
Only qua:Lified enterprises as defined above would be
eligible for funds at interest rates be:Low FONEI's standard
onlending rates.
(b) All subprojects submitted under this coraponent would require
(i) a full description of the firm's po:Llution problem;
(ii) a detailed analysis and justificat:Lon of the equipment
and/or technical assistance required to meet government
standards for controlling the type of pollution involved; and
(iii) an analysis of the repayment capacity of the firm.
(c) As part of its subproject review, FONEI would obtain,as
needed, the comaents of SSA and/or SARH regarding the adequacy
of solutions proposed by subborrowers to meet the standards
set by the government.
FONEI's Operating Regulations would be amended prior to loan effectiveness to
incorporate the conditions mentioned above and in para. 4.07 below.
4.07       Technology development subloans. A compcnent of up to US$5 million
to finance technology development projects would be included under the pro-
posed loan. The principles established in para. 4.05 above would apply for
any possible reallocation or increase in the loan allocation for technology



- 37 -
development subloans. Subloans would finance the development of new products
and production processes, technical information searches and overseas training,
visits by technical experts and related needs (Annex 4). In addition:
(a) Subloans would be made available to subborrowers in pesos
at the ACF index less three points.
(b) Subproject evaluations would cover, inter alia, current
sources of technology and their costs, a description of
the technological adjustment needs, the objectives and
scope of the proposed technology development program,
expected results and benefits, and repayment capacity of
firms.
4.08      Approval limits.  FONEI's limit for subloans for investment sub-
projects not requiring prior Bank approval would be US$2 million.   The free
limit for subloans for pollution control subprojects would be US$750,000 and
for technology development subprojects US$500,000, except that Bank approval
would be required for the first three projects under each of these components.
All subloans for service export projects would continue to be subject to prior
review and approval by the Bank.
4.09      Spreads to intermediaries.  Spreads to financial intermediaries
under Bank subloans would be consistent with FONEI's operating regulations
and would vary between 2.0% and 2.75%, depending on the size of the borrowing
enterprise and the intermediary's assumption of responsibility for subproject
appraisal and supervision. The full foreign exchange risk would be carried by
the government on the principal of the loan, and by FONEI for interest payments
and other charges.
4.10      Procurement and disbursement.  Procurement procedures for goods and
services financed under the proposed loan would be simiLlar to those under the
first three Bank loans and would follow the procedures customary for Bank
IDF-type projects, with FONEI having the responsibility for ensuring the
competitiveness, in price and quality, of items procured and their suitability
for the purpose intended. FONEI would pay particular attention to analyzing
procurement decisions in the exceptional case of subloans exceeding its
maximum lending limits. Disbursement of funds from the loan would be on the
following basis:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported items;
(b) 70% of total expenditures for imported items purchased off the
shelf in Mexico;
(c) 25% of total expenditures for domestically manufactured
machinery and equipment, and of the costs of installation and
industrial construction;
(d) 40% of total expenditures for technology improvement projects;



- 38 -
(e) 50% of total expenditures for the training activities; and
(f) 47% of total expenditures for the human resources studies.
The disbursement percentages (b) through (f) above represent estimated average
foreign exchange costs.
C. Benefits and Risks
4.11      Project benefits.  The proposed project would help fill a gap in
the financing of efficient industrial projects in Mexico at a time when the
financial system lacks sufficient long-term resources to cover industrial invest-
ment needs. On the basis of experience with the past three Bank loans to FONEI, the
proposed loan is expected to finance some 150-160 investment subprojects involving
total investment costs of about Mex$16.8 billion (about US$740 million) in a
wide range of industries which would increase output, employment and exports.
Most subprojects are expected to have economic rates of return (ERR) in the
range of 15-40%. The ERR would be calculated for all investment subprojects
(para. 4.04), which would ensure the utilization of the loan for efficient
projects. Based on past experience, the subprojects to be financed under the
loan are expected to have a substantial employment impact, generating a total
of 22,000 to 26,500 new jobs at an investment cost: per job created of US$27,000
to US$34,000. A substantial indirect employment impact is also expected due
to domestic linkages. 1/ The proposed loan is expected to contribute signifi-
cantly to industrial decentralization and regionaL development, with about
60-70% of funds expected to go to projects located outside of Mexico City,
Monterrey and Guadalajara. A substantial portion of the loan is expected to
be utilized for medium size enterprises (about 40% by amount and over 50% by
number)) which are expected to have a higher employment creation impact. The
investment projects to be financed by the proposed loan are expected to result
in foreign exchange earnings and savings of about US$2 billion during the
first five years of operation of subprojects. As in the past, about 20% of
the above amount should derive from increased exports. The proposed loan
would also help upgrade the competitiveness and efficiency of Mexican firms
through technology development projects, and help lessen pollution from
existing industriaL plants and equipment. The humaan resource study to be
financed under the loan is expected to improve the planning process to help
ensure availability of adequate manpower in the future for Mexico's industrial
development.
4.12      The project is expected to have a significant positive institutional
development impact on the FONEI system and, to a 'Lesser degree, on the project
evaluation capacity of the Mexican financial system as a whole. It would
support FONEI's effEorts to build up project appraisal and supervision capabili-
ties of participating intermediaries and encourage them to set up small
1/ For a comparabLe analysis of the likely indirect employment generation,
see Colombia: Special Study of Development Imapact of Financiera-assisted
Projects (Report No. 1027-CO), dated January 23, 1976.



- 39 -
in-house project lending units, in the process contributing to the government's
goal of improving resource allocation by the Mexican financial system. About
one-third of the subprojects financed under the loan are expected to be
appraised by the financial intermediaries, compared to only 6% in 1978.
4.13      Risks.  As the fourth Bank operation with FONEI, which is a reason-
ably efficient and mature financial institution, the project presents no
special risk in respect of the soundness and efficiency of subprojects financed.
On the other hand, the institutional goals of the project are likely to be
more difficult to achieve. However, the combination of the lending policies
for intermediaries enunciated in the new Banking Law, the new system of
variable spreads to the intermediaries, FONEI's promotional efforts, and the
training program to be undertaken by FONEI, involving intermediaries' staff
and consultants, should increase greatly the chances that the institutional
goals will be achieved.
4.14      On the sectoral side, should the government depart from its present
policy of maintaining a realistic exchange rate, industrialists might be less
willing to mount export and import substitution projects. However, this
subject and its implications for achieving desired employment creation goals
are discussed regularly between the Mexican Government and the Bank in the
context of the Bank's economic work and will be followed closely. In this con-
nection, the recently issued National Industrial Plan and the decrees to implement
its key policy elements give priority to both of these objectives. Also, in the
unlikely event that inflation rises, the ACF should continue to be a suitable
yardstick for determining FONEI's lending interest rates, given the government's
announced intention of maintaining interest rate levels which would permit adequate
resource mobilization in the financial system. On the whole, the project presents
a moderate level of risk.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A.   Agreements Reached
5.01      During loan negotiations, the following agreements were reached:
(i) with the Mexican Government and Banco de Mexico on:
(a) the loan amount, and the provision by Banco
de Mexico of the required counterpart resources to
FONEI at satisfactory terms and conditions to
complement the Bank loan and FONEI's internal
resources (para. 4.02);
(b) the government's repayment of the principal of the
loan and assurance of the availability of the
required counterpart resources to Banco de Mexico
(para. 4.02).
(ii) with the Mexican Government, Nacional Financiera and Banco de
Mexico on:
(a) expenditures eligible for Bank financing (para. 4.10); and



- 40 -
(b) FONEI's onlending interest rates (paras. 3.14 and 3.15) for
investment, pollution control and technology development
projects, and its responsibilities for payment of interest
and other charges on the Bank loan (para. 4.02).
(iii) with Banco de Mexico as trustee for FONEI on:
(a) the cumulative limit on the total l,ank financing for
service export projects (para. 4.02);
(b) the allocations, terms and conditions of lending for
pollution control and technology development sub-
projects (paras. 3.15 and 4.05 to 4.07);
(c) the free limit arrangements for investment, service
export, pollution control and technology development
subprojects (para. 4.08);. and
(d) the limit of US$5.0 million for the maximum amount of
proceeds of the loan that could be onlent for a single
investment subproject (para. 4.04).
(iv) with the Mexican Government and NAFINSA on the terms and conditions
of the human resources study (para. 4.02).
5.02      A special condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan would be
the amendment of FONEI's Operating Regulations to include, inter alia, measures
to encourage a wide distribution of its resources among industrial enterprises
(paras. 3.25, 3.36 and 4.06).
B.        Recommendation
5.03      The proposed project would constitute a ;suitable basis for a loan of
US$175 million with a maturity of 17 years including 4 years of grace on
conditions as outlined in Chapter IV.



- 41 -
ANNEX 1
MEXICO
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Variable Interest Rates and the ACF Index
1.        Since 1974 financial institutions in Mexico have been increasingly
adopting variable interest rate schemes for term lending operations. The
change from fixed rate lending, which had been the practice in the past, came
after inflation had accelerated post-1973 to levels--20% and more p.a.--unknown
in Mexico for twenty years and after Banco de Mexico had raised the maximum
interest rate on deposits by almost 4 percentage points above the 1972 level.
Variable rates were used for the first time on a large long-term loan from a
group of banks and financieras (investment banks) to several large public enter-
prises, where it was agreed that the rate would be set several points above the
average cost of funds to financieras 1/ and would vary as this base rate varied.
Since that time, the use of variable interest rates has become more generalized
and by 1977 practically no term loans were being made except at variable interest
rates.
2.        The average cost of funds to financieras (ACF) is a rate calculated
monthly by Banco de Mexico in order to determine how much to pay the financieras
for required reserves kept with Banco de Mexico. Thus, it is a ready-made indi-
cator of financial costs. It is a weighted average (gross of tax) of interest
rates paid on financial bonds and certificates, promissory notes, and certifi-
cates of deposit, instruments whose maturity varied from sight to three years.
The ACF excludes checking accounts, savings deposits and mortgage bonds and
certificates issued by commercial and mortgage banking departments even though
in practice the latter pay rates approximately equal to rates paid by the
investment banking departments.
3.        Banco de Mexico generally looked with favor upon the development of
variable-rate lending, recognizing it as a way of preventing an even more rapid
contraction in term lending activity of the financial system in response to
the uncertainties created by inflation in the past. Banks favored the principle,
since it could prevent a profit squeeze on deposits accepted at short term and
re-lent at longer term. Borrowers accepted the idea, basically because the
alternative would have been a considerably higher fixed rate, because of its
similarity to a series of rolled-over short-term loans and because many were
familiar with variable-rate Eurodollar loans.
4.        Movements in the ACF are determined chiefly by the rates paid on
various classes of deposit instruments and changes in the volume of savings
attracted by different instruments. Maximum rates that banks can pay on each
instrument are set by Banco de Mexico to avoid excessive fluctuations in rates
and undesirable large movements in deposits between financial institutions or
1/   The financieras are the term lending arms of banking conglomerates which
now are becoming formally fused into multipurpose banks (multibanks),
with commercial and mortgage banking departments as well. Resources
mobilized by the financiera departments continue to be the main source
of term loans from multibanks and to be subject to their own regulating
regime.



- 42 -                          ANNEX 1
between instruments with different term characteristics. Nevertheless, through
1972 rates were set high enough to attract substantial real increases in re-
sources and the banking system was growing faster than GDP. During that time,
the ACF, at around 10%, was 5-7 points greater than inflation (Appendix).
During 1973-76, the inflationary period leading up to the abandonment of the
fixed parity of the peso in relation to the US dollar in September 1976, the
ACF rose to near 12% as deposit rates were raised several times but never by
enough to exceed inflation (except for brief periods). Resource mobilization,
consequently, suffered and the financial system shrank when measured in
constant prices.
5.        The new administration has set a policy of maintaining interest rates
which, in relation to inflationary expectations, would permit adequate resource
mobilization. The first step in this policy was taken in May 1977 when interest
rates on the longest term deposits (2 years) were increased from 15.17% to 18.52%
(12.75% to 16% after tax); the ACF reached about 16.25% by January 1979.
6.        A secondary determinant of changes in the ACF is fluctuation in the
relative amounts held in the various instruments. On at least two occasions
changes in those relative amounts have iiportantly affected the ACF.  In late
1976 deposit rates were raised but the ACF did not: rise because the public, due
to general uncertainty, shifted a larger portion of its deposits into financial
bonds paying lower rates but withdrawable at sight:. On the other hand, the
effect on the ACF of the May increase,mainly in longer term deposit rates,was
reinforced by a relative shift from shorter to longer term deposit instruments.
The increase in deposit rates in May 1977, accompanied by a decline in inflation
from the first to the second semester, led to an encouraging increase in the
volume of peso-denominated financial savings.
7.        If the annual rate of inflation decreases gradually as expected from
about 18% in 1978 to international levels by 1982, and the recent rapid growth
of deposits is susitained, the level of ACF over the next few years can be ex-
pected to be relatively stable, with only slow and gradual changes. If, how-
ever, the progress in controlling inflation were significantly less successful,
the monetary authorities could be expected to adjust deposit rates accordingly.



ANNEX 1
- 43 -                                  T-1
MEXICO
FOURTH  INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Table 1:  Deposit Rates, the ACF and Inflation
Inflation during             diij  t
Highest Deposit                           quarter,annualized            Ri t  to.
Year  Quarter               Rate                  ACF                    rate                   F(NLLs Borrowers
1971   1                     11.48                10.53                  4.9                         _
2                    11.11                10.41                  3.9                         -
3                    11.11                10.30                  4.3                         -
4                    11.11                10.19                  4.2                         -
1972   1                     10.60                10.03                  7.7
2                    10.60                 9.97                  4.1
3                    10.60                 9.91                  5.8
4                    10.60                 9.90                  4.6
1973   1                     10.60                 9.87                 13.6
2                    10.88                 9.87                 14.6                         -
3                    12.71                10.41                 29.9                        11.00
4                    12.71.               10.65                 28.5                        11.00
1974   1                     12.78               10.88                  29.9                        11.00
2                    13.74                11.35                 13.1                        11.00
3                    14.21                11.57                 15.7                        11.00
4                    14.21                11.88                 24.5                        11.00
1975   1                     14.21               11.86                  10.4                        11.00
2                    14.21                11.89                 16.7                        11.00
3                    14.21                11.91                  9.9                        11.00
4                    14.21                11.97                  8.3                        12.30
1976   1                     13.91               11.78                  21.0                        12.00
2                    13.91                11.76                  7.4                        12.00
3                    14.63                11.74                 22.8                        13.50
4                    15.17                11.99                 64.0                        13.50
1977   1                    15.17                 11.99                 32.7                        14.00
2                    16.28                12.59                 15.4                        14.50
3                    18.52                13.83                 21.7                        15.75
4                    18.52                14.30                  13.9                        16.25
1978   1                     18.52                14.88                 20.6                        17.00
2                    18.52                15.47                 14.8                        17.50
3                    18.52                15.67                 18.2a/                      17.75
4                    18.52                16.25a/               17.7a/                       18.25
a/ Estimates
LCPI2, March 1979



MEXICO
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Organization Chart
Technical Committee
Director
[ <                          |  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Technica  ll   Operations                                            
r                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Subdlirector                                    Subdirector                                rJs
l                          t.                     l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ters".I  Chief of    ll Chief of    |Chief of    ll                                        Chief of
Prom           |epresentatives       Appraisal                Supervision                 Operations                           Accounting
Appraisal    Projects                             Fo rei                                inancial        Portfolio
App a sa          Control         Supervision         Contracts                          Information &       Control
Officers         Officer           Officers                                             Analysis Officer     Officer
| Assistant        n  ecords  l
Administrator                 lM
World Bank - 20307    Z
Nl)



-45 -ANNEX 3
MEXICO
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Operating Regulations of the Industrial Equipment Fund (FONEI) 1/
(Translation)
The Federal Government, represented by the Secetaria de Hacienda y
Credito Publico, created in Banco de Mexico, S.A. a trust fund, Fondo de
Equipamiento Industrial. The resources of this fund will be devoted to promoting
the establishment and expansion or modernization of industrial or service firms
whose scale and efficiency permit them to supply foreign markets or to sub-
stitute imports, thereby helping to strengthen the balance of payments and to
raise the productivity of national industry.
In July 1978 the Technical Committee of FONEI approved new General
Operating Regulations which appear below. These replace the ones approved in
March 1978.
1.  The objectives of the Industrial Equipment Fund (FONEI) are:
(a) To promote the efficient production of industrial goods and services
that generate or save foreign exchange, by making loans for export-oriented
or import-substitution projects, with efficiency such that they have reason-
able export prospects.
(b) To ensure that the auxiliary lending institutions and organizations
of the country (financial intermediaries) evaluate such projects.
2. FONEI may undertake the following operations:
(a) To provide financing to auxiliary lending institutions and organiza-
tions of the country for loans that they grant for the purchase of fixed assets:
machinery, industrial equipment aad facilities; their installation and assembly;
construction of buildings to install such fixed assets; and preoperating costs.
(b) To provide financing to financial intermediaries for loans that
they grant to entrepreneurs or promoters for the preparation of preinvest-
ment studies and for the adaptation, production, integration and development
of technology, preferably for the design and development of capital goods,
defined as machinery and equipment used in the production of goods and the
provision of services, including spare parts and components, as well as
special tools, attachments, dies and molds.
(c) To carry out financing operations related to those mentioned in
the preceding subparagraphs.
1/   To be revised prior to effectiveness of the proposed loan.



- 46 -
ANNEX 3
(d) To extend its guarantee to protect finanacial intermediaries against
risks of default in payment of the loans referred to in (b) above.
3.   The operations mentioned in the preceding regulation shall relate to
the following:
(a) The equipping of new industrial plants or the expansion or moderniza-
tion of existing plants whose products have reasonable prospects of competing
in foreign markets, or which substitute imports efficiently.
(b) The equipping, expansion or modernization of firms whose purpose is
to provide services that generate or save foreign exchange.
(c) The development of technology and designs for capital goods that tend
to generate or save foreign exchange, including the development of prototypes.
4.   The following requirements must be met in order for FONEI to provide
financing for industrial projects whose objective is import substitution:
(a) The products manufactured by the firm must be competitive in quality
and price with identical or similar products man,ufactured abroad.
(b) The products manufactured as a result of the project must be of a
priority nature.
5.   FONEI may grant loans for preinvestment stuLdies and technology develop-
ment programs, on the following conditions:
(a) Up to 80% of the cost shall be financed in the case of projects
eligible for financing by the Fund itself.
(b) The repayment period shall be up to ten years, in accordance with
the nature and scale of the study or program.
(c) If the preinvestment study or the technology program results in the
execution of a specific project, it shall be con.solidated with the loan that
may be granted by FONEI for the execution of that project.
6.   The guarantee of FONEI referred to in sub-paragraph 2(b) of these General
Operating Regulations may not exceed 90% of the loan amount, including principal
and ordinary interest.
The financial intermediary or, if appropriate, the entrepreneur or
promoter requesting the guarantee, shall pay a lump sum premium to the Trustee
equal to 0.5% of the principal amount of the loan on the date of signing of
the guarantee contract.
7.   A lending institution acting as financial intermediary in loans made by
FONEI shall be subject to the following basic requirements:
(a) It shall ensure that the borrowing enterprise will have sufficient
resources to meet its working capital needs.



- 47 -
ANNEX 3
(b) The cost incurred in the evaluation of the project shall not be
passed on to the borrower.
(c) The financial intermediary shall be obliged to service its debt
punctually and in full, regardless of whether it has received payment froln tcs
borrower. In addition, it shall immediately pay to FONEI any sums received
as advance payment of principal.
(d) The financial intermediary shall carry out preliminary and
periodic supervision of the project during the life of the loan, covering
periods not exceeding one year, and shall send the corresponding reports
to FONEI.
8.   In the selection of projects to be financed with resources of FONEI, the
following general aspects, among others, shall be considered:
(1) Generation or saving of foreign e>cchange.
(2) Economic and financial rates of return.
(3) Value added.
(4) Utilization of labor.
(5) Industrial decentralization and regional development.
9.   The lending operations of FONEI shall be denominated in Mexican currency.
10. The minimum amount of financing granted by FONEI shall be Mex$4.5 million
and the maximum Mex$100 million in each case.
The lower limit shall not apply to financing for preinvestment studies
or technology development programs. With the prior approval of the entity
establishing the trust, having heard the opinion of the Trustee, the Committee
may grant loans for amnounts exceeding the maximum of Mex$100 million for high
priority projects, such as the manufacture of capital goods.
11. Within the limits of the foregoing regulation, FONEI shall finance the
purchase of fixed assets in the following proportions:
(a) For projects whose purpose is the establishement of new enterprises,
up to 65% of the fixed assets. The financial intermediary shall provide funds
equal to at least 15.4% of the FONEI loan from its own resources, and the
final borrower shall finance at least 25% of the said assets.
(b) In the case of projects for the expansion or modernization of
existing plants, FONEI may finance up to 72% of the fixed assets. The
financial intermediary shall provide funds equal to at least 11.1% of the
FONEI loan from its own resources, and the final borrower shall finance at
least 20% of the said assets.



- 48 -
ANNEX 3
The contribution of the final borrower shall be made through in-
creases in share capital, or through the internal generation of funds during
the construction period of the project in the case of existing enterprises.
In the financing of projects supported by FONEI, other lending
institutions, equipment suppliers, and in genera:L any other source of funds
may participate in addition to the financial intermediary.
12. In accordance with the nature of the project, the Technical Committee
shall determine the amortization period and other conditions of each loan for
the purchase of fixed assets granted from FONEI resources. The maximum period
shall be 13 years, including a grace period of u]? to 3 years.
Within the limits set forth in the preceding paragraph, the loan
amortization period may be extended for up to two years beyond that which
the financial analysis indicates as necessary, to meet the costs of preinvest-
ment studies incurred by the enterprise for the contracting of external
consultants acceptable to FONEI.
13. The annual interest rate that financial intermediaries are authorized
to charge their borrowers on loans from FONEI resources for the acquisition
of fixed assets shall be calculated on the unpaid balances and shall not be
greater than two percentage points above the average percentage interest
rate charges and surcharges for the borrowing operations in Mexican currency
of all private and mixed banking institutions of the country, on the basis
of estimates prepared monthly by the Banco de Mexico. The average percent-
age cost shall be rounded to the nearest one-fourth of one percent.
The initial rate applied shall be that in effect for the month
immediately preceding that of the contracting of the loan between the insti-
tution and its borrower and shall be modified semiannually if necessary, even
though the amortization payments may be monthly or quarterly, as stipulated
in the preceding paragraph.
14. The interest rate charged by FONEI to financial intermediaries on loans
for the purchase of fixed assets shall be that estimated by the Banco de
Mexico as indicated in the preceding paragraph. However, when the financial
intermediary undertakes the evaluation of the project, using either its own
technical staff or external consultants, in accordance with terms of
reference established by FONEI and with its prior agreement, the Fund may
reduce its rate by up to 0.5 percentage points when the loan is less than
Mex$30 million and 0.25 points when it exceeds that amount.
15.  The interest rates charged by the financial intermediaries and by
FONEI on loans for preinvestment studies and technology development pro-
grams shall be five percentage points less than those indicated in the two
preceding clauses.
16. FONEI shall charge the financial intermediaries a commitment fee of
1% per annum on the undisbursed balances, in accordance with the schedule
of disbursements of the loan approved by FONEI. The financial inter-
mediaries in turn may pass this fee on to the fiinal borrowers.



- 49 -
ANNEX 3
17.  FONEI shall not make loans for projects or programs for which adequate
alternative sources of financing are available.
18. The contract signed by FONEI with the financial intermediary, and that
signed by the latter with the final borrower, shall stipulate that FONEI is
entitled at all times to obtain information it may consider necessary re-
garding the execution of the project or program and to require the final
borrower to submit financial statements certified by external auditors.
19. FONEI may enter into coordination agreements with other trust funds
or entities for the granting of integrated financial and technical assistance
to firms, under the terms of its General Operating Regulations.
20. The approval of the Technical Committee or of the Trustee shalt be
required in accordance with the powers delegated to the latter by the former,
for each and every one of the financial operations and guarantees of the
Fund as provided in these regulations.



- 50 -
ANNEX 4
MEXICO
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Financing Technological Development at the
Enterprise Level
Background
1.        Industry in Mexico has now reached a relatively high degree of
sophistication and there exists a substantial pool of important engineering
and technical skills. If Mexican industry is to Eurther increase local value
added and compete efficiently in world markets, there is a need to focus
increasingly on the technology factor in industrial development. There would
be a need to develop indigenous capabilities for technological acquisition,
adaptation and innovation in order to stimulate industrial growth through
the development of new or improved products, of more efficient production
methods, and of new processes to exploit on a cost-efficient basis avail-
able raw materials. Recognizing the importance of technology issues,
Mexican authorities have introduced various policies and institutional
support to reinforce the technological development of the country, partic-
ularly of industrial enterprises.
2.        The Instituto Mexicano de Investigaciones Tecnologicas (IMIT) was
one of the pioneer institutions established in the area of industrial re-
search and development, having been established in the fifties with the help
of the Armour Research Foundation.  IMIT is partly funded by the Mexican
Government, through Banco de Mexico, and partly by revenues from industrial
and banking clients for project preparation and evaluation. IMIT conducts
research projects for enterprises for a fee, and also has a risk-sharing
fund whereby 50% of the cost of a research project conducted by IMIT for an
enterprise is written off and does not have to be paid by thre ernierprise if
the project does not go forward, with some possibility for IMIT to share
in the benefits of the project if implemented successfully.
3.        More recently, in 1970 the government created the Consejo Nacional
de Ciencia y Tecnologia (CONACYT) to formulate and implement national
policies aimed at strengthening the links between research organizations and
industrial enterprises. CONACYT has been instrumental in establishing
regional technical sLupport centers in the food processing, leather products,
and jewelry handicraft areas. Included among the services of the centers are
laboratory testing of raw materials and finished products, training of
tecinical personnel and technical advisory functions.
4.        The Servicio de Informacion Tecnologica (INFOTEC), a spin-off of
CONACYT, provides technical information and related support services to
Mexican firms of varying size and industrial sophistication. Among the
services offered to clients are technology searches involving an analysis of
world information sources for new products, processes and equipment develop-
ments relevant to a firmn's product line. About 60% of INFOTEC's budget is



- 51 -
ANNEX 4
presently funded by contracts from over 250 firms which pay fees ranging from
about US$1,000 equivalent for periodic technical information services to
US$100,000 equivalent for complete technology audits and world market scanning
on a continuing basis.
5.        The National Registry for the Transfer of Technology (RNTT) was
created in 1972 to review all foreign licensing of industrial technology to
minimize the cost of acquired technology, eliminate restrictive or disad-
vantageous clauses in licensing agreements, and enhance the bargaining position
of Mexican enterprises.
6.        Since 1976, the government has also permitted accelerated depreciation
for tax purposes on capital equipment used for R&D purposes. Moreover, current
R&D expenditures are considered as normal business expenses for tax purposes.
The Enterprise Survey
7.        As part of preparation of the proposed FONEI project, a limited
survey was undertaken of Mexican enterprises to determine technology-related
problems they were facing and to ascertain whether the Bank, through FONEI,
could provide some assistance in connection with the proposed loan. On the
basis of enterprise profiles prepared by FONEI, 14 firms located in Mexico
City, Cuernavaca and Monterrey were selected for more detailed analysis.
They represented a relatively broad range of industrial subsectors, company
sizes, and stages of commercial and technical development (Appendix). The
principal aim of the survey was to determine (a) their sources of industrial
technology, (b) their technical needs, and (c) projects they would like to
undertake.
Survey Results
8.        The principal sources of industrial technology mentioned by
surveyed firms were (a) comprehensive licensing and purchase agreements with
various foreign industrial firms, (b) assistance from both foreign and domestic
engineers and technicians, (c) training abroad of the company's technicians,
and (d) in-plant research, design and engineering efforts (Appendix).
9.        The cross-section of firms surveyed indicated that in terms of in-
plant research, development and engineering capabilities, enterprises could
be classified under three categories, viz:
(a) Firms that have at least a nucleus technical staff to diagnose
problems, to carry out segments of technical solutions, and to find
and negotiate for complementary foreign technical inputs where necessary.
(b) Firms that rely, to a substantial degree, on outside sources
to diagnose and resolve their technological adjustment problems,
but generally are able to contract for such services from Mexican
or foreign sources.



- 52 -
ANNEX 4
(c) Inventors or small enterprises that have a technical innovation
at a stage between laboratory and commercial prototype stage and
need funding to bring the innovation to a stage where it can be
considered by commercially oriented institutions.
Although very few opportunities exist in Mexico to finance all three types
of projects, IMIT and INFOTEC have small funds to address needs in category (c)
above. These projects generally involve an excessively high level of risk and
uncertainty which should not be funded with credit resources, but rather with
venture capital funds. Given the nature of FONEI as a second-tier credit
institution working through the banking system, it appears that it could make
the greatest contribution by concentrating on technology development projects
fairly close to commercialization sponsored by enterprises in categories (a)
and (b) above. Consideration should be given only to projects that develop
capabilities in Mexico to diagnose and resolve technological adjustment
problems rather than to those seeking package solutions from foreign sources.
Categories of Eligible Expenditures
10.       On the basis of the needs cited by the surveyed firms and previous
experience with Bank projects elsewhere (e.g., Turkey, Colombia and Israel),
the following expenditure categories should be considered eligible for
financing under a technology development component:
(a) Expenditures external to the firm for research, design, or
engineering projects involving adjustments in product or
component design, new or improved production methods or
materials processing, new or improved equipment design,
experimentation with new industrial materials, or other
related RD&E activities, including pilot plant construction.
(b)  Training of Mexican engineering or technical personnel abroad,
in connection with actual or anticipated technical problems,
including visits to industrial plants, research laboratories,
or other industrial technical facilities, or for specialized
training in applied research fields in foreign research
institutes.
(c) Visits to Mexico by foreign technicians and engineers to
advise on solutions to technical adjustment problems; to
train research, design, or engineering personnel to find
solutions to technical problems; or to provide other
technical adjustment support services.
(d) Quality control or testing equipment; or other tangible
hardware needed in the technical adjustment process.



- 53 -                     ANNEX 4
(e) Technology audits and world market scanning services (for new
product developments and equipment designs) of the type carried
out by INFOTEC, and related to technical problems faced by the
enterprise. FONEI may even suggest a technology audit in border-
line cases involving firms with limited experience in diagnosing
and resolving technological adjustment problems.
Project Appraisal and Review Procedures
11.       A simple and straightforward procedure should be established to
facilitate lending for technology improvement projects. Specifically,
appraisals should include:
(a) summary information on the enterprise;
(b) previous technology sources and current R&D capabilities;
(c) objectives of the proposed technology development effort;
(d) expenditures to be covered with credit funds;
(e) expected results and benefits; and
(f) repayment capacity of firms.
Although FONEI has the core staff necessary to operate a line of credit for
technology development projects, it would need the assistance of technical
specialists to give summary reviews of evaluations. In a case where the firm
appears to be inexperienced, FONEI may recommend, prior to evaluation of the
project, that INFOTEC carry out a "technology audit" including, inter alia,
an analysis of the firm's operational characteristics and a survey of
alternative production processes and equipment.
Promotion and Monitoring
12.       A new component to finance technology development projects would
require special promotional efforts on the part of FONEI's staff to explain
to participating financial intermediaries and to potential clients the nature
of projects that may be financed, categories of expenditures eligible for
financing, and terms and conditions of available resources. Once an
application is received, it would probably be necessary in several cases to
assist the intermediaries and clients in formulating credit requests. IMIT
and INFOTEC, each with their unique network of contacts, could probably assist
the intermediaries in identifying potential clients and in helping prepare
proposals.
13.       The proposed new component should be viewed as a structured pilot
operation which may require further adjustments in the future. Based on the
actual level of demand for funds and the nature of proposals submitted, some
flexibility should be maintained in respect of total allocation within the
proposed loan for this type of project, as well as cost categories covered.
On the basis of this pilot operation, there may be a possibility of
developing a "free standing" project in the future.



- 4 -
MEXICO
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT                                                 ANNEX 4
T-1
Table 1: Suryey of Mealcan FIrms  Technical Needs
and Patential Demand far Fends
1978
aSouceLL of                           Technical                                Prapaasd           Estimated Cant            Sales                      Technical
Main Prodoct               TechnalagY                       Adosteant Needs                                Solution              million)         (Nsa) millio)  Eepleyemst    Pereanne
1.  Steal prodocc-          Mae  deveioped can dl-            Inproned production of aponge             Porch one eqoipmenct          He$308.00            13,900         19,500!-5         42
reot reduction procene            iron and lncreaeed gao ad-               and materials to In-           US$13.60)
for sponie  iron.                 ficlency.                                peace prcd-ctlce
preceesL a.
2.  Eqoup-ent for oil       "lnafaotorlng licensee            Denign of   ur new linesL of .ii          Lee own deaign ani en-        Mee$193.00            1,650          2,500            32
cell ponping  a         from F-ante.                      aell rigs, including dnilliof             ginrercng groop no            (US$8.50)
heads and cod purping equip-ent.         design and constrict
fi_t prototypes.
3.  Paper                   Inttnds no adapt orig-            Desige of an eonomicalp ef-               Uae own engineeri                  100.00               ---_----w e            
coal procens deve.oped            ficilent nrall sacale plant to           groap to deedign facility.   (US54.40)
p subsidiary of rurerican         procena sugar cane bagasae               P-rchaee foreign equip-
parent _copany.                   into kraft paper, auth nodular           nent to build prtotype
dlesign feaatore so farilit7  ran        plaLnt.
ha enlarged oPen denand in-
4.  .91chinery for          triginal taoheolngy froe           Denign of higher volume and              Train 11ecican taco-          M'ex321.00              630          1,500           70f
'lasn produotion        Lt., U.s., acong othera.          moltiparpose glasa ord  odd-              iciane abroad to  aet-i_      (UDS$.40)
ing eacheceryl inproved for-             cipate in new research,
nacee, materiale, and spenda             deaign, and nnginsericg
glans deelgn.                            prnjecte.
5. Cahibl                   hnno-hcc for forne electric-    Develop aneeelecnrc-                        540 prcjecc to in:lude        9ea)SO.OD               540          1,100            25
nocharucal cabin Iron  .h. neohanical table for oil en_                    technical iliertanre           (U01 2.31)
ploracion.  Inproon predaction           seaarh, alid nsit  pby
nethodo and quLlity control on           hexican engineers to
_co ting product linea.                  foreign fac-litie-.
o.  C-doucr  -d coo..non-Uo, eqoipme-t, and                  Improvec production technology            Negotiate  -ew lic-nsing      MecS15.90             1,560          1,I13             2
CYcles                  cat_c-a iIron Canada and           in za0h-rclnago, high-cenacon            agreerent etch Sweden         (U150.70)
U.S.                              robIns.                                  or Japan.
- c1 popin0                 Unag,nai crctnologn Iron          Derelop a net  nype of  p -tUchydrLe non de-ign ant en-                 Mex$S1.00               115            140            ^7
rotten,                 U .S.                             Ontanic, deep, secondary ccl              ginenniog tear to con-        10.57)
rec-Yerpcpcste.                          rp cot technical etndceh
and to dealign and  osrt
frat prototyp-s.
ltchntial knc-horfron t-hiiry pand  -no-o   fo-                            L         -f fe ownsaf -totie -Mgn-    MeiS7.L0          7             13
dnolnuoriog  rcain- ng in two     the produ-tion of odditieoa             engineer processen end        (1S00.30)
U .u.uocoereition.                prtrol,eotoalz?rcdcctn.                   eqaipmenc for new prodect
.  builclng              PHas cur product, ornoen,          Develop cnnnrcla -   prototype            Contracts signed aith IMIT  hAoS7.0e
materlals -   andcncoipmrnt pstents.            productor.d p11cc plant                  to help denigt pilot plant  (US$0.301                   -       --
faccltAp.                                facilipy.
i0. Aoontinline             hnoductccc loono-hun Iron         AdaPt eqoip-ent and -ethode               vinit U.S. and Ge-nan         -ec)l.36                 86                           35
xcTponpunnUe            ooctoto American plants.          c neo matenel  and copo-                  pLanta.  Plea foreign           S30 067                             n.a.
-nt  deaigns.                            engineHe fora  peer.
11. Anooctoco and           Oeoelouod  wnt nohnologp          Inproved machods for octrect-             Tacheocal inlorracion f-en$I.13                       310            250
splces   under technical aervicen  ing ran materials. Sea pro-              and foraigen  aroecn -arch.  (US$0.05)               310
agreementa ofh a S-edish          ceases for tanufacturing  ond            Techncala3rLies
noopanp.                          deriratives.                              agreement with foreign
manufacturer.
L7. Pcci1ckinp              Squip.nent and natorla In         Design coo fanilies of path-              Tecbnical infornation            n.a.                 430 540
macor cl,               frnn m Lancr.                     agti ngatenlain, e.g.,                    search, poan      t Iec vI. ts                                                       n.a
pIlastti Tainacted. and trainIng n  Msxinan
technicians abroai.
13. Penacon fruato          Prcoons and eculpmeni             Pighernvolnee prod ontcnn menth_          Use IMIT and local             10.0.)                  30            100
decign froc 131T (Macito):        ndc, i'pr--ed oan disposal               equneni dirt  teh-h_ 
toctoicol a        -itonance dfit  and nualitp control; newly              nicians to redesign
1.5.                              deaugned oculp_ent for sorttig           procesn and epuiprent.
frcot.
14. Poirnlcrm               ecboucl assistance Iton          Depelopent fof ne  produrco               Use ocn 054  staff cc          io.a.l               1,03C          1,000            '
dcrunotcnoc             Anerican and JapacKeaa            and matertial  proncacsing                denign prodocto,re
dasanic-pleni          techno.ogp.                               design procesc and equcp-
Oft fantlity,                                                         cent, cupplanetatd pos-
siblphy bp Mitan techni-
ccincviniting foreign
tat dce   andInrigo
;tper  r  ii is to c cao.
d/ A cgegent nf this project preniuoIsy  funded bp FOEi---for one nf the oil well punpang spsnem pectooppen (fen$l nillion; US$44,000).
b/  Fro act arecqp funded In paro (Piec)l million; US)44,000) by FOp EI and conpleted.  Nnw cegoocaning with U.S. firm for (o100 venture to
c/ Poe the tonal industrial group.
LCF12
March, 1979



- 55 -                          ANNEX 5
MEXICO
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Federal Legislation Pertaining to
Environmental Pollution
Basic Federal Law
1.        On March 23, 1971, the Mexican Congress passed a "Ley Federal para
Prevenir y Controlar la Contaminacion Ambiental," (Federal Law to Prevent and
Control Environmental Pollution) which first defined pollution and what can
be considered a pollutant. The law also specifies that its application is
the responsibility of the Ejecutivo Federal as implemented by the Secretaria
de Salubridad y Asistencia (SSA) for air pollution, in coordination with the
Secretaria de Recursos Hidraulicos (SRH) 1/ for water pollution, the
Secretaria de Agricultura y Ganaderia (SAG) 1/ for land pollution, and the
Secretaria de Industria y Comercio (SIC) for industrial or commercial pollution.
Coordination of the activities of the separate secretariats is not dealt with by
the law. In addition, coordination with federal, district, state, and local
governments is mentioned only in the context that they are autoridades
auxiliares. Ultimately, the Ejecutivo Federal is held responsible for classify-
ing and locating sources of contamination and for establishing the means to
control and/or prevent it.
Smoke and Dust Pollution
2.        Under its responsibility for controlling air pollution, SSA has as
yet only dealt with smoke and dust regulation. On September 17, 1971, the
"Reglamento para la Prevencion y Control de la Contaminacion Atmosferica Originada
por la Emision de Humos y Polvos" (Regulation to Prevent and Control Air Pollution
due to the Emission of Smoke and Dust) was issued, establishing a system of
licensing of new industrial enterprises, in which the granting of a license de-
pends upon compliance with air pollution standards. The reglamento also sets
maximum emission standards for both new and existing industrial enterprises, as
well as for new and existing equipment (e.g., stationary combustion equipment,
mobile combustion equipment, incinerators); types of combustion processes (e.g.,
diesel, gasoline); amount of heat energy expended (kilocalories); and types of
fuel (e.g. solid, liquid). It also provides for a monitoring system which
includes on-site inspections and monitoring stations to sample air quality.
Sanctions against existing polluters involve fines, which can range in
amount assessed against particular code violations from Mex$50-50,000, the
temporary closing of the offending plant, or even the permanent closure of
a factory in cases of a grave and immediate threat to public health.
3.        All enterprises which were not in compliance with the reglamento
subsequent to its effectiveness were to be allowed six months to file a
plan for pollution control and two additional years to implement the plan.
Owners of individual vehicles or combustion equipment were given just six
months to fall within emission standards.
1/   Both are now combined as the Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos
Hidraulicos (SARH).



- 56 -                        ANNEX 5
4.        A "Reglamento para la Prevencion y Control de la Contaminacion
de Aguas" (Regulation to Prevent and Control Water Pollution) was promulgated
on March 29, 1973, and established three stages in which the government would
carry out its activities towards the prevention and control of water pollution
throughout Mexico. In the first stage, the SARH was to register all discharges
of residual waters from the municipalities, industries, agricultural activities,
commercial entities and other sources throughout Mlexico. However, discharges
from individual households were not included in this survey. All existing dis-
charges from the above sources were required to be registered with SARH within
six months of the promulgation of the above regulation, and any new discharges
were to be registered within four months of the start of their operations.
Within 3-5 years of their registry, the discharges of residual waters had to be
controlled or corrected through the installation of suitable equipment by the
producers of the pollutants to comply with limits specified for five pollutant
characteristics: (i) sedimentable solids; (ii) fats and oils; (iii) floating
matter; (iv) temperature of the discharge; and (v) the pH value (hydrogenion
concentration) of the discharge. The maximum concentrations allowed are the
following:
Sedimentable solids:               1.0 ml/'liter of the discharge
Fats and oils:                     70 mg/liter
Floating matter:                   Discharges to contain no floating
matter that can be retained by a
3 mm x 3 mm sieve
Temperature of the discharge:    35  C
pH value of the discharge:         Between 4.5 and 10.0
5.        During the second stage, SARH would ensure, through inspections,
licensing procedures and appropriate fines, that the limitations on the five
specific pollutant characteristics were complied with and that satisfactory
arrangements had been made for primary treatment of the discharges as
necessary for future compliance. In the third stage, SARH would undertake,
in cooperation with SSA, a survey and detailed analysis of the state of water
pollution in the different water bodies throughout Mexico, and use this
information to establish, wherever necessary, conditions of waste water
discharges (i.e. special physical, chemical and bacteriological characteristics)
that should be met by water discharges in particular locations, and the time
limits within which such conditions should be met.
Noise Pollution
6.        The most recent federal legislation passed by Congress dealt with
noise pollution. The "Reglamento para la Prevencion y Control de la
Contaminacion Ambiental Originada por la Emision de Ruidos" (Regulation to
Prevent and Control Environmental Pollution due to Noise) was promulgated



- 57 -
ANNEX 5
on January 2, 1976. The SSA is responsible for establishing a Comision
Consultiva del Ruido in each city or urban neighborhood. All major political,
industrial and commercial entities would be represented on the commissions.
Maximum noise levels of 65 decibels from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m. and 68 decibels
from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. were established for existing fixed sources of noise,
and a term of six months was established to allow noise polluters to comply with
these levels. A formula based on age of equipment and weight was established
for mobile sources of noise pollution, and specific regulations for controlling
noise were established in the construction of new transportation terminals for
airplane and railroad passengers. In addition, the installation of specific
sound-producing equipment (i.e. whistles, bells, etc.) was prohibited on vehicles.
7.        Although the reglamento mentions the need to establish acceptable
levels of noise frequency, intensity and acoustic pressure, as well as decibel
level, it has established explicit maxima only in regard to the latter. In
addition, although the SSA has overall authority for implementing this
reglamento, initial inspection and monitoring is the responsibility of local
authorities working with the appropriate secretariat or subsecretariat. Once
a possible source of noise pollution is identified, it is up to the SSA to
establish whether a violation of the maximum allowable levels has occurred.
Fines varying from Mex$50-50,000 can be levied for failure to comply with the
regulations.
Sanitary Code
8.        The maintenance of a clean environment is an explicit goal of the
"Codigo Sanitario de los Estados Unidos Mexicanos," (Health Code of the United
Mexican States) which was promulgated on March 13, 1973. The enforcement of
the code is the primary responsibility of the President, the Consejo de
Salubridad General and the SSA. The code devotes an entire chapter to the
environment. While the Federal Law of 1971 emphasizes the coordinative
relationship between the SSA and other secretariats, the code stresses the
pre-eminent role of the SSA, in preventing and controlling not only atmospheric
pollution, but also land and water pollution, and even pollution of the
territorial seas. The focal point in assigning such direct overall responsi-
bility to the SSA involves the determining of whether or not air, land, water
and sea pollution injure or could injure the health of human populations. If
this is the case, then it is the SSA's responsibility to prevent such pollution
or keep it within acceptable levels.
Proposed Legislation
9.        The SSA is presently preparing draft legislation covering gaseous
emissions. It expects to submit this legislation for review by interested
parties in the government, industry and commerce in the near future.



- 58 -
ANNEX 6
MEXICO
FOIJRTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
FONEI's Declaration of Operational and Institutional Strategy
1.        The dynamism that has characterized FONEI's operations during
recent years, ancd the pipeline of projects that it currently has under
study, justify the optimism that operational growth will be sustained
although not necessarily at the same high rate as in the past. This
exper:ience is incdicative of the suitability both of amendments made to
the Operating Regulations and the criteria used in applying them. But it
points also to the desirability of moving forward by widening FONEI's field
of act:ivity and also by proposing a number of changes with a view to quali-
tative improvement of its operations in general.
2.        FONEI'S main field of activity will continue to be that of provi-
ding financial support, through long-term loans,, to projects for the efficient
production of goods and services capable of replacing imports or with the ca-
pacity to export
3.        Among sectors with good export prospects, FONEI will give special
attention to projects for processing agricultural, fishing or mining pro-
ducts,  Among import-substitution projects, we intend to continue the support
that FONEI has been providing to capital-goods manufacturers and to enlarge
its participation in secondary petrochemicals. These have been designated
as priority areas by the Authorities and, under the provisions of the Operat-
ing Regulations, could continue to receive FONEI] loans in excess of Mex$100
million.
4.        As regards services that generate or save foreign exchange, a
growing response is expected on the part of frontier-area entrepreneurs
promoting the construction of factory buildings for rent or lease to parts
manufacturers (maquiladoras), automobile service centers, health centers,
etc., large commercial centers and other service projects, not necessarily
located on the country's frontiers (as in the case of the establishment of
international air freight lines).
5.       In accordance with the country's broacl economic policy goals, we
consider that FONEI should give greater attention than in the past to pro-
jects that create a substantial number of jobs, are located in areas where
it is desired to promote industrial development, relate to priority areas
or are of relatively small size. In parallel, we intend to refuse or
restrict credit---depending on whether the projects concern the establish-
ment of new or the expansion of existing enterprises--in the area at
present designated Zone III and possibly also to set a ceiling, of perhaps
Mex$300 million, on FONEI resources that can be committed to any one enter-
prise.



- 59 -
ANNEX 6
6.        In view of the understandable lack of interest on the part of
the commercial banks in promoting and financing projects of medium size and
smaller enterprises, it seems appropriate to offer them an incentive of
0.25 percentage points in the margin for their intermediary services when
they finance enterprises with capital of less than Mex$50 million.
7.        One category of investment projects that is receiving increasing
attention on the part of various Authorities in Mexico and which
lacks financing on suitable terms is that of air and water pollution control,
particularly in the large urban areas of the country with a high concentra-
tion of industry. From consultations with relevant Government Authorities,
and with the World Bank, we conclude that FONEI could include in its financial
program support for investment in anti-pollution equipment by enterprises
already established in the major urban areas.
8.        What could be called the spontaneous demand for FONEI's services
comes from the larger enterprises and those located in the areas of high
industrial concentration. This implies that the aim of diversifying FONEI's
operations can be achieved through a promotional campaign that generates a
large number of applications from which those of interest to FONEI can be
selected.
9.        As already indicated in FONEI's program of activities for the
current year, it proposes to conduct the above-mentioned campaign by arranging
visits to entrepreneurs by its staff, holding meetings, distributing leaflets
and audio-visual material, and setting up regional agencies in the areas of
highest potential outside Mexico City. Emphasis would be placed on the
financing of technology development projects.
10.       Since it was first established, FONEI has pursued the aim not only
of financing Mexico's modern industrial development, and thereby providing
balance of payments support, but also of persuading the banks to base their
lending decisions on the feasibility of investment projects. This aim has
already been embodied in the new Banking Law which entered into effect in
January of this year.
11.       Although FONEI was not successful in this aim in its initial
years, the offering of a higher margin to intermediary banks that assume
responsibility for appraising projects submitted to FONEI is yielding en-
couraging results.
12.       It is felt that, in addition to maintaining the present margins,
consideration could be given to FONEI's absorbing part of the cost of the
appraisal when the latter turns out to be negative.
13.       Because most of the entrepreneurs are not familiar with project-
preparation techniques, nor the financial intermediaries with their appraisal,
FONEI will step up its work of distributing guidelines and instructions.



- 60 -                     ANNEX 6
14.        In support of this, courses are being organized for entrepreneurs,
financial intermediaries and consultants to fami.liarize them with the various
aspects of investment-project formulation and appraisal.
15.        Supervision of the projects after a loan has been granted has the
following basic purposes:
(a)  to ensure that the funds have been duly invested in accordance with
the conditions of the agreement;
(b) to aid the enterprise in resolving any problems and unforeseen
situations that arise during execution of the project;
(c) to compare the results of operation of the project with the estimates
on which approval of the loan was based, with respect to, inter alia,
generation and saving of foreign exchange, price levels, job creation,
and economic and financial returns, to enable FONEI to introduce
new criteria that can improve the impact of its operations in the
future; and
(d) to familiarize the private banks with the purposes and procedures
of project supervision, so closely related to the decision to grant
loans on the basis of project feasibility.
16.        Quite apart from the fact that superv!lsion of all the projects
supported by FONEI would mean that it would have to maintain a large staff,
FONEI's aim is to act as a second-tier institution in all its fields of
operation. For this reason, and in the light of the experience it is
acquiring in persuading banks to appraise projects by offering them incen-
tives, it is considering offering a margin of, perhaps, 0.25 percentage points
on outstanding balances to intermediaries following submission to FONEI of
supervision reports covering the financial, teclnical and economic aspects of
the projects. The aim would be to obtain quarterly or semiannual reports
during the stage of execution of the project and annual reports thereafter
until the loan is repaid.
17.        By persuading the banks to supervise lhe projects we would be able
to involve them more in the concept of basing their decision on project
feasibility,and they would be able to justify more readily the setting up of
a technical team responsible for project appraiSal and supervision.
18.        In the medium term,  as FONEI succeeds more and more in persuading
banks to appraise and supervise FONEI-financed projects, the needed increase
in FONEI's technical staff should lag behind the expansion of its operations.
In the short run,   however, the work of advising the enterprises, the con-
sultants and the banks will place an additional burden on FONEI's staff.
19.        As a specialized financial institution, FONEI is suffering high
turnover among its technical staff, recognized to be well qualified. There
is accordingly an urgent need to step up the training courses for the staff
of other institutions, among other reasons, as a means of relieving the
pressure on them to recruit already experienced personnel.



- 61 -                       ANNEX 7
MEXICO
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Estimation of the Foreign Exchange Component of
Domestic Fixed Assets Financed by FONEI
1.        This annex outlines the methodology used to estimate the foreign
exchange component of domestic fixed assets financed by FONEI. It deals first
with projects involving the establishment or expansion of capacity to produce
manufactured goods, which are expected to account for about 91% of FONEI's
financing over the next 2-3 years. It then examines briefly the foreign
exchange component of service export projects, which are expected to account
for about 9% of FONEI's financing.
Manufactured Goods Projects
2.        By its Operating Regulations, FONEI is authorized to finance the
cost to the investing company of procuring, and installing fixed assets including
the cost of any associated civil works and construction. An analysis of the
projects financed by FONEI over the past two years indicates that, on average,
about 70% of FONEI financing of domestically supplied fixed assets has been for
the procurement of machinery and equipment made in Mexico and about 30% for
installation, civil works and construction.
3.        In order to estimate the foreign exchange component of machinery and
equipment manufactured in Mexico, the recent NAFINSA-UNIDO study of Mexican
capital goods production has been used. Based on a survey of 72 producers,
this study concludes that on the average, 24% of the production cost of locally
manufactured capital goods is represented by directly imported production
inputs. A further 42% of production cost is represented by locally produced
parts, components and raw materials. These locally produced items themselves
have an import content, which the study estimates at 13% of their cost, and
use locally produced inputs accounting for a further 53% of their cost. 1/
Thus, to determine the overall direct and indirect foreign exchange component
of capital goods production in Mexico it is necessary to take into account the
foreign exchange component of the locally produced inputs by summing the
following series:
F.E. component of production cost = .24+.42 (.13+.53 (.13+.53 (.13+.....
= .24+.42 (.13+.13 (.53+.532+.533 ...
= .24+.116
= .356
Thus, the direct and indirect foreign exchange component of domestically manu-
factured machinery and equipment is estimated to be 35.6% of the production
costs. Allowing for profit margins and distribution costs (of about 20%), this
1/   These local inputs in turn have an estimated foreign exchange content of
13%.



- 62 -
ANN!X 7
percentage would be equivalent to about 29.7% of the delivered price to the
companies purchasing the machinery and equipment. It is on this delivered price
that FONEI bases its financing.
4.        The foreign exchange component of civil works, including construction
and installation, has been estimated at 15%, based on statistics provided by
Banco de Mexico for all such activities in Mexico and the results of a recent
study of hotel construction costs undertaken by civil engineering consultants
in connection with the Tourism Development Loan.
5.        To determine the average foreign exchange component of domestically
supplied fixed assets financed by FONEI,we have to take into account that 70%
of such fixed assets are machinery and equipment with a foreign exchange
component of 29.7%, and that the other 30% of the fixed assets are installation,
civil works and construction having a foreign exchange component of 15%. On
this basis, the average foreign exchange component of all domestically supplied
fixed assets financed by FONEI would work out at about 25%.
Service Export Projects
6.        FONEI has approved only one service export project to date.  There-
fore, it is not possible to estimate accurately the foreign exchange content of
such projects at this time. However, an approximation should suffice,since
service export projects are expected to account for only about 9% of FONEI's
total financing.
7.        The service export projects are likely to comprise mainly the
construction of industrial buildings and construction and equipping of commercial
centers and-automotive repair shops. Consequently, a higher proportion of their
domestically supplied fixed assets will be represented by civil works and con-
struction than is the case for manufactured goods projects. Thus, one would
expect their foreign exchange component to be lower. However, these projects
will be located in the northern border zone where typically a higher proportion
of imported inputs are used in civil works and construction than is the case
for projects in the interior of the country. For example, hotel projects in
the border area were estimated by the civil engineering consultants to have a
foreign exchange component of 40%, compared witb 20% for hotels built in the
rest of the country. Consequently, it seems reasonable to use the same figure
(i.e. 25%) for the foreign exchange component of domestic fixed assets used in
service export projects as for the manufactured goods projects.



- 63 -
ANNEX 8
MEXICO
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Estimated Quarterly Schedule of Bank Loan Disbursements
(US$ millions)
IBRD Fiscal Year                      Disbursements in             Cumulative
and Quarter                            Quarter                     Disbursements
1979-80
March 31, 1980                            2.00                      2.00
June 30, 1980                             3.00                      5.00
1980-81
September 30, 1980                        4.00                      9.00
December 31, 1980                         8.60                     17.60
March 31, 1981                           15.00                     32.60
June 30, 1981                            28.00                     60.60
1981-82
September 30, 1981                       30.00                     90.60
December 31, 1981                        23.80                    114.40
March 31, 1982                           18.00                    132.40
June 30, 1982                            14. 00                   146.40
1982-83
September 30, 1982                       12.00                    158.40
December 31, 1982                         8.80                    167.20
March 31, 1983                            3.00                    170.20
June 30, 1983                             2.00                    172.20
1983-84
September 30, 1983                        1.00                    173.20
December 31, 1983                         1.00                    174.20
March 31, 1984                            0.60                    174.80
June 30, 1984                             0.20                    175.00
LCPI2
March 1979



MEXICO - FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Table 1: ltates of Growth of GDP, By Sector of urigin
1965-1978
1966     1967       1968      1969       1970      1971       1972      1973       1974      1975      1976       1977       1978 a/
Agricultural, Forestry
& Fishing                   1.8       2.5       2.8        0.8       5.0        2.0       0.3        2.2        2.8      0.7       -3.0        2.7       3.1
Mining                        3.0       3.7       2.4        4.6       2.9        0.4      -0.2       10.6       14.6     -6.1        2.0        0.9      -2.0
Petroleum                     5.9      14.8      10.2        6.5       9.9        3.4       8.8        2.5       14.8      7.9       10.6       16.4      15.3
Manufacturing                 9.4       6.8      10.1        8.1       8.7        3.0       8.3        8.9        5.7      3.6        2.7        3.4       8.5
Construction                 14.4      13.0       7.4        9.4       4.8       -2.6      17.6       15.8        5.9      5.9       -1.9       -2.0      12.5      1
Electricity                  14.1      11.8      19.7       13.8      11.4        7.9       8.9       11.0        9.4      5.8        7.4        7.7      10.0     a
Commerce                      7.5       5.5       8.5        7.0       6.5        3.0       6.9        7.6        5.2      3.4       -1.0        2.0       n.a.
Transport & Communication    8.3        4.9      10.8        7.3        7.9       7.5       9.9       14.3        9.2      8.9        5.1        5.2       n.a.
Government                    7.7       8.0       9.6        3.3       9.7        9.0      13.4       11.2        8.2     10.9        8.2        1.8       n.a.
Other                         4.7       5.4       6.4        5.9       5.1        7.3       5.6        4.9        3.6      2.6        2.3        2.1       n.a.
Total GDP               6.9      6.2        7.9       6.2        6.8        3.4       7.2        7.7       5.6       4.0        1.6       2.9        6,6
a/ Preliminary estimates.
Source: Bank of Mexico and IBRD staff estimates
LCPI2
March, 1979
XI



-          MEXICO - FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Table 2: Gross Domestic Product, By Sector of Origin
1965 and 1970-1977
1965          1970          1971         1972         1973          1974          1975         1976          1977
Value (billions of current Mex$)
Agriculture,Forestry & Fishing         36.5          47.4          48.5         52.9          67.8         83.4          99.9         118.9        164.5
Mining                                  3.3           5.6           5.2          5.6           7.0         10.3          10.7          13.8         21.5
Petroleum                               9.1          13.3          13.3         14.9          15.7         25.3          31.3          37.4         64.6
Manufacturing                          52.4          94.7         104.2        118.6         141.0        188.4         227.1         289.9        399.9
Construction                           10.1          21.4          21.5         27.3          36.3         49.6          63.3          78.1         99.1
Electricity                             3.4           6.2           6.6           7.2          8.3          9.9          11.2          14.9         24.2
Commerce                               76.3         124.1         133.8        148.0         180.9        243.7         288.2         342.5        466.5
Transport & Communications              7.3          11.1          12.2         14.5          16.8         21.8          29.0          36.2         53.1
Government                             13.7          26.0          29.3         35.6          46.1         61.5          85.1        118.2         154.2
Other Services                         39.9          68.9          77.8         87.7          99.7        118.9         142.4         178.2        228.6
Total GDP                      252.0          418.7        452.4         512.3        619.6         813.7        988.3       1,227.9      1,676.0
Shares (in percent of total)                                                                                                                                                    @
Agriculture, Forestry & Fishing    14.4              11.3          10.7         10.3          11.0         10.4          10.1           9.7          9.8
Mining                                  1.3           1.3           1.1           1.1          1.1           1.3          1.1           1.1          1.3
Petroleum                               3.6            3.2          3.0           2.9          2.6           3.2          3.2           3.0           3.9
Manufacturing                          20.8          22.6          23.0         23.2          22.8         23.6          23.0          23.6         23.9
Construction                            4.0            5.1          4.7           5.3          5.8           6.1          6.4           6.4           5.9
Electricity                             1.1            1.5          1.5           1.4          1.3           1.2          1.1           1.2           1.4
Commerce                               30.3          29.6          29.6          28.9         29.2          29.5         29.2          27.9         27.8
Transport & Communications              2.9            2.6          2.7           2.8          2.7           2.7          2.9           2.9           3.2
Government                              5.5           6.2           6.5           6.9          7.4           7.5          8.6           9.6          9.2
Other Services                         15.8          16.5          17.2         17.2          16.1         14.6          14.4          14.6         13.6
Total                          100.0          100.0        100.0         100.0        100.0         100.0        100.0         100.0         100.0
Source: Bank of Mexico
LCPI2
March, 1979                                                                                                                                                                       |



MEXICO - FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Table 3:Structure of Value Added in Manufacturing Selected Years, 1960-1977
(In Percentages of Total, Based on Current Mex$)
1960           1965            1970           1972            1974           1976            1977
Food, Beverages and Tobacco          36.7            31.5           26.5            27.7           28.0            28.8           28.9
Textiles                              9.3             9.5           10.2             9.2            8.3             7.9             7.7
Clothing & Shoes                      8.1             9.0           13.5            14.2           13.6            13.5           14.0
Wood and Wood Products                3.1             2.3            1.9             1.6            1.5             1.6             1.6
Paper and Paper Products              2.4             3.1            2.5             2.6            3.4             3.2       (    3.2
Printing and Publishing               2.4             3.1            3.2             2.8            2.8             3.3             3.2
Leather and Leather Products          1.4             1.1            1.5             1.4            1.2             1.3            1.5
Rubber and Rubber Products            2.1             1.9            1.5             1.4            1.3             1.2             1.0
Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals         9.3             8.0            8.1             8.3            8.0             8.0             7.8
Non-metallic Minerals                 4.2             4.6            5.1             5.4            5.3             5.6             5.7  1
Basic Metals                          6.2             5.9            5.4             5.3            6.2             5.4             5.4  0
Engineering Products                 12.8           17.7            18.5            17.6           18.7            18.6           18.3
Others                                2.1             2.3            2.1             2.1            1.8             1.5             1.7
LCPI2
March, 1979
l~~Ii



MEXICO - FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Table 4: Indices of Industrial Production, 1970-77
(1970 = 100)
1970     .1971       1972       1973       1974       1975       1976       1977P/
GENERAL,                             100     102.1      112.4      123.8      132.8      139.1      142.9      147.9
Manufacturing                     100      102.9      112.5      123.2      131.4      136.9      140.7      145.5
Sugar                             100      102.8      108.0      115.4      119.3      109.8      115.0      120.0
Beer                              100       87.2      102.4      119.9      135.4      136.0      132.7      148.9
Beverages                         100       86.2       94.8      104.9      102.0      122.6      106.0      119.8
Tobacco                            100      99.4      104.8       94.9      105.2      103.3      102.9      114.4
Textiles                          100      127.8      159.9      205.2      215.7      237.5      238.7      269.4
Printing                          100      103.7      113.9      104.0       92.4      111.6      117.1       99.5
Tires                             100      110.5      124.1      130.8      136.5      151.2      179.7      164.5
Fertilizers                        100     113.6      135.8      147.8      151.5      155.9      160.6      172.5
Chemicals                         100      108.4      114.1      127.8      142.4      134.7      141.9      147.2
Artificial Fibers                 100      125.5      153.0      184.3      194.7      222.9      242.3      261.6
Cement                            100      102.6      119.8      136.3      147.5      161.7      175.2      184.2    1
Iron                              100      104.5      118.8      123.0      142.6      131.3      152.2      191.6    o
Steel                             100       99.4      115.2      122.6      133.6      136.9      137.9      144.5
Copper                            100      109.1      117.0      113.1      135.7      128.0      152.3      144.3
Automobiles                        100     112.0      115.1      140.3      172.0      166.1      150.7      139.8
Trucks                             100     102.3      120.3      151.0      187.2      231.3      193.1      157.7
Petroleum and Related Industries  100        102.4      108.6      110.1      126.1      140.1      153.6      178.8
Petrochemicals                       100      109.4     128.1      143.8      169.6      177.4      192.9       185.1
Mining                               100       96.7      101.2      107.7      119.2      112.2      119.4      119.2
Electricity                          100      109.8     121.4      131.7      145.6      156.7       169.2      184.9
Construction                         100       97.4     113.9      133.9      142.0       150.4      147.5      143.9
P/ Preliminary.
1/  The general Index represents 60% of total industrial production in 1970 with the following (laspeyres)    ^
fixed weights:  Manufactures (72.3%), Petroleum (6.6%), Petrochemicals (0.6%), Mining 3.2%),                       4 Z
Electricity (2.6%), Construction (14.7%), )
Source: Bank of Mexico
LCPI2
March, 1979



ANNEX 9
-68 -                                   T-5
MEXICO - FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Table 5:Import of Machinery and Equipment and Domesl:ic Production of
Machinery and Transport Equipment
Imports of Machinery        Domestic Production
of Machinery
(US$ million)                   (Mex$ million)
1971                                866.9                          8,272.3
1972                              1,075.9                          9,384.5
1973                              1,326.2                         12,463.6
1974                              1,704.6                         17,267.3
1975                              2,360.8                         19,047.6
1976                              2,477.6                         21,120.9
1977                              1,953.0                         28,608.0
1978 (10 months)                  2,054.9                         36,435.7
Source: Secretariat of Budgeting and Programming,, Monthly Bulletin, November 1978
LCPI2
March, 1979



MEXICO - FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Table 6: Gross Fixed Investment
(In Mex$ millions)
P R I V A T E
TOTAL             Public                    TOTAL                  % Total
1970               82,300            30,582                    51,718                    62.8
1971               81,600            28,538                    53,062                    65.0
1972               97,800            42,057                    55,743                    57.0
1973              126,400            57,606                    68,794                    54.4
1974              173,600            69,207                   104,393                    60.1
1975              221,700            99,053                   122,647                    55.3
1976              269,500           111,794                   157,706                    58.5
1971              319,400           170,925                   168,475                    49.6
1978              441,200           213,625                   227,575                    51.5
1979(Estimate)   570,000            275,000                   295,000                    51.7
Source:  Bank of Mexico (1970-1977); Confederacion de Camara Industriazes (CONCAMIN) for 1978 and 1979;
and BANAMEX.
LCPI2
March, 1979                                                                                                            IMV



ANNEX 9
- 70-                                   T-7
MEXICO - FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Table 7:Indices of Employment in Manufacturing, 1970-1978
Index                   Annual rate
1970=100                  of change
1970                                   100.0
1971                                   100.4                        0.4
1972                                   103.3                        2.9
1973                                   108.1                        4.6
1974                                   115.1                        6.5
1975                                   118.1                        2.6
1976                                   120.7                        2.2
1977                                   119.7                       -0.8
1978 (January-October only)            124.6                        4.1
Source:  Direccion General de Estadistica, Secretarla de Programacion y Presupuesto.
LCPI2
March, 1979



MEXICO - FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Table 8:  Exports of Selected Manufactured Products, 1972-78
(US$ million)
1972      1973       1974       1975       1976       1977        1978
Total, exports of manufactures-/              541.3      805.1   1,236.1   1,069.3   1,190.8   1,390.6    1,800.0-1
Cotton yarn                                     10.9      27.2       46.2       24.8       27.0       29.3         27.4
Shoes                                            5.9       7.7       13.8       12.7       12.0       13.6        26.7
Synthetic & artificial yarns                     5.3       9.8       11.0        7.0        8.6       10.2        13.8
Hen,nequen manufactures                          2.7        4.2      74.1       31.3        35.2       36.5        35.7
Clothing                                        20.8      21.5       41.8       22.3       25.1       22.6         26.2
Cotton fabrics                                  13.5      43.3       57.4       41.0       46.5        31.5        18.0
Non-ferrous materials                           74.1       70.6     169.0      135.7      123.9      129.4        117.2
Non-metallic minerals                           33.5       39.0      43.5        37.9       62.3      99.8         96.0
Printing & publishing                           14.9       20.7      27.1       32.8        37.7      50.1         55.4
Wood products                                   19.6       23.1      28.0       25.9        34.3       47.2        67.3
Industrial chemicals & pharmaceuticalsSc/    77.6        109.7      186.5      124.1      118.8      140.6        146.4
Auto, trucks and parts                          47.4      107.2      158.7       83.3       45.8       65.9       163.3
Copper products                                  3.5        6.4        6.6        2.8        3.3        6.2         5.6
Iron and steel products                         59.0       32.6      51.8       49.6        67.0       86.8        90.3
SOURCE: Based on data from Banco de Mexico and IMCE.
a/ Excluding processed foods, petrochemicals and assembly industry products.
b/ Preliminary estimate by appraisal mission.
c/ Including fertilizers.
LCPI2                                                                                                                            3
May 1979                                                                                                                         1.
tTj



MEXICO - FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Table 9: CEDI's (Indirect Tax Rebate Certificates) 1973-78
(1)                (2)                 (3)                   (4)              (5)                (6)
Value             Return of            Return of          Total             Returns/
Ntimber              of              Indirect Taxes          General.         Returns           Export Sales
Exports                                Import  Tax         (3)+(4)           (5) + (2)
(Million Pesos)
1973                               10,804              1,054                    24            1,078                 9.98
1974            15,925             17,839              1,723                    23            1,746                9.79
1975            16,838             15,499              1,748                    30            1,778                11.47
1976            19,456             16,823              1,935                    11            1,946                11.56
1977             6,448             16,850              1,140                    16            1,156                 6.80
1978            29,764             33,087              2,205                    38            2,243                 6.77
(11 months)
Source: Secretary of the Treasury and Public Credit, Bureau of Revenues Policy
LCPI2
March, 1979
t11
x



MEXICO - FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Table 10:  Credits Granted by FOMEX for Export Promotion and Import Substitution 1964-1978
(Mex$ million)
E X P O R T S                      I M P O R T          S U B S T I T U T I O N
T 0 T A L               PRE-EXPORTS             CREDIT SALES           CAPITAL GOODS            CONSUMER GOODS
Years   Ainual  Cumulative    Annual  Cumulative    Annual  Cumulative    Annual  Cumulative    Annual   Cumulative
1964         57          57          -           -           57          57          -           -            -            -
1965        127         184          -           -          127         184          -           -            -            -
1966        404         588          50          50         346         530           8            8          -            -
1967        640      1,228          165         215         470       1,000           5           13          -            -
1968        870       2,098         183         398         679       1,679           8           21          -            -
1969     1,504        3,602         234         632       1,166       2,845         104          125          -            -
1970     2,083       5,685          399       1,031       1,523       4,368         161          286          -
1971     2,421       8,106          500       1,531       1,900       6,268          21          307          -            -
1972     3,309      11,415          758       2,289       2,440       8,708         111         418           -            -
1973     4,526      15,941        1,245       3,534       3,152      11,860         129          547          -            -
1974     6,412      22,353       1,292        4,826       5,055      16,915          65          612          -            -
1975     6,645      28,998       1,302        6,128       5,193      22,108         114          726          36           36
1976    10,268      39,266        2,654       8,782       7,418      29,526         104          830          92          128
1977    17,770      57,036        5,174      13,956      12,287      41,813         184       1,014          125          253
1978(E) 20,930       77,966        n.a.      n.a.        n.a.         n.a.          483       1,497          n.a.         n.a.
Source: FOMEX
LCPI2
March, 1979



MEXICO - FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Table 11: Structure of Manufacturing Industry
(in numbers and thousands of Nex$)
Total      Less than Small    Medium and Small             Large Industry
Manufacturing    Industry              Industry
Industry      Quantity        %    Quantity          %       Quantity          x
Number of Establishments           120,274       26,290   21.86          93,293    77.57              691     0.57
Capital Invested (Mex$ '000) 245,514,183        725,391    0.30   149,529,142    60.90        95,259,650    38.80
Value of Production    "       462,548,858   2,873,279    0.62   314,121,111    67.91    145,554,450    31.47
Value Added                    190,142,780   1,022,283    0.54   130,494,865    68.63         58,625,632    30.83
Inputs                          67,325,434      196,639    0.29    47,028,246    69.85        20,100,549    29.86
Fixed Assets                   161,560,448      697,658    0.43    92,977,572    57.55        67,885,218    42.02
Employment  (number)             1,707,877       59,430    3.48      1,383,012    80.98           265,435    15.54
Wages & Salaries (Mex$ '000)  75,908,637        362,776    0.48    55,500,488    73.11        20,045,373    26.41
Source;  Preliminary figures ol UlI I1uustrLaL  Census(19 \16J elaborated buy FOGAIN.
Stnall and Medium firms have tixed-capital assets ranging from Mex$25,000 to Mex$35,000,000.
LCPI2
March, 1979
Ix



-75-                             ANNEX 9
T-12
MEXICO
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Table 12: Institutional Structure of the Financial Sector
September 30, 1977             December 31, 1978
Number of      Number of      Number of      Number of
Institutions      Offices    Institutions       Offices
Public Banks a!                       22             694            22             701
Private & Mixed Banks                198           2,841           132           3,073
Multibanks                         14           1,245            26           2,324
Deposit Banks                      93           1,456            52             667
Financieras                        66              95            43              60
Mortgage Banks                     14              28             3               7
Other Private Banks                11              17             8              15
TOTAL                                220           3,535           154           3,774
a/ Does not include Banco de Mexico, S.A.
Source:  Comision Nacional Bancaria y de Seguros
LCPI2
March, 1979



MEXICO
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Table 13:   Financial Development
Private Sector                               Disposable
Deposits               Percentage           Income            Percentage
(D)                  Change               (Y)               Change                 D/Y
1967            75.4                    28.9               284.2                9.2                  O.27
1968            88.0                    16.7               314.0               10.5                  0.28
1969           105.3                   19.7                346.9               10.5                  0.30
1970           124.9                    18.6               386.6               11.4                  0.32
1971           143.0                    14.5               416.4                7.7                  0.34
1972           167.1                    16.9               471.0               13.1                  0.36
1973           189.6                    13.5               568.6               20.7                  0.33
1974           220.7                    16.4               745.1               31.0                  0.30
1975           276.3                    25.2               897.0               20.4                  0.31
1976           292.7                     5.9             1,094.0               22.0                  0.27
1977           393.3                    34.4             1,477.1 2/            35.0                  0.27
1978           508.8                    29.4             1,809.4 3/            22.5                  0.28
1/   In private and mixed banks as of December 31, except 1978 as of November 30.
2/   Preliminary figure.
3/   Mission estimate.
Source:  Banco de Mexico                                                                                            1-3
LCPI2 2                                                                                                               M
March, 1979



77 -                               ANNEX 9
T-14
MEXICO
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Table 14: The 12 Largest Banks as of December 31, 1978
(Mex$ millions)
Institution                           Assets              Percentage
Bancomer, S.A.                                   152,957.1                 23.3
Banco Nacional de Mexico, S.A.                  144,474.3                  22.1
Banca Serfin, S.A.                               61,239.4                   9.3
Multibanco Comermex, S.A.                         48,075.6                  7.3
Banca Somex, S.A.                                 35,504.2                  5.4
Banco Internacional, S.A.                         21,351.6                  3.3
Banpais, S.A.                                     13,694.2                  2.1
Banco del Atlantico, S.A.                         12,760.6                  1.9
Banco B.C.H., S.A.                                11,914.5                  1.8
Banca Confia, S.A.                                 7,639.0                  1.2
Multibanco Merc. de Mexico, S.A.                   7,104.8                  1.1
Banpacifico, S.A.                                  6,360.0                  1.0
a!
Others                                       132,155.7 -                20.2
TOTAL                                        655,231.0                100.0
a/ Estimate
Source: Comision Nacional Bancaria y de Seguros, and mission estimates.
LCPI2
March, 1979



MEXICO
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Table 15: Financial Indicators of the Private and Mixed Banksl'
(in percentage terms)
Administrative      Financial
Net Income   Net Income        Gross Income       Lending Income   Total Expenses    Expenses -             Expenses
Tear            , Equitv        Liabilities2/   Liabilities2/    - Loans               Liabilities2/   Liabilities 2         Liabilities22/
1966               12.762          0.882            12.146            13.256              11.264             5.310               5,953
1967               12.217          0.778            12.088             13.419             11.310             5.178               6,132
1968               13.889          0.893            12.649            13.131              11.756             5.177               6.579
1969               13.972          0.871            13.226            13.145              12.355             5.252               7.103
1970               13.150          0.776            14.115             13.775             13.339             5.238               8.100
1971               12.955          0.737            14.425             13.751             13.688              5.317              8.371
1972               13.560          0.750            13.087             13.179             12.337             4.648               7.689  -4
1973               13.029          0.708            12.755             13.550             12,047             4.511               7.535
1974               13.262          0.716            13.736             14.779             13.020              4.916              8. In,.
1975               19.001          0.920            14.366             16.079             13.446              5.029              8.418
1976               18.781          0.862            14,871             16.446             14.009              5.326              8.6 83
1977               22.957          0.921            15.264             16.930             14.343              5,881              8.462
19783!             26,594          0.857            15.786             17.891             14.929              5.596              9.333
1/  Do not include Fiduciarias, Capitalizadoras, Savings and Loans, nor those under special legislation.
2/  Resources  mobilized.
3/  January - October  (annualized).
Source:  Banco de Mexico.
LCPI2
March, 1979



MEXICO
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Table 16: Multibanks' Share of Operations of Private and Mixed Banks
1   9   7   7                                  1    9    7    8
April    August    December                   April    August    December
Credit Granted
In local currency (x)            33.7     47.7        72.7                     76.5     79.5       85.5
In foreign currency (%)          27.5     50.2        76.9                     79.1     79.3       93.1
Resources Mobilized
In local currency (%)            30.0     46.9        73.4                     76.5     79.6       85.5
in foreign currency (.)          28.3     46.8        70.5                     73.2     75.1       92.7
Number of Multibanks                   7        14         16                       19        21         24
Source: Banco de Mexico
LCPI2
March, 1979
'.0



MEXICO
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Table 17:   Securities Traded Annually
(Million M..$)
1970            1971                 1972                  1973                 1974                 1975                 1976                     1977                  1978
Amount     %       Amount       %       Amount       l      Amount        %      Amount        %      Amount         %     Amount         %         Amount       %        Amount       %
Total                         33,752,5           38,864.8             55,620.8              75,389.2           96 342.8               113,612.6            136,699.7             167,760.3              95,323.2
Shares                        722.2    100.0    830.6        100.0    1.660.8    100.0      4          100.0    2538.4    100.0    3,684.6        100.0   6,054.7       100.0    5,784.1      100.0    30,310.2    100.0
Industry                 386.9      53.6    361.7       43.6       847.2      51.0   1,523.4       61.1      992.9      39.1    1,583.5       43.0   2,680.2       44.3    2,597.5        44.9    19,029.2      62.8
Services                 164.8      12.8    292.6        35.2      361.8      21.8     421.3       16.9      452.3      17.8      876.7       23.8   1,492.5       24.7    1,346.0        23.3     3,561.6      11.8
Banking                   79.9      11.1     87.1        10.5      156.9       9.4     272.7       10.9      406.1      16.0      629.5       17.1   1,191.0       19.7    1,047.7        18.1     5,391.8      17.8
Commerce                  41.8       5.8     46.8         5.6       86.6       5.2     124.0        5.0      128.4       5.1      161.6        4.4     451.9        7.5       432.5        7.5     1,028.8       3.4
Mining                    36.3       5.0     32.2         3.9       12.5       0.8     111.7        4.5      486.9      19.2      403.3       10.9      171.1        2.8      305.6        5.3      1,218.0      4.0
Insurance                 11.2       1.5      8.6         1.0      190.6      11.5      40.6        1.6       71.7       2.8       28.9        0.8       61.1        1.0       51.3        0.9        40.4       0.1
Other                      1.3       0.2      1.6         0.2        5.2       0.3       0.6         -         0.1        -         1.1         -         6.9       0.1         3.5         -         40.4       0.1
Fixed Return                  33,030.3           38,034.2             53,960.0            72,894.9                93,804.4            109,928.0            130,645.0             161.976.2              65,013.0
Bone Financiero           3,686.2            4,156.4             23,333.4            33,936.5               43,392.5             47,665.5              37,563.3              64,319.7              8,912.4
Boo. Hipotecario         12,601.3           17,384.2             21,845.6            28,213.6               37,045.2             42,670.7             56,237.5               57,105.8             26,693.9
Cedulas Hipotecarias      8,602.9            6,862.6              2,647.7             1,269.0                2,016.5              2,857.9               8,173.5               7,482.1                909.9
Obligaciones        1/      126 9              150.7                149.9               240.1                  196.2                275.5               1,257.1               3,523.2              4,937.2
Titulos Financieros-  1   5,391:1            6,487.4              2,613.9             4,253.4                4,984.3              5,921.8              11,004.8                  60.6                  -
Cert. do Participacion-  2,621.9             2,992.9              1,118.6               955.4                1,291.1              4,338.4               4,930.0              12,869.8             23,559.6
Cert. deo  articipocionl/    -                  -                 2,250.9             4,026.9                4,878.6              6,198.2              11,478.8              16,615.0                  -
InmobIlaria.
1/ Securities issued by NAFINSA
7:-/  S-friL;i- ;s__d by Baz.cv 'Naci-..alld  ob-;as y S=r-viciosrulcs
Source: Comision Nacional d Valores.
LCP12
March, 1979



- R1 -                           ANNEX 9
MEXICO                                 T-18
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Table 18:  Securities Exchange Price Index
Year              Month               Maximum             Minimum             Last
1967                                    154.00            145.59               151.66
1968                                    164.59            152.00               152.48
1969                                    170.50            147.14               147.28
1970                                   150.26             135.44               147.47
1971                                    155.17            127.27               139.74
1972                                   185.27             140.01              177.70
1973                                   207.01             178.81               184.74
1974                                   215.11             185.52               207.99
1975                                    215.02            194.75               213.65
1976                                    335.34            213.74               274.81
1977                                    392.15            266.99               388.37
January                275.25             266.99              271.98
February               285.48             270.36              225.48
March                   306.14            285.76              297.02
April                  296.94             291.97              294.83
May                    308.33             290.36              293.15
June                   300.16             291.14              291.72
July                   303.50             290.41              302.68
August                 310.09             299.31               310.09
September              319.29             301.99              319.29
October                339.16             318.77               339.16
November               369.44             337.14              368.41
December               392.15             367.14              388.37
1978                                   889.06             390.61               889.06
January                457.61             390.61              455.21
February               529.05             457.48              516.49
March                  548.77             511.03               548.77
April                  642.42             544.69              636.48
May                    699.92             639.22              699.92
June                   728.00             688.40               727.69
July                   757.65             724.03               728.87
August                 730.32             677.40               713.44
September              749.19             732.85              749.19
October                782.40             741.09               781.62
November                788.71            758.93               785.42
December               889.06             786.11              889.06
1979
January              1,090.60             879.03            1,090.60
Source: Bolsa Mexicana de Valores
LCPI2
March, 1979



- 82 -
MEXICO                                            ANNEX  9
T-19
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Table 19: Authorized Security Issues in 1978
Date of       Amount            Number       Placement      Nominal
Firm                               Placement    (Million Mex$)   (thousand)         Price        Value
Shares
Colanese Mexicana                                3- 1-78         95.0             500.0          190.0         100.0
Industrias Nacobre                               3-15-78        103.5             690.0          150.0         100.0
Hilera El Centenario                             4-17-78        188.2           1,530.0          123.0         100.0
Organizacion Robert's                            5-17-78         97.7           1,628.0            60.0          25.0
Industrias Purina                                5-31-78        280.0          28,000.0           10.0         n.e.
Aurrera                                          7-11-78        318.5           4,899.9            65.0          10.0
Industrial Electrica                             7-17-78         21.5             580.0           37.0          25,0
La Dominicia                                     7-19-78         55.1           2,754.0            20.0          n.a.
Empresa La Moderna                               8- 7-78        307.2           3,613.9            85.0          50.0
Grupo Condumex                                   8- 3-78        186.8             795.0          235.0          100.0
Empresas Villarreal                              8- 8-78         60.0           2,400.0            25.0          10.0
Grupo Industrial Alfa                            8-14-78        600.0           2,000.0          300.0          100.0
Grupo Industrial Camesa                          9-12-78        158.4           1,131.5          140.0          100.0
EPN                                              9-12-78         42.0             420.0          100.0          100.0
Valores Industriales                             9-20-78        519.7           3,849.9          135.0          n.a.
Altro                                           10-23-78         56.3           1,125.0           50.0           10.0
Cydra                                           10-30-78         66.5             350.0           190.0          25.0
Texaco Mexicana                                 11-15-78         87.8           1,254.0           70.0          50.0
Kelsey Hayes de Mexico                          11-24-78        120.0           2,400.0           50.0          n.a.
Ponderosa Industrial                            12-14-78        500.0           5,000.0          100.0         100.0
Grupo Industrial Minero Mexico                  11- 7-78        762.0          15,240.0           50.0          50.0
Telefonos de Mexico                              n.a.         1,131.8          11,318.0           100.0         100.0
Bancomer                                         7-17-78        812.5          25,000.0           32.5           10.0
Multibanco Comermex                             11- 1-78        173.3           5,500.0           31.5           10.0
Banco Internacional                             12- 1-78        201.3             575.0          350.0         100.0
Total                                          6,945.1         122,554.2
Fixed Return Securities                  Net Yield       Period
(%)           (years)
Securities Without Real Asset Guarantee
Grupo Industrial Saltillo                        2- 2-78        150.0             150.0           17.5            7
Cristales Mexicanos                              3-15-78        150.0             150.0           17.5            7
Union Carbide Mexicana                           5- 8-78        250.0             250.0            17.0           7
Vidriera Los Reyes                               6-16-78        150.0             150.0            16.5           7
Vidriera Monterrey                               8- 2-78        150.0             150.0           16.5            7
Cementos  Tolteca                                3- 2-78        400.0             400.0            16.5           8
Grupo Industrial Alfa                            8-15-78        500.0             500.0            16.5          12
Industrias Nacobre                               9- 2-78        300.0             300.0            17.0           7
Formex Ibarra                                   11-14-78         50.0              50.0            17.0           7
Eaton Manufacturera                             12- 5-78        100.0             100.0            17.0           7
Mortgage Bonds
Telefonos de Mexico "UU"                         2- 2-78        300.0             300.0           12.0!/         20
Cannon Mills                                    11-20-78         60.0              60.0           17.0            7
Telefonos de Mexico "VV" y "NW"                 11 - 78         600.0             600.0           12.0a/         15
Total                                        3,160.0           3,160.0
a/_ Gross.
Source: Comision Nacional de Valores.
LCPI2
March, 1979



C' rC               CC lola)                 C00)    - o-O                        OO,    COn3ca         S :  
p-N                  O C                       00  0      CC   00f 0  p            000p  
- ~ ~ ~ ~~0 8                         ODOOOOOtp ZoC-p'-- 00 01    :        'C00 t: 
r            =- o                (D D X sO0.--o0 ,      2n c  ACAz>O       ,,3C
o ~  ~    ~    C    0                   00 0 00 0                 00C           000  =4 >X            a
0     ~           ~~~         ~ x '    0000-00c 000000   c0
CCO    CA                           0   CO   C           0        0 0
CS~~  ~~ Co                                  CA
p. 'C                                           3 . 000
00 .
P'  ~       ~~ 10          0-u      00IN   000    0000  0 
H~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~                                            g
-C .-COO0  00             00C-I   CACC- CO            I      0 e~v    > 
~~~~~~~~~~~~.UL                   00   O    ^^            0 1
s .DvO>o 0>> sW0ss ~ asw'00                         C 
CAO         OC o00 0000000  0 00        0000 o           o       0    
0                                                C    W        .Wk        0  -  O._. 
I  o~        ooO Io~                     0- 09 W      0WioSWU   ,_      
I~~~~~~~~00                               o      Io  P   C
I10   OCrJ.400C.P 100         0044    000
O oM              -w0         Wo0    >p~         0  Dt         
O 1   2 01wro_wHc O_po2 -_Cch
1o D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
00           0 0              0o 0  0       0  0    IWWJsWMH~ c
en co0                        JIS       0000x nWo             e         k     0
I01  0       0     0     -    00                   I 
o00  00 0 00 0                 00        000    -
-    a>  ~~s  - W e o M



0.40 .4 o.0         0       1 01Os8O AN1IEX  9
ro    i  4^   S   nN      |o                                                              T_21
vl a       a79eun   8>4 
00000Ar 0_ O0  C4O.4          |O 
N 400000.4000       -     I  n 
iV O  0-O_   o00  O00 
|   00  DNN0000000 m 
0;   O                           I 0b_o  1NHU   
01~~ 1-   R       04--   
o v   oeIi-c*:          :              I aeI
0   'G0         -     '0 I_O_I=    
I~~~~' 
|     0.0 0 0 c  -      ^c^^^    
a0.40000.4000 0
.. ~   ~      ~     0         
41~~~~~~.
_~~~ 00 0 00 0                                     101  No^RR    
O~~~~     ~                     0            0,  V0 .
PH4~~~~ ~                      0 O,  0_
g~~ ~ ~                      00 '0 |-   o                                   0  ,,g 
001.0.0400                     1'                                          .
=O ~     ~       00    '0 =00 E                                         zSI o_       S |S
0E        00 0000
00010.0  0D _ C 0 E



MEXICO
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Table 22:- Lending Terms of Financial Institutions in 1977 a/
(Percentage)
Deposit        Savings       Financial      Mortgage       Total Private        Public
Departments   Departments   Departments   Departments :     Mixed Banks           Banks      Total
Up to 180 days          78.3            19.7           39.8            -                43.1             22.7      31.6
From 181 to 360
days          5.1            38.9           26.3            -                17.9             34.6      26.6
More than 360
days         16.6            41.4           33.9          100.0              39.0             42.7      41.8
100.0           100.0          100.0          100.0             100.0            l0o. g!  l00. &                     .
a/ Balances outstanding as of December 31.
b/  Excludes "Fondos Comunes de Nafinsa".
Source: Banco de Mexico
LCPI2
March, 1979



MEXICO
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FIIND (FONEI) PROJECT
Table 23: Liabilities of the Financial Intermediaries (end of year)
(Mex$ million)
1967                    1971                       1975                         1976                        1977                       1978 LI
Amount        7.         Amount      ___            Amount         e/d          Amount          %           Amount         /           Amount         7.
1. Domestic Currency
Liabilities           L07,296.8        80.7    195,464.0        83.0       376,276.2        77.8        413,465.0        69.1      517,698.2        67.8       650,625.8       71.2
(100.0)                  (100.0)                    (100.0)                      (100.0)                    (100.0)                    (100.0)
Banco de Mexico      16,286.6      ( 15.2)    23,917.4      ( 12.2)       55,260.0      ( 14.7)        96,405.0      ( 23.3)     103,283.9    ( 19.9)       104,911.7    ( 16.2)
Public Banks         18,920.7      ( 17.6)    31,614.7      ( 16.2)       53,843.1      ( 14.3)        56,701.6      ( 13.7)      73,308.2    ( 14.2)        97,205.4    ( 14.9)
Private Banks        72,089.5      ( 67.2)   139,931.9      ( 71.6)      267,173.1      ( 71.0)       260,358.4      ( 63.0)     341,106.1    ( 65.9)       448,508.7    ( 68.9)
2. Foreign Currency
Liabilities            25.711,9        19.3     40.091.2        17.0       107,336.1        22.2        184,911.3        30.9      246.116.7        32.2       263.371.5       28.8
(100.0)                  (100.0)                    (100.0)                      (100.0)                    (100.0)                    (100.0) O
00
Banco de Mexico         121.2      ( 0.5)         153.5     ( 0.4)            68.6      ( 0.1)          2,072.3      (  1.1)       4,527.6    (  1.8)          7,040.0    (  2.7)
Public Banks         19,760.1      ( 76,9)    32,886.0      ( 82.0)       92,449.5      ( 86.1)       144,050.9      ( 77.9)     1.79,199.5    ( 72.8)      190,975.7    ( 72.5)
Private Banks         5,830.6      ( 22.6)     7,051.7      ( 17.6)       14,818.0      ( 13.8)        38,788.1      ( 21.0)      62,389.6    ( 25.4)        65,355.8    ( 24.8)
3.  Total (1 + 2)         133.008.7       100.0    235.555.2       100.0       483.612.3       100.0        598,376.3       100.0       763,814.9      100.0       913.997.3      100W0
A /  As of Navc ber, 3.
Source: Banco de Mexico.
LCPI2
March, 1979
,                                                                                                                                       1 D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 87 -
MEXICO                                                ANNEX 9
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT                              T-24
Table 24:  Financial System Interest Rates
(Annual Percentages)
Mortgage    Financial    Three Months    One Month   Three Months    Six Months   One Year   Two Years
Year    Quarter        Bond b/      Bond b/    Treasury Bills    C.D.  S/            C.D.  c/        C.D.  c/    C.D.  c/    C.D.
1972         I           7.52          7.92                     -              -                         -          9.01         9.01
II           7.52         7.92              -               -             -                 -           9.01         9.01
III           7.52          7.92             -               -              -                 -          9.01         9.01
IV           7.52         7.92              -               -             -                 -           9.01         9.01
1973
I           7.20         7.56              -               -             -                 -          8.37          8.37
II           7.34         7.72              -               -             -                 -           8.66         8.66
III           8.25         8.75              -               -              -                 -         10.50        10.50
IV           8.25         8.75              -               -             -                 -          10.50        10.50
1974
1           8.25         8.75              -               -            9.50             10.50        10.58        10.58
II           8.25         8.75              -               -           10.31             11.04        11.54        11.54
III           8.25         8.75              - -             -           11.00             11.50        12.00        12.00
IV           8.25         8.75              -               -           11.00             11.50       12.00         12.00
1975
I           8.25         8.75              -               -           11.00             11.50       12.00         12.00
II           8.25         8.75              -               -           11.00             11.50        12.00        12.00
III           8.25          8.75             -               -           11.00             11.50        12.00        12.00
IV           8.25         8.75              -               -           11.00             11.50        12.00        12.00
1976
I           7.25         7.50              -              8.00         10.00             10.75       11.50         11.50
II           7.25         7.50              -              8.00         10.00             10.75        11.50        11.50
III           7.25         7.50              -              8.00         10.00             11.46        12.21        12.21
IV           7.25         7.50              -              8.00         10.00             12.00        12.75        12.75
1977
I           7.25         7.50              -              8.00         10.00             12.00       12.75         12.75
II           7.25         7.50              -              8.00         11.00             13.00        13.88        16.00
III           7.25          7.50             -              8.00         11.00             13.00        15.00        16.00
IV           7.25         7.50              -              8.00         11.00             13.00        15.00        16.00
1978
I           7.25         7.50             9.75            8.00         11.00             13.00       15.00         16.00
II           7.25         7.50             9.67            8.00         11.00             13.00       15.00         16.00
III           6.63         7.24            10.52            8.50         11.00             13.00        15.00        16.00
IV           6.63         7.11            12.19           10.17         11.67             13.00       15.00         16.00
1979
January (2 -
15)         6.32         7.11            13.30           11.00         12.00             13.00       15.00         16.00
a/  Net of tax, including "sobretasa".
b/ Repurchasable at sight.
c| Certificate of Deposit.
Source: Banco de Mexico
LCPI2
March, 1979



MEXICO
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EOUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Table 25: Interest Rate Differentials
(Difference in annual percentages)
Mexican Sight   Mexican One Week        Mexican Three Months                  Mexican One Year                 Mexican 2 Years
Instruments       Instruments             Instruments                           Instruments                     Instruments
- Eurodollar      - Eurodollar        - Eurodollar   - U. S  A,          - Eurodollar    -   U. S. A.          - Eurodollar
Year     Quarter      (Call Money)      one week             3 months      3 months CDsa/    12 months          12 months CDs_        24 months
1972
I            3.81                -                 -                -                 3.05              4.28                2.47
II            3.99                -                 -                -                 2.96              3.80                2.45
III            2.79                -                 -                -                 2.74              3.45                2.38
IV            3.00                -                 -                -                 2.62              3.29                2.22
1973
I            0.09               -                  -                -                 0.90              1.94                0.85
1I          - 0.14                -                 -                -                 0.06              1.51                0.08
III          - 1.61                -                 -                -                 0.15              2.25                0.90
IV          - 0.69                -                 -                -                 1.25              2.65                1.48
1974
I          - 0.04                -                0.31            0.91                1.72              3.17                1.83
II          - 2.22                -              - 1.17          - 0.33                0.86              2.62                1.29
III          - 2.69                -              - 2.17          - 0.65              - 0.35              2.78                0.92
IV          - 0.52                -                0.53             2.17               1.98              3.80                2.17
1975
I            2.29                -                3.45            4.46                4.11              5.76                3.79
II            3.39                -                4.55             5.15               3.95              5.57                3.62          1
III            2.55                -                3.69            4.40                3.43              4.75                3.46          X
IV            3.24                -                4.19            4.87                3.93              4.91                3.67          X
1976
I            2.55               -                 4.45            4.87                4.63              5.58                4.00
II            2.31                -                4.13            4.b6                4.33              5.17                3.S7
III            2.24                -                4.34            4.65                5.51              6.16                4.88
IV            2.67                -                4.77             5.20               6.87              7.51                6.41
1977
I            2.78                -                4.90            5.32                6.77              7.50                6.12
II            2.30              0.41               5.10            5.66                7.98              8.73                8.37
III            1.71            - 0.80               4.79             5.42               8.37              8.88                9.13
IV            1.04            - 0.74               3.93            4.58                7.52              8.03                8.51
1978
I            0.67            - 1.08               3.75            4.45                7.20              7.74                7.90
II            0.22            - 1.67               3.16             3.89               6.61              7.23                7.62
III          - 0.88            - 0.75               2.30             3.04                5.84             6.48                7.00
IV          - 2.47            - 0.81               0.67             1.94               3.65              4.68                6.05
1979
January (2-
15)         - 3.30              n.a.               0.57             1.77               3.04              3.78                5.71
a/ More than US$100,000.
Source:  Banco de Mexico.
LCPI2
March. 1979



MEXICrO
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EOUIPMENT FUND (FONET) PROJECT
Table 26: Indicators of Resource Mobilization and Credit Availability
(As of December 31)
1970      1971       1972       1973       1974       1975        1976       1977       197&=
1. Non-moneta-y peso liabilities of
Banking system   b/
Mex$ billions                            119.9      142.4     165.1      180.1      206.8      258.0       258.7      321.7      409.9
as X GDP                                  28.6       31.5      32.2       29.1       25.4       26.1        21.1       19.2       21.3
2. Total Banking System Credit Outstanding
(peso denominated)
Mex$ billions                            130.1      154.0     173.5      192.5      232.2      290.5       392.2      532.5      611.2
as  of GDP                               31.1       34.0      33.9       31.1       28.5       29.4        31.9       31.8       31.7
3. Banking System Credit to Private
Sector
Mex$ billions                             93.5      109.7      116.4     124.9      153.4      183.2       223.5      294.9      385.8
as % of  b/                               71.9       71.2      67.1       64.9       66.1       63.1        57.0       55.4       63.1
as % of GDP                               22.3       24.2       22.7      20.2       18.9       18.5        18.2        17.6       20.0       1
4. Banking System Credit to Manufacturing                                                                                                             e
Industry
Mex$ billions                             33.3       38.5       40.0      42.6       55.5        71.0        98.1     136.5       162.4
as 7/ of * b/                             25.6       25.0       22.7      22.1       23.9       24.4         25.0       25.6       26.6
5. Banking System Credit to Private Ma-
nufacturing Industry
Mex$ billions                             27.2       31.8       30.2      32.5       42.4       48.7         63.0       80.8      108.7
as % of  b/                               20.9       20.6       17.4      16.9        18.3       16.8        16.1       15.2       17.8
a/ As of September 30, 1978.
-b The term "non-monetary liabilities" is used in this context to refer to all liabilities in local currency of the Banking system
except checking accounts and other demand deposits.
Source: Banco de Mexico and mission estimate.
LCPI2
March, 1979



- 90 -
ANNEX 9
7-27
OOO 00CC  0 040 _
o       o A 1 C _ N.0 0   -
C      00      C00400X    1  t
_ o0.0.0.00<
_  X        0                   0  1S.0 n^' 
- X                                   IC-HO4a     
C:0    \0>0  0 00400 
           ,   .l           C 0 4  !0 0    0
.                 Z04o0                                                         00 ,,,,.  
- _000 A01 E                  
S1 ~    ~      .        0 co  00>



80020 3                           88841 80                                    888039 888                  560 0.84l"3.1                             11.
A-  0  A300080402  S 0-024o3
32I oofIt                                                                                              598.0                    99240                                             32            3830            8.
203   oo  214                                                                 921.8                                       2,082.2              19       10.2           3,180.3         2o.0~~~~~~~~~~197  9  4
220   to  302                                                                               020.2~~~~~~~~~a13*91     o                     27.5              A529                    ,33.5          1.
003   oo  0(2   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4  0                                               -                      2~~~~~~~1            88.                 26       2.23            99..
431   00                               4 52253002.858                                                                                         4,04.2           14         0.4~         14808.2          21.9
Osoot 3200 542   ~~~~~~~~~1                          117                                    0,9.9                     362,30.9                               20        8.4          9,203.2         92.0
Tool  ~~~~~~~~~~                                               9              5.,38.2.                  4o                  flj,                42      102.2                          11M0A 02.
Msoloo O3oy                                                                           209.0                    2                    282~~~~~~~~~4 35  ?  .9  57  21.1          1,271. 1.20.
M2.1        14                  I~~~3,418                                   728.2             42        22.1          2,22.2            0.
Alto  Ootos                              '40 2                 0~~~~~~~~~~                                                                ~     ~~~      ~~~~ ~ ~~~~2 -,3-  j665~  48  28.9  4L557.6  50.9
Ito     975032'                                                                                    2,21.I7                                       5,8.S                         0.7           9682             9.
T-   23..8..  2                                                                                                'I52                                           222.2          14~8A0j         392.0
ZOt    20                                                                                             40113133.3             04                     3925.2            44       202             ,822.2         29.0
00 00   75  ~~~~~~~~~~~~D ~2,023-'                                                                                 81                 0,D27.3             24        009 5.           29,05.0      22.5
1-    h.. 10                       1~~~~~A          390,                                   9_49 '..01                                    2089.2            0_2      22.2           0282.2          100.0
0   40   3           0              404,2                 80                 9~~~~         ~        ~~~~~~~~~~                      ~     ~    ~ ~~                   ~~~~~~~4:12.01  22110 3 2.  ,820.2  3.
5,3   00   0                      ~~~            ~~~~~~~~~~23  ,2.        29              2,2.                       1                  2,222. 339                   30.0           6,7.9           4.5
0,1   oo  32    9               412.3                  3                396.2                   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  .  10710,                 2,320,           3.
Oo -otso43                                              29_0,2                 0           .    _92o. 0                  1                   24_1,9             42       00.9           2030   1         2,9. o( 
Stool              40 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~12192.9                49                ,2461.2                 A4 LP%8t                                         0022          !    31.2       003.2
A tObptOjtftt                    20~~~~~~~~9      00.0                  29              4,27.6                     0,672                                   5        4.3          10,20.03           6.
loostolOsoA  tondt  0               209.9                  4                  9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,C9.9                 3051                       11.2             5672.29         .
toosO                 ~~~            ~~~~~~48  2.4012,        49             5,A48.0                    45                  7092               140       102.0         A4U*4         0083.2
LPoo                                        1                 7853                 2                                          1                    946,9             43        03.          1,99 9             8.
05800045  1          17.6                .                 -                        -                                        1        9.0              07.8          2.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
8YosOfOs                                      8               308.I                  1                  6.0                    0                   137.1               A        9.8             540,40         2.8
tottOst                       1                00.0~~                        ~        ~~~~         ~         ~          ~         ~         ~~~~~~~ 8  042 .      .4             38.            .
Foot,                         A     1         2~~~~        ~        ~        ~       ~~~~~~~                            ~~~~12.3  0  292    203.4      0        2.4            ,8.              .
-  ~~~'..-os~~,t0tj too 9t05.00 ~4                166,0                  2                 93.2                    24223.                                 12          .              69.           23
----    0                                        91.d-  20088                                                                        3840                50       29,6           8,590.8 AI.21:
108,t,8oo8 potdtoit               3       ~       ~~~~         ~        ~        ~ 03.2  8  600.5                  1                    228.9                       82               3.             .
-  .         .            _________                     0                    038.5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   0  3.702.0                2.7
28             0245352                                                                                                  22~ ,0922  038.2        1482084         ____0
03    to   12,0               8               8~~~~       ~        ~~~             ~~~~~~~~69.  8  1,24511092                                         22       00.0           8,301.8         22,
00    0    8.                                8                6,                   .16              ,2.                      20           2,4100939                            3.             304,           02,
2) to O.9                              239.                                   2                422.4                                         912.2             09       502            1,284.           9.
2I    t    29.9                              21               98.3                 51                 207.I                                        4326,0C            0I98                       8. I
20    to    34.9                             0                 73,                  2                 329,I8                             2         024.8              01        7.2             I9.2           5.8
05    oo   tort                   0       ~        ~~~~        ~        ~        ~        ~~~~ 73,8  4  33.4       8                   085.8              33        9,2             534,8          0.
Not ot2oolotto                   09               030.1                 ~         ~        ~~~4 99.9                . 9_                                   18       12.              46.60          4.3
toO, 1              09 ~~~~~~~~~~~~ _5-259   .045                                                                        7,1.               123      100.0          14,820.I         09
15   00  89,9                           006,9                  0      ~      ~~~~~~~           ~         ~         ~         ~~~~~~            ~~        ~       ~~~ so085  2  67.0  09  9.  3,52.0  25.3
20    0   2o.0                               5               303.0                  7                  723.4                   1I220                                             .              888,9          .0.
22   80   9.                                 4               13270                  9                049.5                     0357,0                                 09       08.            084.8            7.7
30   80 42.9                                 8               102.,8                                    042                    22.9                                     8        5.8              4,             .
05   to  tooo                    09               399,0                 22              1,2~~1472.5               29                  .5,59,6             65        43.8       -    ,1362          48.0'
-t ot-l-td                                80               205.                   4                  9 3                   9097-                    ,0             214       09.5           3,862             .2
T-s                            40             2 4oSO.7 299                            5,348.0                   45                7,,O2%             240       9,            02~.47,         822,01
80002 00911                      ON~~~~~~~~~~4  8,208.7                 29              1,782.5                   I5                  3,5.142                                        ",001.
33883, 0 of Totol   .                44,2                                    20.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~480                42  20,4
0.  220   00   oB88888                                                                           01  18                                 088802                                                8         4
8,03,08,    082110.. 2  89  7303088.    ,8888ots3                         olllloo,t)... (~~   -M .13     821VSWbTT                        to            --o  tSoo800t
51                                         24             522.972,780              08            582.4      1,559              22        659.            1,059         88   55.2       0,784.2  85.6  5,945   85.0        298,354
50  t   020                                 8             30.           43          N            000. 9       ,80               7        505,8             901         24   19,5       0,78940   02.0   31,00    008      061,053
0.31  to  3309                2             ~~~~~~       ~~~~      ~       ~~~224.  288  7  986 0237                     106,90.2            981         88 0.             086,3 15.     ,93    03.5         725,888
220to 30                                    '0             230            0    0                  132           782              2        88.8            8,173          8    6.5        ,A.        80300 1.                 0,7
323  to  030                                               302,2         250         .                                                     8.72                          0    3.5         987.7   7.0  1.022   8.0         066,429
22ItC      20!                    -Do8                                                            4933,         750              1         54,4             21           0-   1,6         868.0   62,    009   0,0         858,69
tt  9,509                                                           .           1           23,9I.8       276            1_       0,718.0              076         8    1.8    4,,,921I   53.5    432   21  81,378,389
Ootbots                       29           1,98.8,       4,308        40          5,038.0       0,091             45      0,593               5,0    23  00    00,8      82,014.7 1000.0 14,790 120.0         800,909
:oo.olIoAIo                       10~~~~~~~~~~_i  00,I                     I           0A1.J         .               -            -                          1       -         802.7
To-1                           48          2,203,2                     49         5 ,240.0                        95      70,29.3                        142             19,820.0
43fo ostti--tt   ot   ot   oo
43   -Itoldso   23502-      3  fo,.  tt  00  foods,
80,0000 0    0080 osoot         d 000900  Bto  sod sOot-oto  to--ooloyfods
02   ooo  .0  lolid   fttltI jy ftodo  8~ inot .
t308oit2       tt00t
89-ooldo 19       lOtoto8,oto    tt o9480



ANNEX 9
- 92 -                               T-29
MEXICO
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Table 29: Projected and Realized Exports in 1977 by a Sample
of Enterprises Financed by FONEI
(US$ '000)
Enterprise                                                       Projected          Actual
Cementos Anahuac del Golfo, S.A.                                    7,775           23,855
Cementos de Chihuahua, S.A.                                         1,074            1,953
Ladrillera Industrial, S.A.                                           423            1,110
Fabricacion de Miquinas, S.A.                                       1,947            4,542
Condumex, S.A.                                                      4,230            3,183
Camera, S.A.                                                        1,161            5,165
Promociones Industriales Mexicanas, S.A.                            1,427              292
Fabricas Orion, S.A.                                                3,090              974
Fundidora de Aceros Tepeyec, S.A.                                    --                647
Tubos Flexibles, S.A.                                               1,455              152
DeKormex, S.A.                                                       --                 31
Qulmica Mexama, S.A.                                                2,913            3,312
Cla. Fundidora del Norte, S.A.                                     10,128            6,116
Hlerramientas Nacionales, S.A.                                        716              677
Autoforjas, S.A.                                                     --                 16
Polynova, S.A.                                                     10,605              _
Qumica Central de Mexico, S.A.                                       922              294
Ind. de Baleros Intercontinental, S.A.                                913            1,780
Casa Aries, S.A.                                                    1,562              470
Resinas Sinteticas, S.A.                                              900              137
Transejes, S.A.                                                       -                752
Automanufacturas, S.A.                                              2,145            2,366
Taloquimica, S.A.                                                     734              983
Industrias Resistol, S.A.                                          4,783               404
Negromex, S.A.                                                        625              736
Total                               59,528            59,947
LCPI2
March, 1979



ANNEX 9
- 93                                T-30
MEXICO
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Table 30:   Projected and Realized Import Substitution in
1977 by a Sample of Enterprises Financed
by FONEI
(US$ '000)
Enterprises                                                              Projected      Actual
Fabricacion de Maquinas, S.A.                                             2,129         3,620
Condumex, S.A.                                                            8,670        29,504
Swecomex, S.A.                                                            2,859         4,032
Comesa, S.A.                                                                700         5,422
Materias Primas y Minerales Lampazos, S.A.                                1,620         2,215
Promociones Industriales Mexicanas, S.A.                                  1,986         6,118
La Florida, S.A.                                                          8,865         7,108
Fenoqulmica, S.A.                                                         5,896        14,905
Fundidora de Cueros, Tepeyac, S.A.                                        2,533         2,522
Tubos Flexibles, S.A.                                                     1,819         1,450
DeKormex, S.A.                                                            1,208           619
Metalurgica Almena, S.A.                                                    499         1,086
Qulmica Mexama, S.A.                                                        343         3,425
Industrial Papelerla Mexicana, S.A.                                       8,129         6,537
Herramientas Nacionales, S.A.                                               697         1,139
Autoforjas, S.A.                                                          4,678         6,198
Productos de Estireno, S.A.                                               2,948         9,682
Eutectic Investment Casting de Mexico, S.A.                               1,401           439
Cla. Qulmica Ameyal, S.A.                                                 1,909            58
Quimica Central de Mexico, S.A.                                             848         2,972
Ind. de Baleros Intercontinental, S.A.                                    3,946         3,970
Conductores Monterrey, S.A.                                               2,976           878
Resinas Sinteticas, S.A.                                                  2,514           649
Transejes, S.A.                                                           2,079         1,614
Automanufacturas, S.A.                                                    3,329         4,166
Industrias Resistol, S.A.                                                 1,496        14,339
Hulva, S.A.                                                                 217           113
C;a. Mexicana de Especialidades Industriales, S.A.                        1,096         1,347
Aceros de Chihuahua, S.A.                                                   781         1,062
Industrias Monterrey, S.A.                                                2,128         2,010
Multitex, S.A.                                                              685           520
Reconstructora Mexicana de Maquinaria Industrial, S.A.                    3,606         2,340
Total                              84,590       142,059
LCPI2
March, 1979



- 94 -                                  ANNEX 9
KEXICO                                     T-31
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Table 31: Number of New Jobs Created by a Sample of
Projects Financed by FONEI
(as of December 1978)
Enterprise                                                        Projected        Actual
Cementos Anahuac del Golfo, S.A.                                       52            375
Cementos de Chihuahua, S.A.                                            40            100
Ladrillera Industrial, S.A.                                            32             80
Fabricacion de Maquinas, S.A.                                          50            110
Swecomex, S.A.                                                         55              6
Camesa, S.A.                                                           82            100
Motores y Refacciones, S.A.                                           240            200
Materias Primas y Minerales de Lampazos, S.A.                         120            158
Promociones Industriales Mexicanas, S.A.                               20             49
Fabricas Orion, S.A.                                                  175            175
La Florida, S.A.                                                       88            205
Fenoquimia, S.A.                                                      170            330
Fundidora de Aceros Tepeyac, S.A.                                      33             14
Tubos Flexibles, S.A.                                                  50             40
Dekormex, S.A.                                                         40              0
Metalurgica Almena, S.A.                                               15              0
Quimica Mexama, S.A.                                                   15             40
Aceros de Chihuahua, S.A.                                              60             55
Industrial Papelera Mexicana, S.A.                                    161            210
CTa. Fundidora del Norte, S.A.                                        700            359
Herramientas Nacionales, S.A.                                          55             17
Autoforjas, S.A.                                                      155            368
Productos de Estireno, S.A.                                            17             12
Polynova, S.A.                                                        668            650
Eutectic Investment Castings de Mexico, S.A.                          112             52
Cia. Quimica Ameyal, S.A.                                              24            111
Qu'mica Central de M'exico, S.A.                                       25              0
Industria de Baleros Intercontinental, S.A.                            35             25
Conductores Monterrey, S.A.                                            20             40
Casa Aries, S.A.                                                      206            147
Resinas Sinteticas, S.A.                                               14             40
Transejes, S.A.                                                        61            186
Automanufacturas, S.A.                                                388            397
Taloqu'mica, S.A.                                                      30              9
Industrias Resistol, S.A.                                              76             76
Hulva, S.A.                                                            36             14
Cia. Mexicana de Especialidades Industriales, S.A.                     36             46
Negromex, S.A.                                                         27               0
Industrias Monterrey, S.A.                                             15             82
Multitek, S.A.                                                         40              23
Reconstructora Mexicana de Maquinaria Industrial, S.A.                170            179
Total                                  4,408          5,080
LCPI2
March, 1979



MEXICO
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Table 32:    FONEI:  Past and Projected Balance Sheets-
(Mex$ millions)
HISTORICAL                                                                 PROJECTED
1974         1975         1976          1977         1978               1979          1980         1981        1982         1983
ASSETS
Cash and deposits                              51            4           29            63           92                221           341          483         517          666
Interest and commissions receivable             8           15           20            37           74                157           248          344        432           508
Loan portfolio                               295           726          995        1,613         2,735              5,242        8,279        11,464     14,393        16,919
Fixed and other assets                         -            -              I            1             1                  2            2             2          2             2
Total Assets                354          745        1,045         1,714        2,902              5,622        8,870        12,293    i5,344         18,095
LIABILITIES
IBRD - FONEI I                                116          260          606           730          700                668           633          596         557          514
IBRD - FONEI II                                -            -            -            307          782              1,111         1,058        1,001         939          871
IBRD - FONEI III                                                                       -            -               1,300        2,272         2,272      2 272         2,097
IBRD _ FONEI IV                                -            -            -             -            -                  -            400        2,600      3,800         3,932
Banco de Mexico A                             100          332          375           375          375                375           375          375         375          375
Banco de Mexico B                              -            -           100           400          920                920           920          920         920          920
Banco de Mexico C                              -            -            -             -            -               1,035         1,035        1,035       1,035        1,035
Banco de Mexico D                              -            -            -                          -                  -          1,500        2,158      2,386         2,386
Banco de Mexico E                              -            -            -             -            -                  -             -           -           872        2,561
and other new resources
Other liabilities                               6            9           21            32          213                110           142           190        224           244
Total Liabilities           222          601        1,102         1,844        2,989              5,518        8,336        11,148    13,381         14,935
EQUITY
Paid-in capital                               125          132          146           161          178                220           291           369        453           719
Retained earnings                               5            7            13            7            (9)                 2          137          480         996         1,713
Current year's  profits (loss)                  2            6            (6)         (16)           11                135          343           516        717           911
Exchange rate losses                           -            -          (210)         (282)        (267)              (253)         (237)         (221)      (203)         (184)
Total Equity                132          145          (58)         (130)          (87)               104          534         1,144      1,963         3,159
Total Liabilities and
Equity                      354          745     1,045            1,714        2,902        5, 622              8,870                   15,344       18,095
.~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ _                       _      _
a/ As of December 31.
LCPI2
March, 1979



MEXICO
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Table 33:    FUNEI:  Past and Projected Sources and Applications of Funds
(MexS millions)
HISTORICAL                                                           PROJECTED
1974         1975         1976          1977         1978               1979          1980         1981        1982         1983
BEGINNINU WORKING CAPITAL                        87           51            4            29           63                 92           221          341         483          517
SOURCES
IBRD - FONEI I                               116           151          373          156            -                  -            -             -          -             -
IBRD - FONEI II                               -             -            -           307           474                345           -
IBRD - FONEI III                                                                      -             -               1,300          972            -          -             -
IBRD - FONEI IV                                             -            -            -                                -           400        2,200       1,200           132
Banco  de Mexico A                           100           232           43                  -                -                      -            -           -            -
Banco de Mexico B                             -             -           100           300          520                 -             -            -          -             -
Banco de Mexico C                             -             -            -             -            -               1,035            -            -          -             -
Banco de Mexico D                             -             -            -                                             -         1,500           658        228            -
Banco de Mexico E and
other new  resources                   -            -            -             -            -                  -             -            -          872        1,689
Portfolio recoveries                            2           13           59           107          161                353           493        1,340      2,171         3,074
Profits                                         2            6          ( 6)          (16)          11                135           343          516         717          911
Increase in paid-in capital                   -              7           14            15           16                 42            72           77          84          266
Increase in payables                         (10)            3           12            11          181 a/            (104)           32           48          34           20
Total Sources               210          411          595           881        1,363              3,115         3,812        4,840      5,306         6,091
APPLICATIONS
Subloan disbursements                        243           444          328           725        1,283              2,860        3,530         4,525      5,100         5,600
Increase in interest, commissions
and other receivables                       3             7            5            18           37                 83           91            96         88            76
Amortization of FONEI I Loan                   -             7           27            32           30                 32            34            37         40           42
Amortization of FONEI II Loan                  -            -            -             -            -                   25           53           57          62            68
Amortization of FONEI III Loan                 -            -            -             -                                -            -             -          -           175
Exchange rate losses                          -             -           223            89           -                  -             -            -           -            -
Amortization of exchange rate losses           -            -           (13)          (17)         (15)               (14)          (15)         (17)        (18)         (19)
Total Applications          246          458          570           847        1,335              2,986         3,693        4,698       5,272        5,942
INCREASE (DECREASE) IN WORKING
CAPITAL                                         (36)         (47)           25           34            28                129          120           142         34           149
ENDING WORKING CAPITAL                           51            4            29           63            92                221          341          483         517           666
a/ Includes a Mex$150 million bridge loan from Banco de Mexico.
LCPI2
March, 1979                                                                                                                                                                            '



MEXICO
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Table 34:    FONEI:   Past and Projected Income Statements
(Mex$ millions)
HISTORICAL                                          PROJECTED
1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980          1981        1982        1983
Income
Interest income                   19       48       78       132     262      581   1,070    1,528         1,974      2,344
Commissions                        -        1        1         3        3        2       1         1            1          1
Total Income                   19       49       79      135      265      583   1,071    1,529         1,975      2,345
Expenses
Interest expense                    6      33       69       125     221      367      630       892       1,112      1,276
Commissions expense                 3       2        6        15       12       41      55        67           79         74
Gross Spread                   9       14        4       (5)      32      175      386       570         784        995
Administration Expense              7       8       10       11        21       40      43        54           67         84
Operating Profit (Loss)    2          6       (6)     (16)      11      135      343       516         717        911
Note:  Arithmetical differences due to rounding of figures.
LCPI2
March, 1979



MEXICO
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Table 35:   FONEI:  Operations Projections (1979-1983)
(current prices)
Actual                       Projected
1978      1979       1980      1981       1982       1983
Approvals
No. of projects                    62       102        131       146        161        176
Average size (Mex$ million)        37        34         34        34         34         34
Total (Mex$ million)           2,288      3,500     4,500      5,000      5,500      6,000
Disbursements (Mex million)
35% of approval for the year (            1,225     1,575      1,750      1,925      2,100
50% of approval 1 year ago   (1,283    (1,635        1,750     2,250      2,500      2,750
15% of approval 2 years ago  (           (             205       525        675        750
Total                      1,283      2,860     3,530      4,525      5,100     5,600
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
LCPI2                                                                                                                   z
March, 1979                                                                                                             x
1.D



MEXICO
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Table 36:    FONEI: Loan Commitments and Resources (1979-1983)
(Mex$ millions)
1979     1980        1981      1982       1983
Loan Commitments                                  3,500      4,500     5,000      5,500      6,000
Resources Available for Commitment
IBRD - FONEI III                               8071/
Bancode Mexico - Series C                      588
Subloan repayments                             353       493      1,340      2,171      3,074
Profits and other                              135       343        516        717        911
New Resources Needed for Commitments              1,617      3,664     3,144      2,612      2,015
IBRD - FONEI IV                                890     2.233        808        -          -
Banco de Mexico - Series D                     727     1,431        228        -          -
Banco de Mexico Series E and                    -        -        3,108      2,612      2,015
other new resources
1/ Amount not yet committed by FONEI.
LCPI2                                                                                                                LI
March, 1979                                                                                                            e



MEXICO
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Table 37:  FONEI: Resource Position (1979-1983)
(Mex$ millions)
1979     1980       1981        1982            1983
Disbursements                                    2,860    3,530       4,525       5,100          5,600
Other Uses                                         317-/    178         189          88            206
Resources available for disbursements
IBRD - FONEI  II                              354
IBRD - FONEI  III                          1,300       972
Banco de Mexico - Series C bonds            1,035
Repayment of subloans                         353       493      1,340       2,171          3,074
Profits and other sources                     135       343        516         717            911                   0
New resources needed for disbursements               -     1,900      2,858       2,300          1,821
IBRD - FONEI  IV                               -       400      2,200       1,200             132
Banco de Mexico - Series D bonds                      1,500        658         228             -
Banco de Mexico - Series E bonds               -         -          -          872          1,689
and other new resources
Total Funding                                    3,177    3,708       4,714       5,188          5,806
1/  Including repayment of Banco de Mexico's bridge loan made in 1978.
LCPI2
March, 1979



- 101 -
ANNEX 9
T- 38
MEXICO
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Table 38:   FONEI:  Principal Assumptions Used in the Financial Projections
1.  Disbursements and Resources:  See Tables T-35, T-36 and T-37.
2.  Exchange Rate:                  Mex$22.72 = US$1.00, 1979-1983.
3.  Administrative Expenses:        1979 as budgeted, with annual increases of 25%
from 1980 to 1983. The 1979 amount includes an
extraordinary expense of Mex$6 million arising
from FONEI's transfer of offices, and which has
been excluded in the base for computing future
administrative expenses.
4. Interest Rates and Commissions (in percent):
Interest Income       Interest Expense
A.  IBRD Funds-l
First loan                         9.00             7.25 + 0.25-/
Second loan                    Fixed at 11.5;      ,8.50 + 0.50a/
Floating at 16.00-'
Third loan                        16.00c/           7.50 + 0.50-
Fourth loan                       16.00c/           8.00 + 0.50a/
B. Government Funds
Series A                           9.00                    9.00
Series B                        Fixed at 11.5;    /        10.00
Floating at 16.00
Series C                          16.00c/                 12.00
Series D                          16.00c/                 12.00
C. Other Resources
Series E                          16.00c/                 12.00
Other Resources                   16.00c/                   8.00 + 0.50a/
5.  Average term  of subloans assumed to be 7.0 years, including 2 years of
grace.
a/ Commission paid to NAFINSA for loan administration.
b/ The commitment fee for all Bank loans is 0.75% on the undisbursed balances.
c/ Floating at ACF.
LCPI2
March, 1979



- 102 -                           ANNEX 10
MEXICO
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FUND (FONEI) PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the
Project File
A. On the manufacturing sector and financial system
1.  Indicadores Economicos, Various issues, published monthly by Banco
de Mexico
2.  Informe Anual, 1976 and 1977; annual report of Banco de Mexico.
3.  Informacii6n Economica, various issues, published by Banco de Mexico.
4. El Mercado de Valores, January 8, 1979, published by NAFINSA.
5.  Estadisticas del Comercio Exterior, Janu,ary-November 1977 and 1978;
published by Instituto Mexicano de Comercio Exterior.
6.  Transformacion, various issues; published by the Camara Nacional
de la Industria de Transformacion.
7.  Actividad Economica, various issues; pub:Lished by the Centro de
Estudios Economicos del Sector Privado.
8.  Examen de la Situacion Economica de Mexico, various issues;
published by the Banco Nacional de Mexico.
9.  Boletin Mensual de Informaci6n Econ6mica, November 1978; published
by the Secretaria de Programaci6n y Prestupuesto.
10. Plan Nacional de Desarrollo Industrial (1979-82), 1979; issued by
the Secretaria de Patrimonio y Fomento Industrial.
B. On FONEI
1. FONEIT's audited financial statements 1974 to 1977.
2. FONEI's Annual Report, 1978.
LCPI2
March, 1979



* I I
S     -.
q
z     z
m
x
N

 7j7 ->-V C
jS

55
(S    



