CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUNBER 1712 ME
Loan Agreement
(Fourth Industrial Equipment
Fund Project - FONEI)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
Dated July 30, 1979


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1712 ME
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 30, 1979, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A. (hereinafter called the Borrower).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Trustee" means Banco de Mexico, S.A., as trustee
of FONEI;
(b) "FONEI" means Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial, a
special fund entrusted by the Guarantor to the Trustee pursuant to
the Trust Agreement; and such term includes the technical and
administrative organization, resources, staff and facilities used
or to be used by the Trustee to operate FONEI;
(c) "Trust Agreement" means the Contrato de Fideicomiso,
dated October 29, 1971, between the Guarantor and the Trustee,
whereby the Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial has been entrusted
to the Trustee;
(d) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and the Trustee of even date herewith, as such agreement may be
amended from time to time; and such term includes all agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement and the Schedule thereto;


﻿f2-
(e) "Participating Intermediary" means a credit or leasing
institution approved by the Trustee for participating in carrying
out the Project in accordance with the Operatirg Regulations;
(f) "Operating Regulations" means the Reglas Generales de
Operaciones approved by FONEI's Comite Tecnico, as amended to
the Effective Date;
(g) "FONEI Loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
the Trustee, out of FONEI's resources, to a Participating Inter-
m-diary, for financing a sub-loan, and to be partially or fully
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan;
(h) "sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by a
Participating Intermediary to an Investment Enterprise for an
Investment Project and to be financed out of FONEI's resources by
means of a FONEI loan; and "free-limit sub-loan" means a sub-loan,
as so defined, which qualifies as a free-limit sub-loan pursuant
to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(i) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which a
Participating Intermediary proposes to make or has made a sub-
loan;
(j) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project carried out or to be carried out by an Investment Enter-
prise which complies with the requirements set forth in the
Operating Regulations;
(k) "Technology Project" means an Investment Project con-
sisting of: (i) research, design or engineering for new or
improved product and production methods or materials processing,
new or improved equipment design, including fabrication and
testing of prototypes, experimentation with new industrial
materials, and improvement in quality control or product testing;
(ii) related technical services, such as training of Mexican
rersonnel abroad, visits to Mexico by foreign engineers or techni-
f ans, and technology audits; and (iii) such other matters as may
be agreed between the Bank, the Borrower and the Trustee;
(1) "Industrial Pollution Control Project" means an Invest-
ment Project consisting of the acquisition and installation of
pollution control equipment or provision of technical assistance
on pollution control matters to Investment Enterprises;


﻿-3-
(m) "Service Project" means: (i) an Investment Project
located in areas in the vicinity of the northern international
boundary of Mexico and consisting of construction and equipping
of: (A) commercial centers, (B) factory buildings for leasing to
industrial enterprises, and (C) facilities for selling repair and
maintenance services, or (ii) an Investment Project for the
provision of such other services as the Bank and the Trustee
shall agree;
(n) "Peso" means the currency unit of the Guarantor;
(o) "Foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Guarantor; and
(p) "Prior Loans" means the loan provided for in the Loan
Agreement (Industrial Equipment Fund Project - FONEI) between
the Bank and the Borrower, dated June 2, 1972; the loan provided
for in the Loan Agreement (Second Industrial Equipment Fund
Project - FONEI) between the Bank and the Borrower, dated
April 30, 1976; and the loan provided for in the Loan Agreement
(Third Industrial Equipment Fund Project - FONEI) between the Bank
and the Borrower, dated September 27, 1978.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred
seventy-five million dollars ($175,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account for amounts expended (or, if the Bank shall
so agree, required to meet expenditures to be made) by the
Trustee: (i) under FONEI Loans in respect of sub-loans for (A)
Investment Projects other than Technology Projects, to finance:
(I) the c.i.f. cost of imported goods or 70% of the cost of
imported goods purchased in Mexico where the c.i.f. cost of such
goods cannot be ascertained, (II) 25% of expenditures made by
FONEI for the reasonable cost of civil works and of goods manu-
factured in Mexico, and (III) the reasonable foreign currency
cost of services, required under a sub-loan for the Investment
Project in respect of which the withdrawal is requested, and (B)
Technology Projects to finance 40% of the cost of goods and
A5_              _    _     _    _ _    _    _    _     __-_                            _    __      .


﻿II4-
services therefor; (ii) in respect of 50% of the cost of training
under Part B of the Project; and (iii) in respect of 47% of the
cost of services under Part C of the Project; provided, however,
that no withdrawal shall be made in respect of a sub-loan unless
it shall have been approved by the Bank or it shall be a free-
limit sub-loan in respect of which the Bank shall have authorized
withdrawals from the Loan Account.
(b) A free-limit sub-loan shall be: (i) a sub-loan for
a Technology Project other than the first three sub-loans made
to finance this type of Investment Project in an amount to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan which shall not exceed
the sum of $500,000 equivalent for each Technology Project; (ii)
a sub-loan for an Industrial Pollution Control Project other than
the first three sub-loans made to finance this type of Investment
Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan which shall not exceed the sum of $750,000 equivalent for
each Industrial Pollution Control Project; and (iii) a sub-loan
for any other Investment Project other than a Service Project in
an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan which
shall not exceed the sum of $2,000,000 equivalent when added to
any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan or any Prior Loans for such
Investment Project; all the foregoing amounts being subject to
change from time to time as determined by the Bank and the
Trustee.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of:
(i) expenditures before the date of this Agreement,
or
(ii) expenditures by an Investment Enterprise in
respect of a sub-loan subject to the Bank's
approval if such expenditures shall have been
made more than 180 days prior to the date on
which the Bank shall have received in respect
of such sub-loan the application and information
required by Section 2.03 (a) of the Project
Agreement or, in respect of a free-limit sub-
loan, more than 180 days prior to the date
on which the Bank shall have received in


﻿-5-
respect of such free-limit sub-loan the request and
information required by Section 2.03 (b) of the
Project Agreement, or
(iii) expenditures for a Service Project if such expen-
ditures when added to all other expenditures for
Service Projects financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan exceed $10,000,000 equivalent, or
(iv) expenditures for a Technology Project if such
expenditures when added to all other expenditures
for Technology Projects financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan exceed $5,000,000 equivalent,
or
(v) expenditures for an Industrial Pollution Control
Project if such expenditures when added to all
other expenditures for Industrial Pollution Control
Projects financed out of the proceeds the Loan
exceed $5,000,000 equivalent, or
(vi) expenditures for an Investment Project, if such
expenditures when added to all other expenditures
for such Investment Project financed out of the
proceeds of sub-loans exceed $5,000,000 equivalent,
or
(vii.) expenditures for training under Part B of the
Project in excess of $250,000 equivalent, or
(viii) expenditures for services under Part C of the
Project until the Borrower has made the contractual
arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (a) (i) of
this Agreement or in excess of $2,000,000 equiva-
lent.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1984 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower, the Guarantor and the Trustee of such later
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and nine-tenths per cent (7.90%) per annum on the


﻿-6-
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Transfer of Loan Proceeds
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall make the following
contractual arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank: (i) with the
Guarantor providing, inter alia, for the transfer to the Guarantor
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Part C of the Project;
and (ii) with the Trustee providing, inter alia, for the transfer
to the Trustee, for the account of FONEI, of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated to Parts A and B of the Project, and except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, assign,
abrogate or waive any provision of such arrangements.
(b) The arrangements referred to in subparagraph (ii) above
shall, inter alia, provide for the non-repayment by FONEI to the
Borrower of the principal of the Loan and for payment by FONEI
to the Borrower of the equivalent in pesos of the amounts to be
paid by the Borrower to the Bank on account of interest and other
charges on the Loan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any external debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower as security for any external debt, such lien will,
ipso facto, equally and ratably secure the payment of the princi-
pal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the
creation of any such lien express provision will be made to that


﻿- 7 -
-7-
effect, at no cost to the Bank; provided, however, that the
foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for the payment of the purchase price of such prop-
erty; or (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after the date on which it is originally incurred.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) the Trustee shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement;
(b) a change shall have been made in the Trust Agreement
which shall adversely and materially affect the ca rying out of
the Project or the financial Position, organization or other
resources of FONEI; and
(c) a change shall have been made in the Operating Regula-
tions which shall materially and adversely affect the carrying out
of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Guarantor and the Borrower; aid
(b) the event specified in paragraph (b) or (c) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within


﻿-8-
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Operating Regulations have been amended in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Trustee, and is legally binding upon the Truste'
in accordance with its terms;
(b) that the arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (a)
(ii) of this Agreement are legally binding on the parties thereto;
and
(c) that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be
performed or given by the Guarantor, its political subdivisions or
agencies or by any agency of any political subdivision or other-
wise to be performed or given in order to authorize the carrying
out of the Project and to enable the Borrower to perform all of
the covenants, agreements and obligations of the Borrower in the
Loan Agreement contained, and the Trustee to perform all of the
covenants, agreements and obligations of the Trustee in the
Project Agreement contained, together with all necessary powers
and rights in connection therewith, have been duly and validly
performed or given and no other such acts, consents and approvals
are required to be performed or given for said purpose.
Section 6.03. The date October 30, 1979, is heteby speci-
fied for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Addresses
Section 7.01. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-9-
Cable address:               Telex:
INTBAFRAD                   440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.            248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Nacional Financiera, S.A.
Isabel la Católica 51
México 1, D.F.
I                    México
Cable address:               Telex:
NAFIN                       NAFIN 383-1775765 BMXME
Mexico City                 Mexico City
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District.
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ Nicolås Ardito Barletta
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
By Is/ Alfonso Garcia Maclas
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning November 1, 1983
through   November 1, 1995                   6,730,000
On May .1, 1996                                   6,750,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 11 -
Premiums on Prepayment-
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount c the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.40%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                            2.80%
More than six years but
not more than eleven years
before maturity                             5.10%
More than eleven years but
not more than fifteen years
before maturity                            6.95%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                            7.90%
ItF


﻿121
- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of General Conditions
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) Paragraph 11 of Section 2.01 is amended to read:
"The term 'Project' means the project for which the
Loan is granted, as described in the Project Agreement and as
such description may be amended from time to time by agree-
ment between the Guarantor, the Bank, the Borrower and the
Trustee."
(2) The words "and the Investment Projects" are added after
the words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(3) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) by
the date specified in Section 2.03 (c) of the Project Agree-
ment no applications or requests referred to in paragraph (a)
thereof shall have been received by the Bank in respect of
any portion of the Loan, or having been so   -ceived, shall
have been denied, or (c) after the Closing Dc  an amount of
thle Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or
(d) the Bank shall have received notice from the Guarantor
pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the
Loan, the Bank may by notice to the Guarantor and the Bor-
rower terminate the right of the Trustee or the Borrower to
deliver such applications or requests or to make withdrawals
from the Loan Account, as the case may be, with respect to
such amount or portion of Lhe Loan. Upon the giving of such
notice such amount or portion of the Loan shall be can-
celled."


