Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16831
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(Credit 1821 -PAK)
June 27, 1997
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department 1
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Rupees (Rs)
US$1.00 = Rs 40.0 (January 1996)
FISCAL YEAR
(Government of Pakistan)
July 1 - June 30
PRINCIPAL ACRONYMS USED
AEO       =            Assistant Education Officer
ADP       =            Annual Development Plan
ADPI      =            Additional Director(ate) of Public Instruction
C&W       =            Communication and Works Department
CEC       =            Civil Engineering Cell
CIDA      =            Canadian International Development Agency
CRDC                   Curriculum Research and Development Center
DCA       =            Development Credit Agreement
DEO       =            District Education Officer
DPI       =            Director(ate) of Public Instruction
DOE       =            Department of Education (provincial)
GOP       =            Government of Pakistan
GoPunjab =             Government of Punjab
FCU       =            Federal Coordinating Unit
GCET      =            Government College for Elementary Teachers
IDA       =            International Development Association
LC        =            Learning Coordinator
LG&RD   =              Local Government & Rural Development Department
MOE       =            Ministry of Education (federal)
NEC       =            National Equipment Center
NICE      =            National Institute for Communication through Education
NBCT                   National Bureau of Curriculum and Textbooks
PC-1      =            Planning Commission Proforma Number I
PEEC      =            Provincial Education Extension Center
PEU       =            Primary Education Unit
PTB                    Punjab Textbook Board
PTC       =            Primary Teacher Certificate
SDR      =             Special Drawing Rights
SMC       =            School Management Committee
UNDP    =              United Nations Development Program
Vice President:    Mieko Nishimizu
Director (Acting): Fakhruddin Ahmed
Division Chief:    Barbara Herz
Task Manager:    Ivar Andersen



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
PAGE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction ............i
Project Objectives ...........1.....                            ................................i
Implementation Experience and Results ..................................................  ii
Component 1: Management Improvement .................................................. ii
Component 2: Curriculum Development and Materials Supply ..................... ii
Component 3: Teacher Training and Development ...................................... iii
Component 4: Communication /Demand Generation ................................... iii
Component 5: School Construction and Maintenance .................................. iii
Disbursement ..................................................            iii
Co-financing ............................................                  iv
Studies .iv
Project Sustainability and Future Operation .iv
Key Lessons Learned .iv
Part I- Project Implementation Assessment
A. Background .
Sectoral Issues ...............................................1
Linkages to Other Projects                         .2
B.  Project Objectives and Evaluation                             .2
C.     Achievement of Objectives and Factors Affecting the Project             .3
Component 1: Management Improvement                        .4
Component 2: Curriculum Development and Materials Supply             .      4
Component 3: Teacher Training and Development                  .5
Component 4: Communication /Demand Generation                   .6
Component 5: School Construction and Maintenance.6
Disbursement                                .8
Co-financing                                .8
Studies                                  .8
D. Bank Performance                                       .8
E. Borrower Performance                                     .0
F.  Project Sustainability .10
G. Key Lessons Learned .1
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Part II- Statistical and Data Tables
Table  I              Summary of Assessment ........................................                                  13
Table 2               IDA  Credits Relevant to the Project ........................................                     14
Table 3               Project Timetable ........................................                                      16
Table 4               Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual ........... .... 17
Table 5               Key Indicators for Project Implementation ........................................ 18
Table 6               Project Targets and Achievements ........................................                       20
Table 7               Studies Included in the Project ........................................                        23
Table 8-A             Project Costs ........................................                                           26
Table 8-B             Project Financing ........................................                                      27
Table 9               Status of Legal Covenants ........................................                              28
Table 10              Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ........................................                           31
Table I I             Bank Resources: Missions ........................................ 32
Anne
1.   Aide-Memoire from Last Supervision Mission .34
2.  Borrower's Contribution to ICR .43
Miscellaneous Attachments
1. Technical Assistance Input Financed by the European Union .51
2. Completion of PEP-IIl Financed Civil Works .53
Map: No. 28777-Pakistan



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Pakistan
Third Primary Education Project
(Credit 1821 -PAK)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Third Primary Education Project in
Pakistan for which Credit 1821-PAK in the amount of SDR 112.8 million (US$145.0 million)
was approved on June 16, 1987, and made effective on April 25, 1988.
The Credit was closed on June 30, 1996. The original closing date was June 30, 1993. Final
disbursement took place on November 14, 1996, at which time a balance of SDR 2.9 million
(US$3.8 million) was canceled. An earlier cancellation was made of SDR 8.5 million (US$10.9
million) in September 1994. Co-financing of ECU 10.8 million (US$10.0 million) was provided
for the project by the European Union of which ECU 3.2 million (US$ 3.6 million) was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Ivar J. Andersen (SAIPH), with assistance from Irajen Appasamy and
Rozena Serrano (SAIPH) of the South Asia Region. It was reviewed by Paul Blay, Acting
Division Chief (SAIPH). The Borrower Contribution to the ICR is included as Annex 2 of the
ICR.
The preparation of the ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision mission in October,
1995. It was completed during an ICR mission in March 1997, which was led by Ivar J.
Andersen and included Bashir Parvez (RMP, the last PEP-III task manager), Vincent Greaney
(ASTPH) and Liam Owens (consultant). It is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report
(Report No. 6492-PAK), the Credit Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between
IDA and the Borrower, and internal IDA memoranda.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Pakistan
Third Primary Education Project
(Credit 1821-PAK)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Third Primary Education Project (PEP-III) was identified in late 1985 with appraisal in
September 1986 and Board Approval in June 1987. Initially conceived as a 9 year US$ 70 million
project, PEP-III was increased to US$ 145 million over 7 years during preparation. Project design
drew on lessons learned from the IDA supported First and Second Primary Education Projects (Cr.
892 and Cr. 1602). It was the first single-province primary education project in Pakistan and it had
only a small federal component.
Project Objectives and Components
2.    The principal objective of PEP-III was to support the Government's goal of universal
primary education by the year 2000. The specific objectives were to: (i) strengthen institutional
capacity; (ii) introduce policy reforms, and; (iii) support innovation. To achieve these objectives the
project supported 5 components in the areas of: (i) management improvement; (ii) curriculum
development and materials supply; (iii) teacher training and development; (iv) communication/
demand generation; and (v) school construction and maintenance.
3.    PEP-Ill objectives fit provincial needs and the Country Assistance Strategy for Pakistan.
However, the phased implementation strategy concentrating on institutional development from
1986 to 1989 and then expansion of project activities from 1990 to 1993, was too ambitious and too
structured to be implementable. It did not take adequate account of the limited provincial
implementation capacity and government resistance to change. Also, the agenda for policy reform
was not clear, as it had to be derived from studies to be conducted during the first project phase. The
innovations objective was to be achieved by an institution which had not progressed (and never did)
beyond a concept. Thus, the means to achieve the objectives were under-defined and of uncertain
potential, which thwarted the achievement of the overall institutional capacity and systemic reform
objectives. Frequent staff changes among key government decision-makers and on the Bank side are
likely to have reduced ownership of project objectives.
4.    The project was supported by 22 covenants and provisions in the implementation schedule.
Over half applied to the policy reform, quality and capacity building objectives. A planned covenant
linking disbursement for civil works to progress on these objectives was dropped from the DCA at
Negotiations. This may have made it less likely that strong action would be taken even after it
became clear that little progress was being made on policy reform and capacity building. No
recourse was made to remedies under the General Conditions though the SAR and Minutes of
Negotiations state that such action would be taken if progress on the 'soft' objectives was slow.
i



Implementation Experience and Results
5.    Though some components achieved partial success, most of the stated objectives were not
achieved. The overall project outcome is therefore rated unsatisfactory, and borrower performance
and covenant compliance are rated deficient. The initial Bank assessment of government capacity to
carry out a complex project and of government ownership of the reform objectives was in hindsight
much too optimistic. Bank performance at appraisal is therefore rated deficient.
6.    Only limited progress was made towards the principal objective of increasing enrollments.
The estimated gross enrollment rate (GER) in 1986 was 55 percent (45% for girls) and the target for
1992-93 was gender parity at a total gross enrollment rate of 74 percent. While education statistics
are still unreliable, calculations based on the 1995-96 school census indicate that the GER in
government schools now stands at about 60 percent (51% for girls) thus indicating only a 5
percentage point increase in the GER over 10 years and no progress on reducing the gender gap.
7.    With respect to the institutional development objective, 2 of the 6 planned interventions,
the National Institute for Communication through Education (NICE) and the National Bureau for
Curriculum and Textbooks (NBCT), did not get off the ground. Of the remaining four, only two, the
Curriculum Research and Development Center (CRDC) and the Civil Engineering Cell (CEC),
functioned as intended and then only after long delays. Of the two other, the Additional Directorate
for Primary Instruction (ADPI) did not grow into an integrated part of the regular bureaucracy, and
the Provincial Education Extension Center (PEEC) was largely unsuccessful in improving teacher
and management training. CRDC was successful in developing new textbooks and teacher guides
and that capacity remains, though it is not well utilized. GoPunjab is now in the process of closing
CEC. Little progress was achieved with respect to the policy reform objective, partly as a result of
the 6-7 year delay in the completion of the studies that were to inform the proposed policy reform.
The innovation objective failed with respect to the demand generation program (NICE was not
established), and with respect to the planned reform of teacher training. However, a two-stage
curriculum was successfully introduced in schools along with new textbooks and supporting
materials. As the new concepts and methodologies introduced were not accompanied by effective
teacher training, the impact on teacher behavior and student achievement is uncertain. Though not
an explicit objective in the SAR, the large civil works program was reasonably successful.
8.    Component 1: Management Improvement: While the ADPI did attract more attention and
resources to primary education, the objective of a distinct management focus on primary education
was not fully realized as the ADPI and staff remained largely external to the mainstream of school
management. The joint primary/secondary education management cadre complicated development
of a specialized cadre of primary education managers. The ADPI had little independence in staff
selection, and management training on primary education issues was ineffective in part due to the
frequent transfer of managers to posts outside primary education. Little progress was made in
establishing the Monitoring & Evaluation Unit, and Punjab remains without reliable education
statistics.
9.    Component 2: Curriculum Development and Materials Supply: An integrated primary
curriculum was introduced and new textbooks and teacher guides reflecting the new curricular
objectives were developed. The contribution of the new books to attaining the objectives of the new
curriculum has not been formally evaluated, but the impact is not likely to be great since most
ii



teachers have not been trained in the new concepts and methodologies. A panel of teachers hired by
the ICR mission to evaluate the books found them only marginally better than those they replaced.
The planned textbook subsidy did not occur due to the withdrawal of CIDA co-financing; instead,
prices rose with the introduction of the new books. Though the teacher guides were considered a
significant innovation, they have not been reprinted, and the 18,000 PEP-Ill teaching kits not
replenished, in part because the non-salary budget was not augmented as agreed.
10.   Component 3: Teacher Training and Development: The sub-components were not
implemented on schedule, and did not have the intended impact. The pre-service sub-component
was undermined by the government's decision to establish hundreds of poorly staffed and equipped
Primary Training Units (PTUs) in secondary schools. The PTUs resulted in an oversupply of about
100,000 teachers which led GoPunjab to close all teacher training programs from 1992. The
distance education program for unqualified female teachers was never implemented. The recurrent
in-service training of qualified teachers by LCs and AEOs was also not effective: the LCs were not
well selected, were too few, and did not have adequate transport and allowances. Since the new
materials were not available during their training, they could not communicate the new curricular
concepts to teachers. Management training focused on routine job functions rather than on higher
order managerial skills and did not have a significant impact on staff development. Attendance was
poor, and frequent transfers of higher level staff (often to posts outside primary education) meant
that only a fraction of those attending the first cycle also attended later cycles. The planned teacher
incentives were not introduced as planned, and a hiring ban stopped recruitment altogether for
several years.
11.   Component 4: Communication/Demand Generation: Due to long delays in the approval
of the PC-I on NICE and disagreements over the textbook subsidy, CIDA withdrew its financing in
1991. That caused the government to rethink the demand generation component and eventually to
scuttle the establishment of NICE. In retrospect the NICE was a non-starter, as the supply-driven
approach preferred by decision-makers allows little margin for appreciation of demand generation.
12.   Component 5: School Construction and Maintenance: Less than a quarter of the
construction was completed by the original closing date, reflecting excessive optimism during
project preparation about civil works capacity. Construction would have been implemented faster, at
lower cost and with less mismanagement if appointment of top supervision consultants had not been
delayed for 3 years. School completions accelerated after June 1993; at project closing the
aggregate SAR construction target was almost met, though a 40 percent reduction in the target for
girls schools reduced the impact on the objective of expanding access for girls. Still, the progress
achieved on civil works over the last three years of PEP-IIl is a considerable achievement. Needs-
based site-selection and procurement remained problem areas throughout the project period. School
maintenance did not receive adequate attention. Furniture was provided to only 41% of the schools
constructed.
13.   Disbursement: Disbursement was slow throughout, and only about 50 percent of credit was
disbursed at the end of the initial project period (June 30, 1993). PEP-Ill was extended three times
until June 30, 1996 and most project gains were achieved during this three year period. US$ 10.9
million was canceled in September 1994 and US$ 3.8 million was canceled at final project closing.
iii



14.   Co-financing: The project was planned to be co-financed by CIDA (US$11.7 million) and
the European Union (US$17.5 million). Long government delays caused CIDA eventually to
withdraw (see para. 11). The EU supported inputs also experienced long delays. Particularly
unfortunate was the 4 year, mostly government-related delay in mobilizing some of the technical
assistance support to components that were essential to reaching project objectives. The
cumbersome procedure for trust fund management took up significant amounts staff time.
15.   Studies: The Ministry of Education and the Punjab Department of Education carried out a
series of policy related studies supported by EU. The significantly delayed studies were completed
between 1994 and 1996, too late to help policy formulation during the life of the project. Some
studies contain unsupported recommendations, but others contain highly relevant information for
decision-makers and should be made available in a readily comprehensible form to a wider audience.
Project Sustainability and Future Operation
16.   In view of the continued inadequacy of non-salary recurrent inputs, serious governance
issues, and the lack of follow-up on many project components, project sustainability is rated
uncertain. The policy reform process continues, slowly, under the proposed Social Action Program
Project II, which is planned to support primary and elementary education reforn from 1997 to 2001.1
Key Lessons Learned
*  Policy related studies should be completed during project preparation and policy reforms should
be undertaken before significant financial commitments are made. IDA should use more flexible
lending instruments where disbursements can be tied to the pace of progress on implementation.
*  Technical assistance should be credit-financed to ensure quality and timely availability.
*  Non-salary inputs need to be fully budgeted in the provincial recurrent budgets.
a  Demand side initiatives should be given much more attention, as should the involvement of
communities in the management, operation and maintenance of schools.
*  Monitoring and evaluation deficiencies are major constraints to sectoral planning and reform.
*  The frequent transfer of key management personnel is inimical to capacity building. It impedes
development of sectoral expertise and the creation of an institutional memory. In part to counter
this problem, separate, functionally specialized cadres of education managers should be created.
*  For future projects IDA and the authorities need to review the basis on which IDA finances
contracts that are procured at local level by untrained administrators working with small
contractors.
SAPP 11 follows SAPP I (Cr. 2593) started in 1993 to support the Government efforts to tackle sectoral and
cross-sectoral impediments to progress. SAPP I was multi-sectoral and national in scope and its time-slice
financing mechanism represents a paradigm shift towards financing based on implementation progress.
iv



Pakistan
Third Primary Education Project
(Credit 1821-PAK)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Part I:            Project Implementation Assessment
Project Identitv
Name:                     Third Primary Education Project
Credit:                   1821-PAK
Unit:                     South Asia
Country:                  Pakistan
Sector:                   Primary Education
Amount of Credit:         SDR 112.2 million; US$ 145.0 million equivalent
Board Approval:           June 16, 1987
Effective Date:           April 25, 1988
Original Closing Date:    June 30, 1993
Actual Closing Date:      June 30, 1996
Final Disbursement Date:    November 14, 1996
Amount disbursed:         SDR 101.4 million; US$ 143.4 million equivalent
Amount canceled:          SDR  11.4 million; US$ 14.7 million equivalent
A.    Background:
I .    Despite a record of strong economic growth, by the mid-i 980s Pakistan trailed far behind
comparator countries in terms of development of its human capital base. Consistently low levels of
public investment and the lack of sustained political commitment had led to a severe neglect of the
education sector as a whole, and of primary education in particular. As a result, Pakistan had some
of the lowest literacy and school enrollment rates in the world, with stark imbalances between rural
and urban areas and between girls and boys. By the mid-80s only about 24% of the population was
literate and only about 50% of its primary school age population was enrolled in schools. The long-
term rate of enrollment growth only barely exceeded 3%, thus keeping up with the population
growth rate but not making significant inroads into the out-of-school population.
2.    Sectoral issues: Primary education had been a stated priority of six successive 5-year plans,
but the ambitious targets set for reaching universal primary education were never backed up with the
resources required to reach them. Low levels of spending was exacerbated by imbalances in sub-
sectoral resource use. Development spending was focused on the provision of new schools and
facilities, with few, if any, resources earmarked for maintenance. Over 98% of the recurrent budget
was spent on salaries, and only a fraction of the remaining funds was spent on quality inputs.
Sectoral planning was mechanistic and not supported by adequate educational statistics. Progress
was equated with physical expansion. Sectoral management suffered from high levels of political
interference, particularly in the areas of teacher recruitment and location of new schools and other
I



civil works. The financial neglect of primary education was mirrored administratively in that no
specialized management cadre existed for the primary education sub-sector.
3.    Linkages to Other Projects: Lessons learned from the First and Second Primary Education
Project (Cr. 892 and Cr. 1602) were reflected in project design. Focused on Punjab and with only a
small federal component, PEP-III was a significant departure from previous multi-province projects.
PEP-IlI also moved away from the practice of ad-hoc Project Implementation Units (PIUs); instead
project management would be integrated into the regular bureaucracy. PEP-III also moved away
from pre-fabricated school construction that was tried (and abandoned) under PEP-Il, but expanded
the Learning Coordinator (LC) concept to be the linchpin of the teacher training component.
B.    Project Objectives and Evaluation;
4.    The principal objective of the project was to support the Government's plan to achieve
universal primary education by year 2000 through support for the core program of Punjab's 5-year
primary education investment program. The specific objectives were to:
*  develop and strengthen institutional capacity to plan and manage the investment program by: (i)
creating the Additional Directorate of Public Instruction (ADPI) and strengthening the Civil
Engineering Cell (CEC) in the Punjab Education Department; (ii) strengthening the National
Bureau of Curriculum and Textbooks (NBCT), and the Curriculum Research and Development
Center (CRDC) in Punjab, and; (iii) strengthening the Punjab Provincial Education Extension
Center (PEEC);
*  establish the National Institute for Communication through Education (NICE); introduce
necessary policy reform measures to strengthen primary education, inter alia in the areas of
staffing policy, performance incentives, school maintenance and materials supply; and,
*  support innovation in primary education programs and systems, through support for the
development of a demand generation program; the reform of pre- and in-service teacher training
programs; and the introduction of a two-stage integrated curriculum.
To achieve these objectives the project supported 5 components in the areas of: (i) management
improvement; (ii) curriculum development and materials supply; (iii) teacher training and
development; (iv) communication/ demand generation; and, (v) school construction and
maintenance.
5.    PEP-Ill objectives were well chosen in terms of provincial needs, and reflected the long-term
Country Assistance Strategy for Pakistan and the experience gained from the IDA supported PEP I
and II projects. The phased implementation strategy devised to achieve project objectives was
overly ambitious and too structured to be easily implementable. The strategy, which focused on
institutional development activities from 1986 to 1989 and then on expansion of project activities
from 1990-93, did not fully take into account the limited provincial implementation capacity. It also
under-estimated the inherent resistance to change on the part of the centralized provincial
government, and the limits on the Education Department's ability to make important project-related
decisions. The strategy also did not anticipate the problems that would arise from the organization
of the Education Department itself, where several vertical structures dealt relatively independently
with curriculum, training and textbook matters with little horizontal communication among them and
little incentive to cooperate with project implementors. The joint management of primary and
2



secondary education was deeply entrenched, and it was not fully appreciated how strongly this
would militate against the success of ADPI. The policy reform agenda was also not clear, as it had
to derive its substance from studies which were to be conducted during the first phase of the project.
The innovation objective was to be achieved by an institution (NICE) which had not yet progressed
(and never did) beyond a concept. Thus the means chosen to achieve the objectives were under-
defined and of uncertain potential and this thwarted the achievement of the overall objectives of
creating an enhanced and sustainable institutional capacity to plan, manage and implement primary
education programs and to introduce and sustain systemic reforms.
C.    Achievements of Objectives and Factors Affecting the Project
6.    Though some project components achieved partial successes and made positive contributions
Punjab's education system, most of the objectives as stated in the SAR were not achieved. The
overall project outcome is therefore rated unsatisfactory. Most of the progress occurred during the
three extensions of the project; on the original closing date of June 30, 1993, only half of the credit
was disbursed and project gains were minimal. Only limited progress was made towards the
principal objective of increasing enrollment. The estimated gross enrollment rate (GER) in 1985-
86 was 55% (45% for girls and 63% for boys) and the target for 1992-93 was gender parity at a total
GER of 74%. While enrollment estimates are still not fully reliable, calculations based on the data
collected for the 1995-96 EMIS annual school census indicate that the GER for the public sector
stands at about 60% (51% for girls and 68% for boys) thus indicating only a 5 percentage point
increase in the GER over 10 years and no progress on reducing the gender gap.
7.    With respect to the institutional development objective, 2 of the 6 planned interventions
(NICE and NBCT) did not get off the ground. Of the remaining four, only two, CRDC and CEC,
functioned as intended and then only after long delays. Of the two other, the ADPI never grew into
an integrated part of the regular bureaucracy and PEEC was largely unsuccessful in improving
teacher training. CRDC was successful in developing a series of new textbooks and teacher guides,
and that capacity, while under-utilized, remains. Though the capacity of the CEC did improve
considerably during the project period, GoPunjab is in the process of closing the agency down.
Little progress was achieved with respect to the policy reform objective, partly as a result of the 6-7
year delay in the completion of the studies that were to inform the proposed areas of policy reform.
Thus career opportunities remain restricted for primary school teachers, and most administrators
continue to be selected from the secondary or college cadre. The incentive package to encourage
more teachers to teach in rural areas did not materialize, in fact teachers posted in rural areas still
face the dis-incentive of lower housing and conveyance allowances. The non-salary budget remains
inadequate, including for school maintenance. Efforts to increase community involvement in school
management yielded only marginal results, though recent efforts building on the work started in this
area under PEP-Ill have been promising. The innovation objective failed with respect to the
demand generation program (NICE was not established), and with respect to the planned reform of
pre- and in-service training. However, a two-stage curriculum was successfully introduced in
schools along with new textbooks and other supporting materials. As the new concepts and
methodologies introduced were not accompanied by effective teacher training, it is unclear to what
extent this innovation has changed teacher behavior or improved student achievement.
3



8.    Component 1: Management Improvement: The major objective of the management
improvement component was to establish the ADPI within the DPI. A Monitoring & Evaluation
Unit (M&E) would be established, staff would be trained, and studies conducted.
9.    Results: While the creation of the ADPI achieved little direct success in fully meeting the
project's institutional development objectives, it did succeed in attracting more attention and
resources to primary education and in improving sectoral coordination, including with donors. The
ADPI structure was created quickly, although filling new staffing positions and mobilizing technical
assistance took longer than expected. Project activities and staff were never fully integrated with
their counterparts at the provincial and field level, nor with the various vertical structures including
CRDC, PTB and PEEC. The major obstacle to achieving a distinct focus on primary education was
the existence of a joint management cadre for primary and secondary education, which complicated
the development of a specialized cadre of primary education managers. Since managerial staff
remained under the control of the DPI (Secondary), the ADPI had little independence in choosing
and deploying his own staff. Management training on primary education issues was ineffective, in
part due to high rates of staff transfers posts outside primary education.
10.   Little progress was made on the establishment of the M&E Unit, partly as the result of
unclear allocation of federal and provincial responsibilities. Data collection was taken over by the
donor-supported provincial Education Management Information System (EMIS) in 1990. The
Punjab EMIS published a partial school census report for 1991-92, but it subsequently became the
subject of political interference which resulted in management discontinuity and inappropriate
staffing. As a result, Punjab was (and still is) without accurate and up to date statistics with which to
plan and monitor the implementation of PEP-III.
11.   Component 2: Curriculum Development and Materials Supply: The objective was to
improve the curriculum and educational materials. Textbooks would be subsidized and the allocation
for quality inputs would be increased to 7% of the primary education recurrent budget by FY93.
12.   Results: An improved, integrated curriculum was introduced, and new textbooks and
teacher guides reflecting the new curricular objectives were developed and produced for grades 1-5.
The contribution of the new books to attaining the objectives of the new curriculum has not been
formally evaluated, but the impact is not likely to be great since most teachers have not received
adequate training in the philosophy and methodologies of this curriculum, and as it is also unclear
that all teachers have received copies of the teacher guides. The ICR mission requested an
independent panel of practicing primary teachers in Islamabad to rate the new textbooks in terms of
production quality, content and pedagogical utility, and to compare the new books to the books
published before the project. The panel found that the teacher guides represented a substantial
improvement over the past, were of good quality and have the potential to positively influence
teaching behavior if used as suggested. With some exceptions, the textbooks received below
average ratings for both production quality and their pedagogical attributes. The books for classes 1-
3 were considered only marginally better than the books they replaced. Since only minor revisions
had been made to the class 4 and 5 books, these were rated about the same as their predecessors.
13.   The new curriculum with supporting materials was developed by the Primary Education Unit
(PEU) and the Materials Development Teams (MDTs) in CRDC. The PEU had a distinct focus on
primary education and was a major departure from the existing organizational structure of subject
4



specialization with no specific level-wise expertise in primary, elementary or secondary education
curricula. Its project-supported counterpart at the federal level (NBCT), never became operational
due to insufficient ownership of this concept. CRDC has yet to begin monitoring the use of new
materials or to plan for improvements to their content and structure. The lack of a clearly articulated
link between the CRDC and the Punjab Textbook Board (PTB), which is publishing the books, is
likely to complicate such efforts. The textbook subsidy did not occur due to the withdrawal of CIDA
financing. Instead, prices rose with the introduction of the new books.
14.   To ensure and sustain availability of educational materials in classrooms, it was agreed at
Negotiations that spending on quality inputs would be increased to about 7% of the recurrent budget.
The annual increase required to meet this target would be met from project funds up to FY93, after
which the cost would be moved to the recurrent budget at a level acceptable to IDA. This agreement
was never implemented, though the ad-hoc nature and under-funding of quality inputs was raised in
many Aide Memoires. The under-funding of quality inputs continues and is a major obstacle to
sustained improvements in educational quality. To wit, the teacher guides have not been reprinted
and the 18,000 PEP-Ill teaching kits have not been replenished.
15.   ComponentI3: Teacher Training and Development: The objective was to reorganize the
teacher training system, improve its quality, and to provide management training to staff.
16.   Results: None of the sub-components were implemented on schedule, and those that
eventually were implemented did not have the intended impact. The major factors that negatively
affected implementation were a lack of an appreciation of the importance of the quality dimension of
education which led to inadequate recurrent budget funding and administrative support for these
activities, and the excessive rate of transfer of staff, often to positions outside the primary education
sub-sector. GoPunjab has recently taken two important steps towards raising teacher standards.
First, a decision has been made to raise the minimum entry qualification from PTC to CT and to
increasingly hire university graduates for teaching positions. Secondly, GoPunjab is also giving
more emphasis to merit-based hiring which is probably the single most important mechanisms for
ensuring improved teaching standards.
17.   The component for pre-service training of 40,000 teachers was severely undermined by the
decision to establish hundreds of poorly staffed and equipped Primary Training Units (PTUs) in
secondary schools. The PTUs resulted in an oversupply of about 100,000 teachers, which led
GoPunjab to close down all teacher training programs from 1992 onwards, including the more
qualitative programs being provided by the GCETs. As the PTUs were considered adequate, the
distance education program designed for 17,500 unqualified and mostly female teachers was never
implemented. The recurrent in-service training to be provided by trained LCs and AEOs to
qualified teachers was also not effective. The LCs were selected on the basis of seniority rather than
on the basis of potential. The training they received was not of high quality and the delayed
availability of new textbooks and teacher guides meant that they could not be fully trained in the
new curricular methodology that they in turn were to pass on to primary school teachers. The
effectiveness of the LC and AEO cadres as change agents was further diminished by the frequent
unavailability of adequate transportation and allowances, and by their insufficient numbers. About
40% of female LC positions were vacant throughout the project period. The management training
provided by the Management Training Unit (MTU) based in the PEEC (later the Directorate of Staff
Development) was marginal in terms of developing and sustaining enhanced management and
5



supervision expertise. The delayed selection of ex-patriate consultants, some of whom were
inappropriately skilled, delayed implementation and reduced the planned impact on course materials
and delivery methods. The training programs were didactic and focused on routine job functions,
rather than on developing higher order managerial skills. Poor attendance remained a problem and
high rates of staff transfer (often to posts outside primary education) meant that only a fraction of the
staff attending the first cycle would attend the following cycles. A tracer study revealed that only 6
of the 51 DEOs that participated in the first cycle went on the complete the third cycle
18.   As no concise data on teacher hiring was available to the mission, it is not clear whether the
policy of preferential recruitment of female teachers was implemented. However, for several years a
freeze of teacher recruitment (creating 16,000 vacancies) prevented new schools, which were
disproportionately girls' schools, from being operationalized. Project-supported policies to ensure
increased recruitment of female teachers in particular in rural areas also met little progress -- in fact
the negative incentive of lower housing and conveyance allowances for rural areas continues today.
19.   Component 4: Communication/Demand Generation: The objective was to introduce
policies designed to increase parental and community participation in school management through a
training program to be developed by the NICE.
20.   Results: CIDA's withdrawal from PEP-III caused the government to rethink the demand
generation component and eventually to scuttle the proposed establishment of NICE. In retrospect
the NICE was a non-starter, as the supply-driven approach of decision-makers allows little margin
for the appreciation of the benefits of demand generation. The objectives of this component are now
pursued with IDA support under GoPunjab's Social Action Program, and community-based school
management committees (SMCs) have been established in a substantial number of schools.
21.   Component 5: School Construction and Maintenance: The objective was to develop the
provincial school construction capacity. Financing would be concentrated on the core investment
program, including facilities for shelterless schools and the construction of new girls schools.
22.   Results: Less than a quarter of the construction program was completed by the original
project closing date (Attachment 2), reflecting excessive optimism during project preparation
regarding the capacity of the CEC and LG&RD. The CEC had been established in 1987 with the
limited objective of implementing school maintenance programs, and it was not staffed or equipped
to carry out a major construction program. This was also true for LG&RD, which seriously
mismanaged its share of the construction program. The appointment of the top supervision
consultants was resisted by GoPunjab and the appointment was not made until 1991. In view of the
major impact made by the top consultants on their appointment, it is likely that the civil works
component would have been implemented faster, at lower cost, and with less mismanagement if their
appointment been made at Credit Effectiveness as agreed. The bulk of the construction program was
completed during the 3 year period after June 1993 and the final number of completed works is close
to the aggregate SAR targets. This is a significant contribution towards providing access to primary
education in rural Punjab. Despite improved perfornance in the later years of the project, GoPunjab
is in the process of closing CEC down.
23.   The impact of the civil works program on enrollment cannot be accurately estimated due to
the unavailability of disaggregated education statistics. Several changes were made in the course of
6



the project life that diminished the impact on the key objective of expanding access for girls. Only
about 60% of the original target of 10,300 new and shelterless girls schools was achieved
(Attachment 2). This reduction was partly the result of a 1994 decision to speed up disbursements
by making boys schools built by the Communication & Works Department eligible for PEP-III
reimbursement. The ratio between new and shelterless schools was also changed, from 1:1 to 2:1.
Due to the inadequacy of the data collected by the EMIS, the lack of a recent population census,
political interference in site selection and the limited planning capacity at the district level, it is not
clear that the schools were built on sites that best met need and demand criteria. A school site
verification survey undertaken by the Auditor General of Pakistan1, which sampled 303 sites in
Punjab, found that less than half of the sites for new schools met all the criteria established to ensure
an efficient and needs-based use of resources.
24.    Procurement, especially of small contracts for civil works for schools and furniture,
remained a problem throughout the life of the project. A 1996 SAPP study of goods and civil works
tenders, including for education, conducted by independent consultants, showed that this problem is
generic. Though it is unclear what proportion of the tenders examined in the study were financed
from PEP-III, they were all contemporaneous with the execution of a major proportion of the civil
works implementation under PEP-IIl. For Punjab the number of deviations from the IDA
Procurement Guidelines amounted to 899 out of 1,529 reviews, or 590/%2. A significant part of the
problem was clearly the lack of familiarity of local staff with IDA and indeed Government
guidelines. While IDA has regularly held procurement workshops with Government staff, and is
supporting system-wide reform of procurement guidelines, stronger efforts, and measures, are
clearly required to promote tighter procurement practices. For future projects, IDA and the
authorities need to review the basis on which IDA finances contracts of this kind that are procured at
local level by untrained administrators working with small contractors.
25.    School maintenance did not receive sufficient attention during the project period, in part
because of the institutional focus on new construction and a lack of appreciation for the cost of
continued neglect. The maintenance study was not available until 1994, and was of limited value in
determining policy. Though coverage was limited to eleven of thirty five districts, the FY96 plan to
release repair and maintenance funds directly to communities, is a significant new initiative. During
school missions, the ICR mission noted the positive impact of community and teacher involvement
in repair and maintenance. The participation of communities in school maintenance is the most
important institutional development contributing to the sustainability of the civil works component.
26.    Classroom furniture was provided to some 3,938 schools, accounting for only 41% of the
schools constructed, as well as to a further 249 department offices. The shortfall was mainly due to
delays in the design phase, production capacity issues and serious procurement problems. PEP-Ill
was thus no exception to the general project experience in Pakistan that provision of school furniture
is fraught with difficulties relating to quality, procurement and failure to meet supply deadlines
Monitoring of Social Action Program: School Site Verification Survey, July 1995. The survey sampled sites selected for
new and shelterless girls and boys schools during 1993-94 and 1994-95, a period when a considerable number of the
schools built under PEP III were constructed.
2   Report monitoring SAP procurement activities in accordance with IDA Guidelines by Engineering Consultants
International Limited (ECIL); cumulative figures set out in three monthly interim report prepared during three months
ending on December 31, 1996.
7



27.   Disbursement: Disbursement lagged far behind schedule for most of the project period.
Initial contributing factors include delayed effectiveness and opening of the Special Account, but the
major problem was the slow implementation of the large civil works component. Only about 50%
of the credit was disbursed at the end of the initial project period. Two I year extensions, from
January 1, 1994 to December 31, 1995, were requested and granted, followed by a 6 month partial
extension of the closing date from December 31, 1995 to June 30, 1996 to allow completion of on-
going contracts. A cancellation of US$ 10.9 million was made in September 1994, and US$ 3.8
million was canceled at project closing.
28.   Cofinancing: The project was planned to be co-financed by CIDA (US$11.7 million) and
European Union (US$17.5 million). Due to long delays in the approval of the PC-I for NICE and
disagreements over the textbook subsidy, CIDA withdrew its financing. This eliminated the
textbook subsidy component and led to the scuttling of plans to establish NICE (para. 18). The EU
supported inputs also experienced long, mostly government-related delays. Particularly unfortunate
was the 4 year delay in mobilizing some of the technical assistance support to components that were
essential to reaching project objectives. The difficulties of EU trust fund management also took up
significant staff time -- the trust fund held by the Bank had an upper limit of US$ I million, which,
given the turn-around time for replenishments, was insufficient to disburse the entire commitment.
29.   Studies: To support policy reform a series of studies focusing on key policy issues was
carried out under the auspices of the MoE and the Department of Education in Punjab. The studies
were supported by EU. The preliminary work for these studies was to be completed by October
1987, but by November 1992 only one study had been commissioned. Most of the studies were
completed between 1994 and 1996, too late to have any direct impact on policy formulation in
Punjab during the life of the project. While some studies erred by producing recommendations that
were not warranted by the research findings, many others contain highly relevant information that
should be made available in a readily comprehensible form to a wider audience.
D.    Bank Performance
30.   Preparation: Initially conceived as a 9 year US$70 million project, PEP-III was increased
to US$145 million over 7 years after appraisal. In hindsight, the Bank's assessment of government
capacity to carry out a such a large project and achieve complex objectives was too optimistic. The
same is true for the Bank's assessment of the depth of government ownership of project objectives,
particularly where these objectives conflicted with the traditional operation of the education system.
The Bank's performance at appraisal is therefore rated deficient. The SAR was well prepared and
informative, and the preparation team correctly identified the main risk of limited institutional
capacity to implement the project. Concern over the commitment to policy reform is evident in the
project documentation, despite references to strong government commitment. Some pertinent
information appears to have been ignored by the preparation team. In particular, a memo prepared
by the economist on the appraisal mission arguing that the proposed civil works component was not
economically justified, was not given any heed.
31.   The two-phase implementation strategy (para 5) and detailed Action Program devised to
address capacity constraints were not effective. Initially, the strategy was backed up by a covenant
in the draft DCA which would allow the Bank to suspend disbursement on civil works should it
conclude that insufficient progress had been made on the policy reform, innovation and institutional
8



development objectives. This covenant was removed during Negotiations at GoPunjab's request on
the basis that the Bank already had recourse to such action under the General Conditions. This may
have made it less likely that strong action would be taken even after it became clear that little
progress was being made on the 'soft' objectives, even though a possible remedy was available
under the General Conditions. The problem is also partly one of inadequate lending instruments:
had more flexible lending instruments, that allowed for disbursement based on progress, been
available at the time, progress on the 'soft' objectives might not have been so elusive3. In an
environment where there is little commitment to sustained policy-reform and where decision-makers
have short tenure, policy-reform should be completed before financial commitments are made.
32.   Supervision: The quality of advice offered was generally solid and flexible in light of the
changing circumstances, and the Bank's performance on supervision is therefore rated satisfactory.
It could be argued that the Bank should have taken more decisive action to restructure the project
when the lack of progress became apparent. The Bank had explicitly stated during Negotiations and
in the SAR that it would seek recourse to the remedies available under the General Conditions if
progress was slow progress on the policy reform, innovation and institutional capacity building
objectives. However, no such action was taken despite poor performance; instead 3 extensions of
the project period were given.
33.   In light of the evidence from PEP-III suggesting limited provincial capacity to complex
projects, the decision to approve the US$115 million Punjab Middle Schooling Project (PMSP, Cr.
2354) in 1992 seems hasty. PEP-III was then in its 5th year of implementation but had only utilized
33% of available credit funds. PMSP has just been restructured, and the Credit has been reduced in
size. As it became clear that the policy reform process under PEP-III, PMSP and other IDA
supported social sector operations was not moving, the Bank responded by preparing SAPP I in
1993 to support efforts to tackle sectoral and cross-sectoral impediments to progress. SAPP I was
multi-sectoral and national in scope, and its time-slice financing mechanism represented a significant
paradigm shift towards financing based on implementation progress. With the introduction of SAPP
1, the emphasis on the PEP-Ill policy agenda was gradually reduced, in parallel with an increasing
emphasis on civil works which was imperative to speed up disbursements.
34.   The Bank changed task managers 6 times during the course of project supervision and there
was little continuity among the other Headquarters based mission members. However, continuity
was provided by the Resident Mission education specialist, who participated most supervision
missions, and task managed PEP-III during the final two years. As can be seen from Table 12, the
frequency of missions was generally in line with Bank averages, with two multi-member missions
completed every year. Inputs to supervision declined during the latter half of the project period. In a
direct sense the Bank had a negative effect on project management when it in 1995 recruited the
PEP-III project manager, who was responsible for reviving the project after its slow start, to a
position in the Resident Mission in Islamabad.
3 In fact the PEP-III Issues Paper discusses the possibility of turming the project into a "Sector/Policy-Based" operation.
This was however ultimately not considered practical.
9



E.     Borrower Performance
35.    Lack of government commitment to carry out the project as designed is reflected in the
overall poor implementation record and in Table 9 "Status of Legal Covenants" which indicates that
a number of project covenants were not fully complied with. Borrower performance during
implementation and covenant compliance are therefore rated deficient. The observation made in the
PCR for PEP-II that "covenants may have been adhered to more in the letter than in the spirit of their
intent" holds true for the PEP-III as well4.
36.    Project implementation were initially hampered by poor staffing of the ADPI. This was
eventually remedied with the appointment of a very capable officer as project manager. By this
time, however, almost 1.5 years -- i.e. most of the capacity building Phase I of the project -- had
been lost. The supervision reports indicate a genuine desire at the project level to achieve project
objectives. When this desire is not translated into results it is often due to factors beyond the control
of the project director and even of the Education Department, e.g. political interference, inability of
project entities to hire new staff and purchase equipment, the lack of adequate non salary budgets,
and hiring freezes. A last point is the inability of the Department to slow down transfers of
management staff, a phenomenon which nullifies the impact of training and is detrimental to
building and sustaining institutional capacity. This is particularly noticeable and damaging at the
level of DEO and below, but also affects provincial level staff. There were 7 Education Secretaries
over the life of the project. The small federal components were either delayed or not implemented.
F.     Project Sustainability and Future Operation
37.    In view of the continued low levels of expenditures on primary education, the inadequacy of
non-salary recurrent inputs, serious governance issues, and the lack of required follow-up on many
project components, project sustainability is rated uncertain. Ensuring the highest possible rate of
return on the assets created under the project over the next decade requires intensive follow-up in
these areas. It is however, not clear that GoPunjab is pursuing strategy consistent with a desire to
eam a high return on project inputs. For instance, Punjab still lacks a financially backed policy to
ensure that regular maintenance and repair is provided to the almost 10,000 schools constructed with
support from the project. Though there has been progress recently, the same generally holds for the
teacher training necessary to derive the full benefit from the new curriculum and materials and for
the regular and adequate supply of additional quality inputs. A step in the right direction is the
initiative to expand the concept of SMCs to all schools and to give them the funding and
responsibility for the purchase of instructional materials and for annual repair and maintenance.
During its visit to the Punjab, the ICR mission saw several examples of the excellent results SMCs
can accomplish, but it also became clear that much more work is required in order to develop and
refine the mechanisms through which SMCs can thrive.
4   The PCR for Cr. 1602 supports this statement with a quote from an internal World Bank Paper: "Pakistan Education
Projects: Analysis of Policy Conditionality", April, 1993. Paragraph 5 states: "even with regard to many of the fulfilled
conditions, there is little desire/commitment on the part of government officials to implement the objective or 'spirit' of
=he policy reform; that is, these policy conditions are not seen as a basis for which fundamental improvements in quality,
access and equity of education can be brought about".
10



38.   While a number of valuable inputs have been created through the project which will continue
to benefit the province, it is clear that the rate of return that the government is getting from its
investment is far lower than what was expected. The increase in enrollment was far less than
anticipated and though no quantitative evidence exists of PEP-III's impact on student learning, it is
not likely to have been significant, due inter alia to the lack of progress on teacher training in the
new teaching methodologies promoted under the project, and the continued inadequacy of the supply
of instructional materials.
39.   The Bank does not now plan to prepare a follow-on project aimed specifically at primary
education in Punjab, as there are currently several project and programs under which IDA is
providing assistance. PMSP has recently been restructured and SAPP I is on-going and will soon be
replaced by the proposed SAPP II operation. SAPP II will provide time-slice financing to the
elementary sector and focus mainly on improving the composition and efficiency of expenditures
and improving the policy framework.
G.   Key Lessons Learned
40.   The following are the key lessons learned from the project implementation experience:
* Policy related studies should be completed during project preparation and policy reforms should
be undertaken before significant financial commitments are made. IDA should use more flexible
lending instruments where disbursements can be tied to the pace of progress on implementation.
* Technical assistance should be credit-financed, to ensure quality and timely availability.
*  Non-salary inputs need to be fully budgeted in the provincial recurrent budgets.
a Demand side initiatives should be given much more attention, as should the involvement of
communities in the management, operation and maintenance of schools.
* Monitoring and evaluation deficiencies are major constraints to sectoral planning and reform.
* The high rate of transfers of key management personnel is inimical to capacity building as it
impedes the development of sectoral expertise, communication, professional teamwork and the
creation of an institutional memory. In part to counter this problem, separate, functionally
specialized cadres of education managers should be created.
* For future projects IDA and the authorities need to review the basis on which IDA finances
contracts that are procured at local level by untrained administrators working with small
contractors.
11



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - THIRD PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT - CREDIT 1821-PK
List of Statistical Tables
Table 1         Summary of Assessments
Table 2         Related Bank Loans/Credit
Table 3         Project Timetable
Table 4         Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5         Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6         Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7         Studies Included in Project
Table 8A        Project Costs
Table 8B        Project Financing
Table 9         Status of Legal Covenants
Table 10       Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 11        Bank Resources: Missions
12



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - THIRD PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT - CR. 1821-PK
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial        Partial         Negligible      Not aplicable
Macro Policies                       El               El                I-3
Sector Policies                      O                El                0                 El
Financial Objectives                                  El                0 E3      
Institutional Development                             Q                 0                 El
Physical Objectives                  El              0E3                                  El
Poverty Reduction                    5                0                 E                 El
Gender Issues                        El                        0        E                 E
Other Social Objectives              5                0                 E                 E
Enviromnental Objectives              El              El                El                0
Public Sector Management             El               El                0                 El
Private Sector Development           5                El                El                0
Other (specify)                      El               El                El                El
B. Project Sustainability               Likely                   Unlikely                   Uncertain
(V)                       ())
C. Bank Performanc                       Highl
satisfactory          Satisfactorv                Deficient
('1)                     (1/)                        (1)
Identification                       El                        0                          El
Preparation Assistance               El                        0                          El
Appraisal                            El                        El                         0
Supervision                          E1                        0                          El
Hihly
D. Borrower Performance                         satisf rv       Satisfactory     Deficient
Preparation                                    El              0                El
Implementation                                 E               El               0
Covenant Compliance                              l              El              0
Operation (if applicable)                      E               E                E
Highy                                               Higbl
E. Assessment of Outcome               satisfactory    Satisfatorv    Unsatisfactory     unsatisfactory
(if)            (if)              (if)              (i)
13



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - THIRD PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT - CR. 1821 PK
Table 2: Related IDA Credits
Year of                               l
Credit/title                 Purpose                Approval   Status        Comments
Preceding
Operations
Cr. 892-PAK       Experimental primary education project   1979   Closed    Unsatisfactory.
Fourth Education    with the objectives of increasing access,                Project was
Project           reducing wastage and costs, and                            completed on time
improving the quality of instruction.                     in 1985. Out of the
Credit of US$10.0
million, US$3.0
million was
cancelled.
Cr. 1602-PAK      Second primary project which built up on  1985  Closed    Marginally
Second Primary    experiences under previous Credit 892-                     Satisfactory. Out of
Education Project   PAK, which was limited to the Sindh,                     the Credit of
NWFP, Baluchistan Provinces. It                           US$72.5 million
focussed on the same objectives as the the                US$16.3 million
previous project.                                         was cancelled.
FoUlowing
Operations
Cr. 2102-PAK      Enhance access to and delivery of     1990      Ongoing   Satisfactory. Being
Sindh Primary     primary education and improve the                         restructured under
Education Project  students' achievements through                            social sector
classroom instructions, enhanced teacher                  portfolio
recruitment (especially for female                        restructuring
teachers), training for teachers and                      exercise.
managers, scholarships and textbooks
provided for girls.
Cr. 2118-BD       Increase equitable access to primary and   1990  Closed    Satisfactory. ICR
General Education  secondary schooling; improve education         on         under preparation
Project           quality; strengthen institutional capacity      12/20/96
of subsectors; and prepare needed reform
policies and programs at post-secondary
levels.
Cr. 2534-PAK      Implement restructuring of education into  1992  Ongoing   Unsatisfactory.
Punjab Middle     elementary (years 1-8) and secondary                       Being restructured
Schooling Project  (years 9-12); increase access particularly                under social sector
for girls; improve quality and efficiency                 portfolio
of education; support decentralization and                restructuring
l________________ expansion of private education.                            exercise.
Cr. 2357-NEP      Improve quality of basic and primary  1992      Ongoing   Satisfactory
Basic and Primary  education; increase access to primary
Education Project   schooling; and strengthen institutional
capacity of the subsector.
Cr. 2482-PAK      Improve (a) access, equity and efficiency;  1992  Ongoing   Highly Satisfactory
Balochistan       (b) quality of learning environment; (c)
Primary Education  organizational framework, planning and
Program Project    management.
14



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - THIRD PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT - CR. 1821 PK
Table 2: Related IDA Credits
It                                         .            |Year of
Credit/title                 Purpose                Approval   Status        Comments
Cr. 2661-IN       At district and sub-district level, improve   1994  Ongoing   Satisfactory
District Primary    access to primary education, reduce
Education Project   dropouts and increasing learning
achievement, and strengthen institutional
capacity..
Cr. 2680-PAK      Improve (a) access, equity and efficiency;  1995  Ongoing   Satisfactory
North-West        (b) quality of learning environment; (c)
Frontier Province   organizational framework, planning and
Primary Education  management.
Program Project
Cr. 2876-IN       At district and sub-district level, improve   1996  Ongoing   10-month old
Second District   access to primary education, reduce
Primary Education  dropouts and increasing learning
Project           achievement.
15



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT 1821-PK
Table 3: Project Timetable
|   Date actual/
Steps in project cycle            |   Date planned      |  latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                        1/86             01/27/86
Preparation                                                       3/86              3/26/86
Appraisal                                                         8/86              9/15/86
Negotiations                                                       1/87             4/20/87
Letter of development policy (if applicable)                       NA                  NA
Board presentation                                              3/31/87             6/16/87
Signing                                                           9/87              9/10/87
Effectiveness                                                     3/88              4/25/88
First tranche release (if applicable)                              NA                  NA
Midterm review (if applicable)                                     NA                  NA
Project completion                                             06/30/93            12/31/95
Loan closing                                                   12/31/93            06/30/96
16



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT 1821-PK
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY88     FY89    FY90    FY91          FY92      FY93      FY94      FY95      FY96       FY97
Appraisal estimate            5,600   24,200   56,880   95,360  126,920  140,260  145,000  145,000  145,000             145,000
Actual                            0   10,170   10,170   19,810   41,590   74,290  105,310  121,640  132,320             134,460
Actual as % of estimate            -     42%       18%       21%       33%       53%       73%       84%       91%         93%
Date of final disbursement                                                                                           14-Nov-96
Disbursement Pattern: Appraisal Estimate v/s Actual
160,000
140,000                                              .   .    . .. .
120,000
'     000          .    ......... . A.;..... ...  ; A:.     
4 00,000
[     60,000      >-       E     -                     -2            
40,000O ^>                              _L t    
20,000
0
FY8S    FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97
0 Appraisal estimate * Actual I
17



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - THIRD PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT - CR. 1821-PK
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation Indicators in SAR/President's Report            Estimated                       Actual
Management Improvement
* Appoint key staff to ADPI                                          1988                   1988
* Complete baseline survey                                           1988                   1988
* Appoint all additional staff to ADPI                               1989                   1990
* Complete annual monitoring and evaluation report                   Annually               Completed with delays
* Submit annual audit of accounts                                    Annually               Completed with delays of up to 3 years
particularly for the civil works
component
* Complete Rapid Low Cost (RLC) studies                              1990-1991              Studies completed between 94-96, too
late to affect policy formulation under
PEPIII
* Complete all preparatory work for new curriculum and teacher's guides for   1992          1994
Grades 4-5
* Introduce new curriculum in Grades 4-5                             1993                   1994
* Distribute new teacher's guides for Grades 4-5                     1993                   1994
Curriculum and Materials Supply
* Establish and staff PE Curriculum Units at NBCT and CRDC           1988                   1989
* Complete work plan, including schedule for field testing and       1988                   Work plan prepared 1989
implementation of new curriculum
* Complete all preparatory work for new curriculum and teacher's guides for   1989          1992
Grades 1-3
* Announce new prices for textbooks                                  1989                   Not done. Due to CIDA withdrawal of
resources for textbook subsidy, textbook
prices increased
* Introduce new curriculum in Grades 1-3                             1990
* Initiate all preparatory work for new curriculum in Grades 4-5     1991                   Initiated in 1993/94
Teacher Training
* Complete plan for recruitment of female teachers                   1988                   Plan completed but not implemented
* Complete career development study                                  1988                   Completed in 1993, too late to inform
policy-making under PEPIII
* Complete annual training plan and report on training activities of previous   Annually    Done with delays
year
* Complete study on (non-monetary incentives for rural teaching)     1988                   Completed in 1994, too late to inform



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - THIRD PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT - CR. 1821-PK
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation Indicators in SAR/President's Report          Estimated                       Actual
policy-making under PEPIII
* Submit Report to IDA on female teacher appointment               1989                   1993
* Initiate implementation of new recruitment posting promotion program  1989              1990
* Complete reorganization of in-service training program           1989                   1991
* Complete and submit to IDA, report on progress of new career policies  1990             1992
* Complete review and comparison of new career development policies with   1991           Completed in 1994, too late to inform
previous policies                                                                       policy-making under PEPIII
* Complete report on rural teacher service including female teacher  1992                 Completed in 1994, too late to inform
appointment                                                                             policy-making under PEPIII
Communications/Demand Generation
* Appoint additional staff to NICE                                 1988                   Component cancelled after CIDA
withdrew financing
* Complete annual training and media plan, start programs, and report on  1989            Component cancelled after CIDA
previous year's activities                                                                withdrew financing (some work done by
PNE Wing MOE through Radio/TV
program and posters)
* Form DPECs, SPCs                                                 1988                   Esablished in 1991; later replaced by
Literacy Councils
* Introduce flexible scheduling in all districts                   1988                   Not done
Schtool Construction
* Appoint CEC staff                                                1988                   Slow progress with continual staffing
shortages throughout
* prepare construction program for shelterless schools             1988                   1988
* Complete maintenance study                                       1988                   Completed 1994, action on
recommendations pending.
* Prepare annual construction program                              1989-92                Done
* Agree on allocation for school maintenance                       1989-1992              Delayed until 1993; allocation for
maintenance in budget, but it is
insufficient and underutilized. SMCs
involved in repair in some districts.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - THIRD PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT - CR. 1821-PK
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
KEY OPERATING INDICATORS IN SAR/PRESIDENT'S REPORT
Quantitative           Quantitative                                                        Qualitative (Actual)
Component              (Appraisal Est.)          (Actual)               Qualitative (Appraisal Est.)
Management Improvement
Establishing ADPI        No. of staff appointed  Senior Staff= 100      Evidence that new administrative structure    ADPI established relatively quickly. Job
Admin.   = 311         performing functions as planned - plans  description notified; budgets were released
Support      309       prepared, improvements in personnel     and placed at the disposal of new structure;
AEOs      = 498        management underway, managers utilizing    3 inception seminars held between 1988 and
LCs       = 3,264      M&E, financial allocations made according   1991. ADPI succeed in getting some
PTC      = N.A.        to phased implementation schedule,      additional resources and attention to primary
coordination and relations with related  education, but did not integrate into the
institutions effective, program efficiently  Education Department as intended. Limited
managed (satisfactory adherence to resource  use of data-based decision-making
delivery, timeframes and financial outlays).  techniques.
Primary Education receiving required
attention/priority within DOE.
No. of staff trained   DEOs = 56 (3 times)
DDEOs = 200 (3 times)
AEOs = 1,300
o                                                     LCs  = 2,500
Master Trainers = 82
_______________________                   GCET's Principals = 17_
Monitoring & Evaluation    A Baseline survey    Completed as per        Survey: (a) data content is comprehensive    Baseline survey completed, but the
completed              requirement            regarding enrollments, teachers, facilities,    establishement of a comprehensive data-
learning materials, student achievements  base of education statistics failed.
and financial allocations; (b) design meets    Eventually this work was taken over by
professional standards of sampling and  EMIS, but with limited progress.
.____________________                          methodology; and (c) results are timely
No. of Rapid Low Cost                         M&E system designed, field tested,       M&E component taken over in substance by
Study (RLC) completed                         computerized; M&E manual prepared;       EMIS, which has only made slow progress.
annual M&E plans prepared, including    Studies conducted too late to inform policy-
requirements and results for RLCs. RLCs    formulation under PEP-Ill. Now used as
conducted according to accepted standards   inputs to SAP preparation process.
and utilizing agreed methodologies
approved in preliminary designs.
Annual Reports         Done with delays.      Annual report: (a) informs on progress over  As a result of the limited availability of
baseline survey; (b) analyzes capacity to  education statistics, the Annual Reports
deliver resources, achieve work plan targets,  could not fully monitor progress as
identify causes for shortfalls, formulates  intended.
corrective measures; and (c) provides for
,________________________   _______________________  ___________________ adjustments  in  project design, if  necessary



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - THIRD PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT - CR. 1821-PK
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
KEY OPERATING INDICATORS IN SARIPRESIDENT'S REPORT
Quantitative           Quantitative                                                         Qualitative (Actual)
Component              (Appraisal Est.)           (Actual)               Qualitative (Appraisal Est.)_I
* Audited Accounts        Annual Audit                                  | Audits are timely and meet professional  The audits met professionsl standards, but
I__ __ __ __ __ ___ __ __ __ _ __ __ __ __ _  l standards                               were often  significantly  delayed.
Curriculum and Materials Supply
* Curriculum              No. of staff appointed to   Higher level = 4   NBCT and CRDC Primary Education Units   PEU in CRDC functioned well; in NBCT
PE units               Support staff= 5       functioning and annual reports include staff  the intervention was not successful.
No. of staff trained   Staff trained = 7       assignments, work accomplished, study   Materials developed and field tested as
tours designed and completed, authors'  planned though with some delay. Teachers
No. of manuscripts     Completed manuscripts   contracts negotiated, texts and teacher's  guides a significant innovation  Integrated
_  completed               =39                    guides completed for integrated curriculum    curriculum introduced for grades 1-3, new
No. of Micro-tested    Completed Micro-tested  for Grades 1-3, teachers trained in new  textbooks marginally better than the old.
Units completed        units = 18             curriculum, plan integrated curriculum for    Only editorial changes made to books for
No. of Seminars/       Seminars/workshops      Grades 4-5 initiated                    grades 4 and 5.
Workshops held         held =8                                                                                                l
* Materials Supply        No. of Teaching Kits    Teaching kits = about    Work plan for specifications, prices and  Due to withdrawal of CIDA support for the
________________________  Supplied                18,000                  sources for materials supply completed; new  textbook subsidy, prices were sligthly
No. of Classroom       N.A.                    (lower) textbook pricing scheme approved    increased
Equipment supplied                             and printed on texts
No. of Teacher's Guides  A set of 18 to 65,000
supplied               schools.
Teacher Training
* Pre- and In- Service    No. of Learning         Appointed LCs = 3,264   Annual reports and training plans analysis    Teacher training component not successful.
Coordinators (LCs)                            indicates hours and topics provided to   Government closed all GCETs due to
appointed                                     teachers. Evidence of effective in-service  oversupply of PTC teachers from Primary
No. of Contact Hrs done  Target was 48 hours per  training. Evidence that new learning units    Training Units in High-schools Though
per LC/yr              school, not achieved due  are introduced, staff upgraded, and facilities   many additional LCs wcre hired, their
to staff shortages etc.    (libraries, laboratories) being provided  numbers, training, transportation etc.
No. of Teaching Guides   A set of 18 to 65,000                                         was insufficient to be effective as planned
Distributed            schools
No. of GCET staff      126 subject specialist
trained                and 17 principals
No. of GCET appointed   14 senior subject
specialists and 5 AV
Aid Technicians



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - THIRD PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT - CR. 1821-PK
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
KEY OPERATING INDICATORS IN SAR/PRESIDENT'S REPORT
Quantitative           Quantitative                         (                                Qualitative (Actual)
Component              (Appraisal Est.)           (Actual)        |       Qualitative (Appraisal Est.)     ll
 Female Teachers         No recruited            N.A.                    Data analysis indicates district-wise    N.A.
numbers of female teachers at post
No. trained (GCET)     N.A.                    compared with baseline data.
No. trained (AIOU)     N.A.
 Incentives for Rural    No. of Headmasters,     10 non-monetary         Evidence of implementation of non-       Not done
Teachers                Teachers, Asst. Teachers  incentives were       monetary incentives for teachers
received Incentives,   recommended by the
Salary Increments      study. Four fully and
compared with Total    two partially out of 10
Eligible               were already enjoyed by
the teachers. Rest were
under consideration of
DOE, but not
implemented
* Career Development      No. of Teacher          All positions of LCs    Career development plan completed,       Plan completed, but not fully implemented.
Promotions based on    were filled through     includes non-financial incentives
Training/Teaching      promotions              (opportunities for promotion based on
performance v/s                                performance/training, additional study from
seniority and other                            distance education and system for
factors                                        monitoring its implementation.
Communications/Demand Generation
No. of Radio Programs    Most aspects of the   Provincial arrangements operating; incentive  Most aspects of the component were
No. of Television       component were         awards generating interest in and        cancelled when CIDA withdrew financial
Programs               cancelled when CIDA     competition for increased enrollments    support Some promotional work done. e.g.
No. of Seminars         withdrew financial     among rural schools publicized; materials    posters; radio/TV ads by PNE Wing MOE;
No. of Mass Workshops  support                 for media campaign designed, field tested  and promotion work through AEOs/LCs
and utilized
School Construction
* Construction and        No. of New Girls                                Annual construction and maintenance      Maintenance study carried out in 1994, too
Maintenance             Schools completed       3868                    programs prepared and funded Newly      late to inform policy-formulation under
No. of Shelterless Girls                       completed classrooms fully utilized;     PEP-III. Some funding of repair through
Schools completed      2615                    equipped and staffed.                    school management committees is on-going.
No data available on school utilization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - THIRD PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT - CR. 1821-PK
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined        1
Study                          at appraisal/redefined                  Status          _            Impact of Study
Teacher Competency and Teacher       Develop a Teacher Competency Profile    Completed 1994              Results linked to teacher training
Training Certification               and assess teachers in the use of these  United Consultants Limited,  programmes showing little emphasis
competencies in the classroom        Lahore                         on these competencies
Punjab
The Primary School Teacher and their  Assess teachers' career development  Completed 1994                Completed too late to influence
Career Development                   prospects and evaluate alternative career   IER, University of Punjab  project outcomes. Findings utilized
development plans                                                  later on in future project preparation
Punjab
Non-monetary Incentives to Teachers in   Review current non-monetary incentives   Completed 1994         Completed too late to influence
Rural Areas                          to primary teachers to continue work in    Semiotics Consultants (Pvt)  project outcomes. Findings utilized
rural areas                          Limited                        later on in future project preparation
Punjab
Primary School Maintenance Study     Assess the cost of bringing the stock of    Completed 1994          Completed too late to influence
Government of Punjab owned primary   NESPAK, Lahore                 project outcomes. Findings utilized
Punjab                               schools to an acceptable standard, and                              later on in future project preparation
identify ways in which the community
can assist the Goverment in routine
maintenance
Teacher Competency, the Curriculum and  Identify how the role of teachers and the   Completed 1994       Completed too late to influence
Student Achievement                  existing curriculum affect student    IER, Univ. of Punjab          project outcomes. Findings utilized
achievement                                                        later on in future project preparation
Punjab
The Balanced Provision of Educational    Assess the adequacy of educational  Completed December 1994     Completed too late to influence
Facilities at Elementary, Secondary,  provision by local government area to  Semiotics Consultants (Pvt)  project outcomes. Findings of the
Higher Secondary and Tertiary Levels by  ensure smooth transition of students from   Limited             study utilized during SAP project
Local Government Areas               one level of institution to another without                         preparation process
forcing unnecessary dropouts
Federal
A Review of the Social Factors Affecting   Assess acceptability of co-education  Completed 1994          No action taken
the Acceptability of Co-education in the   primary schools to a community and the   MSJ Research Institute
Primary Years                        underlying social conditions
Federal



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - THIRD PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT - CR. 1821-PK
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study                          at appraisal/redefined                  Status                      Impact of Study
The Inter-provincial comparison of Civil   Develop profile of procedures for  Completed December 1995    Completed too late to influence
Works Programme (including           primary school construction and       National Building Research    project outcomes. Findings of the
maintenance) both under Projects and the  maintenance programs and compare them  Institute               study utilized during SAP project
Annual Development Budgets           with the recommendations of the study                               preparation process
Federal
The Causes of Low Enrolment and High  Identify and evaluate major causes of low   Completed December 1994  Completed too late to influence
Dropout                              enrolment and High Dropout at primary    Semiotics Consultants (Pvt)  project outcomes. Findings utilized
stage, and propose an appropriate plan of  Limited                  later on in future project preparation
Federal                              action
The Differential Achievement of Primary  Identify the most effective type of school  Completed 1995      Completed too late to influence
Age Students and the Cost Effectiveness  in terms of student cognitive and  Prof. Munawar Mirza and Dr.    project outcomes. Findings utilized
of Education by school types         behavioral achievements and per-student   Abdul Hameed, Univ. of Punjab,  later on in future project preparation
public cost, determine correlation
t'i   Federal                              between per-student cost and student
z-                                         achievement scores, and recommend the
most cost-effective school types
The Impact of Teacher Behaviour and  Review two previous studies on (a)    Completed August 1996         Completed too late to influence
Attitudes and the Learning Environment   Causes of Low Enrollment and High  Semiotics Consultants (Pvt)  project outcomes. Findings utilized
in the Classroom on the Enrollment and    Drop-out at the Primary Level and (b)  Limited                 later on in future project preparation
Retention of Primary School Students  Teacher Competency and Teacher                                     Completed too late.
Training Certification; Identify
Federal                              competencies based on behavior and
attitude having an impact on learning
environment, enrollment and dropout;
recommend conditions for good learning
environment with positive influence on
enrollment and dropout
The Delivery of Effective Education by    Identify teaching practices in multigrade   Completed 1996     Completed too late to influence
the Primary Teacher in Multigrade    classes, and the issues and problems of    Institute of Education and  project outcomes. Findings utilized
Teaching Situation: The Issues, Problems  multigrade teaching, and propose ways    Research, Univ. of Punjab  later on in future project preparation
and their solution                   and means of improving educational
Federal                              activities in multigrade classes.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - THIRD PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT - CR. 1821-PK
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study               I         at appraisal/redefined                   Status                      Impact of Study
A Review of the Factors Affecting    Review earlier Study on the Social    Completed August 1996         Completed too late to influence
Enrolment in Newly Established Co-   Factors Affecting the Acceptability of  Pakistan Institute of Social  project outcomes. Findings utilized
Educational Primary Schools          Co-education, report on actual social  Research                     later on in future project preparation
factors affecting progress in these co-
Federal                              educational primary schools, and prepare
booklet outlining success factors in
establishing co-educational primary
schools
The Impact of Village Education and  Determine extent of community         Completed September 1996      Completed too late to influence
School Management Committees for     participation in universalizing primary  S. Shujaat H. Zaidi        project outcomes. Findings utilized
Promotion and Expansion of Primary   education with focus on Village       MSJ Research Institute        later on in future project preparation
Education: The Factors in their Success   Education and School Management
and Failure                          Committees in promoting and expanding
primary education, and provide guidance
s    Federal                              in institutionalizing community
__________________________________    participation  in  the education  system
Motivating Parents to send their Primary-  Conduct an analytical review of  Completed October 1996
Age Children to School through Print and  motivational campaigns launched  S. Shujaat H. Zaidi
Electronic Media Campaigns           between 1986-95 to persuade parents to    MSJ Research Institute
send their children to primary schools
Federal



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT 1821-PK
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)       Actual (US$M)/a
Components               Local  Foreign   Total       Local  Foreign   Total
Management Improvement                  3.32     0.61    3.93
Curriculum Dev./Materials Supply       15.22    10.59    25.81
Teacher Training                      49.09     0.99    50.08
Communications/Demand Generation        2.95     0.59    3.54
School Construction                   91.69     8.96   100.65
Baseline cost                      162.27    21.74   184.01                        0.00
Contingencies:
Physical                              13.56    2.09    15.65
Price increase                         6.72     1.49    8.21
Subtotal                           20.28     3.58    23.86       0.00     0.00     0.00
Total project cost                 182.55    25.32   207.87      0.00     0.00   233.91
a/ Component-wise expenditure not available from GOP (see table 8B for category-wise
expenditures.
26



THIRD PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT 1821-PK
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)           Actual (US$M) /a
Local  Foreign                Local   Foreign
Source                 Costs   Costs   Total          Costs    Costs    Total
IDA:
Civil Works & Professional Fees         77.22     7.33    84.55       84.65     8.03    92.69
Furniture                                5.06     0.38     5.44   )                      8.41
Equipment                               12.71     3.19    15.90
Books                                      -        -     0.00
Salaries of Additional Staff            36.32     0.00    36.32   )       -    43.22    43.22
Daily Allowances for in-country training  1.60    0.00     1.60   )
Consumable Materials                     0.02     0.34    0.36
Operation & Maintenance                  0.77     0.06    0.83   )
Less Special Account Recovery                                                           -0.96
Subtotal                             133.70    11.30   145.00                        143.35
EU:
Civil works and Professional Fees        5.57     0.53    6.10
Furniture                                0.37     0.03    0.40
Expert Services                          2.24     1.01    3.25
Fellowships                              0.22     0.03    0.25
Subtotal                               8.41     1.59    10.00        0.00     0.00    14.27 /b
CIDA:
Equipment                                0.21     0.05    0.26    ClDA financing did not
Books                                    0.45     0.11    0.56    materialize
Expert Services                          0.55     0.25    0.80
Fellowships                              1.83     0.24    2.07
Consumable Materials                     0.44     7.57    8.01
Subtotal                               3.48     8.22    11.70        0.00     0.00     0.00
Domestic: Government of Pakistan
Civil Works & Professional Fees         14.60     1.38    15.98                            0
Fumiture                                 0.97     0.07     1.04                            0
Equipment                                3.45     0.87    4.32                              0
Vehicles                                 1.30     0.78    2.08                              0
Books                                    1.34     0.34     1.68                             0
Salaries of Additional Staff            15.56             15.56                            0
Daily Allowances for in-country training   -        -     0.00                              0
Consumable Materials                     0.01     0.15    0.16                              0
Operation & Maintenance                  0.32     0.03    0.35                             0
Subtotal                              37.55     3.62    41.17        0.00     0.00    76.29 /c
Total project financing              183.13    24.74   207.87        0.00     0.00   233.91
a/ Breakdown of foreign and local costs unavailable. Sources: IDA, EU, GOP.
b/ Converted to US dollar at ECU I = US$1.3079.
c/ DPI(EE), Punjab.                                  27



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - THIRD PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1821-PK)
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Present    Original     Revised
Agreement         Section         Covenant Type    Status    Fulfillment   Fulfillment           Description of Covenant              Comments
_   Date         Date
Credit       3.02 (a)           Project                                                The Borrower shall carry out the project in  Partial and
Implementation       CP                               accordance with an Action Program to be agreed    delayed
Program                                               upon between the Borrower (in consultation with   compliance.
the Province
3.02 (b)           Project                                                Annually exchange views with the Association on  In compliance
Implementation       C                                progress made in carrying out the project
Program                                              ____                                         _
3.02 (c)           Monitoring, review                                     Prior to the above exchange of views, submit  In compliance
and reporting        C                                reports on progress made in carrying out the
project, its action programs, and estimated project
expenditures for the next fiscal year
3.03               Flow and              C                                Make appropriate portions of the Credit available  In compliance
utilization of funds                                  to the Province
4.01 (b)           Accounts/Audit       CP                                Have accounts audited annually and furnish to  Partial and
IDA annual reports on project accounts by March   delayed
31 each year                                compliance
4.01 (c)           Accounts/Audit       CP                                Maintain records until completion, enable   Partial and
Association representatives to examine records,    delayed
and ensure that audited accounts include separate   compliance
opinion on operation of the Special Account
Schedule 4, para. I   Project           CP                                Strengthen the FCU through appointment of   Partial and
Management                                            qualified staff in sufficient numbers       delayed
compliance
Schedule 4, para. 2   Project           CP                                Employ appropriately qualified consultants  Partial and
Management                                                                                        delayed
l ___________  ___________________   _________________       ____________              .___________________________________________  com pliance
Schedule 4, para. 3   Project            C                                Furnish an annual training plan to the Association  In compliance
Implementation                                        by March 31 each year
Program
Schedule 4, para. 4   Project            C                                Appoint additional project staff in accordance  In compliance
Management                                            with a schedule, acceptable to IDA
Schedule 4, para. 5   Sectoral                              (a) 3/31/94   (a) Undertake a study to review existing    Item (a) delayed
Policy/Institutional    CD  (b) 2/28/90               incentives to teachers; and (b) implement non-  compliance. Itern
Action                                                monetary incentives for services in rural areas, in  (b) not in
I___________  _ I______  ____________  consultation with Provinces               compliance



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - THIRD PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1821-PK)
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
r                   Present    Original      Revised
Agreement         Section         Covenant Type    Status    Fulfillment   Fulfillment            Description of Covenant              Comments
1  - 1       Date         Date
Schedule 4, para. 6   Sectoral          CP     4/1/88       January       Introduce in all districts a flexible scheduling for   Policy introduced
Policy/Institutional                     1990         primary school hours and calendars, mutually  to change school
Action                                                satisfactory to the Borrower, the provinces and  year; it has since
IDA                                         been cancelled
Schedule 4, para. 7   Sectoral                  1992         1994         Introduce an integrated curriculum for primary  Delayed
Policy/Institutional  CD                              education, satisfactory to the Association   compliance
Action                                                                                                              I
Project      2.06               Project                                                The Province shall ensure site selection for school  SAPP site
Implementation       CP                               building construction under the project in  selection survey
Program                                               accordance with a school mapping exercise    suggests
acceptable to the Association               significant
deviations.
2.07               Sectoral Resource                                      The Province shall (a) complete by February 1,    (a) CIDA's
Allocation           CP     2/1/89                    1989, a review of its textbook prices for primary    assistance did not
education; and (b) thereafter establish a schedule    materialize; (b)
of such prices satisfactory to the Association  Textbook Board
prices increased
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _           _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  slightly
2.08 (a)           Sectoral                                               The Province shall (a) complete by December 31,   Draft report of the
Policy/Institutional  CD    12/31/88     March 1994   1988, a study designed to strengthen the    study completed
Action                                                Province's teacher career system            in March 1994;
study
disseminated
2.08 (b)           Sectoral                                               Initiate the implementation of reform measures, as  Not complied
Policy/Institutional  NC    4/1/89                    appropriate, by April 1, 1989                with. Dialogue
Action                                                                                             continues under
SAPP
3.02               Project                                                The province shall establish and maintain (a) a  Provincial and
Management           CP                               Provincial Primary Education Committee, (b) a  District Education
District Education Committee for each District.    Committees
and (c) a School Management Committee (SMC)   replaced by
for each school                             Literacy Councils
with more or less
the same
functions; some
SMCs established



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - THIRD PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1821-PK)
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Present     Original     Revised
Agreement          Section         Covenant Type    Status      Fulfillment   Fulfillment            Description of Covenant                Comments
_________      _      Date         Date      _
3.03 (a)            Project                                                  The Province shall (a) by December 31, 1988,  Completed after
Implementation       CD      12/31/88      July 1994     complete a study for maintenance requirements of  delay
Program                                                  primary schools
3.03 (b)            Sectoral Resource                                        Starting in FY1989, ensure sufficient provision  Allocations
Allocation            CP                                 for school maintenance of its primary schools  enhanced, but still
insufficient to
meet recom-
mended norms
3.04                Sectoral Resource             7/1/92                     The Province shall, beginning FY1993, increase    A one-time grant
Allocation           NC                                 the provision of learning materials per primary  of Rs 3,000 was
education student to a level mutually agreed upon   provided in FY93,
the Association and the Province              and an annual Rs.
1,000 onwards;
l~                                                                                                                                            Provision is
o_                                                                                                                                             inadequate
3.05                Project                                                  The province shall (a) take all measures to   Item (a) is in
Implementation        CP     4/30/88                    promote female teacher recruitment; and (b) by  compliance; Item
Program                                                 April 30, 1988, establish a plan for the ratio of  (b): current
female teachers to female students enrolled to  female
reach the ratio of not less than 1:40 by 12/31/93    teacher/female
student ratio is
1:20; insufficient
female teacher
deployment likely
to persist due to
still low female
enrollments and
high drop out rates



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT 1821-PK
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of               Planned               Revised                Actual
Project Cycle       Weeks    US$000    Weeks    US$000    Weeks             US$000
Preparation                n.a.       n.a.          20.2       45.9       20.2         45.9
Appraisal--Board           n.a.       n.a.         120.5      257.3      120.5        257.3
Board--effectiveness       n.a.       n.a.          15.4       28.3       15.4         28.3
Supervision                n.a.       n.a.         124.2      240.8      124.2        240.8
Completion                 n.a.       n.a.           4.0       13.7        4.0         12.5
TOTAL                         0.0        0.0      284.3      586.0      284.3        584.8
Board date: 6/16/87
Effectiveness: 4/25/88
31



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT 1821-PK
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Number                 Specialized      Implemen- Develop-
Stage of     Month/    of    Days in          staff skills      tation      ment         Types of
project cycle    year   persons   field        represented         status   objectives     problems
Identification      8/85      2        12   Education Specialist
Economist
Preparation         3/86       5       15   Education Specialist
Architect
Economist
Appraisal           9/86      11       20   Education Specialist
Economist
General Educator
Architect
Communications Spec.
Management Spec.
Post-Appraisal      2/87      4        10   Education Specialist
Economist
Architect
Management Spec.
Supervision I       1/88      4        23   Education Specialist        2         2      Effectiveness
Architect                                   Budget
Operations Officer                         Funding
Disbursement Officer
Supervision 11      10/88     4        16   Education Specialist        2         2      Proj. Mgt. &
Architect                                   Coordi-
nation
Supervision III     6/89      4        26   Education Planner           2         2
Education Specialist
Architect
Supervision IV      12/89     4        21   Education Planner           3         2      Funds flow
Education Specialist                        TA program delay
Architect                                   Procurement embargo
on durable goods
Supervision V       6/90      3        7    Education Specialist        2         2      Slow budget transfers
Architect                                  to executing agencies
Textbook Specialist
Supervision VI      12/90     4        23   Education Planner           3         2      Funds flow
Education Specialist                        Implementation delays
Textbook Specialist                         Project Management
Architect
Supervision VII     5/91      4        23   Education Planner           3         2      Construction delays
Education Specialist                        Funds replenishment
Textbook Specialist                         Foreign TA delays
Implementation Spec.
32



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT 1821-PK
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Number                 Specialized      Implemen- Develop-
Stage of     Month/    of    Days in          staff skills      tation      ment         Types of
project cycle    year   persons   field        represented         status   objectives     problems
Supervision VIII    11/91      5       13   Education Planner           2         2      Minor problems
Education Specialist
Implementation Spec.
Architect
Supervision IX      6/92      2        17   Education Specialist        2         2      Minor problems
Architect
Supervision X       12/92     2        17   Education Specialist        2         2      High teacher vacancy
Architect                                   rates; Proj. Mgt.
Supervision XI      4/93      3        4    Implementation Spec.        2         2      Limited scope super-
Architect/Planner                           vision. Proj. Mgt.
Supervision XII     8/93      5        8    Education Specialist        2         2      Minor problems
Implementation Spec.
Disbursement Officer
Textbook Specialist
Architect
Supervision XIII    4/94      5        11   Implementation Spec.        2         2      Slow school
Economist                                  construction
Education Specialist                        Disbursements
Financial Analyst                          Credit closing
Architect                                   extension
Supervision XIV     11/94     3        3    Implementation Spec.        S         S      Slow impl. progress
Operations Officer                          on school completion
Education Specialist                       and reform measures
Supervision XV      4/95      4        9    Education Specialist        S          S     Slow disbursements
Economist                                  Management staffing
Architect
Supervision XVI     10/95     4        12   Education Specialist        S         S      Teacher trg delays
Economist                                   due to delay in new
Architect                                   materials development
Completion          3/97      4        7    Education Specialist        S         S
Social Sector Spec.
Architect
33



Annex I
Page 1 of 9
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT (CR. 1821 -PAK)
Aide-Memoire
October 1995 Supervision Mission
1.    An IDA mission consisting of Paul Blay (mission leader), Bashir Parvez (task
manager) and Louis Vandevelde and Pervaiz Vandel (consultants) visited Pakistan during
the period October 7-31, 1995 to assess the progress under the Third Primary Education
Project (PEP III) and the Punjab Middle Schooling Project (PMSP) and to review
compliance on agreed actions under SAPP-Education. Under separate TOR, Paul Blay
worked also with the federal and provincial officials to further develop IDA strategy for the
education sector. Andrew Standley (EU) joined the deliberations and visits on PEP III.
Separate Aide-Memoire have been prepared for PMSP and SAPP-Education. The mission
visited school sites in Lahore, Kasure and Gujranwala, Sialkot and Gujrat Districts, besides
meeting GoPunjab's Education Minister, senior federal and provincial officials and the
concerned staff of implementation agencies including a number of elementary education
managers and field supervisors.
2.    The mission' s findings and necessary follow-up actions were discussed in a
provincial wrap-up meeting chaired by the Acting Chairman, P& D Board, Government of
Punjab on October 31, 1995 under the chairmanship of Joint Educational Adviser (PNE),
Ministry of Education, Government of Pakistan. The mission wishes to place on record its
appreciation of and gratitude for the cooperation and hospitality it received at various levels.
MAIN ISSUES IN PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
3.    The project is closing in about two and half months' time and at this stage the
mission has tried to gain a deeper understanding of the outstanding project implementation
issues and their post-project implications. Instead of specific actions the mission is
suggesting a broad strategy to sustain the gains of the project and to build further on them.
In sum, despite its late start, the project has covered significant ground and has laid a sound
foundation for follow-up work by GoPunjab both on its own and under succeeding donor
projects, such as PMSP, SAPP and ADB's Girls Education Projects. The post-project
agenda of work for GoPunjab is going to be as demanding as the project agenda itself. The
mission wishes the government all success.
4.    ADPI (PE).  The ranks of field supervisors have some persisting staffing gaps,
particularly among AEOs (49 vacancies, reported to the mission; the actual figure is likely to
be higher) and learning coordinators (764 vacancies, equivalent to 20 percent of the
sanctioned strength). The staff deficiency is more pronounced on the female side (the
mission estimates it to be as high as 40 percent or more).
5.    The distribution of supervision responsibility among the AEOs and LCs deviates
from agreed norms in a number of cases, which is not conducive to efficient supervision of
schools.
34



Annex 1
Page 2 of 9
6.    Embargoes on travel of field staff have been inhibiting supervision of schools, and
when some infrequent visits actually occur, these are not specifically addressed to
identification of school-specific problems and their solution. Classroom support to teachers
by learning coordinators is weak.
7.    Non-salary budget provision for educational materials is almost non-existent,
although this deficiency is being addressed under the SAPP umbrella (reportedly with
limited coverage and utilization so far).
8.    The distribution system for centrally-procured materials (such as teacher guides and
teaching kits ) or the monitoring of their actual use does not appear to be very efficient (the
mission, during its visits to schools, did not find any school that had received teacher guides
nor any that was using teaching kits).
9.    Without repeated dissemination of job descriptions and adequate training in
performing the required tasks, most field staff seem to be largely pre-occupied with
paperwork.
10.   School Construction. There is a heavy backlog of incomplete schools (over 1000
CEC schools and 1640 LG&RD schools). The need for accelerating the tempo of work by
the engineering organizations including the top supervision consultants is paramount,
otherwise the total construction program including additional units in GCETs is likely to
remain incomplete, when the project closes.
11.   Furniture Procurement. Furniture supply is delayed, and no more than one-third of
the schools constructed under the project are likely to receive the supply by the closing date.
Questions remain on the quality of furniture delivered! to be delivered.
12.   Technical Assistance. From the present overall performance of education managers
and field supervisors it appears that both the fellowship training abroad and the in-country
training have not fully enabled them to meet the requirements of their respective jobs. With
the support of two EU's consultants currently on job, a new needs-based cycle of training is
needed before the project closes.
13.   The long-term sustainability of training and development units (Management
Training Unit in the DSD and Primary Education Unit in the CRDC) established under the
project is uncertain in the post-project period.
14.   In-service training of teachers in the use of integrated materials has yet to achieve
significant coverage in view of the large numbers involved.
15.   Studies. While a recent national seminar has disseminated the outcomes of 10
studies carried out under the project, the covenanted actions emanating from them have yet
to be considered for selective approval and implementation. In particular, school
maintenance and teacher career development issues have yet to receive satisfactory and
sustainable resolution.
35



Annex I
Page 3 of 9
16.   Demand Generation. While there are examples of some successful School
Management Committees (SMCs), most of the SMCs have yet to develop and implement an
active charter of work in assisting the improvement of participation rates in rural primary
schools and in raising overall literacy levels in the province, particularly for females.
17.   Credit Disbursements. IDA will make disbursements up until April 30, 1996 from
the Credit r the EU Grant account for eligible project expenditures for goods and services
delivered or provided on or before December 31, 1995. Due to mandatory adjustment of all
fresh credit disbursement applications against the outstanding advance on the Special
Account of IDA and EU, the cash flow is likely to be constrained in the remaining months to
closing. This may necessitate bridge financing by GoPunjab, which could be eligible for
direct reimbursement to Provincial Account No. 1. Alternatively, IDA could directly pay to
individual contractors against valid contracts completed by December 31, 1995 and certified
by NESPAK. Meanwhile, Project entities should accelerate the submission of credit
disbursement requests for expenditures already incurred by CEC, LG&RD or C&W.
18.   Despite the best efforts of all concerned, there are likely to be number of contracts
for construction or supply of furniture that will remain incomplete by December 31, 1995.
These will nonetheless constitute valid contracts between suppliers and the Government of
Punjab. The Mission draws the attention of the GoPunjab to the need for a budgetary
provision to cover these payments.
19.   Implementation Completion Report (ICR). GoPunjab needs to initiate the
preparation of its contribution to the ICR in preparation for the Project Completion Mission
scheduled for March, 1995. In preparing the information needed for the report, an objective
assessment of the impact of various project components in necessary.
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION STATUS
COMPONENT 1:    Management Improvement and TA
20.   Out of the specific actions recommended by last mission, compliance has been
reported only on the approval of a Special Pay of Rs 300 p.m. for the female learning
coordinators (FLC). During schools visits the mission was concerned to observe a host of
unattended problems including: (i) schools in gross disrepair and lacking in basic facilities
of functional hand pumps and latrines; (ii) unhygienic conditions, despite the generous
provision of conservancy staff; (iii) lack of educational materials and non-availability of
even a minimal amount of money under non-salary budget to procure stationary, chalk and
other items; (iv) little evidence of receipt in schools of the all important teacher guides (said
to have been distributed a year ago) or of the use of teaching kits; (v) absent teachers; (vi)
schools located in depressions with stagnant water within and outside the school; (vii) lack of
evidence of regular supervisory visits and few entries in the school logbooks on problems
identified and solutions indicated; (viii) lack of awareness of supervisors and education
managers about their key job requirements or any sense of priority among the tasks to be
performed by them; (ix) field officials travel restricted to no more than four days a month
accompanied by inadequate TA/DA budget; (x) unneeded provision of new classrooms; (xi)
36



Annex I
Page 4 of 9
few active Schools Management Committees and scanty evidence of an active community
role in school affairs; (xii) significant number of vacancies among AEOs' and LCs"
positions; and (xiii) usable classroom space full of broken furniture (a phenomenon much in
evidence in Pakistani schools). While recognizing the limitations of the field evidence based
on a very small sample of schools, the mission cannot help noting that much more needs to
be done by field officials to apprise themselves of the accumulating and unaddressed or
under-addressed problems of rural schools.
21.   The issues and deficiencies listed above are unmistakable indicators of an ineffective
monitoring and management approach at various hierarchical levels. Lack of incentives for
good work and absence of an effective system of accountability enable the staff to get away
with a mediocre performance. Ignorance of key components of their jobs further compounds
the unsatisfactory performance of staff. The mission was also given to understand that local
political interventions in day-to-day affairs of schools contribute elements of insecurity
among staff willing to work and tend to protest inefficient and unwilling staff members and
teachers. In the final analysis empowerment of local communities in all school oversight
functions is the real answer to many of these problems. Till that occurs, the Education
Department should strive to:
- review individual performance of key functionaries (directors, DEOs and DDEOS) and
replace those lacking in motivation, initiative and management skills;
- insulate staff and the internal decision-making processes against external influences;
- review existing job parameters and prescribe specific performance indicators along with
establishing an effective M&E system with built-in mechanisms of enforcing accountability;
- fill staff vacancies and provide job induction/refresher training to staff on a continuing
basis;
- rationalize amount of needed resources for schools and for lower supervision levels, ensure
their timely availability by making them non-fungible and monitor their utilization.
22.   Technical Assistance. Two EU-finance consultants are currently developing training
programs for training needs analysis and enhanced use of diverse training methods.
Although delayed, these programs have a great potential for extricating the stereotyped
training regime from its relative sterility, as is evident from the uninspiring or unsatisfactory
performance of senior and middle-level elementary education managers as well as field
supervisors.
23.   The mission strongly recommends that full benefit be derived from the ongoing
normative work on making the trainers and the training responsive to actual job needs. The
new prototypes should actually be tried through a fourth cycle of training for DEs, DEOs,
DDEOs and Master Trainers and improved in the light f experience for post-project
institutionalization. This activity should be completed by the credit closing date.
24.   Studies. Five project studies were commissioned and completed at the provincial
level. In addition, the federal Ministry of Education commissioned 5 studies related with
37



Annex I
Page 5 of 9
aspects of primary schooling. The quality of the studies varies but taken together they do
identify several areas of action for the decision-makers. Some outcomes of the studies are
impracticable, such as, making the CEC a mega-department to carry out schools repairs.
However, some others concerning teacher development and incentives are worthy of
consideration and follow-up action. A selection of the study recommendations as endorsed
by a national seminar recently and having implications for GoPunjab follows:
- The PTC and the CT programs for the training of primary and elementary teachers should
be combined into a single program with a duration of 2 years (this has also been accepted by
a recent meeting of the Inter-Provincial Education Ministers Conference).
- The 4-tier formula of career development for college and secondary school teachers
should also be made applicable to primary school teachers.
- Greater emphasis is indicated in the teacher training programs on the mastery of the
subject matter content of primary education.
- A substantial part (up to 60%) of construction funds should be diverted to school
rehabilitation and provision of facilities in primary schools.
- Provide greater classroom support to school teachers introduce competency-based
curriculum for teacher training and make the assessment of teacher performance
competency-based.
- Focus on the development of professional teacher trainers.
Component 2;       Teacher Training and Development
25.   Due to a glut of trained teachers, the pre-service training programs has been
suspended for 2 years in the GCETs and instead training courses have been started for
drawing and oriental subjects' teachers of elementary schools. In addition, in-service
courses have been introduced in the GCETs for primary and elementary teachers under the
ADB's Teacher Training Project. Whether various donor-assisted programs of teacher
training follow an integrated approach needs to be assured, otherwise it would result in
wastage and confusion.
26.   The mission understands that the master training program for the training of learning
coordinators in the use of integrated materials was inadequate in both content, duration and
methodology. As a result, the LCs' do not possess the necessary training skills to further
train the teachers in off-the-classroom situation or support them in the classrooms. This
deficiency needs to be rectified without further delay in the new cycle of need-based training
program being developed in the DSD.
27.   To catch up with the heavy backlog of primary teachers, who have received no
training in the use of integrated materials or the teacher guides associated with them, the
38



Annex I
Page 6 of 9
mission urges the Education Department to revive and effectively monitor the practice of
setting aside the monthly pay day for the training of teachers in Center Schools.
28.   Now that a start has been made in deploying graduate teachers in schools, who are
supposed to teach all primary subjects including the subject of English, it is necessary to
induct these teachers also in the use of teacher guides and primary teaching kits. Necessary
organizational arrangements need to be made for this purpose.
Component I        Curriculum Development and Materials Supply
29.   In concert with the Material Development Teams set up by the ADPI, the Primary
Education Unit (PEU) of the CRDC has made a major contribution in the development and
pilot testing of the integrated materials. This unit in the post-project period should be used to
monitor the use of these materials and develop them further.
30.   To sustain the specialized focus of the CRDC on curricular issues of primary
education, GoPunjab should protect the PEU from losing its separate identity by being
disbanded or by being assimilated in the CRDC's generalized structure.
31.   Books, Under the Project, the Text Book Board produced integrated textbooks for
Grades 1-3 covering Urdu, Islamiyat and social studies, together with some science concepts.
A science workbook was prepared separately. These books received the concurrence of the
Curriculum Wing. It is understood that the Federal Government is now asking Punjab to
modify the integrated books to incorporate the science workbooks. A lot of effort and cost
went into producing these books; modifying them now would involve scrapping the teachers
guides produced under the project and recently distributed.
32.   If there are any complaints about the books, a committee of experts should review
them on the basis of a thorough objective evaluation of their use in the classroom (after
giving time to build up experience with using the books), and of the costs of making a
change, before making recommendations for actions. The books should not be changed until
this objective review has been conducted.
Component 4:       Management Training
33.   This has been a weak program, primarily due to its routinization and the reluctance
or non-availability of primary education managers in required numbers to participate in it.
Another weakness has been the inadequacy of TA support. Notwithstanding these problems,
the Management Training Unit of DSD has completed 3 cycles of training for middle-level
managers and supervisors and an infrastructure exists to institutionalize ongoing support to
management staff in developing their professional skills for meeting the challenging task of
administering a large and expanding primary education enterprise.
34.   The mission strongly recommends that the MTU of DSD should be strengthened to
enable it to function as a central resource in identifying management training needs at
various levels on a continuing basis, and implementing training programs, as well as when
39



Annex I
Page 7 of 9
needed contracting training programs to the best training providers.
CQmponent 4:       Communication/Demand Generation
35.   With the change of government in the province, planned activities and initiatives on
improving participation rates do not seems to have made much progress. The first meeting
of the Provincial Literacy Council is yet to take place and the District Literacy committees
have likewise not shown much activity. The full implementation of the Compulsory Primary
Education Act is also delayed. Yet a major new initiative launched by GoPunjab is the
installation of a formation of Additional Deputy Commissioner (Literacy), initially planned
to be one in each district but later changed to be one in each of 8 divisional districts. For
overall monitoring, a new position of Additional Secretary (Literacy) has been created in the
Education Department and filled. The early reports on the new initiative have mixed signals.
The mission's position on this intervention is that it merits trialling, before it is implemented
throughout the province. Meanwhile, the agreed proposal on the recruitment and
deployment of 3000 teams of community motivators (in conjunction with the recruitment of
graduate teachers) needs to be implemented to mobilize community involvement in
enhancing primary school participation and retention rates.
36.   School Management Committees (SMCs): While in a few cases SMCs are reported
to have demonstrated initiatives in providing additional physical inputs to schools (boundary
walls, repair and maintenance, and pumps etc.), the overall record of their performance,
particularly in increasing and sustaining enrollments, is not very encouraging. Anecdotal
evidence suggests that: (i) the composition of SMCs needs a major review to increase the
number of main stake-holders, namely, the parents; (ii) their interaction with the field
education officials is weak or under-defined and they have no direct access to allocated
resources for school maintenance and procurement of materials; and (iii) the SMCs need
training and intermediation through local NGOs/CBOs. Where such intermediating bodies
are not available, GoPunjab may need to catalyze them. Another strategy that could be
employed is to widely disseminate the experience of the successful EMCs.
37.   With all emphasis at its command, the mission suggests that GoPunjab should go all
out in making SMCs active through intermediation and training, empowerment and enhanced
involvement.
Component 5:       School Construction
38.   Without due regard to its capacity and to the need to complete all committed
construction by credit closing date, the CEC have continued to tender new works before
completing those in hand. Also, the LG&RD have not been able to accelerate their efforts to
complete the on-going schools. There are thus 1022 CEC schools and 1640 LG&RD schools
awaiting certifications by NESPAK or in progress. In the remaining time to closing, the
estimated number of schools that can be completed (certified by NESPAK as being
completed schools, GoPunjab may have to end up paying for as many as 1762 schools from
its own resources. One way to reduce GoPunjab's eventual liability is for the CEC to cancel
work orders on tendered but unstarted schools.
40



Annex I
Page 8 of 9
39.   The mission has noted with greater concern that 7 out of 42 additional academic and
residential units in GCETs still remain incomplete, although their construction was started
years ago. The Education Department should investigate why it has not been possible for the
CEC to complete these units so far to the satisfaction of NESPAK and ensure their
completion without further loss of time.
40.   Under the SAPP umbrella, the C&W Department has been managing the
construction of about 2000 additional schools and provision of facilities in about 2000
additional schools and provision of facilities in about 1000 existing schools. IDA agreed to
the use of project money to reimburse part of GoPunjab's expenditure incurred by the C&W
Department. However, the draw-down of IDA funds has been very slow on this account and
needs to be accelerated.
CQmponent 6:       School Furniture
41.   Against the procurement orders of furniture placed for 2225 schools, 181 schools
have yet to receive the supply. IDA has issued no-objection certificates for a further
procurement of furniture for 1200 schools in 4 Divisions. However, in the remaining months
to closing, it is not likely that the supply would be completed in time. To avoid lapses in
quality of furniture yet to be delivered, close monitoring on the part of the Divisional
Purchase Committees would be crucial during the closing months of the project. The
mission notes that no more than one-third of the project schools would be received furniture
by the time the project closes.
Audit Rpors
42.   While IDA has up to now accepted the audit certificates that it has been sent on
education projects in the Punjab, the certificates and the accompanying audit reports may not
always appear to present a full picture of the project accounts and financial statements,
statements of expenditure supporting disbursements, and the special accounts. In particular,
IDA has been receiving summary accounts, separately for the works and other project
components, with no assurance covering the whole project or that the two sets are reconciled.
Management letters have not always been provided commenting on the adequacy and
reliability of the accounting systems of the agencies responsible for project implementation,
on their procedures for safeguarding the assets created by the project, and the other matters
normally expected in an audit of an operation financed by the World Bank. Standard terms
of reference for such an audit were discussed with the Director-General Audit and the
Director-General Audit (Works), who have agreed to prepare a proposal for the audit of the
accounts of PEP III and PMSP for 1994-95.
43.   It would be helpful for a draft proposal to the available for discussion with the
Department of Education and IDA by October 31, 1995 (that is, prior to the visit by IDA
staff to Punjab for the SAPP Wrap-up meeting on November 1). If the Auditor-General's
office is to perform additional work, especially involving travel, it is reasonable that their
additional costs be met from the Middle Schooling Credit.
41



Annex I
Page 9 of 9
Federal Componen
44.   With CIDA's withdrawal from the Demand Generation Component and GoPunjab's
decision to forego implementation of Open University's Component on female teacher
training, the scope of the MOE's components of the project was reduced considerably. The
PNE and Curriculum Wings of MOE have implemented TA and the Curriculum Wing has
established a Primary Education Unit. Along with 5 project studies done in Punjab, 5 federal
studies have also been completed and all 10 studies were discussed and disseminated in a
recent national seminar. The mission commends the initiative of MOE in holding this
seminar. The mission hopes that the outcomes of the seminar would be used to review
existing policies on primary education development both at the federal and the provincial
levels.
45.   The mission understands that that Curriculum Wing of MOE is considering the
commissioning of some other studies, particularly on integrated materials developed in
Punjab and plans to use credit funds for this purpose. The mission sees no benefit accruing
from the proposal now, when the credit is due to close soon. The mission also feels that
before any meaningful evaluation can be attempted, more time should be spent in the
classroom use of the integrated materials, particularly after the teachers in Punjab's schools
have had the benefit of training in the use of new textbooks and teacher guides.
Accordingly, the mission does not support the use of credit funds on the proposed studies,
whether already commissioned or yet to be commissioned. During the federal wrap-up
meeting, MOE's Curriculum Wing indicated that the studies already commissioned would be
financed through alternate sources.
46.   The mission has suggested to MOE to have the performance of the PEU in the
Curriculum Wing assessed to decide on its continuance or otherwise after the closure of the
project. The mission hopes to receive a copy of this assessment before project closure.
47.   In concert with GoPunjab, the MOE needs to start the preparation of the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for its components under the project. This would
facilitate the work of the IDA's Completion Mission of March, 1996.
48.   In view of the delay experienced in settling the issue of outstanding amount under the
SA of PEP II Project after closure, the mission wishes to remind the PNE Wing of MOE to
ensure the return of the unspent balance of the SA on this project well in time.
42



Annex 2
Page 1 of 8
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO ICR
INTROD UCUTION
1.    The PEP III was launched during the year 1987-88 with the help of World Bank,
sponsored by Ministry of Education Government of the Pakistan, Education Department and
executed by Provincial Education Department Punjab. The improvement of Primary
Education in priority of every policy and plan including the present policies and plans.
2.    The time required for the completion of the Project was initially 1987-88 to 1992-93
which was subsequently extended upto 30.06.96 as a result of mutual understanding between
the World Bank authorities and the sponsoring agencies. Keeping in view the huge task
which remained incomplete by that time as per discussion of the authorities. Actually the
project has been closed on 30.06.1996. The last four months i.e. 01.07.1996 to 31.10.1996
was closing period.
PROJECT DESCRIPTI
1. Name of Project                 Primary Education Project III
2. Approval Status with dates      Approved by ECNEC on 18.2.1988 (Credit
of Approval and agency          became effective 25.4.1988)
3. Location                        Whole of the Punjab
4. Sponsoring Agency               (i) Ministry of Education Govt. of Pakistan and
(ii) Provincial Education Department Punjab
5. Implementing Agency             Provincial Education Department Punjab
6. Year of start and completion    1987-88; 1995-96
7. Obligation of the Provincial    About 31% will be paid by Govt. of the Punjab on
Government                      overall basis.
8. Total Cost of Punjab PC-1       Local    =    1319.85 Million Rs
Foreign   =   2942.91 Million Rs
Total    =   4261.86 Million Rs
9. AmountofCredit                  IDA       =    2448.850(US$141.552  )
EEC      =      295.484 (US$  17.98  )
CIDA     =      197.680 (US$  11.42  )
GOP      =    1319.950 (US$  76.29  )
Total    =    4261.86 (US$  246.342)
43



Annex 2
Page 2 of 8
10. Date of opening of Assignment
Account
(a) In Local Currency             06.08.1989
(b) In Dollars                    21.03.1989
(c) Bank                          National Bank of Pakistan Main Branch, Lahore
GOALS AND OBJECTIVES
The principal goal of the operation is to support the Government plan to achieve
universal primary education by the year 2000.
The operation would be concentrated in the Punjab Province but have national
aspects. The specific objectives of the project are as under:
a) To develop and strengthen institutional capacity to plan, manage and implement
the investment program;
b) To support the development and institutionalization of policy reform; and
c) To assist in the introduction of innovative components in the program.
The institutional of development objective would be achieved by strengthening:
i)   the Directorate of Public Instruction (DPI) to clearly deliberate a hierarchy
for the management of primary education;
ii)   the National Bureau of curriculum and Textbooks (NBCT) and the
curriculum research and development center (CRDC) Punjab to implement
a programme of curriculum reform;
iii)  the Provincial Education Extension Center (PEEC) and Government college
for Elementary Teachers in the Punjab to assist in the reorganization and
strengthening of the pre-service and in-service teacher training program;
iv)   the National Institute for Communications through Education (NICE) for
the development and implementation of a communication/demand
generation program; and
v)    establishment of a Civil Engineering Cell (CEC) to manage supervise &
implement the school construction program.
The policy reform objective would be achieved by working with both National and
Provincial Governments to institute policies and programs for:
i)   the career development of primary school teachers;
ii)   the recruitment, training and appointment of more female teachers;
iii)  improving the incentive package to encourage more teachers to serve in
rural areas;
iv)   increasing financial provision for the annual supply of pedagogic
materials;
v)   the maintenance of primary school buildings; and
44



Annex 2
Page 3 of 8
vi)   parental and community involvement in school management.
The innovation objective would be achieved by directly supporting:
i)   the development of a communications/demand generation program;
ii)   the reform of pre and in-service teachers training; and
iii)  the introduction of a two stage curriculum in primary schools.
These program support activities are expected to result in increased enrollments,
improved efficiency & improved quality of instruction.
GENERAL OBJECTIVES OF THE PROJECT
Over the short term, within the project life, the project would aim at:
(i)   Improving participation rate and reduce dropouts;
(ii)  Improving teacher effectiveness and the quality of instruction;
(iii)  Raising the standard of pupils achievement;
(iv)   Finding low cost solutions for achieving these objectives; and
(v)   Institutionalizing project activities within the educational structure.
Improved teacher effectiveness would be achieved through: (a) increased teacher
knowledge and motivation; (b) external support in the form of the better management and
guidance; (c) improved instructional materials and professional in-service and pre-service
training.
Improved participation rate and subsequent reduced dropout in Primary Education
would be achieved through: (a) increasing its relevance and benefits within village
communities; (b) encouraging better community involvement; and (c) increasing enrollment
of girls. The introduction of the Mosque School may also help considerably in achieving this
objective.
BROAD COMPONENTS OF THE PROJECT
The project would consist of following broad components:-
a)    Physical facilities
b)    curriculum improvement
c)    Fellowship - foreign and local training
d)    Technical assistance and expert services and staff development
e)    Strengthened supervision and implementation Machinery, i.e.
establishment of Additional Directorate of Public Instruction (Primary
Education) at Lahore.
f)    Operational Cost and Maintenance.
MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT
The Elementary Education Unit has absolutely been independently working and
owing to separate establishment adequate achievement has been made though not full, on
45



Annex 2
Page 4 of 8
account of transfer of Project Managers/Directors in the past and experiencing certain
Administrative implement in the start of the separate Elementary unit which removed by
passage of time.
COMMUNICATION/DEMAND GENERATION
The school management committees and parents teachers associations have been
formed to motivate the general public for the betterment of the academic institutions
preferably in rural areas. The SMCs and parent teacher associations have started taking
active part in this respect and effective results are experienced.
CO-FINANCING
The CIDA actually withdrew its total financing (US$11.7 million) from the project,
hence the Text Book Board managed the printing refused to reimburse the expenditure
incurred during extension period of the project i.e. from 01.12.1996 We are really thankful
to IDA, the Education and EEC for the fulfillment of their commitments.
BANK PERFORMANCE
The performance of World Bank and National Bank during the Project life was very
much encouraging. The cooperation extended by them has been appreciable.
REIMBURSEMENT POSITION
IDA Credit                EC Grant
Original amount    104330000.000 XDR          10800000.000 XEU
Total disbursed    101392540.040 XDR          7619051.000 XEU
Balance               2937459.960 XDR         3180979.000 XEU
COMPONENTS OF THE PROJECT
A. Civil Works
Physical Targets
(i) New Girls Primary Schools                                     = 3586
(ii) Shelterless Schools                                          = 5514
(iii) Units in Elementary Teachers Training Colleges              =  42
46



Annex 2
Page 5 of 8
Achievements
CEC  LG&RD
1. Completed                              = 5367      2243
2. No. of C&W schools adopted             = 2000          -
Total             7367      2243
Most of the school construction and maintenance work completed in last year due to
the involvement of three to four agencies. However, the targets were achieved.
B. Furniture
Physical Targets
(i) Rooms of shelterless schools  =     11028
(ii) New Girls P/Ss (Rooms)       =      7172
(iii) Unit of GCETS               =        42
(iv) Offices                      =       249
Physical Targcls
Units in Elementary Teacher Training College =
42 Furniture for 3938 Schools provided. Furniture to offices also provided.
The short fall in the procurement of furniture took place mainly in the preparation of
standardized design, production capacity, issues and serious procurement problems.
C. Equipment
Physical Targets
(i)  Typewriter
(ii) Photo Copier
(iii) Teaching Kits
(iv) Computer with printer
(v) Projectors
(vi) Duplicating Machines
(vii) Learning Materials for schools
Acbievements
Typewriters/photo copier, projectors and duplicating machines purchased, Teaching
Kits for 18000 schools purchased. Computers purchased.
Learning materials to 55910 classrooms.
47



Annex 2
Page 6 of 8
According to the training schedule/cycle of the DSD, it was not possible for all the
teachers to receive the training kits, however, the teachers who received such training have
been using the teaching kits in their schools effectively and positive results are there, which
will be further improved.
D. Vehicles
Physical Targets
(i) Vehicles for field office                 =  70
(ii) Motor Cycle for AEOs and Sub-Engineers   = 488
(iii) Bicycles for L/Coordinators             = 2626
Achievements
(a) 70 Vehicles have been provided to all the Divisional District and other field offices.
(b) 488 Motorcycles purchased. Motorcycles have been provided to AEOs and Sub-
Engineers on hire purchase basis.
(c) 1578 bicycle purchased and provided to LCs on hire basis.
E. Books
Physical Targets
(i) Books for CRDC, PEEC and GCETS
(ii) Production of Teacher Guides
Achievements
(i) Books purchased by CRDC & EEC
(ii) Books for GCETS have been purchased by EEC
(iii) Textbooks and Teachers guides for classes I to V have been printed by Punjab
Textbook Board and distributed on Tehsil level.
Books for CRDC DSD and GCETs provided teachers guides were distributed to the
Dy.D.E.Os (M&F). Textbooks were revised and experimented in all the districts after
revision and improvement and after the approval of the printed by the Punjab Textbook
Board. The Project could not get it printed or its not because the supply of paper under the
CIDA grant could not be arranged as CIDA withdrew its aid. These books are in the use of
teachers which they are using properly. Better result are coming forth.
F. Technical Assistance
Physical Targets
(i) Foreign Adviser
48



Annex 2
Page 7 of 8
(ii) Local Adviser
(iii) Local Consultant
Achievements
(i) 5 Studies completed
(ii) Materials for classes I to V have been developed and completed.
All the five studies were completed during the project life. Though their preparation
took long time beyond expectations.
G. Training
Physical Targets
Training of Primary School Teachers.
Achievements
Total number trained so far is given as under:
1st Cycle  2nd Cycle  3rd Cycle
1 1. DEOs              |        51          56         29
2. Deputy DEOs                 210          97         94
l 3- AEOs                      849         691        482
4. Learning Coordinators      2136        2424       2000
5. Master Trainers              33          82         51
As far the pre-service training is concerned, it was provided both in GCETs & higher
secondary schools. The adequate staff supporting material concerning the training was
available in the GCETs, but it lacks in the higher secondary school. The units were closed
for the pre-service training on account of the saturation of the trainees rather for over and
above of the required number. The in-service training is going on. However, results of both
pre-service and in-service training are very encouraging and hopeful. As regards the posting
of LCs, some post remained vacant for certain period due to prevailing criteria for the
selection of LCs however, the LCs, DEOs Cy.DEOs AED and master trainers have received
training in three phases. The services/Performance of the trainees have proved to be useful
to a large extent and they will be beneficial in future.
H. Salaries and Allowances
Physical Targets
1. Establishment of Additional Directorate
2. Divisional Wing with Deputy Director as their head
49



Annex 2
Page 8 of 8
3. District Staff with Deputy DEO (Primary Education)
4. Staff for CRDC and PEE
5. a) Senior S.S. in GCET      = 14
b) A. V. Aid Technician     = 5
Staff at Tehsil Headquarters
6. Assistant Education Officer=  498
7. Teachers                    = 15900
8. L. Coordinators             =  3264
Achievements
Provision of staffing is fully implemented.
1. Operation and Maintenance
Physical Targets
Operation & Maintenance Cost include the expenditure on maintaining vehicles,
computers, equipment etc. provided to various officers/institutions.
Achievements
Repair & maintenance of vehicles, computers equipment etc.
J. Consumable Material
Physical Target
(i) The largest component under this head is printing paper for guides and textbooks
which is to be provided by Canadian International Development Agency.
(ii) Consumable material included stationary and other articles needed for use in CRDC,
PEEC, GCETS, ADPI office and others.
Achievementa
Government of Pakistan Ministry of Education intimated that CIDA refused to
participate. The Government of Pakistan were requested by Government of Punjab
Education Department to explore possibility of getting some help for paper from UNICEF
and NORAD. These agencies have also refused to provide paper. Printing of materials have
however been completed.
Total Financial Allocation     4261.860 million
Total Expenditure              5385.426 million
50



Attachment 1
Page I of 2
EU FINANCED TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE INPUT
Chief Technical Adviser/Chief Project Coordinator (British Council)
Mr. M.B. Atkinson                                    72 working months *
Adviser in Education Management Training (DSD) (GET/CEC)
Mr. Alex McLellan                                    20 working months
Adviser in Curriculum and Evaluation (CRDC)
Mrs. Mairi McLeod                                    20 working months
Adviser in Management Information System (MIS)
Mr. J.V. Koch                                        20 working months
Adviser in Curriculum (Curriculum Wing, FMOE)
Mr. J. Busbridge**                                   11.67 working months
Total                                                143.67 working months
* According to the Contract Agreement a year is calculated as 10 working months.
** Mr. J. Busbridge resigned for personal reasons prematurely and was not replaced.
Short-term Foreign Advisers
PC-1 Allocation all for the Federal components converted into 6 man-months for Punjab.
The FMOE did not utilize the remaining person months.
Curriculum Development (CRDC)
3 person months (Dr. B. Smith and Mrs. S. Williams) April 1995
Impact Analysis and Training Methodology (DSD)
3 person months (Mr. R. Gough and Mr. G. Kelly October-December 1995)
Total Foreign Technical Assistance 143.67 working months
European Technical Assistance was refused by the Government as regards the design and production
of textbooks as the chairman and staff of Punjab Textbook Board do not consider they need an
adviser in textbook production and distribution. The professional educational component of the
proposed TORs has now been given to the CRDs Adviser on Curriculum Development.
Foreign Training (Punjab + FMOE)
The programmed was funded by EC under the GET/CEC Contract.
Plan (Modified PC-Is)           Actual
No. of Persons  Person-months    No. of Persons  Person-months
Punjab             76              127               76             129
Federal             15              30               18               39
Total             93              157              96              168
The PC-1 Allocations were exceeded due to the EC agreeing to fund additional training for 5 persons
for 15 person-months in early 1995.
51



PROJECT ALA 87/16: Primary Education in Rural Areas
Project Disbursements as of March 19, 1997
Disbursement Allocation (ECUs)                                   l
Financial Year                            Technical Assistance & Fellowship                  Civil Works &
Furniture
British Council    GET/CEC     Punjab Local Account   Federal Local    Trust Fund    Total Disbursement
Account      Account/IDA         (ECUs)
Disbursements thru 91                   280,944                             160,000                                            440,944
1992 Disbursements                      110,419       710,124                   _        _          _                          820,543
1993 Disbursements                      108,477      1076,538               217,000          94,919       1,960,000          3,456,934
1994 Disbursements                      93,572        206,767                17,884                       5,200,000          5,518,223
1995 Disbursements                      85,246        113,351                                10,115        459,051             667,763
1996 Disbursements                      44,391         41,388                                             2,180,949          2,266,727
Total Actual Disbursement up to         723,049      2,148,167              394,884         105,034       9,800,000         13,171,135
19 March 1997
Refunds*                                                                                                (2,180,949)         (2,180,949)
Net Disbursements                       723,049      2,148,167              394,884         105,034       7,619,051          10,990,156
Total Technical Assistance &                                                              3,871,125
Fellowship                                                             _                          _ _
Total Civil Works & Furniture                                                                             7,619,051
t -



Attachment 2
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT - CREDIT 1821-PAK
Completion of PEP-III Financed Civil Works
Table 1: Number of schools constructed under PEP-III.
Planned in      Total      Built by    Built by    Built by
the SAR    achievement    CEC        LG&RD        C&W
Female -- shelterless schools  5,200        2,615        2,068        232        315
Female -- new schools       5,100        3,868        1,269      1,774        825
Male -- shelterless schools      0         2,252        2,023         18        211
Male -- new schools            0          779            0        133        646
Total schools          10,300        9,514        5,360      2,157       1,997
Units in GCETs              23           42    l
Table 2. Planned and actual completion of the construction program.
Agency       Planned Completion        Actual
as per SAR         completions
School completed before       CEC                                    1,985
original project closing    LG&RD                                   402/1
date (6/93)
TOTAL               10,300              2,387
School completed by the       CEC                                    5,360
final project closing date  LG&RD                                    2,157
(6/96)               C&W                                     1,997
TOTAL               10,300              9,514
1. 400 schools were claimed to have been completed but only 25 schools were certified out
of 150 visited by the top supervision consultants.
53



!        --4



MAP SECTION



I



PAKISTAN
THIRD PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
PUNJAB PROVINCE
MAIN RIVERS                                    ""-' DIVISION BOUNDARIES
0   SELECTEDTOWNS                   ~                   PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
f   NATONAL CAPITAL t'-  INTERNATIONALBOUNDARIES
MAIN ROADS
I                       I           z          I                     -  .TI KI .
70'                     71n           .        7                   _   .73  -.    73  7'                              75'
ISLAMA-- )                          JAMMU &
L                          ~~~~KASHMIR
( tRAWALPIN.D!  .   .
-33 '                                                      *     ^                                      _.<;<_  _                <                         333
0   20    4'IO  E'  RIO    15-
KILOMETERS J
32'  '                                                                             . Khus/'b 1 . /   w   _    3
-32~                                             j                     GODFJA             4    **,,!           ,               ~"      8'-';3e
LAHOR~ 
N. W. F. P.                                                        F >  I,tA F;ljCALABAK                                          . ,,,"'"  ""K_
31'                                         0
30'~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
J     D G 'KH AN                                      /                                      (
Toion    ^7   j            yiXuan          AU LTAN              /           -i6'<          j
2L?'                                                                              A0 ,                                 TJ"NISAN! j
UZREEISTA  103 0157'K29'-   7i
AfGHANISTAN    -  'I'
PU        NJBNJAd,                                                                                                          '_      AOlfsAN6 r             2
S8                                  I N   D                        olw   n               5  . mo do n hp.lnL s Y L~                        5  h   o!   m   t) S9d75  INDIA  E
- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
INDIA. D
03                ~~~~~~~~70:               71'                      723                      73'                                                          N~_









IMAGING
Report No.:        18831
Type:     ICR



