Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6492-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRrD PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
May 28, 1987
South Asia Projects Department
Edusation and Human Resources Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance ot
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
US$ 1.00 = Rs 17.3
Rs 1.00 = US$ 0.05
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
SCHOOL YEAR
April - March
GEOGRAPHIC AND ADMINISTRATIVE UNITS
PUNJAB
Number
Division  -  The largest unit of a Province...........o..  8
District  -  The unit below the Division and the
dominant unit for school management.......... 29
Tehsil    -  Unit below the District......................   90
Markaz    -  Comprised of 6-8 Union Councils............. 292
Union Council -  The lowest administrative unit
(10,000 population)..     ......        . .2367
Village   -  Basic organized unit..................... 24,772
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADP     -   Annual Development Plan
ADPI    -   Additional Directorate of Public Instruction
(Primary Education) (Punjab)
AIOU    -   Allama Iqbal Open University
AEO     -   Assistant Education Officer
AEPAM   -   Academy for Educational Planning and Management
ADP     -   Annual Development Plan
BPS     -   Basic Pay Scale
C&W     -   Communicationi and Works Department
CEC     -   Civil Engineering Cell (Punjab)
CIDA    -   Canadian Internati .nal Development Agency
CE      -   Consulting Engineers
CDWP    -   Central Development Working Party
CRDC    -   Curriculum Research and Development Center (Punjab)
DEO     -   District Education Officer
DEEC    -   Division Education Extension Center.
DPI     -   Directorate of Public Instruction (Punjab)
DOE     -   Department of Education (Punjab)
ECNEC   -   Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
FCU     -   Federal Coordinating Unit
GCET    -   Government College for Elementary Teachers
LAMEC   -   Literacy and Mass Education Commission
LC      -   Learning Coordinator
LGRD    -   Local Government & Rural Development Department
MOE     -   Ministry of Education
NICE    -   National Institute for Communication through Education
NBCT    -   National Bureau of Curriculum and Textbooks
PC-l    -   Planning Commission Form 1
PEEC    -   Provincial Education Extension Center (Punjab)
PDWP    -   Provincial Development Working Party
PNFW    -   Primary and Non-Formal Wing - Ministry of Education
PTC     -   Primary Teacher Certificate
RLC     -   Rapid Low Cost Study
SMC     -   School Management Committee
UCEC    -   Union Council Education Committee
UNDP    -   United Nations Development Program
UPE     -   Universal Primary Education



FOR OFMCUAL USE ONLY
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents                       Page No.
BASIC DATA                                                      ill
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                      iv
I.      PRIMARY EDUCATION IN PAKISTAN/PUNJAB PROVINCE
A.  Introduction ..............*...........................    1
B.  Current Status of Primary Education in Punjab..........   1
C.  Problems and Issues in Primary Education...............   2
II. GOVERNMENT PLANS, PROGRAMS AND POLICIES IN PRIMARY EDUCATION
A.  The First Five Five-Year Plans (1955-1983) .............    9
B.  The Sixth Five-Year Plan (1983-88) .....................    9
C.  The 1rime Minister's Economic & Social Program.........  10
D.  Punjab's Five-Year Primary Education Investment Program  11
E.  External Financing of Education........................  13
F.  IDA's Role and Sector Lending Strategy.................  13
III. THE PROJECT
A.  Origin*..................................................  16
B. Goals and Objectives ...................................  16
C.  Strategy*..............................................  17
D. Management Improvement....*.... . ****....***.  . ^... ***. .   18
E.  Curriculum Development and Materials Supply............  20
F. Teacher Training .....e................ .. ................  22
G.  Communications/Demand Generation.......................  25
H. School Construction ...      . ..................... ...... .....  26
I.  Implementation Sequence............. . .... . ........ .....  29
J.  Technical Assistance Summary...........................  29
IV. COSTS, FINANCING, DISBURSEMENTS, AND PROCUREMENT
A.Csts............................... 32
B.  Financing Plan .............................................  34
C.  Recurrent Cost Implications............................  35
D. Status of Preparation. ...............      e..................  36
E.  Project Management         ....................................  36
F. Disbursements .................................. 37
G* Procurement ...............................o............e.e......   38
H. Accounting and Auditing................................ee e   40
This Report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Pakistan
in September/October 1986. Mission members were Messrs. R. Cambridge
(Mission Leader), A. Andonyadis (Architect), G. Berlin (General Educator);
B. Parves (Educator RMP); and Ms. J.P. Tan (Economist); Ms. A. Nazareth
(Education Planner); (IDA); and Mr. D. Foster (Teacher Educator); and
Ms. I. Buxell (Institutional Develop.) Consultants. Mr I. Qureshi
(Communications Expert) and Ms. H. Abell, (WID Specialist) CIDA also
participated in the mission. Ms. J. Mongal assisted in preparing the
Report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offlcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Table of Contents                       Page No.
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
As  Benefits                          .                         42
B* Risks                                                        42
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED.................                             44
TABLES                                                              Page No.
2.1  Punjab Five-Year Primary Education Investment Program ......    12
3.1  Implementation  8equence.................. ............. .....    30
3.2 Quantitative and Qualitative Indicators of
Implementation Progress          ..................................    31
4.1  Costs by Component ...........................................    32
4.2  Costs by Categories of Expenditure.........................    33
4.3  Financing ....................................... ..........    35
4.4  Procurement Method............................... ..........    40
ANNEXES
1. Comparative Education Indicators
2. Primary Education in the Punjab
3. Education Financing
4. Education Plans, Targets and Achievements at the Primary Level
5. Projections of Primary School Enrollments and Requirements
6. Action Program
7. Technical Assistance and Fellowship Program
8. Schedule of Appointment of Additional Staff
9. Project Costs:
Table 1.  Summary costs by component and time
Table 2.  Summary costs by categories of expenditure and time
Table 3.  Summary costs by components and categories of expenditures
10. Financing Plan by Component
11. Recurrent Cost Implications
12.  Forecast of Expenditure and Disbursements
13. Selected Documents in Project File
MAP
Map of Punjab Province showing Districts



-iii-
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Basic Data
A. Population
1. Estimated Total (1986)                       99.0 million
2. Annual Rate of Growth (1972-85)              2.9X p.a.
3. Adult Literacy Rate (1985)                   24%
4.   Urban Literacy Rate                        44%
M Male                                    55%
Female                                  37%
5.   Rural Literacy Rate                        15%
M Male                                    26%
Female                                   7X
B.  Enrollments   (1984/85)  1/
Level and Age Group          Grade   Total    Male    Female   X Female
---   noo. ------000…
1. Primary (5-9)              I-V    6,931.9  4,667.3   2,264.6    32.7
Punjab                            4,036.5  2,497.8   1,538.7    38.1
Sind                              1,650.7  1,153.4      497.3    30.1
NWFP                                943.5    764.6      178.9    19.0
Baluchistan                         301.2    251.5       49.7    16.5
2. Secondary (10-14)          VI-X   2,755.6  2,130.4       625.2    22.7
3. Higher (14.)                X       548.4      392.3    156.0      28.5
Arts & Science Colleges            409.1     279.3    129.8       31.7
Professional Colleges               88.8       71.1     17.7      19.9
Universities                        50.5      41.9       8.6      17.0
C.  Primary Level Participation Rates  (1982) 2/
Both Sexes   Boys    Girls
Pakistan                                48          63       32
Rural                                   40          58       20
Urban                                   72          77.      68
Punjab                                  46          56       36
Sind                                    42          54       30
NWFP                                    35          50       21
Baluchistan                             20          31        8
D. Public Expenditure on Education (1985)
1. As percent of CDP                                    1.73X
2. As percent of total government expenditure           8.8%
3. As percent of Public Sector Outlays
Sixth FYP (Allocations) (83-88)                    6.50%
E. Recurrent Expenditure on Education by Province (1983)
Baluchistan  Sind   Punjab   NWFP
Recurrent Education expenditure as
X of revenue expenditure               13.1       24.7    24.9    22.2
Recurrent Primary expenditure as
2 of revenue expenditure                5.6       11.1    12.8       -
Recurrent Primary expenditure as
X of revenue education expenditure   42.4         45.1    51.3      -
li See Annex I for Comparative Education Indicators
2/  Gross Participation Rates: Includes over age students and repeaters.



- iv-
ISLANIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD PRIMARY EDUCAT ION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summarv
Borrower: Government of Pakistan
Amount: 5DR 112.8 million (US$145.0 million equivalent)
Term:  Standard
Description: The project would support the broad goal of the Government to
achieve universal primary education by the year 2000. The project
would be concentrated in the Punjab province but have some
national aspects. The main objective would be to support the core
program of Punjab's live-Year primary education investm2nt
program. The specific objectives would be to: (a) improve
institutional capacity to plan, manage and implement the invest-
ment program by (i) creating an Additional Directorate for Public
Instruction (Primary Education), and a Civil Engineering Cell in
the Punjab, and (ii) strengthening the National Bureau of Cur-
riculum and Textbooks (NBCT), the Curriculum Research and Develop-
ment Center (CRDC); Punjab; the Provincial Education Extension
Center, (PEEC) Punjab; and the Netional lnstitute for Communica-
tions through Education (NICE); (b) support policg  reform in the
areas of career development for primary school teachers, increas-
ing the recruitment and trainiug of female teachers, improving the
incentives for teaching in rural areas; ensuring appropriate
budgetary allocations for consumable teaching/learning materials,
and school maintenance; and increasing the involvement of the
community in school management; and (c) support innovations in the
delivery of primary education by assisting in the development of a
communications/demand generation program; the reform of pre-and
in-service teacher training programs; and the introduction of a
two-stage integrated curriculum at the primary level. The project
would support a school construction effort which would concentrate
on the building of new girls schools and proxiding facilities for
existing shelterless girls schools. This would be in line with
the overall Government strategy to increase female enrollments.
Risks:        The major risk vhich the project faces is the implementation
capacity of the reorganized Directorate of Public Instruction.
The phased implementation of the project with its emphasis on
strengthening institutional capacity of all appropriate agencies
during the first two years is expected to overcome this risk. Of
particular significance is the establishment of the Civil
Engineering Cell in the Punjab's Department of Education. This
organization with its implementation strength at the District and
Tehsil levels, and supported Consulting Engineers, is expected to
increase and improve civil works implementation capacity par-
ticularly site supervision. There is also risk associated wth the
activities designed to increase girl's enrollment.



Traditional parental and community attitudes can frustrate the
effort supported by the project. Measures such as the appointment
and training of female administrators, teachers and supervisors,
and monitoring and evaluation activities are expected to
facilitate this objective. Communications activities, especially
the linkages with parents and community groups, should provide
even more support and counter this particular risk.
Local   Poreimn    Total
Esti_'AtedCost: I}                                ----J--U8$ million----
Management Improvement:                3.32     0.61        3.93
Curriculum Dev./Materials Supply    15.22    10.59        25.81
Teacher Training                     49.09      0.99       50.08
Comunications/Demand Generation       2.95      0.59       3.54
School Construction                   91.69     8.96     100.65
Total Base Costs                 162.27    21.74      184.01
-Contin-eucigs
Physical                         13.56      2.09      15.65
Price                             6.72      1.49       8.21
Total Project Costs             182.55    25.32      207.87
LI Includes taxes and duties of US$4.96 million equivalent
Financina Plan:                                  Local    Foreirn    Total
…U$---88$ million----
IDA        131.45      13.55    145.00
RIC          8.08       1.92     10.00
CIDA         2.99       8.71     11.70
GOP         40.03       1.14     41.17
Total      182.55      25.32    207.87
Estimated
Disbursements:        IDA FY         m88           ! FY90   FY91    FY92   FY93   FY94
Annual    :   5.90  18.60  32.68  38.48   31.56   13.34   4.44
Cumulative:    5.90  24.50  57.18  95.66  127.22  140.56 145.00
Economic
Rate of Return:   Not applicable



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
I. PRIMARY EDUCATION IN PAKISTAN/PUNJAB PROVINCE
A. Introduction
1.01    Consistently low levels of public investment, and the lack of sus-
tained political commitment, has led to severe neglect of the education sector
in Pakistan. The country's literacy and school enrollment rates are among the
lowest in the world. 1/ Only 24% of the population is literate and 50% of its
primary school age population enrolled in school. Rural-urban and male-female
imbalances are stark; literacy rates range from 7Z for rural females to 55%
for urban miles, and primary enrollment rates from 20% for rural females to
77% for urban males. Only 15% of the rural population compared to 44% of the
urban population is literate, and 72% of the urban primary school age group is
enrolled in school compared to 40% in rural areas. In the last fifteen years,
the education system has barely kept pace with the rapidly expanding
school-age population. The low educational attainment of this popula-
tion,particularly females, is a serioua impediment to the country's long term
economic development and its efforts at equitable income distribution.
1.02    The education priorities of the Sixth Plan (1983-1988) are well placed
but the enrollment targets are ambitious (para 2.04) and must be recast during
the Seventh Plan. Under a more realistic approach, emphasis will have to be
given to both the expansion of the education system at the primary and lower
secondary levels, as well as the improvement of quality and efficiency.
Quality improvement should focus on the provision of teaching materials,
teacher training, increased supervision and more flexible and relevant cur-
ricula. Expansion will require increased allocation of resources. This can be
accomplished by a combination of reduced subsidization of higher education,
increasing cost recovery through the imposition of user charges, more comr-
amunity contributions, and a reactivation of the private sector in education.
Efficiency will require not only administrative changes but basic policy
reforms which affect the structure and operation of the school system.
B. Current Status of Primary Education in the Punjab
1.03    The Punjab has the most advanced education system in the country.
There are several characteristics of its system which are similar to the other
provinces and these are: (a) separate schools for boys and girls, with a
significant disparity between the sexes and districts in enrollment ratios at
the primary level (56% for boys and 36% for girls); (b) education administra-
tion and financing are shared by the federal and provincial governments; and
(c) limited opportunities for basic education coupled with low demand result
in low literacy rates (36% male and 11% female). Overall, enrollments are
increasing slightly faster than the population growth rate, and primary
enrollment ratios increased from 42Z to 531 between 1980 and 1985. Access is
imbalanced, with significantly lower enrollment of girls generally, and for
1/ See Comparative Education Indicators - Annex 1.



-2-
both sexes in rural areas. At present, the primary education system of the
Punjab has an enrollment of slightly over four million znildren (Annex 2,
Table 1) with enrollment declining from over 1.33 million in Grade 1 to 0.51
million in Grade 5. In addition to schools which are financed by the provin-
cial and the federal governments, four other sources of primary education
exist on a limited but growing scale. The first of these is the Mosque school
where the Imam teaches Islamic studies and the Holy Quran to Grades i to 3
children. A second type is the Mohallah school which is run by literate local
women who teach girls the Holy Quran, Islamic studies, and home management
skills. Municipalities and Town Committees also operate primary schools which
are financed by their own revenues. Fourthly, with the implementation of a
new policy on private education, a number of private schools have opened. The
Provincial Department of Education registers these schools, and after a
process of evaluation, recognizes some of them. Less than 3% of primary
pupils attend recognized private schools.
C.      Problems and Issues in Primary Education
1.04    The major problems of primary education in the Punjab are iow enroll-
ments in rural areas (unequal opportunity), high dropout rates (wastage),
inappropriate curriculum and weak teaching reflected in poor student achieve-
ment (low quality), and the Province's long term ability to manage an expanded
system, particularly those aspects of primary education nnt directly financed
by the Federal government.
1.05    Unequal Opportunity.  During the period 1980-1985, primary school
enrollments expanded at an average annual rate of 5.2Z, but substantial ineq-
uities in access continue to exist by sex and district (Annex 2, Table 2).
The lack of educational opportunities for girls is reflected in their low
initial enrollments, and for rural people genera?lv by the limited coverage in
rural areas. Access is affected by the system of separate boys and girls
schools which exists in most rural areas and contributes to unequal school
density (square miles per school) for males and females. For example, the
density of girls schools is only about 20% of that for boys schools. The
unequal provision of facilities is exacerbated by the unbalanced distribution
of teachers, with a surplus of female teachers in urban areas and shortages in
rural schools.
1.06    Wastage.  High dropout rates which contribute to low overall enroll-
mert levels, show wide variation by sex. Between 1980 and 1985, about half of
the students who had entered Grade 1 dropped out before Grade 5. The highest
dropout rate occurred between Grades 1 and 2: 25% for boys and 40Z for girls.
High dropout rates in the lower grades means that the classes in the uprsr
grades are small (10-20 pupils) and this is both an inefficient deployment and
ineffective use of teachers,
1.07    Low Quality.  A critical factor influencing the high dropout rate is
the poor quality of instruction and resulting low learning achievement. In
many schools, the physical conditions are so oppressive and discipline so
harsh that attendance is discouraged and dropout induced. High rates of



-3-
teacher absenteeism, a reflection of lax supervision, contribute to indif-
ference among parents and students. Teachers tend to be ineffective ir cover-
ing the curriculum because they lack proper pre and in-service training Sparas
1.16, 1.17), and do not have sufficient or appropriate instructional materials
in the classrooms. At any time, about 50% of the students are without text-
books. An important deterrent to effective teaching in small schools is the
fact that most instruction takes place in multigrade classes. Pre-service
training does not prepare teachers adequately for this task. Furthermore,
about 20% of male teachers and 26% female are untrained. However, there is an
anomaly. Many trained teachers remain unemployed in urban areas, and a system
has to be developed to induce them to accept posts in rural areas. Urban
based teachers enjoy certain financial and other benefits (access to schools
for their children, etc.) which are not available to rural teachers. The
consequences of poor quality together with low enrollments and heavy dropout,
means that nearly half of the funds allocated to primary education is spent on
pupils who drop out before Grade 4.
1.08    Management and supervision of the primary education system is provided
by the Provincial Department of Education and its attached organizations, and
through the delegation of functions to Division, District and Tehsil levels.
The primary, middle and high school levels (Grades 1-5, 6-8 and 9-10) are
linked under the term "school education", and are managed together by the
Directorate of Public Instruction (DPI) with assistance from Division-based
Directorates of School Education. Under this structure, emphasis is given to
Grades 6-10 at the expense of Grades 1-5. Local communities contribute to
this bias by demanding the upgrading of existing primary schools to the level
of middle schools, and middle schools to high schools. Over time, this
process has become an accepted policy, so that high schools are developed
almost entirely through the upgrading of primary and middle schools. Grades
1-10 are under the control of a District Education Officer (DEO) who is
assisted by one or more deputies (DDEOs), and a large number of Assistant
Education Officers (AEOs). At the District and lower administrative levels,
there is a dual hierarchy of male and female DEOs, DDEOs and AEOs for boys and
girl schools respectively. In order to decentralize some of the managerial
functions of the DEO, one of the DDEOs has recently been placed at the Tehsil
level and assigned local control of both primary and middle schools. AEOs are
located at the Markaz leve. and their overall ratio to primary schools is
about 1:70. Since AEOs spend some of their time supervising middle schools,
the nominal number of primary teachers per AEO is at  .east 200 for the typical
district and over 240 in others. This is an impossible task for the AEOs to
perform since they are largely without transportation. A reasonable ratio
should be 40-50 schools, each of which should be visited three to five times a
year. A further limitation to effective education management is the absence
of reliable information on enrollments, facilities and unit costs. The system
of collection, processing and reporting of educational statistics does not
provide the information necessary for planning either at the provincial or
federal levels.
1.09    Education Financing.  Successive national five-year plans have failed
to raise .he primary enrollment ratio above 50% (Paras 2.01-2.06). The con-
trast between targets and actual performance can be traced partly to the
mechanisms for financing educational development. While capital costs are



-4-
borne generally by the federal government through the Annual Development Plan
(ADP), only the recurrent costs of universities are borne by the federal
government. For all other institutions, recurrent expenditures is the respon-
sibility of the Provinces. The provincial governments however, generate no
more than 25% of their revenues from provincial taxes and levies, and there-
fore must rely on the federal government to also support the recurrent budget.
This support when granted is not unconditional. The Provinces have therefore
been reluctant to undertake extensive expansion programs at the primary level,
because the resulting increases in recurrent costs would require them to shift
spending away from other sectors which may have more priority in the provin-
cial context. In 1982-83, the Provinces agreed to undertake the expansion of
mosque schools under the Special Development Program (Para 2.04) because the
federal government pledged to meet the incremental recurrent teacher costs.
The following year, the federal government rescinded the decision, but
instead, agreed to provide speeial grants to the Provinces to cover increases
in recurrent education expenditures above the 1982-83 level of spending
(1982-83 being the base year for the Sixth Plan). The impact of this new
arrangement is apparent in the rise of total recurrent spending on education
(Annex 3, Table 1), but it was not until 1985-86 that the share of recurrent
spending on primary education began to ircrease (Annex 3, Table 2). Actual
development expenditure in the subsector averaged 21% in the three years
(1983-86) of the Sixth Plan compared tG the intended allocation of 37.2%
(Annex 3, Table 3).
1.10    This new approach to financing has removed a major bottleneck to
provincial expansion programs. Recurrent budget deficits which are incurred
by the Provinces when implementing programs which meet national goals, are now
an open-ended obligation of the federal governmeint. However, Federal funds
are limited, and this will dictate the absolute size of the deficit that can
be financed. While the resources for education flowing to the Provinces have
increased, the new mechanisms have at the same time made the provinces even
more dependent. The trend toward financial centralization is likely to reduce
flexibility at the provincial level in the planning and management of educa-
tional expansion. The provinces currently allocate only a small share of
total expenditures to non-salary items (pedagogical inputs, maintenance etc.)
although spending on these is important to the internal efficiency of t.he
education system. It is unclear whether the new financing arrangements would
encourage the provinces to shift their spending accordingly.
1.11    Financing Education in Punjab.  The share of Punjab's total spending
devoted to education grew from 23.9% in 1980-81 to an estimated 25.61 in
1985-86 (Annex 3, Table 4). Primary education absorbed the largest share of
total spending on education, around 51Z in 1985-86. The slightly downward
trend in the share of primary education since 1980 indicates that as total
spending on education rose, no special emphasis was placed on primary educa-
tion. The recurrent budget for primary education shows that it was almost
entirely spent on salaries and staff allowances (Annex 3, Table 5) and
accounted for 98.5% of recurrent expenditures in 1985-86. In 1986, the
government announced two principles that would be followed in approving recur-
rent budgets and these were that: (a) special allocations should be made to
improve the maintenance of assets; and b) adequate funds should be provided to
cover expenditures on consumables to assure operational efficiency.



-5-
Causes
1.12    The causes of inequitable access, low enrollments, high wastage, and
poor quality are complex, and involve multiple economic, social, and educa-
tional factors. Two emerge as being central to why parents do not enroll
their children and/or withdraw them prematurely from school. The first, is
the low enrollment/opportunity cost of labor. Many parents in rural comr-
muni9Es have identified their economic status, and the child as an important
source of labor, as reasons for non-enrollment of children. Primary school-age
children are integrated from their earliest years in the subsistence
activities of the family. Further, the benefits of primary education are not
readily apparent to parents who are illiterate as well as poor. The tendency
therefore is for poor and illiterate parents not to enroll their children, and
if they do, they are more likely to withdraw them after two years when the
child's labor can no longer be foregone. Between 1980 and 1985, about half
the students who entered Grade 1 dropped out before Grade 5 (Para 1.06).
1.13    Second, are female enrollment/socio-cultural traditions   Social
customs and traditions affect female enrollment. When girls reach puberty,
they are not usually allowed to move around (especially in rural areas) unless
supervised by a female adult. Because 67% of primary school teachers are
male, this discourages many rural parents from enrolling their daughters in
school. In areas where the school is unprotected by a boundary wall, parents
are also reluctant to enroll girls. Although attitudes are changing, only
about 60% of the girls cohort ever enroll in school, and retention to Grade 5
is less than one-third of the initial enrollment.
1.14    While parents determine the enrollment of a child, the activities in
the school influence the child's attitude to continuing in school. These
include the adequacy of physical facilities, training and attitudes of
teachers, relevance of the curriculum, and the availability of textbooks and
other instructional learning materials.
1.15    Physical Facilities.  Only about two-thirds of the schools are well
constructed (brick walls, concrete roofs and floors). Of these 'pucca'
schools, one-third are now in a dilapidated condition and unusable, and
another third are in need of substantial repair and maintenance. The remain-
ing 40% have either: a) "katcha" construction which consists of local
materials (mud walls, bamboo, c.i. sheets etc.) provided by the community but
which requires continuous maintenance; or b) have no classrooms at all and are
"shelterless" schools. There are also many 'ghost' schools which remain
without teachers and exist only in the records of the provincial Department of
Education. Only about 20% of all schools have more than two separate class-
rooms to accommodate five grades. The majority of schools have no latrines,
although these are provided in some girls schools. Handpumps are provided
where underground water is present, but in many areas drinking water is sup-
plied by the community. Most schools have blackboards, but these are usually
a plastered wall painted black. The lack of benches and desks is also criti-
cal, so that in the majority of schools, students sit on jute mats on earth
floors. Desks, chairs and a steel almirah are provided for the teacher but
these too are inadsquate. Boundary walls are generally a feature of girls



-6-
schools, and about 60% now have these, compared with only 15% in boys schools.
Crowded, uncomfortable, and insanitary facilities not only deter the child and
make it difficult to teach and learn, but also help to persuade parents that
the child would be better off at home or in the field.
1.16    Pre-Service Teacher Training. More than 101,000 teachers (over 21,000
of whom are untrained) are presently employed in the primary schocls.
Pre-service teacher training for the primary level is conducted normally in
one-year courses at 22 Government Colleges for Elementary Teachers (GCET), 7
Normal Schools, and since 1984, at 90 Primary Teacher Certificate (PTC) Units
attached to secondary schools (Annex 2 Table 3). Eighty of these units are
dedicated exclusively to females, in order to meet the projected requirements
for new rural girls primary schools. The total output from all institutions
in 1985 was about 900. Other sources of primary teachers include private
candidates who sit for the Primary Teachers Certificate (PTC) examination, and
candidates of the Allama Iqbal Open University (AIOU) PTC program. Despite
these efforts, 20% of male teachers, and 26% of female teachers enter the
schools untrained. The curriculum for pre-service training divides the 39
week instructional year (33 hours per week) into ten subjects, including 6
weeks of practice teaching. Seven subjects cover methods of teaching and the
major primary school subjects, while the remaining three include principles of
education, child development, and school and classroom organization and
management. Almost all GCET staff were trained as high school teachers. All
hold MA degrees, but most would prefer to be high school head-
masters/headmistresses. Because of their qualifications and limited instruc-
tional expertise, the teacher trainers often resort solely to lecture methods
which are copied by their trainees (primary teachers), and are inappropriate
for primary school children. Postings and transfers in and out of GCETs occur
frequently because postings to these institutions is sometimes considered a
form of punishment. This results in the institutions being staffed with
inappropriately trained and unmotivated primary teacher trainers.
1.17    In-service Teacher Training opportunities are limited.  To provide
in-service training, the Punjab created five centers at the Division level.
However, in 1985 pre-service training programs were increased by almost 50%,
and these centers are now wholly occupied with pre-service training. In
addition, the Punjab has the Provincial Education Extension Center (PEEC)
which focuses on teacher training curriculum design and research, as well as
in-service training. The AIOU also offers a variety of in-service teacher
training programs, the major one being a Primary Teaching Certificate (PTC)
for untrained teachers who already are in service. The Education Policy of
1977 suggested that all teachers should undergo at least one in-service train-
ing course every 5 years. This requirement has not been met in the Punjab.
During 1985, less than 4% of primary teachers received in-service training,
and during the past five years, no more than 9% of the teaching force received
training annually. The PEEC has established a network of 116 Teacher Resource
Centers, in GCETs and selected secondary schools throughout the province. At
each of these centers, four teachers have been trained as "masters trainers"
to conduct in-service training. The plan to provide all teachers by 1990 with
an intensive four week in-service training course using the centers and master
trainers is unrealistic. The present status of the PEEC is not equal to the
task of organizing and implementing a program to cover over 100,000 existing



-7-
primiary teachers. The systematic expansion and development of a truly recur-
rent localized in-service program is required if the quality of instruction
is to improve. The staff and facilities of the PEEC's divisional level
in-service centers, the cadre of Learning Coordinators, and the AIOU should
form the nucleus for the development of a province wide in-service training
program.
1.18    Inadequate pre and in-service training, coupled with the lack of books
and instructional materials, force many teachers to resort to the memoriza-
tion/rote learning technique of teaching supplemented by large doses of cor-
poral punishment. These techniques are also a way of maintaining some sem-
blance of order in overcrowded classrooms where teacher: student ratios range
as high as 1:100 in Grade 1. Inadequate training also limits the career
development potential of teachers. Promotion is linked to academic qualifica-
tion. The Primary Teaching Certificate (PTC) is an essential requirement
under present cadre rules for initial promotion, and further degrees (BA/BEd),
for career ad&ancement.  This factor, coupled with low levels of compensation,
has a negative impact on the attitude of teachers, many of whom take part-time
jobs to supplement their incomes, often leading to frequent absences from
school.  It also acts as a deterrent to teachers taking jobs in rural com-
munities.
1.19    Curriculum.  The National Bureau of Curriculum and Textbooks (NBCT),
which is the Curriculum Wing of the Federal Ministry of Education (MOE), sets
national curriculum policy. However, the Curriculum Research and Development
Center (CRDC) of the Punjab has the mandate to adjust the content of the
curriculum to local conditions. At present, the primary school curriculum
covers seven subjects (Urdu, mathematics, science, Islamic studies, social
studies, health, and physical education) in a five and half day, 39 period (40
minutes) school week. Basic language and numeracy account for less than half
of the total time. The time devoted to health, physical, and art education,
is about equal to that allocated to language. Most students speak Punjabi at
home, but are taught in Urdu. In practice, science and art are neglected.
The number of actual school days per year is between 120-130 compared to
150-180 days in other developing nations.
1.20    The content of the curriculum, its relevance to the student's environ-
ment and experiences, and the teacher's capability of transforming the subject
matter into interesting learning activities ar6 major factors which determine
the quality of the education system. The present curriculum is too demanding
for the early stage of the primary school. In the Punjab, it is estimated
that about 30Z of the students cannot read with comprehension at the end of
Grade 3. Further, the curriculum is not suitable for multi-grade teaching
which is a reality in the majority of rural primary schools. A reduction and
simplification of the content is necessary for the first three grades. A
major reform to develop a two-stage curriculum with a minimum core program of
basic literacy, numeracy, and religious knowledge in Grades 1-3 is required.
Elements of health, basic science and social studies should be taught as an
integral part of the core subjects. A more subject-centered curriculum should
then be introduced for Grades 4-5. The concept of an integrated (two stage)
curriculum is not new in Pakistan. An experimental project was undertaken in



-8-
Punjab a few years ago, and a similar experiment involving 200 pilot schools
is underway in the Islamabad District under the direction of the NBCT.
1.21    Textbooks and Instructional Materials.  Instructional materials
provide the bridge between the theory and guidelines of the curriculum and
the actual learning activities conducted in the classrooms. Instructional
materials are also essential in supporting teachers. The lack of these
materials in primary schools severely hampers the educational process. At
any given time, about 50% of the students are without textbooks, largely
because parents cannot afford to purchase them. Textbooks for each grade for
the four major subjects (Urdu, mathematics, social science and science) are
developed and authorized by the Textbook Board of Punjab under the guidance of
federal authorities. The books are distributed through commercial channels
and purchased by parents at prices ranging from Rs 14 for a set of 4 books for
Grade 1 to Rs 25 for a set of 5 books in Grade 5. Low-cost instructional
materials (teachers guides), teaching aids (maps, charts, globes, kits, etc.)
and textbooks are either unavailable or limited in supply. The quality of
materials supplied also requires improvement. The most important of these is
the textbook. The content and style has to be improved to reflect the demands
of the curriculum and the learning needs of children. There are weaknesses in
the editorial department of the Board and this is manifested in the complexity
of many of the texts which are published for use in the primary grades.
1.22    Community Involvement.  The role of government, the impact of its
subsectoral policies and programs, and the attitude of the community to these
interventions affect school enrollment. In 1972, the Government nationalized
all primary schools with the exception of a few elite private schools. The
primary school, however, had always been the domain of the parent and com-
munity. While government involvement resulted in additional facilities, to a
certain extent it diminished community participation,and enrollments increased
in the Mosque and unregistered schools. Nationalization also meant that
teachers became government employees, had to be 'qualified' through
pre-service training, and were answerable to central authorities rather than
the community. The emphasis on 'qualifications' substantially reduced the
number of women and men who were previously employed by the villages as
teachers in community-supported primary schools. In 1979, the Government
revised its policies towards private education, essentially lifting the ban on
the operation of private schools. The effect of this change is now being seen
in the Provinces. In Punjab, the Education Code states that registered
private schools are now eligible for grants to cover operating expenses.



-9-
II GOVERNMENT PLANS, PROGRAMS AND POLICIES IN PRIMARY EDUCATION
A.      The First Five Five-Year Plans (1955-1983)
2.01    Compared with other developing countries, Pakistan has allocated a
very low percentage (1.7%) of GDP to education ( Annex 3 - Table 6). The
consequences of this policy are reflected in the low rates of adult literacy
and the poor quality of education at all levels. Under Pakistan's first five
Five-Year Plans (1955-83), education spending was aimed at physical expansion
of the system and quality improvement. However, the level of public spending
on education never rose above 2% of GNP, with primary education receiving a
su:ller share of the total education budget than the secondary and higher
levels. Although there has been substantial expansion at all levels,
implementation has generally been unsatisfactory (except under the Second
Plan), and important physical targets remain unattained (Annex 4).
2.02    The Educatior Policy of 1972 increased the emphasis on primary educa-
tion; it set targets of Universal Primary Education (UPE) for boys by 1979 and
for girls by 1984, but enrollments never grew to meet these goals. The Fifth
Plan (1978-83) established targets of universal enrollment of boys in Grade 1
by 1982/83 and 90% enrollment in Grades 1-5 by 1986/87; similar targets tor
girls were omitted, but the targeted 58% increase in enrollment over the five
years demonstrated an intention to try to close the enrollment gap between
boys and girls. The nee. for "extraordinary efforts", including compulsion,
was mentioned. A similar policy was reiterated in an interim plan issued in
October 1978, and a target date of 1992 was specified for universal primary
education (UPE) for girls. While the share of primary education in education
development expenditure was:below planned levels (averaging 13.2% for
1972-77), its share in recurrent expenditures increased from 30% to 45%
between 1967 and 1977 and remained at about 37% during the next five years.
Fifth Plan allocations reflected this increased emphasis on primary education,
with primary education spending exceeding the levels for secondary and higher
education for the first time. Development expenditure for primary education
expenditures was not significantly improved. A special provision of the Plan
sought to prevent funds allocated for primary education being transferred to
other levels. This was not achieved. The second focus of the Plan was con-
solidation and quality improvements at all levels. The targets however were
ambitious for enrollments, school facilities, and the supply of instructional
materials.
B.      The Sixth Five-Year Plan (1983-88)
2.03    Recognizing the shortfalls in the previous plans, the Sixth Plan
(1983-88) proposed a sharp change in sectoral priorities and a considerable
increase in development spending on education. The strategy emphasized: (a)
primary and secondary education; (b) a mass literacy program; (c) lower spend-
ing on higher education; and (d) increasing the enrollment of girls and educa-
tion facilities in rural areas. The Plan called for a 200% increase over
Fifth Plan levels and increasing the share of education from 4.6% to 8.3% of
total ADP outlays.



-10-
2.04    The targets set for primary education were ambitious and included 90%
enrollment of boys and 60% enrollment of girls, for a national average enroll-
ment ratio of 75% of the primary school-age group by 1988. Five years of
education were to be obligatory. To accommodate the projected large increase
in enrollment, a Special Development Program consisting of opening 40,000 new
mosque schools and the improvement of 24,000 existing primary schools was
planned. The mosques would accommodate Grades 1 to 3, while buildings for
existing 'shelterless' schools and new schools, would house Grades 4 and 5.
Two teachers (including the Imam) would be provided in each mosque school, and
one teacher for each grade in the Grades 4 and 5 schools. Finally, separate
agencies for the implementation of primary education programs would be created
at the Federal, Provincial and local levels.
2.05    The Plan also proposed to address issues of poor quality and dropout
through changes in the curriculum. In Grades 1-3, only religious instruction,
reading, writing, and arithmetic would be taught, while science and social
studies would be integrated into reading and writing. The full curriculum
would only be taught in Grades 4 and 5 (Para 1.20). The role of communities
and local bodies would be expanded to help improve quality, motivate teachers,
upgrade school facilities, and determine school hours and vacation periods to
help meet local requirements. Rs 7 billion was earmarked for the education
sector, of which 50% was for the Special Development Program. The remaining
Rs 3.5 billion would be used by the Provinces to implement their ongoing
programs in primary education. The first three years of the Plan have not
been encouraging. The Special Development Program was unsuccessfully imple-
mented and discontinued and the provincial primary education programs were
underfunded (Para 1.09).
2.06    The Three-Year Priority Investment Program (1985-88) was introduced in
an attempt to reorient development expenditures towards the original Sixth
Plan strategy. The Program allocates Rs 9.7 billion to education of which 28%
would be for primary education, 25% for secondary education, 9% for technical
education, and 12% for university education, a significant reduction from 17%
in the FY83-85 period. The proposed reorientation of allocations means that
spending on primary education would reach only about 50% of the level
originally called for in the Sixth Plan. Primary school enrollments would
rise by 2.1 million compared to the Plan target of 5.6 million, leading to a
primary school participation rate of 53% by the end of the Plan period (1988)
compared to a target of 75%.
C.      Prime Minister's Economic and Social Program (1986-1990)
2.07    On December 31, 1985, the Prime Minister announced a five-point
Economic and Social Program for Development. The PM's program, which was
approved by the Cabinet in March 1986, includes a national (4 provinces) rural
education program with the following elements: (a) opening of 19,500 mosque
schools and 18,400 new primary schools, of which 15,000 would be for girls;
(b) additional enrollment of 2.06 million children at the primary level
including 1.3 million girls; (c) provision of a minimum of two teachers in
each primary school, and 5 teachers in the largest boys and girls primary
school in each Union Council; and (d) expansion of school supervisory staff
(Learning Coordinators). A complementary initiative to the PM's program is



-11-
the opening of Nai Roshani or "Drop-in" schools, which are to be managed by
The Literacy and Mass Education Commission (LAMEC). Students between the ages
of 10-14 who have left school for employment can attend school during their
spare time, normally late afternoon. About 66,000 existing primary schools
would be used and 44,000 new literacy teachers hired and trained for this
program. It is estimated that about 1.65 million students would receive a
primary education through the concentrated two-year curriculum to be offered
in these schools. An allocation of Rs 27.49 billion is to be set aside for
the entire rural education program over the next four years (Annex 3, Table
7). The development costs of the program amount to Rsll.24 billion. The
remaining Rsl6.25 billion would meet the increased recurrent costs and would
come from the Federal ADP under an arrangement which permits the financing of
recurrent costs in education from the development budget (Para 1.09). Regard-
less, the implementation of the Program will require more funds than have been
allocated to the sector under the Three-Year Priority Program (Annex 3, Table
8). This means either that ADP allocations to other sectors would have to be
reduced in the last two years of the Plan or that the Iqra surcharge which is
a special tax on imports and earmarked for education, has to be more widely
applied. In FY86, it raised only Rs460 million and covered only 17.4% of the
increase in education recurrent costs.
2.08    The allocation of Rs 27.49 billion for the education program is being
distributed through two channels: a) directly to the Provinces as additions to
their normal ADPs, and b) via elected office-holders (senators, and members of
national and provincial assemblies). Every year for four years, a sum of Rs 5
million will be made available to each of these politicians, on the condition
that at least 60 percent of the funds are spent on schemes in rural education.
The 1986-87 allocations show that about Rs 400 million will be channelled into
rural educational projects in this way.
D.      Punjab's Five-Year Primary Education Investment Program
2.09    The Province's Five-Year primary education investment program
(1988-1992) is made up of two distinct parts: the Punjab's share of the Prime
Minister's Program (Para 2.07); and the Provincial ADP. Under the PM's
program, the Federal Government would fully finance (development and recurrent
expenditures): a) the opening of 5737 Mosque schools; b) the opening of 9,950
girls schools; c) the appointment of about 45,000 new teachers (33,350 for new
girls schools, 1,633 for single teachers schools, and ll,526 additional
teachers for the largest primary schools in each Union Council); and d) the
appointment of 4,734 Learning Coordinators.
2.10    The Provincial ADP calls for: a) the construction of 7,803 boys and
8,526 girls 'shelterless' schools; b) the construction of 8,298 additional
classrooms for existing primary schools; c) a program of improvement to exist-
ing schools; d) teacher training; e) strengthening the management of the
Directorate of Public Instruction (DPI); f) increasing the supply of textbooks
and other learning materials; g) curriculum development; and h) the develop-
ment of a communications/demand generation program. The overall objective of
this massive expansion program is to increase the primary school-age group
(5-9 year old) participation rate from 55% to about 74% by 1992 (Annex 5,
Table 1).



-12-
2.11    The total cost of the Five-Year Investment Program is estimated by IDA
as follows:
Table 2.1: Five-Year Investment Program
----US$ millions-----
Local   Foreign   Total
A.  Nana mcnt Iprovement
Reorganizing the DPI. and creating                  3.55    1.03        4.58
a Monitoring and Evaluation System)
B. Curriculum Development and Materials Supply
Supply of teaching kits, textbooks,                 15.30   14.05       29.35
and teacher guides)
c.  Teacher Trainin
(pre-service, in-service training of                64.09    1.40       65.49
teachers, learning coordinators,
administrators)
D. Comunications/Demand Generation
(Training of parental and community groups,)         2.87     0.78       3.65
and media campaign)
S. School Construction
(18,476 girls schools, 7,803 boys schools         267.11    25.16    292.17
addition of 8298 classrooms to existing
schools, extensions to teacher training
colleges)
Base Cost        342.92    42.42    395.34
Contiencies 1/
Physical       29.44      3.97     33.41
Price          14.47      2.84     17.31
Total Cost       396.83    49.23    446.06
1 Based on IDA standards used for estimating project contingencies.
2.12    While the Investment Program's goals and objectives are
supportable over the long term, the physical targets are clearly ambitious
given present implementation and absorptive capacity in the province. There
is however a strong political will and commitment to show progress in the
area of basic education, and special attention and efforts have already been
expended to develop the core elements of the Program. This core program is
targetted at the wider national and provincial goal of increasing female
enrollments in rural areas, to achieve the ultimate objective of Universal
Primary Education by 2000. The core program therefore concentrates on the



-13-
construction of girls schools and the hiring and training of female
teachers. At the same time emphasis is also to be given to institutional
development and policy reform so that not only would the physical targets of
the core program be achievable, but resources would not be wasted on poor
construction, the supply of inappropriate teaching and learning materials,
and the inadequate training of teachers and supervisors. The core program
therefore includes items A,B,C and D of Table 2.1 plus a part of item E
consisting of construction of 5100 new girls schools and classrooms for 5200
shelterless girl schools. The number of schools to be constructed under
the core program is based on the evaluated capacity of the institutions
responsible for the super-vision of construction (para 3.32-3.33). The core
program is the project; and the total estimated cost is US$207.87 million
equivalent (par& 4.01).
E.      External Financing of Education
2.13    There has been only limited external financing of primary education in
Pakistan. The UNDP allocated about US$5.0 million for the entire education
sector during the 1975-84 period. Activities included assistance to support
educational administration in the provinces, the Allama Iqbal Open
University (AIOU), the Academy for Education Planning and Management
(AEPAM), and some support for skill development and women's training. UNDP
in collaboration with the International Labor Organization (IIO) has however
been a strong supporter of vocational training. UNICEF has supported
primary education in selected districts through its integrated services
program. The Asian Development Bank (ADB) is supporting secondary science
education, including the establishment of an Institute for the Promotion of
Science Education. The Federal Republic of Germany has been involved in
vocational education for a sustained period of time, but has concentrated in
the Punjab and Baluchistan provinces. USAID is not yet involved in the
education sector but has just completed a major assessment of primary
education which is expected to lead to investments in this subsector. The
European Economic Community and the Canadian International Developmeat
Agency (CIDA) have recently financed rural and women's vocational training
components in a national vocational training project. The Japanese
Government has provided assistance to four universities, the Machine
Training Center and laboratories at the National Institute of Modern
Languages.
F.      IDA's Role and Sector Lending Strategy
2.14    IDA has supported the development of the sector with seven projects,
snd has shared three broad objectives with the Government with these
investments; viz meeting manpower needs, improving quality and increasing
equity for rural populations and females. The first two objectives were
pursued through the First, Second, Third and Fifth Education projects.
The First Education Project (Cr. 50-PAK) of 1964, for US$8.5 million
financed the expansion of Faisalabad Agricultural University and equipment
for six polytechnics. It was completed eight years behind schedule. The
Project Completion Report (PCR) and Project Performance Audit Report
(PPAM) concluded that the project had produced manpower in excess of demand



-14-
although project institutions operated at less than 60Z capacity.
Qualitatively, the investment in agricultural education was successful, but
little improvement took place at the technical institutes. The Second
Education Project (Cr. 206-PAK) of 1970 for US$8.0 million assisted the
NED Government Engineering College in Karachi and was completed about four
years behind schedule. The PCR end PPAR have been issued. This project
successfully met manpower needs, but was qualitatively less successful.
The Third Education Project (Cr. 678-PAK) of 1977 for US$15.0 million
supported the agriculture sector through university level agriculture
programs and extension training, as well as primary teacher training. The
project was completed in June 1984, two years behind schedule. The PCR and
PPAR indicate that project objectives were only partially achieved. The
Fifth Education Project (Cr. 1109-PAK) of 1981 for SDR 19.7 million
supports the establishment of a National Vocational Training System,
including the construction of new and rehabilitation of existing training
institutions, and the revitalizing of apprenticeship and in-plant training
programs. The project was due to be closed in June 1985 but has been
extended for one year. To date, objectives appear to be achievable, but
there will be difficulties in achieving the objective of improving worker
productivity through in-plant training.
2.15    The equity objective of IDA lending has been highlighted in the
Fourth, Sixth and Seventh Projects. The Fourth Education Project (Cr.
892-PAK) of 1979 for US$10.0 million was completed on time (1985). This
Credit supported an experimental primary education project with the
objectives of increasing access, reducing wastage and costs, and improving
the quality of instruction. The project assisted the central and
provincial governments to provide schools, improve teacher training,
expand school supervision and improve instructional materials. The PCR,
which has been completed but not yet audited, has indicated that: (a) the
quality of instruction has improved because of increased supervision,
on-the-job training of teachers by Learning Coordinators (LCs), and the
provision of instructional materials; (b) costs have been reduced through the
employment of assistant teachers ( females) in rural areas; and (c) female
access was improved through the provision of boundary walls at girls
schools. The PCR at the same time pointed out that the overall school
construction program was not successful due mainly to the lack of
supervision and clear management responsibility links between the Project
Implementation Units and the Communication and Works Departments (C&W)
which managed the civil works program. The PCR has also noted that the
in-service teacher training program was too complex as designed and
therefore unsuccessfully implemented; the major reason being the lack of
an institutional base.
2.16    The Sixth Education Project (Cr.  1602-PAK) of 1985 for SDR
53.0 million is the second primary education project and seeks to build
on the experiences gained under Cr. 892-PAK. The project is limited to
the Sind, NWFP, and Baluchistan provinces. It continues to support the
elements of the first primary education project which were judged as
successful (learning coordinators, assistant teachers, and provision of
instructional materials). New approaches have been designed for civil
works implementation and in-service teacher training. The Seventh project



-15-
is the Second Vocational Training Project (Cr. 1670) of March 1986. This
credit of SDR 36.6 million continues to sipport the development of the
National Vocat'inal Training System established under Cr. 1109-PAK, but
the emphasis has been shifted to the training of skilled and semi-skilled
manpower in the rural sector, as well as the inclusion of an experimental
component to train women for wage employment in non-traditional areas.
2.17    In the next few years, the main thrust of IDA's education lending
strategy will continue to be support for primary education with assistance
to other levels of education evolving in the longer term. However,
before that move is completed, assistance would have to be geared more to
tackling the policy constraints to basic education development. The
proposed project represents a move in the direction of including greater
policy analysis and conditionality as part of IDA's support to the
sector. A steady move towards more sector lending is contemplated to
address systemic organizational, administrative, managerial, and policy
issues. A proposed Education Systems Credit in FY89 would seek to extend
the ongoing dialogue on primary education to issues in secondary education,
sector finance, management, cost recovery and the role of the private
sector.
2.18    In addition to lending activities, IDA has recently completed
two major sector studies in education. The Education chapter of the
1986 Country Economic Memorandum: "Pakistan: Economic and Social
Development Prospects (in Two Volumes)" (Report No. 5962-PAK) and
the July, 1985 Education Sector Memorandum (Report No. 5671-PAK).



-16-
III. THE PROJECT
A.      Origin
3.01    The proposed project is the direct outcome of the First Primary Educa-
tion project (Cr.892-PAK); the initial experience under the Second Primary
Education project (Cr.1602-PAK); a better understanding through sector work of
the issues and possible solutions to the problems in primary education; and
the strategy adopted by I!A for its long term involvement in the education
sector in Pakistan. As a result, the proposed project is designed to support
directly the core program of the Punjab's five-year primary education invest-
ment program, and by so doing, it supports the broadest goals for primary
education as elaborated in Pakistan's six five-year development plans.
B.      Goals and Objectives
3.02    The principal goal of the project is to support the Government's plan
to achieve universal primary education by the year 2000.
3.03    Objectives.  The project would be concentrated in the Punjab province,
but have some national aspects. The specific objectives of IDA's program
support activities would be to: a) develop and strengthen institutional
capacity to plan, manage, and implement the investment program; b) support the
development and institutionalization of policy reform; and c) assist in the
introduction of innovative components in the program.
3.04    The institutional development objective would be achieved by:
(a) strenghtening the Directorate of Public Instruction (DPI) to clearly
delineate a hierarchy for the management of primary education;
(b) strengthening the National Bureau of Curriculum and Textbooks (NBCT),
and the Curriculum Research and Development Center (CRDC) Punjab to
implement a program of curriculum reform;
(c) upgrading the Provincial Education Extension Center (PEEC) in the
Punjab to assist in the reorganization and strengthening of the pre
and in-service teacher training programs;
(d) assisting the National Institute for Communications through Education
(MICE) in the development and implementation of a communica-
tions/demand generation program; and
(e) establishing a Civil Engineering Cell (CEC) to manage, supervise and
implement the school construction program.
3.05    The policy reform objective would be achieved by working with both
national and provincial governments to institute policies and programs for:
(a) the career development of primary school teachers;



-17-
(b) the recruitment* training and appointment of more female teachers;
(c) improving the incentive package to encourage more teachers to serve in
rural areas;
(d) increasing financial provision for the annual supply of pedagogic
materials;
(e) the maintenance of primary school buildings; and
(f) parental and community involvement in school management.
3.06    The innovation objective would be achieved by directly supporting:
(a) the development of a communications/demand generation program;
(b) the reform of pre and in-service teachar training; and
(c) the introduction of a two-stage curriculum in primary schools.
These program support activities are expected to result in increased enroll-
ments, improved efficiency, and improved quality of instruct-ion.
C.      Strategy
3.07    The Punjab's Five-Year Primary Education Investment  program (Table
2.1) includes five major activities which address the major issues in the
sector i.e. management improvement (how is the system to be managed and the
investment program implemented?); teacher training (how can instructional
quality be improved?); curriculum development and materials supply (what is to
be taught, and with what?); school construction (where is teaching/learning
to take place?); and communications/demand generation (who is to benefit?).
In order for these issues to be addressed in a coherent manner, project
implementation would be phased to follow a logical sequence. In the initial
years (Phase I), from Appraisal (Sept.1986) to about December 1989 efforts
would be concentrated on institutional development activities, and implement-
ing existing and developing new policies which affect the operation of the
primary school system. This first Phase has two distinct segments. The first
(Appraisal--Credit effectiveness), concentrates on the completion of all
preliminary work for policy studies and proposed administrative/organizational
changes. The second period (credit effectiveness (estimated October 1987) and
the mid-point of the project (estimated December 1989), is the period of
institutional and policy development. Institutional development would consist
of appointing new staff to key institutions, training them locally or over-
seas, technical assistance, the reorganization and clarification of institu-
tional objectives, and the development of work programs and plans for the
expansionary activities of the investment program. New policy development
would require that studies be u4dertaken, their results and recommendations
reviewed and consensus obtained, final administrative/legal action taken, and
an enforcement/implementing mechanism established. It is essential that these
two elements of the program (institutional change, and policy reform) be



-18-
implemented as a priority. Other activities will also take place during this
first phase and require support. The supply of learning materials and text-
books, pre-service teacher training, and demand generation activities must be
started or continued even though modifications would be implemented as the
school curriculum is changed. The construction of schools can also begin
because a comprehensive school map has been recently completed, and a school
construction agency (the Civil Engitieering Cell -CEC) established in January
1987 (para 3.33). Because the project emphasizes institutional development,
policy reform and the introduction of innovations, as well as supports a large
school construction program, annual reviews of implementation progress (beyond
normal supervisions) would be necessary to ensure that the emphasis is being
maintained. During negotiations, the Government provided an assurance that it
would conduct with IDA, joint annual reviews (about February of each year) of
implementation progress based on agreed criteria (Tables 3.1 and 3.2) and a
detailed Action Program (Annex 6). It was also understood that insufficient
progress in the areas of institutional development, policy reform and innova-
tion could result in the Association's recourse to remedies available under
the General Conditicis.
3.08    The second phase of the project (January 1990 - Credit Closing (June
1993)] is the period when the major expansion activities would be undertaken.
The new primary education management structure would be fully established, the
new curriculum would be introduced, the revised in-service teacher training
program started, and the pace of construction of new and shelterless girls
schools intensified. The project would also support the overt and distinct
strategy designed specifically to increase the enrollment of girls. It would
begin with the appointment of more female administrators, classroom teachers,
teacher trainers, and the involvement of women in the management of schools.
Special attention would also be given to the design of girls schools, the
curriculum, textbooks, and other learning materials to indicate more positive
a3pects of the rural environment for both boys and girls.
Core Program/Project Components
D.      Management Improvement (Proposed Outlay US$3.93 million) 1/
3.09    Implementation of the investment program would require increased
efficiency in the educational administration and management system in the
Punjab. However, because the administration of primary education in the
Province cannot be easily separated from secondary education (Para 1.08), it
would be necessary to retain an overall integrated management structure for
school education, but have distinct sub-structures for primary education at
the various levels of field administration. The major objective of the
management improvement activities under the program would be to reorganize and
strengthen the Directorate of Public Instruction (DPI)tand develop and
institute a provincial monitoring and evaluation capacity.
1/ This and other outlays refer to base costs.
I



-19-
3.10    During appraisal, it was agreed that reorganizing the DPI to
strengthen primary education management would require at the provincial level,
the creation of an Additional Directorate of Public Instruction (Primary
Education) (ADPI) (PE) with clearly defined functions and concomitment
delegated responsibilities. The proposed new Directorate would be organized
around four major functions: Planning ard Development, Training, Administra-
tion, and Financial Management. At the Divisional level, the existing Direc-
torates of School Education would be strengthened through the establishment of
a Primary Education Wing, to be headed by male and female Deputy Directors
(Primary Education) and having functional responsibility for planning,
monitoring and evaluation, budget and accounts, and administration. At the
District level, the existing District Education Offices of both male and
female education would receive an additional complement of Deputy District
Education Officers (DDEO's) (Primary Education) with similar responsibilities
as Divisional Deputy Directors.  At the Tehsil level, the existing Deputy
District Education Officers (male and female) would be given full control of
all administrative aspects of primary education including the establishment of
new schools, the hiring and transfer of teachers, the supervision of lower
supervisory cadres, the collection of basic education statistics, and com-
munity relations. At the Markaz level, the existing Assistant Education
Officers (AEOs) (male and female) would have a reduced span of responsibility
restricted to the supervision of 40-50 primary schools each. At the Union
Council, new positions of Learning Coordinators (LCs) (male and female) have
been created. Each LC would be responsible for the academic supervision of
about 15 primary schools. The Government has completed a draft nlan (includ-
ing a management audit of the DPI) showing the staffing, reporting respon-
sibilities, and functions of the proposed new management structure of primary
education. It has been reviewed and found acceptable to IDA. During nego-
tiations the Government provided an assurance that it would carry out the
reorganization of the DPI substantially in accordance with a detailed Action
Program (Annex 6) acceptable to IDA. Arrangements for the establishment of
the ADPI(PE) would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
3.11    The second objective of the component, and an integral part of improv-
ing management performance, is to develop and institute a monitoring and
evaluation system. As a part of the establishment of an ADPI (PE), a Monitor-
ing and Evaluation System (Provincial M&W) would be built up through the
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit which is to be created. Staff would be trained
to develop, maintain, retrieve, and utilize the required information in a
timely manner. The focal point of M&E activities would be at the district and
provincial levels. Managers at these levels require regular and timely infor-
mation to properly administer the educational system. A detailed plan of the
Provincial M&E would be prepared and computerized from provincial to district
levels; a handbook/manual describing the data collection, monitoring and
evaluation system would be developed; and required equipment and transport
provided. Specialized assistance would also be provided to help design the
system, train key staff, and make the system operational.
3.12    In order to address the achievement of program objectives, a number of
rapid low-cost studies (RLC) would be carried out through contracts to various
local research and consultancy institutions. Aspects which would be studied
include overall implementation, institutionalization, training, ard student



-20-
achievement. The following key questions would be examined through the RLCs:
a) did an increase in female teachers help the enrollment; of girls? b) did
increased teacher training result in improved pupil achievement? c) did
improved supervision and incentives reduce teacher absenteeism? d) did
increased contact between parents and teachers result in greater enrollments
and less dropouts (especially for girls)? e) are costs really reduced through
the use of assistant teachers and movement toward larger class and school
sizes? and f) are the inputs from curriculum development contributing to
decreased dropouts and/or better student achievements? The Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit of the Primary and Non-Formal Wing (PNFW), Ministry of Educa-
tion (MOE), has responsibility for monitoring primary education activities
nationally. Assistance would also be provided to strengthen the system and
link it with the Punjab M&E system. Inter-provincial comparative studies on
enrollments, physical school development, and pupil/teacher ratios would be
carried out by this Unit.
3.13    The Government has prepared a draft monitoring and evaluation plan
including a schedule for system design, computerization and RLC studies. It
has been reviewed by IDA and found acceptable. During negotiations, the
Government provided assurances that it would develop and institute the
Monitoring and Evaluation system substantially according to an Action Program
acceptable to IDA (Annex 6). The Action program requires that: a) before the
start of the first school year of the project (April 1988), a report on
baseline measurements pertaining to enrollments, schools, teachers and student
achievements be sent to IDA; b) detailed annual evaluation reports be sent to
IDA within four months of the end of each school year; and c) at the end of
the project, a draft comprehensive report showing results of the project be
also submitted to IDA. The project would support management improvement by
financing expert services, fellowships, equipment, vehicles, consumable
materials, operation and maintenance costs, and the salaries of additional
staff.
E.      Curriculum Development and Materials Supply (Proposed Outlay US$25.81
million)
3.14    The Federal Government, in October 1986, approved for national
implementation the concept of a two-staged curriculum. The timely introduc-
tion and implementation of a reformed primary school curriculum is a necessary
input to the program given the problems of the present curriculum (para 1.20)
and is a major objective of both the national and provincial investment
programs. This component would ensure a sustainable literacy/numeracy com-
petence for primary school children, allow for better adjustment to local
conditions, and facilitate the organization of curriculum content for
multi-grade teaching. Assistance would be provided to strengthen the
capacities of the NBCT and the CRDC Punjab, to plan, design, analyze, test and
disseminate curricula. Because both the NBCT and CRDC are organized along
subject matter lines, special Primary Education Units would have to be formed
in each organization. The major activity of these units would be to reor-
ganize the subject matter in the school curriculum, develop an appropriate
balance and mix of time between various subjects, reduce content overload, and
develop materials to supplement the textbooks. It is expected that the new
curriculum for Grades 1-3, including new textbooks and teacher's guides, would



-21-
be introduced by 1990, and for Grades 4-5 by 1993. During negotiations, the
Government provided an assurance that the Pzovinces would undertake a program
of curriculum reform and development and institute it substantially in accord-
ance with a detailed Action Program acceptable to IDA (Annex 6). The Action
Program provides that the new integrated curriculum for Grades 1-3 would be
introduced by April 1990, and for Grades 4-5 in April 1993. In the develop-
ment process, special attention would be given to improving the relevance of
the curriculum for rural children and females. Curriculum development would
be supported with equipment, expert services, fellowships, books, vehicles,
consumable materials, and the salaries of additional staff.
3.15    The consistent underfunding of basic learning and pedagogic materials
is a major problem in primary education (Para 1.21). At present about 98.5%
of Punjab's recurrent education budget is allocated to salaries and allowan-
ces. This means that only about Rs6 per student is spent on consumable learn-
ing materials. An increase in the supply of these materials is necessary for
improving the quality of instruction, pace of learning, as well as complement-
ing the investments in curriculum reform and teacher training. Assistance
would be designed to improve the quality and increase the supply of three
types of instructional materials:
(a) Teacher's Guides would be developed in relation to the curriculum
reform process, published and distributed to all primary schools, as well as
pre and in-service teacher training institutions;
(b) Teaching Kits and Basic Education Materials. A primary school
teaching kit, containing materials for the teaching of mathematics, general
science and social studies, and a teacher's manual, has been developed by the
National Education Equipment Centre in Lahore. About 30,000 kits have already
been supplied to primary schools in the Punjab. A kit would be provided to all
other schools in the Province, as well as each GCET. Maps, charts, transistor
radios and consumable materials (paper and chalk) are essential materials and
would also be supplied to the schools. During negotiations, the Punjab
government provided an assurance that by FY93, the present per student alloca-
tion of Rs6 for learning materials in the recurrent budget would be increased
to levels acceptable to IDA. (about Rs58 or about 7% of the primary education
recurrent budget).
(c) Textbooks constitute a major cost of primary education to poor
families and have been identified as one reason for dropouts. The lack of
books is also a cause of low learning achievement. While the provision of
free books to all children in all grades is not feasible, the cost of these
texts can be reduced to make them more accessible. Since the cost of paper
represents a substantial part of the cost of the book (60Z), the project would
support the paper acquisition costs of the Punjab Textbook Board, and thereby
facilitate a reduction in primary school textbook prices. Support would also
be targetted at the process of textbook writing. Efforts would be undertaken
to ensure that the textbooks published are at a level suitable for primary
school children. During negotiations, the Punjab Government provided an
assurance that it would review the prices presently set for school textbooks
and by February 1, 1989 agree with IDA on a suitable new schedule of prices.



-22-
The project would support textbook development and distribution by financing
expert services and consumable materials.
F.      Teacher Training and Development (Proposed Outlay US$50.08 million)
3.16    The major objectives of this component are to: a) reorganize, ration-
alize and strengthen the teacher training system in the Punjab; and b)
institute policies and programs that would improve the teacher service (Para
1.16-1.17). The revamped training system would have four distinct elements:
a) pre-service training; b) training of unqualified teachers who are already
in service; c) the recurrent upgrading of qualified in-service teachers; and
d) a management training program for supervisors and administrators.
3.17    Pre-Service Training would be undertaken at the 29 existing GCETs.
The total output of trained teachers is estimated at about 40,000 over the
five-year period, the majority of whom would be teachers appointed under the
Prime Minister's program (Para 2.09). In order to improve the quality of the
program, the teacher training curriculum would be improved. Improvements
would include increases in practice teaching time, multi-grade teaching,
parent, community, school and teacher relations, child growth and development,
and rural education. GCET faculty would be upgraded to meet the requirements
of this new curriculum and new teaching practices. During negotiations the
Government provided assurances that it would undertake the pre-service train-
ing program substantially in accordance with the detailed Action Program
acceptable to IDA (Annex 6). Pre-service teacher training would be supported
under the project, by a limited civil works program (additional classrooms),
furniture, equipment, vehicles, books, expert services, fellowships, con-
sumable materials, operations and maintenance costs, and the salaries of
additional staff.
3.18    In-Service Training of Unqualified Teachers.  The PTC program of the
AIOU will be the principal strategy for training this category of teachers.
It is estimated that a total of 17,500 teachers would be trained through this
method over the five-year period, of which 15,000 would be female. The cur-
riculum and the techniques utilized in distance primary teaching would be
improved as a part of the operation. Improvements would consist of: a) reduced
tutor: student ratios; b) extending workshop periods; c) increasing practice
teaching and the number of peer teaching lessons; d) using micro-teaching
techniques; e) improving teacher guides to be consistent with the on-going
primary school curriculum reform; f) introducing multi-grade teaching; and g)
school/parent/community/teacher participation elements in the program. The
existing AIOU Learning Resource Center network is expected to manage the
program and will not require an investment in facilities. During negotiations
the Government provided an assurance that it would carry out this program
substantially in accordance with a detailed Action Program acceptable to IDA
(Annex 6). In-service trainirS of unqualified teachers would be supported by
expert services, fellowships, equipment, books, vehicles, consumable
materialst and the salaries of additional staff.
3.19    Recurrent In-Service Training.  A continuing program of in-service
education is a necessary quality input to any school system. The in-service
training system would be completely revised, and build on the successful



-23-
experiences of CR.892-PAK (Para 2.15). Learning Coordinators (LCs) would be
the linchpin of the reorganized system of in-service teacher training and
would be appointed to serve the dual purpose of providing both academic and
institutional supervision. LCs would be more intensively trained to undertake
continuous on- and off-the job, in-service training of teachers. With the
improved selection, training, and performance of the LCs, each primary school
teacher is expected to receive about four contact hours of in-service training
every two weeks. LCs would also be trained as school supervisors to comple-
ment the AEO's. This is necessary largely because AEO's visits to primary
schools are infrequent, short, and addressed predominantly to external inspec-
tion rather than intfrnal support and guidance (Para 1.08). During nego-
tiations the Government provided assurances that it would undertake recurrent
in-service teacher training substantially in accordance with a detailed Action
Program acceptable to IDA (Annex 6).
3.20    The focal point for the training/upgrading of trainers, supervisors
and other administrative cadres would be the PEEC and DEECs. The PEEC would
provide training to senior functionaries (DEOs and DDEOs), while its
affiliates, the five DEECs, would concentrate on the intensive training of
AEOs and LCs. In addition to the attention given to upgrading, a major
quality improvement exercise would be undertaken for the PEEC and DEECs.
Their programs would be improved by: a) improving management training; b)
intensive professional growth workshops for all staff and master trainers; c)
revising competency based teaching guides; d) revision and updating of science
instruction, and micro-teaching; e) developing a visual data base of exemplary
practices in rural teaching; f) designing and introducing a unit on
teacher-community relations and; g) introducing an improved monitoring and
feedback system. In-service training would be supported with equipment,
vehicles, books, expert services, fellowships, consumable training materials,
operation and maintenance costs, and the salaries of additional staff.
3.21    Management Training.  Staff from all administrative levels of the
newly established ADPI would be involved in a management training program.
The objective of the training would be two-fold. First, staff would be intro-
duced through an orientation course to the objectives and goals of the invest-
ment program with particular emphasis on the core program, and exposed to the
methodology/techniques of program implementation. The second and sustained
aspect of the training would be more specialized and concentrate on
administrative and management elements. The PEEC in conjunction with local
management training institutions (The National Institute of Public Administra-
tion, and The Academy for Educational Planning and Management) would assist in
carrying out this program. It would include aspects of management, functional
specialities, and the operational and procedural elements of the new ADPI.
During negotiations, the Government provided an assurance that it would carry
out this program substantially in accordance with a detailed Action Program
acceptable to IDA (Annex 6). About 300 staff would receive training under
this program, and of these, 128 would be female. Expert services, local and
foreign fellowships, consumable training materials, and the salaries of addi-
tional staff would be financed to support this program.
3.22    Training alone would not lead to a more effective teacher service.
Persistent problems with the appointment of suitable instructional staff,



-24-
rapid turnover at teacher training institutions, high vacancy rates in rural
areas, and low morale among teachers must be addressed if performance is to
improve commensurate with the investment in training. Policies which affect
the appointment of female teachers, incentives for rural service, and overall
career development will be developed as part of the proposed project.
3.23    Female Teacher Appointment.  Increasing the enrollment of girls is
a major objective of the investment program. Experience under the first IDA
assisted Primary Education Project (Cr. 892-PAK) demonstrated that there was
a signific&at relationship between the number of female teachers and the
enrollment of girls. The Government has already announced a policy which
gives preference to the hiring of female teachers. However, the reluctance of
female teachers to take up appointments in rural areas other than their own
locality (related to the customs and mores of rural areas), lack of residen-
tial accommodation, problems faced after marriage, and differential housing
allowances, are reasons why progress has been slow. The success of the assis-
tant (unqualified) female teacher coming from the local community demonstrates
that some of these obstacles can be overcome. During negotiations, the Punjab
Government provided an assurance that preference would continue to be given to
hiring female teachers, and that by the end of the five-year investment
program, the number of female teachers would meet the ratio of 1: 40 femalo
students enrolled. This would only be possible if girls from rural areas are
specially recruited, awarded scholarships, and given preference in enrollment
for teacher training at Government Colleges for Elementary Teachers (GCETs).
During negotiations the Punjab Government agreed to develop and implement a
plan by April 30, 1988 to facilitate this policy.
3.24    Incentives.  The problems of attracting female teachers to rural areas
are acute, but the same disincentives also affect male teachers. During
negotiations, the Government provided an assurance that it would a) undertake
a study to review existing non-monetary incentives to teachers, and b) by
February 1990, develop and institute a system of incentives in addition to
those to be offered for increasing school enrollment (para 3.27), which would
attract both male and female teachers to rural service. Draft terms of
reference for the study have been completed, reviewed by IDA, and found
acceptable.
3.25    Career Development.  With the expansion of government schools, train-
ing programs would have to be reassessed and an integrated system of pre and
in-service training gradually instituted. The new program must also be linked
to teacher career development and mobility. Assistant teachers should be able
to progress to teacher, headteacher, Learning Coordinator (LC) and ultimately
to Assistant Education Officer (AEO). Rules and policies which would embody
this type of development already exist in part, and over time, certain prac-
tices have been institutionalized which assist this process. Nonetheless,
systematic career development requires that clear policies be drawn up,
approved, and instituted as part of the changing primary school system.
During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it would: (a)
carry out studies in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association on how to reorganize and strengthen the present teacher career
system including a review of recruitment, training, posting, promotion and
non-monetary incentive systems; (b) complete the study by December 1988 and



-25-
review the findings with IDA; and (c) with effect from the 1989 school year,
start the implementation of the new career development system. Draft terms of
reference for this study have been completed, reviewed and found acceptable to
IDA.
G.      Communication/Demand Generation (Proposed Outlay US$3.54 million)
3.26    The demand for primary education has to emanate from parents and the
community if it is to be successful. Pakistan's own experience has shown that
when schools have been 'provided' by the Government without the active par-
ticipation of the people, facilities are underutilized and not maintained
(Para 1.22). The Punjab has recently (February 1987) established a Provincial
Primary Education Council, chaired by the Chief Minister with the explicit
objective of providing leadership in achieving the goal of UPE. This Council
is supported by District Primary Education Committees headed by a Provincial
Minister o' Adviser to the Chief Minister, and Union Council Education Commit-
tees. At tma village level, School/Management Committees have been con-
stituted for every primary school. This organizational structure is seen by
the Punjab as essential for stimulating community participation.
3.27    One policy theme which has been a constant in all of Pakistan's Educa-
tion Plans and is explicit in the Education Ordinance, is compulsory enroll-
ment and the role of the community in its enforcement. (Paras 2.02, 2.04)7.
Recognizing however that compulsory enrollment would be difficult to enforce
without rapid economic and social change in rural areas and a large enforce-
ment mechanism, the Punjab Government in January 1987, decided that efforts be
initiated immediately to implement the spirit of the policy i.e. increasing
and maintaining primary school enrollments; but with the emphasis on motiva-
tion rather than compulsion. An incentive plan for increasing rural primary
school enrollments has been devised. The key element of the plan is advanced
salary increments to teachers, principals and AEOs who can bring about a 98X
enrollment of Grade 1 boys in the particular school, and further increments if
this is maintained to Grades 2 and 3. For girls schools, the Grade 1 target
is 50S, with similar targets for Grades 2 and 3. A system of checks and
verification based on the census, the nominal fees collected per child (Rsl
per month) and district level reviews has been established to overcome false
reporting of enrollment. During the project, IDA would monitor the progress
in the implementation of this enrollment/motivation program (Annex 6).
3.28    The solution to providing primary education to the very poor may well
be outside the range of purely educational options. Unless a family can
attain a tolerable living standard, it may be impossible to make education a
part of their lives, even when it is free. Present laws which require a child
to attend primary school need support of all kinds. One technique is to make
the education system adjust to the rhythm of economic activity of the village.
Flexible scheduling of school timing and school calendars to reflect local
planting and harvesting customs would make education more a part of the vil-
lager's life. This flexibility already exists to an extent in the Punjab,
with variations in the timing of school holidays in the hills and lowland
areas. The Punjab has also completed a systematic review of scheduling prac-
tices in all districts. This has been reviewed by IDA and found acceptable.
During negotiations, the Government provided an assurance that 'At would take



-26-
all measures to introduce, by the 1988 school year, flexible scheduling of
school hours and timing in provinces and districts where this is not now
practiced.
3.29    The policies which increase parental and community participation in
school management, the scheduling of school hours and calendars, and compul-
sory enrollment are all designed to increase the demand for primary education.
The core investment program also includes a series of activities to complement
and facilitate these policies. This would involve the training and motivation
of community and parental groups. The National Institute for Communications
through Education (NICE) would have primary responsibility for the development
and implementation of this program. It is expected that teachers and LCs
would play an active part in stimulating community interest and participation
in primary education, and work closely with the SMCs and UCECs. NICE would
organize a program of intensive training in community involvement, communica-
tions support, and related subjects for all administrators as a preamble to
the start of community wide activities. The training and other activities
which would then be undertaken by the AE0s and other staff, would be essen-
tially a consciousness raising and demand generation exercise with the objec-
tive of making the community aware of the government's policies and programs
in primary education, and the fact that the people can influence the implemen-
tation of these programs in their communities. Activities covering the broad
spectrum of communication including motivational and community events, and
mass-media campaigns in which radio, television, film, newspapers and
billboards are used, would be supported. During negotiations the Government
provided an assurance that it would undertake the Communications/Demand Gener-
ation program substantially in accordance with a detailed Action Program
acceptable to IDA (Annex 6). Expert services, fellowships, equipment,
vehiclest consumable materials and the salaries of additional staff would be
provided to support this communications effort.
H.      School Construction and Maintenance (Proposed Outlay US$100.65 mil-
l,ion.
3.30    The Government's five-year investment program includes a school con-
struction program which calls for the opening of mosque schools, construction
of new girls schools, upgrading of existing primary schools, the construction
of classrooms for boys and girls shelterless schools, and additional class-
rooms for overcrowded schools (Para 2.11). IDA would focus on the core of
this program, which concentrates on the provision of new classrooms and bound-
ary walls for shelterless girls schools, and the construction of new girls
schools. It is estimated that about 10,300 gitls schools (facilities for 5200
shelterless and 5100 new schools) would be constructed during the five-year
period. This would increase the number of primary places by 408,000, plus
providing an additional 416,000 places school in existing shelterless schools.
The number of schools to be constructed under the project was estimated on the
basis of: a) the proven capacity of the Local Government and Rural Development
Department (LGRD) to supervise construction of schools and b) the estimated
capacity of the recently established Civil Engineering Cell (CEC) in the
Department of Education (para 3.33).



-27-
3.31    The major objective of the project however, would be to develop a
provincial capability for the efficient and timely provision of new, and the
maintenance of existing primary school facilities in the Punjab. Annual
programs would be developed in three parts: Part I the construction of new
schools for girls and support facilities for Mosque schools; Part II the
addition of classrooms to existing schools and the construction of classrooms
for shelterless schools; and Part III the maintenance program. The Punjab
Government has already moved ahead in developing the institutional and
organizational basis for this program. A comprehensive province-wide school
map was completed in January 1987. It includes a survey of all the sites of
shelterless schools, and additional classroom requirements based on population
projections. This school map has been reviewed and found acceptable to IDA.
The CEC (para 3.33) has also been established in the Department of Education
to supplement the primary school construction efforts of the LGRD. The staff-
ing responsibilities and proposed program of the CEC have been reviewed and
found acceptable to IDA. Finally, the DOE has prepared a draft contract for
acquiring the services of Consulting Engineers to assist in the management of
the entire construction and maintenance program. The draft contract has been
reviewed and found acceptable to IDA.
3.32    The implementation of Part I of the program would be carried out under
the responsibility of the LGRD. The LGRD is revponsibile for the construction
and maintenance of all small scale rural projects (link roads, irrigation,
community facilities, and primary schools), and has a technical staff which is
organized on the basis of Districts. One Assistant Engineer, 3-4
Sub-Engineers, and one draftsman is the core unit at the district level. One
executive engineer with support staff is placed in charge of a Division, and
one Superintending Engineer and support staff is in charge of the overall
construction program of the Province. In total, LGRD has 144 sub-engineers
and each is assigned to supervise five to, ten projects at a time. During
FY86, LGRD, by using about 301 of its manpower (sub-engineers), supervised the
construction of about 1200 schools, and in FY87 about 2,200 schools mainly of
one classroom each are being 'constructed. Each sub-engineer on the average
supervised the construction of 30 schools. For the purposes of the project it
is assumed that with the same level of effort, LGRD will be able to supervise
the construction of at least 5100 new schools during the period of project
implementAtion. The LGRD will work with the local communities in the con-
struction of new schools for girls. This would be carried out through Project
Committees (PCs) under the supervision of LGRD. A Project Committee consists
of a Chairman and several members of the community. The area sub-engineer of
the LGRD is also a member of the committee. The work is carried out on the
basis of standard drawings and specifications prepared centrally, and has to
be completed within the estimated cost. The PC procures materials, hires
labor, and subcontracts parts of the work to third parties, or depending on
the availability of local contracts, it execites the work through tendering.
The government has confirmed that the PCi, under the supervision of the LGRD,
would maintain records of procurement of material and of the overall cost of
works.
3.33    The Civil Engineering Cell (CEC) has been established for the dual
purpose of: i) repair and maintenance of educational institutions from high
schools and above and ii) construction and maintenance of primary schools



-28-
under Part II of the program (para 3.31). Regarding the construction of
primary schools, the CEC will perform the following tasks: (a) carry out the
structural survey of the existing primary schools; (b) identify and survey
sites for new school construction in accordance with the results of the school
mapping exercise; and (c) prepare annual programs for construction and main-
tenance of existing schools; (d) award contracts and supervise the construc-
tion of facilities under Part II of the program, and coordinate with the LGRD
and Project Committees, the implementation of the overall construction
program. For the purpose of the project it is assumed that 40Z of the man-
power of the CEC (120 sub engineers, 37 assistant engineers, 9 executive
engineers and 1 superintending engineer) will be dedicated to the construction
of facilities to female shelterless schools under the project. The remaining
manpower of the CEC would be utilized for the construction of additional
classroom to existing schools, facilities to male shelterless schools under
Part II) of the program and for the maintenance of the schools under Part III
of the program. It is estimated that, with the assistance of the consulting
engineers, CEC within the period of project implementation will be able to
administer the civil works contracts and supervise the construction of
facilities for at last 5200 shelterless schools.
3.34    The CEC would be assisted by consulting engineers in the preparation
of: (a) standard survey forms, and the annual construction programs; (b) in
the implementation of Part (11) of the construction program; and (c) in the
monitoring and evaluation of Parts (1) and (11) of the construction program.
The Consulting Engineers would carry out the task under a consultancy con-
tract, (para 3.31). The selection of the Consulting Engineers would be a
condition of credit effectiveness.
3.35    The maintenance of the prima-' school network is a major concern.  In
the past, the maintenance and constru ion of new primary schools was the
responsibility of the local community, but after nationalization in 1972, no
explicit provisions were made for maintenance. A clear policy for the main-
tenance of primary schools, including the appropriate assignment of authority
and responsibilities is necessary. During negotiations the Government agreed
to undertake a study on the maintenance of primary schools and complete it
by December 1988. The study would investigate: (a) the criteria for determin-
ing maintenance requirements, the estimated cost for the rehabilitation of the
existing stock of schools, and the financial requirements for the annual
maintenance; (b) assess alternative sources of funds to central government
transfers which can support maintenance expenditures (user charges, rents,
community support, etc); (c) outline organizational responsibilities for
maintenance; and (d) describe in detail how maintenance of primary schools
would be monitored. During negotiations the Government also provided an
assurance that starting from July 1989, adequate annual budgetary allocations
(based on the study) would be made available to the appropriate organizations
to implement a maintenance program for primary schools. Draft terms of
reference for the maintenance study have been completed, reviewed by IDA and
found acceptable. During negotiations the government provided a further
assurance that it would undertake the school construction and maintenance
program substantially in accordance with a detailed Action Program as agreed
with IDA (Annex 6). The Action Program provides for IDA's annual review of
the construction and maintenance program.



-29-
I.      Imniementatiop_Sequence
3.36    The implementation sequence of the project i.e. the conditions for
credit effectiveness and the actions to be completed each year are outlined in
Table 3.1. The quantitative and qualitative indicators/benchmarks to be used
as measures of implementation progress and criteria for annual review are
summarized in Table 3.2.
J.      Technical Assistance Summary
3.37    The technical assistance to be provided under the proposed project
would comprise 165 staff months of foreign expert services, 647 staff years of
local expert services, 160 staff months of foreign fellovehip training and
1568 staff years of local fellowship training and would be allocated as out-
lined in Annex 7.
K.      Cofinancina
3.38    The EEC and CIDA would co-finance the project.  The EEC would finance
all technical assistance requirements for management improvement, curriculum
reform and training, plus a portion of construction (US$10.0 million).  CIDA
would finance costs associated with couunication and demand generation, and
the textbook supply component (US$11.7 million). Agreement in principle
between EEC, CIDA and GOP on co-fiantcing has been reached. The signing of
agreements between GOP, the EEC and CIDA would be a condition of credit effec-
tiveness.
L.      PC-1
3.39    To ensure that sufficient funds are allocated for all components, the
Government has prepared a Planning Commission Form 1 (PC-1) which includes a
detailed staffing plan, including a schedule of appointment of additional
staff for each institution.  During negotiations, the Government provided an
assurance that it would maintain the schedule of additional staff appointment
(Annex 8). Approval of the PC-1 by the Executive Comnittee of the National
Economic Council (ECNEC) would be a condition of credit effectiveness.



-30-
ablIa 3.2:  Ouuntitative and Onlitatie Indicators of
Ianleamentation Proures
I      COMPONENT         I        QUANTITATIVE INDICATORS          I                QUALITATIVE INDICATORS/BENCHEMRIS                     1
I MANAGEMENT INPROVEMENT I                                         I                                                                      I
I Establishing ADPI      I Number of Staff Appointed               I Evidence that new administrative structure performing functions as I
I Number of Staff Trained                 I planned- plans prepared, improvements in personnel management       I
I                        I                                         I underway, managers utiliaing M6E, financial allocations made         i
i                        I                                         I according to phased implementation schedule, coordination and        I
I                        I                                         I relations with related institutions effective, program               1
I                        I                                         I efficiently managed (satisfactory adherence to resource              I
I  I                                      I delivery, timeframes snd financial outlays).  Primary Education    i
I                        I                                         I receiving required attention/priority within DOE. 
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                I
I N I E                  I A Baseline Survey Completed               S Survey, (a) data content is comprehensive regarding enrollments,   I
I                        I                                         I teachers, facilities, learning materials, student achievements and I
I                        I                                         I financial allocations; (b) design meets professional standards of  I
sampling and methodology; and (c) results are timely.                I
I  Number of RLCe Completed               I MbE system designed, field tested, computerised; X6E manual          i
I  I                                      I prepared; annual M&E plans prepared, including requirements and    I
I  I                                      I results for RLCs. RLCe conducted according to accepted standards  I
I  I                                      I and utilising agreed methodologies approved in preliminary designed
I Annual Reports                          I Annual Report: (a) informs on progress over baseline survey; (b)   I
I                        I                                         I analyses  capacity to deliver resources, achieve workplan targets, I
I                        I                                         I identify causes for shortfalls, formulates corrective measures;    I
I                        I                                         I and (c) provides for adjustments in project design, if necessary. 
I Audited Accounts       I Annual Audit                            I Audits are timely and meet professional standards.                   I
-_       …. - - - - _ _ _- -  -,. - - - -----   _---…------        I-    __    - - _--  -  -_-___ -  - --------- - …-         … - - ------
I CURRICULUM AND         I Number of Staff Appointed to PE Units  I NBCT and CRDC Primary Education Units functioning and annual          I
I ATERIALS SUPPLY        I Number of Staff Trained                 I reports include staff assigveents, work accomplished, study tours  I
I                        I Number of Manuscripts Completed         I designed and completed, authurs' contracts negotiated, texts and   I
i                        I Number of Micro-tested Units Completed I teachers guides completed for integrated curriculum for Grades 1-3,1
i                        I Number of Seminars/Workshops Held       I teachers trained in new curriculum, plan for integrated curriculum I
!                        I                                         I for Grades 4-5 initiated.                                            i
I                                             I                                                 .                                         I
I Materials Supply       I Number of Teaching Kits Supplied        I Workplan for specifications, pric.a and sources for materials        I
I                        I Number of Classroom Equipment Supplied 1 supply completed; new (lower) text-book pricing scheme approved    I
I                        I Number of Teacher Guides Supplied         a and printed on texts, 
-----…---  ------ -----   ----- ----- --…-…
I TEACUER TRAINING       I                                         I
I Pre- and In-Service    I Number of Learning Coordinators (LCs)  I Annual reports and training plans analysis indicates hours and        i
I                        I Appointed                               I topics provided to teachers.  Evidence of effective in-service       I
I Number of Contact Ers done per LC/year I training. Evidence that new learning units introduced, staff         1
I                        I Number of Teaching Guides Distributed  I upgraded, and facilities (libraries, laboratories) being
I                        I Number of OCET Staff Trained            I facilities (libraries, laboratories) being provided.
I                        I Number of MCET Appointed                I
i Female Teacbers        I Number recruited                        I Data analysis indicates districtwise numbers of female teachers    1
I                        I Number Trained (GCET)                   I at post compared with baseline data.                                 I
I                        I Number Trained (AIOU)                   I                                                                      I
Incentives for Rural   I Number of leadmasters, Teachers, Aset. I Evidence of Implementation of non-monetary incentives for               I
I  Teachers              I Teachers Received Incentives, Salary  I teachers.                                                              I
I Increments/Compared with Total          1
I Eligible                                I
I Career Development       Number of Teacher Promotions Based on  I Career development plan completed, includes non-finsucial             1
I Training/Teaching Performance vs        i incentives (opportunities for promotion based on performance/trg..
I seniority and other factors              a additional study from distance education and system  for
I                                         I monitoring its implementation).
--- __     ---                                                  --_…
COMMUNICATIONS/        I Number of Radio Programs                I Provincial arrangements operating; incentive awards generating
I DEMA"D GEUNRATION      I Number of Television Programs           1 interest in and competition for increased enrollments among
I lumber of Seminars                      I rural schools publ,cized; materials for media campaign designed,   1
I Number of Mass Workshops                I field tested and utilized.                                          I
SCROOL CONSTRUCTION    I
Construction  and      I Number of New Girls Schools Completed  I Annual construction and saintenance programs prepared and funded.  I
Kaintenance             I Number of Shelterless Girls Schools    I Newly completed classrooms fully utilized; equipped and staffed.   I
I Completed
____________ ___________________________- _ 



-  --  --  --  --  ---  --  --  --  --   --  --  --  --  --- - - - - - - - -  ----- - - - -   -----  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
|-|I}31acl~~~~~9 |w   Is                                                                                         :3 9ie  3j51Xsj        
|-]S13   S|  |    3t[.ta~-4                            M. S   333  I| 3                                          S-
X ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~       ~~~~ JG 3  ^R     I    IiS 5 3  1A.C
1  |  jG|tzal  | }-S  233a| 3Z                  1               r             |il 
]  | |-|w1  X|    [ s~~~ 3E   ' sg.'gi._   *il  8.  .              3                  3                            ln 
s e l | s i C i s | | ;t * 1-                                                                640 .    i
__   _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  __  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  __  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _



-32-
IV. COSTS9 FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS
A.      Costs
4.01    Summaries of Cost.  The total cost of Punjab's five-year primary
education investment, program, including duties and taxes on imported goods, is
estimated by IDA at about Rs9,924.83 million or US$446.06 million equivalent.
The total cost of the core program/project including duties and taxes is
estimated at about Rs4,535.49 million or US$207.87 million equivalent.
Detailed costs of the project by component, categories of expenditure and time
are given in Annex 9. The breakdown of local and foreign costs of the project
by component, and categories of expenditure is summarized in Table 4.1 and
4.2.
Table 4.1: Costs by Component 1/
!                    !                       I                     I T   I
I  j    Ru ee (million)      US  (million)    IBase I
i Component           Local  Foreignl Total   Local Poreign  TotaliCosts
I Management         I                              I       I      I     I
I Improvement        1 57.511  10.511 68.021  3.321   0.611  3.931 2.1 1
I              I~~~ I           l       l      l       l      l     I
Curriculum Dev./   l       l       l       l      I        I      l     l
Materials Supply  | 263.301 183.181 446.481 15.221  10.591 25.81114.0 |
-.                   I       I       i       I      I       l      l     I
j Teacher Training   | 849.381  17.071 866.451 49.091   0.991 50.08127.3 |
I                    I       l       l       l      l       l      l     I
Comnctos            1       1       1       1      1       1      1      1
DemmandiGneations   I       I104   102I  133   2 I5  I.9    I.4   .  I
DemandIGen e   o     5    1       1 6     1 2 1              1   1     1
I School ConstructionJ1586.181 155.0611741.241 91.691|  8.961100.65154.7 1
j      Base Costs   12807.421 376.1113183.531162.271  21.741184.011100.01
-                    I       l       l       l      l       l      l     I
IContingencies       l       l       l       l      l       l      l     l
I Physical           1 234.501  36.191 270.691 13.561   2.091 15.651  8.51
1 Price               944.191 137.0811081.271  6.721  1.49  _8.211 4.41
1 Subtotal           1178.691 173.2711351.96  20.28    3.58  23.86  12.91
I                                    1       1 I ...
1      TOTAL COSTS  13986.111 549.3814535.491182.551  25.321207.871112.91
1/ Includes taxes and duties
Notet Subtotals may not add due to rounding



-33-
Table 4,2: Costs by Categories of Expenditures 1/
1                       I                     I      I
I                      l      Rupee (million)           USj  (millon) lBase  |
| Component            ILocal JForeign  Total ILocal IForeigniTotal |Costs |
| Civil Works and       -I            I         I_J                - 
P Professional Fees   11484.311 140.9311625.241 85.80|  8.14 | 93.941 51.1 I
I Furniture            I 971791   7.421 105.211  5.651  0.43 | 6.081  3.3 1
1 Equipment              250.701  62.721 313.421 14.491  3.63 | 18.121  9.8 |
| Vehicles             | 19.881  11.931  31.811  1.151  0.69 | 1.841  1.0 I
I Books                | 28.331   7.141  35.471  1.641  0.41 | 2.051  1.1 I
I Expert Services      | 44.681  20.111  64.791  2.581  1.16 | 3.741  2.0 |
I Fellowship           | 33.381   4.401  37.781  1.931  0.25 | 2.181  1.2 |
| Daily Allowances for I        I       I              I        I      I      I
! in-country training 1 25.881   -   1 25.88   1.491   -   I 1.491  0.8 1
iSalaries of           I        I       I       I      I        I      I      I
|  Additional Staff   | 799.031   -   | 799.031 46.191   -   | 46.191 25.1 1
Consumable Materials |  6.961 120.171 127.131  0.401  6.95 I 7.351  4.0 1
1 Operation & Maint.      16.48    1.271  17.771 0.951 0.08 1 1.031 0.6 1
Base Costs         2807.42  376.1113183.531162.271 21.74 1l84.011100.0 l
I Contingencies        1I                                         l-I
I Physical             1 234.501  36.191 270.691 13.561  2.09 1 15.651  8.5 |
l Price                  944.191137.0811081.2716.7211.4918.2114.41
_   Sub-Total          11178.691 173.2711351.961 ?0.281  3.58 1 23.861 12.9 1
1    TOTAL COST        13986.11  549.3814535.49 182.551 25.32  207.871112.9 |
I/  Includes taxes and duties
Rote: Subtotals may not add to totals due to rounding
4.02    Basis of Cost Estimates.  Estimated costs for civil works are based on
current unit costs of construction and the method of contract awarding.  Costs
of construction vary depending on location and accessibility, from the equiv-
alent of US$6.0 per sq.ft to US$8.0 per sq.ft for primary schools, and US$10.0
to US$12.0 per sq.ft for other types of buildings. These costs are reasonable
for comparable Bank-assisted traditional construction in Pakistan as well as
other countries of the region. Costs for professional services for design and
top supervision/monitoring of construction reflect the scale of fees estab-
lished for similar services provided by local consulting firms. Estimated
equipment, books and vehicle costs are products of lists reviewed during
appraisal and include import duties and taxes. Furniture and consumable
material costs are based on mission estimates and reflect current prices at
the time of appraisal. Estimated costs for the salaries of additional staff
are based on Government Basic Pay Scales (BPS) including standard allowances
for social and other benefits.
4.03    Customs Duties and Taxes. All imported goods are subject to customs
duties and taxes.  The cost of the project includes import duties and taxes
estimated at about US$4.96 million.



-34-
4.04    Contingencies Allowances.  Estimated costs include physical contingen-
cles (US$15.65 million estimated at 10 of base costs of all physical com-
ponents and at 51 for salaries and technical assistance. The estimated costs
of the project also include price contingencies (US$8.21 million) to cover
expected price escalation at the following rates. For civil works, goods,
salaries, and technical assistance; foreign cost: 7.3% in FY87,2.0% in FY88,
1.01 in FY89, and FY90, 2.2% in FY91 and 3.5X in FY92 and FY93 local cost:
5.51 in FY87, 10.01 in FY88,8.0X in FY89, 7.0Z in 1990, 5.0% in FY91, and 3.5%
in £Y92 and FY93.
4.05    Foreign Exchange Component.  The estimated foreign exchange component
of US$25.32 million representing about 141 of estimated total project costs,
has been calculated on the basis of estimated foreign exchange proportions as
followst (a) civil works 8.5%; (b) furniture 7%; (c) equipment (imported 65%,
locally produced 171) (d) vehicles (cars 501, motorcyles 151); (e) books 20%;
(f) international fellowships 95%; (g) foreign experts 851; (h) consumable
materials (locally produced 10%, imported printing paper 1001) M (i) operation
and!maintenance of vehicles at 101; and (j) professional architectural serv-
iceg 15%).
B.      Financing Plan
4.06    The total cost of the project of US$207.87 million equivalent would be
financed as follows: (a) a proposed IDA credit of US$145.0 million equivalent
would cover about 72% of costs net of taxes; (b) EEC would finance US$3.50
million equivalent to cover technical assistance for management improvement,
curriculum reform and training and US$6.50 equivalent for school construction;
(c) CIDA would finance US$3.70 million equivalent for equipment, expert serv-
ices and fellowships, and consumable materials for communications/demand
generation and US$8.00 million equivalent of consumable materials (printing
paper) for the textbook development and supply component; and (d) the Govern-
ment would finance the remaining net costs of US$36.21 million (181 of total
net costs) and all taxes. Total external financing would cover about 821 of
total net project costs, or about 381 of the net overall five-year investment
program. A financing plan by categories of expenditure is shown in Table 4.3.



-35-
Table 4.3s Financing Plan
(US$ million equivalent)
---------------------------------------------------------__-----------
l                  I         I     I      I       I GOP   I       I
| Category of      | Taxes & | IDA  I EEC  I CIDA  |(Net of I Total I
Expenditure     | Duties  |      I     I       I Taxes) I       I
--- --- --- --- ---I-- - - - I - - -I-- - -I-- -- -I-- - - -I-- -- -I
|Civil works and   I         I     I      I       I       I       I
| Professional Feesl 2.70   | 84.551 6.10 |  -   | 13.28  1106.63 |
| Furniture        | 0.14   | 5.441 0.40 |  -   | 0.90  | 6.88 |
| Equipment        1 1.40   1 15.901  -   | 0.26 1 2.92  | 20.48 |
Vehicles         1 0.70   1  - I   -   I  -   1 1.38 1  2.08 1
IBooks             I  -      I  -  I -   | 0.56 1  1.68  | 2.24 1
|Experts           I  -     I  -  13.25   0.80 I  -          4.05
|Fellowships       I  -      I  -   0.25   2.07 1   -        2.32|
| Daily Allowances  |I             I              I   l
| for in-country   |I              I              I   l
training        I  -      1 1.601  -   I  -   I  -    I 1.60 1
IConsumable        I         I     I      I       I       I       I
I Materials        I  -     1 0.361  -   1 8.01 1 0.16  1 8.53 1
ISalaries  of      I         I     I      I       I       I       I
| Additional Staff I  -     I 36.321 -   I  -   | 15.56  | 51.88 |
|Operation and     I         I     I      I       I       I       I
| Maintenance      |  0.02  I 0.831  -   I  -   | 0.33  | 1.18 |
-------------------I---------… I …-----I------… I-------… I--------… I---… I
|    Total Cost    |  4.96  1145.00110.00 | 11.70 | 36.21  | 207.871
C.     Recurrent Cost Implications
4.07   When fully operational in 1993, the project would generate about
Rs326.8 million (US$14.52 million) annually in recurrent costs. These expen-
ditures, if fully borne by the Punjab province, would increase the share of
the recurrent education budget presently allocated to primary education from
about 51Z to about 54X if the education budget continues to grow at present
rates (about 15% per annum) (Annex 11, Table 1). If the rate of growth of the
recurrent budget is less optimistic (10%), then the project would increase
primary education's share to about 551 (Annex 11, Table 2). However, since
additional recurrent cost obligations which result from the project would be
borne by the Central Government through special grants to covwr increases over
1982-83 recurrent budget levels (Para 1.09), the burden would sot be sig-
nificant on the recurrent budget of the Province.  The special grants from the
Federal Government would be reflected in subsequent Provincial ADPs. Given
the strong commitment of the Federal Government to primary education and the
additional impetus of the Prime Minister's Program, the special grants are
expected to continue in the foreseeable future. The impact on the development
budget of the Federal Government would also not be significant. As a result
of the project, primary education's share of the Federal government's develop-
ment budget on education would increase from about 281 of total expenditures
to around 30X. The project would however, significantly increase the unit



-36-
recurrent cost of primary education in the Punjab from Rs476 (US$28.0) to
Rs704 (US$41). This 481 increase would nonetheless still not bring Punjab
(Pakistan) in line with other developing countries at similar per capita GNP
levels (Annex 11, Table 3). The major share of these increased unit costs can
be ascribed largely to the provision of educational materials. Prior to this
investment program, the Punjab had seriously underprovided such materials for
primary schooling (Para.1.21).
D.      Status of Preparation
4.08    School Designs. Standard designs for traditional construction of a
classroom of about 350 square feet of net floor area and a seven feet wide
verandah have been prepared, reviewed, and are acceptable to the Association.
They are consistent with the approved government standards for primary school
construction and are based on locally available materials and labor.
4.09    Sites.  About 501 of the shelterless schools and all of the existing
schools to which classrooms will be added, are on public/community owned land.
It i,s the responsibility of communities to provide suitable sites for new
schools and for shelterless schools or to acquire additional land for existing
schools whenever needed. The completed school map has identified all schools
where sufficient land is available, and these would be given priority in the
annual construction programs.
4.10    Furniture, Book, Equipment and Learning Material lists have been
prepared, were reviewed during appraisal and found appropriate.
4.11    Terms of Reference for Expert Services (local and foreign consultants)
and studies (maintenance, career development, and rural teaching incentives)
have been drafted and discussed with GOP. Preparatory work for reviewing the
status of flexible scheduling, existing career development practices, and
compulsory enrollment have also been completed.
4.12    Given the status of preparation, the capacity of the MOE (Para 4.13)
and the DOE, the completion of the school map, and the establishment of the
CEC, it is expected that at credit effectiveness (October 1987), the recruit-
ment of foreign and local experts can begin. These experts are expected to
start work on reorganizing the DPI and the in-service teacher training
program, curriculum reform, and assist in the preparation of the programs of
communications, textbook development, and training. It is also expected that
because the school map has been completed the CEC established, and with the
appointment of the CE, construction activities will proceed expeditiously.
E.      Project Management
4.13    The Ministry of Education, through the Federal Coordination Unit
(FCU), was strengthened with additional staff under Credits 892-PAK and
1602-PAK, and now serves as a central monitoring office for externally
financed primary education projects. In coordination and consultation with
the FCU, the Department of Education, Pup b, through its Additionai Oirec-
torate of Public Iinstruction and Civil Engineering Cell, would manage and
supervise the proposed operation. The Province has agreed to establish a



-37-
high-level Steering Committee consisting of the Additional Secretary, Depart-
ment of Education, the Director of Public Instruction, and ADPI to provide
overall guidance for management of the five-year investment program, and in
particular the project. It is expected that the Steering Committee would play
a major management role during the start-up of the project, as the ADPI is
established and made operational with the appointment of its director as the
Project Director (para 4.14). By the time of the start of the second phase of
the project, management of the project at the Provincial level would be fully
delegated to the ADPI.
4.14    The FCU would maintain responsibility for transferring funds to the
Province according to the PC-1, and overall monitoring as under the First and
Second IDA assisted primary education projects (Credits 892-PAK and 1602-PAK).
It would also play crucial roles in evaluation (particularly inter-provincial
comparisons of primary education) and communications/demand generation in
cooperation with NICE. The FCU would submit withdrawal applications, maintain
summary financial accounts of the project, and provide other software support
to relevant institutions when required. All other activities would be carried
out by the DPI/ADPI in collaboration with the CRDC (para 3.14), PEEC (para
3.20) and the CEC (para 3.33). The Additional Director of Public Instruczion
would be designated the Project Director, and be responsible for managing and
supervising the specific activities of provincial institutions associated with
the project, maintaining provincial financial accounts, as well as monitoring
and evaluation to ensure progress in meeting the objectives of the operation.
F.      Disbursements
(a)     Disbursement Percentages
4.15    The Credit would cover about 72% of the total project costs net of
taxes, and finance 79% of expenditures on civil works, furniture and profes-
sional fees, 80% of expenditures for locally produced equipment; about 71% of
total expenditures on salaries of additional staff, operation and maintenance
costs, consumable materials and daily allowances for in-country training.
(b)     Disbursement Procedures
4.16    Required Documentation.  Disbursements in respect of local expendi-
tures, direct foreign expenditures, and contracts for civil works, goods and
services estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent would be made
against statements of expenditure certified by the FCU and ADPI. Documenta-
tion would be retained by the FCU and ADPI and made available for review by
IDA during the course of supervision missions. All other disbursements would
be made against fully documented withdrawal applications. All requests for
disbursements from the IDA credit would be channeled through the FCU.
4.17    Special Accounts.  In order to accelerate disbursements in respect of
IDA's share of expenditures prefinanced by GOP, and in order to allow for the
direct payment of other eligible local and foreign expenditures, two Special
Accounts would be opened with aggregate initial deposits of US$10.15 million,
equivalent to four months' expected requirements for IDA financed items.



-38-
4.18    One Special Account, to be used to meet expenses of the components
managed by the FCU (i.e. NICE (communications), NBCT (curriculum development)
and AIOU (in-service training) would be administered and controlled by the
FCU. An initial sum of US$150,000 would be deposited by IDA into an account
in the National Bank of Pakistan, as is the case of all Special Accounts
established under existing loans/credits in Pakistan. Local currency payments
from this Special Account would be made in accordance with established Special
Account Procedures.
4.19    The Second Special Account would be used to meet direct foreign
exchange and other local expenditures (mainly for civil works, equipment,
books, consumable training materials) and would be operated by the DOE, Punjab
(DPI/ADPI). The Account would also be opened in the National Bank of Pakis-
tan, into which IDA would make an initial deposit of US$10.0 million. On
receipt of bills, the DPI/ADPI would directly order payment from its Special
Account. The FCU would forward periodically the completed disbursement
application to IDA which, upon confirmation that the payments have been
effectedt would directly replenish the DPI/ADPI account at the National Bank.
(c)     Retroactive Financing
4.20    Retroactive financing up to US$2.0 million would cover eligible expen-
ditures incurred after September 1986 for costs incurred in implementing
appraised project activities.
(d)     Disbursement Profile
4.21    The proposed Credit would be disbursed over a six year period.  This
is realistic given the institutional development activities of the project.
The mission carefully evaluated the capacity of all project institutions to
effectively implement their programs in a timely manner. Specific emphasis
and analysis was given to civil works implementation and the capacity of the
LGRD and CEC (para 3.32, 3.33) to implement the construction program. A
forecast of annual expendituares and disbursements is shown in Annex 12. The
standard profile for education projects in South Asia is 9 years. However,
several recent education projects (Credits 892, 1109 and 1602-PAK), in Pakis-
tan have been or are being implemented in 5-6 years. The advanced status of
preparation, (para 4.08-4.12) and the measures taken to expedite procurement
(para 4.22) and disbursement, reinforce the justification for a six year
disbursement profile. The priority now being given to primary education in
Pakistan and the impetus provided by the Prime Minister's Program (para 2.07)
will also help ensure timely project implementation.
G.      Procurement
4.22    Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4.4.  Construction
of schools (US$105.01 million) would be carried out on the basis of local
bidding procedures which generally ensure adequate competition, encourage
efficiency, and do not restrict participation of foreign contractors or joint
ventures. The Central (Punjab) Public Works Department Code, which would be
the basis for LCB, was among the documents reviewed as part of the 1985 IDA
review of LCB procedures in Pakistan. Construction would be phased over a
period of 5 years. The number and the estimated value of the contracts would



-39-
be determined after IDA's review of the annual construction programs to be
prepared by the ADPI in collaboration with CEC, LGRD and the CE. It is,
however, estimated that during the period of implementation, about 60 con-
tracts or about two contracts per district would be awarded for the construc-
tion of facilities for 5200 shelterless schools. Each contract would ideally
include 70 to 140 schools but could also range from 20-40 schools in order to
facilitate the implementation and supervision of works, and to attract medium
and large size contractors. The estimated value of these contracts would vary
between US$0.7 million to US$1.5 million, and include all labor and material
to complete the work. Local contractors would be allowed to participate in
the tendering in accordance with their technical and financial capabilities
and past performance. Foreign contractors and joint ventures would be
post-qualified. It is also estimated that contracts of small value, ranging
from US$10,000 to $50,000, would be awarded by the LGRD (Project Committees)
for the construction of some of the 5100 new girls schools, while some of the
schools would be constructed through procurement of material, hiring of labor
and contracting parts of the work (para 3.32). Because of the traditional
method of construction to be used, which is based on locally available
materials and intensive labor, the spread of school sites in the rural areas
of Punjab, the phased tendering over a period of 5 years, and the capacity of
the local construction industry, it is unlikely that foreign firms would be
interested in participating in the bidding.
4.23    Furniture and Equipment Contracts. Furniture (US$6.88 million), mainly
for the procurement of simple classroom furniture would be awarded on the
basis of LCB. Because of the low unit cost of furniture, the capacity of the
local industry, and the phased procurement, it is unlikely that any foreign
firms would participate in the tendering. Locally produced equipment such as
maps, charts, billboards, teaching kits etc. (US$19.22 million) would be
procured under LCB procedures. Other types of equipment such as computers,
radios, typewriters, etc. (US$1.26 million) would be procured under ICB.
Books (US$2.24 million) would be purchased directly from publishers and the
Punjab Textbook Board. Locally available consumable materials (US$0.52 mil-
lion) would be procured through normal commercial channels. Consumable
materials, mainly paper for textbooks (US$8.01 million) would be supplied by
CIDA and procured in accordance with their procedures.  Because of the reluc-
tance of the Government to allow imports of vehicles from abroad i.e ICB, and
its preference for locally produced or assembled vehicles, sedans, jeeps and
motorcyles would be treated as reserved procurement, and the costs (US$2.08
million) would not be reimbursable from Credit proceeds. Fellowships and
technical assistance finance# by EEC and CIDA would be procured in accordance
with their guidelines. Civil works financed by EEC would be procured accord-
ing to IDA procedures. Civil works contracts over US$500,000 each, furniture
and locally produced equipment contracts over US$50,000 each would be subject
to prior IDA review which would cover about 0S of value of works. Other
contracts would be subject to selective post-award review.



-40-
Table 4.4: Procurement Method /1
I8I                  I        ITotal
Categories of ExDend. I ICB  I LCB        IOTHER  INA    I Cost
I       I 1O0 .01 0         1        1 105.01
I       I (83.02)  I
Civil Works            1       I [6.101  1         1        1
I       1   6.88   1        1        1
I       I (5.44)  I         I        I  6.88
Furniture              _           1.4011          I
11.26~  19.22 H|-I-
Equipment              I (.55) 1 (15.35) I          I       I 20.48
1       I.26] 1
Vehicles               I       I          I        1 2.08  I  2.08
1- --   7     -    | -2.241          I
Books                  1       1          1 1.561 1         1  2.24
Technical Assistance  I                   1 7.99  1         I  7.99
and Professional      I       I          I (1.53) I
Fees                  1       1          1 16.371 L        1
Daily Allowances for  I        I          I        1 1.60  1
in-country training  I        I          1        [(1.60) 1  1.60
I       I     .52  1  8.01 1         1
Consumable Materials   __      1   (.36) 1 [8.0111          1  8.53
Salaries of            I       I          I        1 51.88 1
Additional Staff                                   1 1  1  [(36.32)1  51.88
Operation and          I       I          1  1.18 1         l
maintenance          I       I          I(.83) 1          1  1.18
TOTL                  I 1.26 1 131.63  1 19.42 1 55.56 1 207.87
IDA                    I   .55 1 104.17  1  2.36 1 37.92 1 145.00
OTHER DONORS           I   .26 1   6.50  1 14.94 1  -   I 21.70
GOP                    1   .45 1  20.96  1  2.12 1 17.64 1 41.17
j/ Include duties, taxes, and contingencies.
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the Credit.
Figures in brackets are the amounts financed by other donors.
Subtotals may not add to totals due to rounding.
H.      Accounting and Auditing
4.24    The ECUf and DPI/ADPI would prepare and maintain financial accounts
of the project in accordance with sound accounting practices. During nego-
tiations, the Government provided assurances that: (a) accounts and financial
statements for each fiscal year would be prepared and audited by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA; (b) statements of expenditure would be maintained
in accordance with sound accounting practices, be maintained at least one year
after the completion of the audit for the fiscal year in which the last
withdrawal was made, and be included in the annual audit; and (c) certified
copies of the audited accounts and financial statements for each fisca. year,



-41-
together with the Auditor's Report would be furnished to IDA as soon as avail-
able, but not later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year. All
of the audited accounts of Credit 892-PAK have been received by IDA. The
Audited Accounts for the first year (FY86) of Credit 1602-PAK are not yet due.



-42-
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.01    The five-year investment program is expected to lead to increased
enrollments particularly for girls, improvements in the quality of instruction
and student learning achievements, and a more efficient administration of
primary education. Enrollments are expected to increase by about 2.6 million,
of which about 1.69 million would be girls. The participation rate of girls
would increase from about 44% to about 73%. If only the core program is
achieved, the participation rate for girls would rise to about 60Z, with an
additional 1.09 million girls enrolled. (Annex 5, Table 2). This would still
be a major achievement. As a result of the project, the current dropout rate
of over 50% between Grades 1 and 2 is expected to fall to less than 20%.
Without the project only about 301 of the students would complete the full
five Grades. With the project, this figure would double, with proportionately
greater gains for girls, in keeping with the major objective of the program
and government policy. Qualitative gains in pupil achievement are also
expected to occur because of the investment program. Curricular improvements
would not only increase literacy and numeracy, but also lead to a greater
understanding of social customs which are relevant to village life.
5.02    While the above benefits would be concentrated in the Punjab, they
would also have a national impact since the the Punjab's investment program is
an integral part of the national UPE program. Institution-building support to
the Primary and Non-formal Wing (PNFW) of the Ministry of Education (i.e the
FCU), DPI, NBCT, NICE and AIOU, as well as assistance to the UCECs, SMCs and
PTAs would ensure more efficient coordination, program planning, development,
and implementation experience in the primary education subsector.
5.03    Ultimately, the success of this project must be measured by the
benefits of primary education to the individual and to society. Studies have
revealed the benefits of a more literate and numerate populace on higher
agricultural productivity, greater acceptance of family planning, lower fer-
tility rates and better understanding of nutrition and health practices. The
attempts in the core program to increase female enrollments, i.e., more female
teachers, more female Learning Coordinators and Assistant Primary Education
Officers, are likely to reinforce these gains.
B.      Risks
5.04    The project is complex and therefore risky.  The major risk is the
implementation capacity of the reorganized Directorate of Public Instruction.
The phased implementation of the project however, with its emphasis on
strengthening the institutional capacity of all appropriate agencies during
the first two years is expected to overcome this risk. Of particular sig-
nificance is the establishment of the Civil Entineering Cell in the Punjab's
Department of Education. This organization, with its implementation strength
at the District and Tehsil levels, and supported by Consulting Engineers, is
expected to increase and improve civil works implementation capacity, par-
ticularly site supervision. Traditional parental and community attitudes can



-43-
frustrate the efforts supported by the project. Measures such as the appoint-
ment and training of female administrators, teachers and supervisors, and
monitoring and evaluation activities are expected to facilitate this objec-
tive. Communications activities, especially the linkages with parents and
community groups, should provide even more support and counter this particular
risk. The experience gained under the ongoing IDA supported primary education
project (Cr. 1602-PAK), the strengthening of key institutions in the primary
education subsector, plus the high priority which the Government now places on
its UPE policy, should lessen other implementation problems.



-44-
VI. AGRESKENTS REACHED
6.01    During negotiations the Government provided assurances that it would:
(a) undertake annual reviews with IDA about February of each year; to
assess progress in the implementation of institutional development,
policy reforms and the introduction of innovative programs based on
agreed criteria and a detailed Action Program (Para 3.07);
(b)  implement all aspects of the agreed Action Program (Paras 3.10; 3.13;
3.141 3.17; 3.18; 3.19; 3.21; 3.29; 3.35);
(c) introduce the integrated (two-stage) curriculum for Grades 1-3 in
April 1990; and for Grades 4-5 in April 1993 (Para 3.14);
(d) increase the per student allocation for learning materials of the
recurrent budget to levels acceptable to IDA by FY 1993. (Para
3.15(b)];
(e)  review the prices presently set for school textbooks and agree with
IDA on a suitable new schedule. [Para 3.15(c));
(f) ta-.e necessary measures to hire female teachers and by April 30, 1988
establibh a plan so that by the end of the five-year investment
program (1993) the number of female teachers would meet the ratio of
1:40 female students enrolled (Para 3.23);
(g) undertake a study to review existing incentives to teachers, and by
February 1990, develop and implement non-monetary incentives for
service in rural areas (Para 3.24);
(h) carry out studies in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory
to the Association on how to strengthen the present teacher career
system; complete the study and review the findings with IDA by Decem-
ber 1988, and implement such a system in the 1989 school year (para
3.25);
(i) introduce by the 1988 school year, flexible scheduling of school hours
and calendars in all Provinces and districts where this does not
presently apply (para 3.28);
j) carry out a study on the maintenance of primary schools, complete it
by December 1988, and starting July 1989 make adequate annual
budgetary allocation for the maintenance of primary schools (para
3.35);
(k) maintain the schedule of staff appointments substantially in accord-
ance with levels agreed with IDA (para 3.39);
(1)  i. prepare and have audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA,
accounts and financial statements for the operation for each fiscal
year;



-45-
ii. maintain statements of expenditure according to sound accounting
practices, retain them for at least one year after completion of
the audit for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal was
made, and include them in the annual audit; and
iii. furnish copies of these accounts to IDA as soon as possible, but
not later than nine months afte: the end of each fiscal year (para
4.24).
6.03    The following actions would have to completed by the Government as
conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a) Arrangements for the establishment of the ADPI (PE) (Para 3.10);
(b) selection of Consulting Engineers (para 3.34)
(c) signing of agreements with CIDA and EEC (para 3.38); and
(d) ECNEC approval of the PC-1 (paras 3.39).
6.04    Subject to the above conditions and assurances, the proposed project
constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of US$145.0 million to the
Covernment of Pakistan for a term of 50 years including a ten-year grace
period.



SP U   EDCTIONS RUMBA? SOCATIO  P302K
Oil EPOATIOI RECURIZU        ADULT              RATS MO NT CmS  PR00R3881
GNP MRa              As PERCET    ununruaa    LITERACY MURTPIMA PPumy              NARwy  PRInAR      MUs nonM   icouDAr  3ECoHDAR   loan
MAS   POP.  CAPITA  PERCET CII TOTAL CEOTRAL ALLOCATE  TOs RtATE         EiIROLL. SCROOL     STUDENSWEUATION  PRIMAR  TO  aHROLL.   STUDETSO  ENROLL.
YEaR MILLS. (U05$    mIomE  TO  OOVRIRMEET ?&PR   sac  aI    (E)    RATIO   CYCLE            PE        AS SERCEI  SECONDAY   RATIO        PER        RtATIO
(1979) (1979)   EDUCATION  EXPINDITURS           (E)       (1976)   (3)        (R)      TEACHE   QNP/CAPITA      (2)        (8)      TEACK9E1    CE)
(1)     (2)        (3)          (4)           (5)          (6)       (7)      (8)        (9)        (10)        (I11)       (12)       (13)    (14)
AUSTALI            80xut  146      80      63          14.6        -- -                       02       10          2 1       -99                      73        1 3     I0.90
CANADA      5j   ~~~237b  ,,50       7,78        16.5'?     30'? 348? 238?t     ,      106X      100        2 1       19.9'?       100         92'       l8      22.603'
GERMANY P.R.       79    61.2  12,200      4.6          9.9'       -    -    -       996      898      100'        -        --           100'         948      -        12.108
NEtErHLANDS        79    14.0  10,490      7.9          5.1        20   35   25      996l     96        95         18       15.3          99          82       13       12.40
NEKW ZEALAND       80     3,26  6,081b    S. SW        13.4        37   31   28      ,b      100       100         24       11.6         100          82       I S      25.80"*
SWODRN             79     8.3  12.250      9.0         18.2       31   10   10       ggb      ,99      100         15'      19.9         100          79'      10'?    36.50'?
EASTERN AFRICA
IOSWANA            83     1*b    9206    6.0           22.0        41   34   22      40      to0        77         32       10,0          40          20       21        1.80
BURUNDI            81     4.2      235     2.862       19.0        43   28   27      25       29'       35         37       20.2          12           3'      17        1.00
COMORODS           84     0,4b    34       3.5v        28.0        49   29   22      49        76       40         39       -             45          36       28        0.60
WJISOIJTI     *    4      0.4      480     3.0         11.9        73   26   ...    10        42        86         40       67.0          40          10       19        0,80
ETHIOPIA           81    32.8b    140b    2,9P         11.1        45   25   20      53       42        308        63       19.3          93'         14       44        0.45
KENA               82    17.46    420b    S.Svb        20,1b       63   16   11      456     113        58         36       14.4          35          t8       26        -
LESOTHO            82     1.46    4356    5.5          16.9        38   32   26      536     116'       41         48        9.6          46          21       21        1.30
MOADASCARt         77     8.3      330     4.0'        24.0        53   28   19      sob      94b2      33         55        8.0          38          14       23        3.106by
MMALAi              1     8.16    230b    3.5          11.4        38   14   25      25b      62        23         65        5.8          12           4       2 1       0.40
MAURITIUS          83     1,0b  1. 1706    4.3         14.0        46   36    7      sob      93        72         23       13.0         100          so       22        1.00
RWANDA             83     5 9b    2706    3.6          27.4        7  1 16   1 3     376      65        30         40       16.0           9           5       1 6       0.40
SEYCHELLES         79     0.6   1,770      5.9         22.4'       34' 33a  108                                    25       -             -           --       -        -
SOKALIA            81     4.5      280     1.5         10.3        Sob  44b   66    506       22b       806        296       9.0b         Sob         126      22        1.00
SUDAN              50   I19.26    3806    3.0          -          66   39    ,       32       51"       6         34         1.4          44          16       16       ..
SWAIZILAN          81     0.76    9406    3.SPb        20.4        51   34   15l    656       93        50         33       11.0          9829                 18        3.00
TANZAIA            bJ1   18.5      260     5.9         17.7       47   10   16       796      95b       87        43        11.0          196          3       20'       0.50
INIAII             80    12.6b    3006 b               16.1'       23b  37b  206    48        34'       61         34       -             17           S       23        0.60
ZAIRE              81    29.86    2106     7.          26.4       -    -    10       54b      76        25        30        21.0          40          18       28        2.00
ZAMBIA             80     5,876    3666    4,5?        11.1        48   23   22      446      95        80        48        12.9          19          16       22        1.50
ZINMBASE           51     17b7   7006    5.1           19.5       62   32    6       446      90        55        39        20.0          85          is       23        0.50
WESTRN AFRICA
DENIN              79     3.4b    3206    6. 5V        35.0       43   2 1    5    116        42        30        46        14.0          30          1 1      43        1.007
SURXINA            83     6.5      2 10    2.1v        21.7       43   29   28       9        186       25        57        24.3          1 6          3       24        0.03
CANEROON           84    10.0      atG     3.IP        -          33   38   28    20          89        456       s0        -             -           23       28        2.70
C.A.R.             79     2.2      280     3,say       20.687       -   -           -         -         -         6587      -             -           --       -         0.7087
CUAD               76     4.4      120     2.4m'y      21,7b        -             - I         257       -          77        ..            -.          317     21        0.207
CONGO              78     1.5      670     9.09"'      27.7'?      -     -         --                   -         5.67y                   30          -        4367      4.00'7
SQUAT, GUINEA      85     0.36    2706    2.8           3.8       47   24   ...   206         13        10        s0         5.2          40         25        j7'7 
CANON              77     0.6   3.420      3,7b7        8.47      -- .-.-  -                                      4567Y                   -                    1967b    2.80a7
CANBIA             77     0.6      220     3.3o         6.56      46   25'  6'   106          4067      90'       27b7      44,7a         40          12627    17        -
GhIAN              76    11.3      400     4.07        15.56             -                    71627    -          2767      -             -           36627    21        -
GUINEA             79     5.3      290?    4.6'?       -           25' 28' 28'  20            34        36        38        20.0'?        83          16       29        7.00'
IVORY COAST        83     9 3b    720      7.3         42.8       51   40    9    358Y        72        79        37        29.0          49         22"9    30          1.88
LIBERIA            80     1.9      520     4.6         19.6       43   23   24    30          52        32        35        20.0          76         22        20        2.90
MALT               81     7.06    190      4,2a        21.?'       38   21   11    10         20        60        44        25.7          66           I       It        0.90'?
XMAITANIA          78     1.66    320b    5.5          16.9        33   43   25    17b        32        60        44        52.0          30           9       25        0.37
NIGER      84      5.2~~~6   300b    2.8        21.0       40   25   20    14          25        20        36        41,0         376                   28       0.50
NIGERIA            83    936       70      7.47        16.0        - --   13        3          3        70        36        19.5          47         2          0        20
SENEGAL            84     6.4      380     5.06        24.0       46356  i,b   28             52        59        46        26.0          19'         16'      24        2.20'
SIERRA LEONE       77     3.4      23      4.06b       16.0b6                      156        37'       -         35        25.06         84          15'      22        0.60b7
TOGO               78     2.4      400     6.SqV       26.5q       30' 28' 21't  18           74        40        5467      38.0          52         32627    486        1.60b7
LATIN AmnERIA AND TECARtIBBAN
uARGETINA          78    27.3   2,210      2.7         10.9        43' 31' 18'  936           89        5 2        17       -             87          31        8       23.00
SAIIAMN            79     0.2   2.770      5.7         19.1        36  36  11    936          9         97        24        -             97          75       19       =
SARADO             78     0.2   2,680      8.5$"y      22.1'      43' 31'  16'  996          1007       99'       277       19.9'         99'         787      207 
BOLIVIA            80     5.4      550     4.167       30.5'       -    -    -      63        747       -         207       -             -           I57Y              12,607
BRAIL              79   116.5   1,770      3.8          6.2       51t -    14    76           73'?      -         23d7       4.5b         61'        IS'7      14'7    12.62b
CHILE              76    10.9   1,890      3.267       13,0b6           -        -           11962y7    -         3467      --             -.         55627    20b7    11.9067
COLOMBIA  80    26.76  1,180b   ~~3.        25.0        35   20   20     86        78        36        32         6.6          -47                  20       10.02'7
C0ST& RICA         80     2.26  1.8106    8.4          31,1       40   27   33    90          93        77        33         5.5          77          40       27       14.00
CoUA               78     9.8      -       8.0         11.0         - ;-  -         96       112627    98         18b7      -             98         71627    IS        19.02by
aNNIicAN REP.    80       5.3   1,030      2.9         13.0        39 21   22    686          80        31        59         3.2          94          30       33       16.00
EGIUDO             80     8.46  1,110      6,0P        36.7       45   31   16    81         105        -         36        12.6          88         47        16       29.00
EL. SALVADOR       77     4.4      640     3,467       23,1by      64    8   27    82         82617    32         39        -             41          26627    2767      7.906y
GUTIDI4LA          78     6.8   1,010      1.7'?       12,6b        --       -     -          69627    -          3567      -             69          j5bXy    19by      s.s07
GuYANA             76     0.8      630     8,167       13.8b7      -    -    -      -         99b27               3267                    --.         59627    -         3.0067
HAITI              so     S.Ob    230      3.4V         1.9'?      65    9    6    236        s0        20        41        19.0          62'          48      27        0.80
SoNDURA            78     3.6      520     3,5b7       14.367     62'j8 130I9'  60            89627    308        416?Y    12,8'          68'        2127      19        8.007
JAMAICA            80     2.1   1,110      6.5         13.7       37   43   20    90          98        98        40         2.3          95         81        22        8.00
iMEICO             80    65.5   1,880      4.7         17.0'       46   39   15    92         9         53        44         9.5          86         56        17       10.30
NICAtAGU           78     2.66    6106    3.0w8        14.06       -          -     9b        8561      24        376              -                 2662      306 
PAAMA              78     3,5b  1,550b    S.S62'       21.8by     42'e  13' 13-   826         9567      -         2567      11.6         85'         5067      2767    20.40b7
PARAGUAY           79     3.0   1,140      1.4'        14.2       42   17   20    84          83        32        28         3.jr         76         22        12       0.70
PMR                80    16.6   1,000      3.6         14.3       53   15   19    80          83        56        39         9.8          89         39        22       14.40?
TRINIDAD 6 TOO.   77      1.1   3.910      4,867        8,867     48   32   20    95          98        91        30        10.51         49         62        24 
DIURU Y            78     2.9   2,500      2.5          9,4b      -    --   -      94        10562      -         246              -                 6462               17.8087
VENZUEKLA          78    14.4   3,440      5.17        18,9        -    -          82        10662      -         20        -                        36         7      2.0



.47-
COUARAIVR REUCIOS INDCIORS
COVlitW
EXPEDIIDltU    SItOATION                     CoDPLTItOC          30IiMt
ON  DUCATION   ECURRUNT    AlWLt             tATE FOR            UNIT COST PROObSION
ONP PUl             AS PERCET    gZENDIWRIS  LITERAUY PRIURT PNilltPRY   nPan  PR71xY    RATE PROII  SCO3 JRM? SUCONDANTY NIGHUR
USE  POP. CAPITA  PRCENT ON TOTAL CNITRAL ALLOCATED TOi RAtA         ENROLL. SCIOOL     STUCDNTS EWCATION  PRIARY TO  ENROLL.  STIWENTS ENROLL.
YeAR KILLS. (US$)  DEVOTED TO  COVU      t    Pt SWC Hi   (2)    RATIO  CYCLE           P8R      AS PEREN  SNDARY   RATIO    PER             RATIO
(1979; (1979)   EDUCATION  EXPEIURE           ;     )   (1976)   (X)       (O)    TCER  ¢H/CAPl4A    (2)               (7)   TEACHER      (1)
(1)    (2)        (3)          (4)          ()          (6)      (7)      (8)       (9)       (10)         (l1)       (12)      (13)    (14)
t  ASIA AND THE PACIFIC
CHtiNA            B3 1023.0b    310b    3.1          7.'       38, 40   22      77b      77       62         25        8.0         65         35       17       4.80
INDONESIA         SI   150.5b    )20     2.1         9.3       70  24    6      37b      98       61         31       11.0         74         27       26       3.70
KORgA              2    39.3b  1.636b    7.7w       20.8       341  34  31      96       99       98         43       19.0         98         84       38      21.80
MALAYSIA          84    15.2b  l,870b   6.1         16.7       39  43v  low    70b       97p      97         26       11.5'        89         72       22       4.00
PAPUA N.C.        83     3.0'   820      3.4        19.0       40   17  12      -.       60        73'       314      I3.          35         133"     27'      1.00
PHILIPPINIS       7S    48.3b    690b    2.SV       14.0       64   36   -      73b      84       65         31        7.1         89         55       36      21.00
SINAPORE          80     2.4   4,420     2.7         6.7       39   40   16    83        92       82         31        8.8         96         S5       22       8.00
SOLoltW  ISL.     82    0,2b    640      6.6P'      19.0b      41   34   20     15       78       80        l7        10.5         40         20       IS       2.50
T3LUAND           82    49.0b    o00b    3.4        20.3       59   14  10    86b        303      6A         21        9.3'        44         46       18       4.00
VNUAWT            86       lb    -       8.3        23.3       61   27    4     13       115      60        24        31.0         25         20       16       2.00
800311 ASI-A
EANOLADES4        79    92.3b     gO     1.1P       10.1'y    S1   17  20       22b      63Y      -          53        3.6         -          14       23       1.43
StAN              80     1.2      s0     3.6         11.0      ---        -      to      12       -         -         -            -
INDIA             77   639.6     210     2.9y        9.9?y  _-   -    --    36           79X  __             41       -            -          28'      -        8.304y
NEPAL             82   1I,0b    150b   j1.         -           -        -        19      70        -         38       -            -          21       23       3.70'
PAKISTAN          82    87lb    390b    2.0         7.0       38   20   24     22       50       41         30        5.9         36         21       13       3.00
EUROPE. IIIDDLE EAST ANID NORTH AVRICA
APOIIANISIAN      77    13               - .7        3.7       47   19  I3    i2         ,Ibr      69        37b      __           62          8       226?     1.00?
4 RLA             79    18.3   1,770     3.8S       12.3       34A  26' 21'   35         83e      45        37         7.0?        55'        297      26       3.707
EGYPT             62    43.3'   650'   4.6'          7.9       31' 353  26'   44         73'      80'       34'        9.8'        83         43'      19'    17.00
GRSEEC            76     9.3   4,140     2.6'       10.6b      37  26  21       --       97br    -          29b        6.2?                    g 79bx    27b6    17.80by
IaN               79    36.9     -       S.7*7   r4.0y         --  -- --    30          1o0t -r              32'     _      _       -         44ax     24'      4.90'y
IRAQ              79    12.6  2,710      4.38r       6.9y      -    -    -      -        OOY      -         28       -                       453y      29'      9.30'?
IRELAND           81     3.4b  4.480     6.3'Y      11.8 '     -    -     -     98       93       94        29       -             98        81        14      11.00
iORDAN            S1     2.2b  1,420b    4.9'       10.2       19  44   18    70b        92g      85        32        15.1         -          69'      38       8.90
LESaNON           79     2.3     -       -          18.6"y    - -- -            -        96'      --         19      ___           _-         46'      -       27.80'?
30ROCCO          84    21.8b    670b   6.8w        22.9       38   43   19    35        S7?       9         31       3S.1         -          14'      3R        .90f
OMAN              85     1.2b  6,490b    3.2        12.7"      -    -    -      30bt      714      65'       23'     -             90         Il       14'    ...
PORTUGAL          79     9.0b  2,060     3.6        22.2       50   28   11    78        97       20         39       12.8         88'        43'      17'      8.30X
ROSIAA            78    22.1   2.100     3,96        6.2y      -    -    -      98      106bx               236__ 98                          346      22b     10.60by
SPAli             76    37.0   4,920     2.1Y       16.8?       --                       9?by     -         29b       _             -         6bY      --      24.10bY
SYRIA             78    8.6   1,170      4.4P       10.3       39   25   26     58       87by     80        35b      -             68         41by     21b     12.60
TUIIISiA          79     6.4   1,130     7.0P       19.0       42   39   18    62b    3OOX        8o        39b       12.8         30         10x      30       6.00
TDJB              83    47.5  1,230      3.3        16.2       S0  22   24      73b     110       77        31        6.0          55         26       it       6.00
YTOIMN A.R.      84     9.3    330b    7.9P        17.7       80   20   11    21'       33       28        51       27.8         80          9       20        1.90
YEIwN P.D.R.      82     2.0b    420b    7.6         9.7       63' 14'  8'   53          61       34        25       22.0'        46          17       20       2.50
55891611 fOR DEWING COUlOITREE:
=:r of CountBMeW                       84              93      70  69   67    81         92       68        95       63           75         91       88      85
tARn.:                                 (1.4-         (3.7-  (23-  (8-  (5-    (8-     (12-    (12-        (17-     (1.4-         (10-      (1-       (8-    (0.03-
10.0)         34.3)  94)   46)  33)   99)      119)    99)         77)      67.0)        100)       84)      48)    29.0)
quartiles: Upper:                       5.6          21.7    51   36   22    81         98       80        43        20          87          47       26      13.0
Nediann                      4.0          16.1    43   28   19    53         83       81        35        13          63         26       22        3.7
towert                       3.0          11.0    38   21   13    25         60       35        28        9           40          14       19       1.0
qusrtile Devistion:                     1.3           3.4    6.5  7.5  4.3  28.0      19.0    22.S        7.0       3.6         23.3       16.5      3.5       5.0
",on;                                   4.4          17.0    46   28   38    53         76       59         36       16          62          31       23       6.9
Standard Deviation:                     1.9           8.7     12  10    7    29         27       24         11      13           27          23        7       7.4
Median;                                 4.0          16.0    43   28   19    33         83       61         35       13           63         26       22       3.7
SYMBOLSI                                                           VOOTNOTESX
-    DATUN UNAVAILAILB                                               A - DATUII PRIO  TO ES EAR MU8 * hISRT  Of BEUCATION (10) OMlY
... MAGNITUOB  NIL 01 NECLICI7LB                                     S - DATUM WOU  RECNTA        SS TAtR     T * YO E AND STATE COVE9IENT OLT
t    D?ATIN Q0ESWI.1                                                 N - CURUST PR7C8s6                       1 * *UWDC UPBItNDTME ONLY
I7CLUDES PUAT-TIlE  STUNTS                                           B * NBT ENROLUIENT RATIO                 X * INCLUDS OVRfRcAC  STUDEBTS
t * 015  1INROLUIENT RATIO               t * UNESCO SOURCES
P G O0
SOURCSI         Coluan  I and 2: WorId Sank Ati" 0r Educttio  sector field sations.
Column 3 to 14: Vorld BSnk Bducation * ctor ni"ids  Govrnast epurcees  nd/or the Uneco Sttietical Tearbook.
Comprative education Date ar. Uetul in the evalution of variou  education  ystems  nd anlysis of relatilv  *tage  of tduationl d*velopeat betwn  various
coutriss. nowevHr. on the bas of the present data, croea-atlonal coparians  should be approached with gret cantles. Data preented in the above table bhav
bea celActed largely by Sak adelona two government   ourcee; the remainder *re etaff eatseatee or data tre  Nwco.   t fortu  ave"  64  mne  to etandardize
delintltne and. within limits, to chhck the accurtcY of the date. Nevertheless, such date are still Imperfect in several repsett and the Rak is workiag to
Irove them progreesively on the oecnelon of Its oparatiota wotk. In tho uae of thoee data, the follovtng queltOictitoe dhould be kept tn eind:
(1)              asdue tinn  a defined in the table includes .11 education end trainiag, both toral and non-ormal.
(2)    Pri_ry  educatton refers to eduection At the first level an  'econdry  educattin refers to all education at thb  acoodaty level regardless of typo
(e.g. genral, techn4al, tgtrieultural).
(3)  'Lteracy reote   (col. 6) are often obtined tram countty ensuses.  tn any tountries they are only epproxieatiqoe .   It to doubtful thot an  unifor
detfiition of literatn  bee ben followd conistently.
(4)    ulablioae nditure in education  (cols. 4 and 3) refers to all capital end recurrent xepnditur   devoted to education by pubit and qaasi-public
tanes.
(3)   tnrollmet ratios  (cole. 7, 12 nd 14) retfr to school year and are the pertentage of aligible chldren enrolled ull-im t     the appropriate school,
pubUe end private by level.  Tbey ar often   bject to a wide mrgin of error in the dveloping countris oWing to Vatiaiona in LB   aCcury Of basin
data (i.*., agpeific populatio  end entollmnts).  Srollmnt ttgurs fteqently are hightr then the  _mber of students setully in echool.
Over-a_ students say be Intluded in ths  figures ed can I lets tbh  rstioa.



-48-
ISLAC REMLIC 0 P        S               Page 1
TIRD nIM     EDVSTI,O
Table 1: OPPOTUtTIES FOX PRIiAiY EDUVCTION IN THE PUNJA  (1t84-85)
I                          I Provitce I -----Rural---------  --- --Urban----------l
I _____________________ gj.j.    Total   mae Fma leMI       I TtAl   K-ale  FemaeIs
I                          I                                                                  I
I Lonulation (Kill.)       I  48.49  1  35.11   18.34   16.77  1  13.38        7.12    6.26  1
I School Age Pop. (5-9)    1   7.52  I   5.52    2.92    2.60  I   2.00        1.05    0.95  I
I Enrollments (Kill.)      I   4.04  I   2.61    1.80    0.81  |   1.43        0.70    0.73
I Enrollment Ratio (2)     1   53.7  I   47.3   61.6    31.1  I   71.5         66.7    76.8  I
S 8urvival Rate (X)        I      49  I      46      56      30  1      53       59       47  1
I (complete Gd.I-V)        |
IDropout Rate (2)   -             511        54      44      701        47        41      53
I Primxr schools  j        ) 44,385  1 39,357  25,945  13,412  1  5,028    2,900   2,128  I
S Shelterless Schools Lk   I 17,798  I 15,782   8,743   7,039  I  2,016    1,117         899  1
I-Room Schools Lk        I  9,011  I  7,990   5,034   2,956  I  1,021          643     378
1 2-Room Schools Lk        1  9,232  1  8,186   5,427   2,759  I  1,046         694      352  1
j More than 2 rooms Lk     I  8,344  I  7,399   6,741       658  1    945       446     499  1
Private Schools          I    458  I    -         -       -    I    458        458      -   I
. Teachers g                 101,032  I 77,439  52,454  24,985  I 23,593   13,261  10,332  I
Untrained Teachers       1 21,159  I 16,864  10,332   6,532  1  4,295    2,150   2,145  1
I -Teacher Schools         1    646  1    646       280     366  1      -        -       -   I
2-Teacher Schools        1 14,516  1 14,516   5,644   8,872  1        -         -       -   I
' Teacher/Pupil Ratio      1      40  1      34      34      32  1      61       53      71  1
I                          I          III
18uiperviors            5I 598  I    481          309     170  J    133         80      54  I
S Supervisors/Teacher Ratiol   1:169  1  1:161   1:170   1:147  1  1:177    1:166   1:191  1
S Supervisor Visits/Year   1   1.09  1   0.88    0.96    0.81  I   1.30        1.51    1.27  1
I            .                   .                  .                      ,                  I..     
La  Total number of schools include all registered schools: from shelterless
schools to sehools with 1 or more classrooms.
Lk  Extrapolated from FCU Survey of 13 districts, 1986.
LI  These are only the registered private schools with about 72,000
students.
Sourcefl Educational Statistics in the Punjab 1983-84 (Academic Year 1984-85),
Bureau of Education, Education Department, Governaent of Punjab, Labore.



-49-
ANNEX 2
'rage 2a,
THIRD PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT                                                       Cont'd
TAKLE 2: ENROLLMENTS AND TEACHERS IN PRIMARY EDUCATION IN THE PUNJAB (1984-85)
-----------------------------------l-----E---------------------!---------------T RE S-----
--------------ENROLLMENTS---------                ---- -----------  ECES----
! !
!----------RURAL1-------URBAN----- --------RURAL - ------!---…----UR                                ----
DISTRICTS       !  MALE    FEMALE  IFEHALE ! MALE   FENALE  VFEMALE ! NALE   FErALE  VFEIALE ! MALE   FEMALE 2FENALE
1. RANALPINDI   !  83,391   51,323   38.102! 55,454  63,583    53.412!  2,199   1,468    40.03!   691         763   52.482
2. ATTOCK       !  65,036   29,035   30.86X!  9,491   7,99    45.732!  1,915        936    34.022!   160      176   52.389
3. JELUM        !  70,449   40,45    36.48! 12,881  12,43        49.52!  1,970   1,9O    35.412!   231        20    47.022
4. SWRAT        ! 109,668   69,704   38.869! 24,627  25,818    51.182!  2,491   1,505    37.66Z!   371        325   46.70
5. GUJRANWALA   !  92,037   44,581   32.63Z! 41,589  44,443    51.M!  2,491         979    28.212'   812      638   44.00
6. SAILKOT      ! 147,203   83,321   34.142! 43,574  30,982    41.54!  3,175   1,860    36.942! 1,347         428   23.842
7. JHANS        !  80,337   33,272   29.292! 24,733  21,546    46.562! 2,511   1,364    35.202!   473         462   49.412
B. FAISALABAD      104,776   61,678   37.052! 66,262  90,522    54.942! 2,900   1,622    35.812! 1,135        951   45.592
9. T.T. SINGH   !  53,116   31,267   37.052! 11,829   8,955    43.092!  1,45        795    35.182!   218      127   36.81X
1O.SARGODHA     !  71,482   29,367   29.122! 29,586  21,070    41.592! 2,186   1,089    33.252!   595         343   36.572
Il.KHUSHAB      !  28,442    7,601   21.092!  7,306   5,519    43.032!  1,089       351    24.362!   244    162   38.032
12.01ANNALI     !  32,254    8,520   20.902!  8,364   7,026    45.652!  1,384       554    28.62X!   220      198  44.082
13.BHAKKAR      !  26,664    4,966   15.432!  5,700   3,629    38.902!  1,193       268    18.342!   143      105   42.34X
14.SHEIKHUPURA  !   0,667   49,002   35.082! 20,108  20,429    50.362!  2,609   1,151    30.61X!   393       305   43.70X
15.LAHORE       !  24,570   19,396   44.122!146,287 204,951    58.352!    693       610    46.822! 2,01   2,505   51.06X
16.KASUR        !  56,419   23,402   29.322! 16,542  12,997    44.002!  1,441       871    37.672!   335      199   37.272
17.OKARA        !  54,416   20,148   27.02Z! 17,014  12,529    42.412!  1,430    605    29.73l!  323          132   29.012
18.SAHIMAL      !  90,199   42,609   32.131! 22,120  16,567    42.822!  2,552   1,094    30.012!   498        182   24.762
19.MULTAN       ! 142,406   43,768   23.512! 57,9869  54,947    48.70X!  3,360   1,624    32.58! 1,123      767   40.582
20.YEHARI       !  40,651   24,448   28.752! 11,525   7,169      40.052!  1,607     799    33.21X!   193       82   30.942
21.MUZAFFARGARH !  55,964   13,688   19.652!  7,491  10,256    57.792!  1,708       532    23.751!   229      298   56.552
22.LAYYAH       !  33,022    8,664   20.792!  4,970   5,116    50.72X!  1,221       338    21.682!   126       96   43.242
23.0.6. KHAN    !  32,194   11,120   25.672!  5,632   7,121    55.842!  1,640       703    29.752!   150      172   53.422
24.RAJANPUR     !  21,741    5,574   20.412!  3,587   2,208    38.102!  1,010       238    19.072!   122      112   47.896
25.BAHANALPUR   !  49,335   15,513   23.922! 13,837  12,752    47.962!  1,839       675    26.952!   270     228   45.782
26.BAHANALNABAR !  51,895   22,391   30.14V! 13,985   9,733    41.042!  2,016       907    31.032!   218      175   44.532
27.R.Y. KHAW    !  94,578   22,154   20.761! 18,038  17,166    48.762V  2,431       965    28.422!   210     206   49.522
!1,912,901  816,968   31.062!700,433 728,397    50.982! 52,454  24,985    32.26X!13,261  10,332   43.79%
SOURCE: EDUCATIONAL STATISTICS IN THE PUPJAB 1983-84 (ACADENIC YEAR 1984-85),
BUREAU OF EDUCATION, EDUCATION DEPARTHENT, GOVERNMENT OF PUNJAB, LAHORE.



- 50-
Cont'd                                                                   ANNEX 2
Page 2b
THIRD PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE 2: ENROLLMENTS AND TEACHERS IN PRIMARY EDUCATION IN THE PUNJAB (1984-85)
RATIO OF MALE TO     !----------STUDENTS PER TEACHER-------------
FEMALE ENROLLMENT    !
!- -----…RURAL -------- !-----URBAN- -----
GIStRICTS               RURAL       URBAN         MALE   FENALE !  MALE    FEHALE
1. RAWALPINDI            1.62        0.87 !       37.9      35.0       80.3      83.3
2. ATTOCK         !      2.24        1.19 !       35.8      31.0 !    59.3       45.4
3. JELU!                 1.74        1.02         35.8      37.5 !    55.8       61.6
4. CUJRAT         !      1.57        0.95 !       44.0      46.3 !    66.4       79.4
5. GUJRANIALA     !      2.06        0.93 !       36.9      45.5 !    51.2       70.0
6. SAILKOT               1.77        1.41 !       46.4      44.8 !    31.9       72.4
7. JHANS                 2.41        1.15 !       32.0      24.4 !    52.3       46.6
8. FAISALABAD     !      1.70        0.92 !       36.0      38.0 !    58.4       84.7
9. T.T. SIMON     !      1.70        1.32 !       36.3      39.3 !    54.3       70.5
1O.SAR6ODH6k             2.43        1.40 !       32.7      27.0 !    49.7       61.4
II.KHUSHAB               3.74        1.32 !       26.1      21.7 !    27.7       34.1
12.1ANWALI              3.79        1.19 !       23.3      15.3 !    39.0       37.4
13.BNAKKAR               5.48        1.57 !       22.4      18.2 !    39.9       34.6
14.SHEIKHUPURM           1.85        0.99 !       34.8      42.6 !    51.2       67.0
15.LAHORE                1.27        0.71 !       35.5      31.8 !    60.9       81.8
16.KASUR                 2.41        1.27 !       39.2      26.9 !    49.4       65.3
17.OKARA                 2.70        1.36 !       38.1      33.3 !    52.7       94.9
18.SAHIMAL               2.11        1.34 !       35.3      39.0 !    44.4       91.0
19.MULTAN                3.25        1.05 !       42.4      27.0 !    51.5       71.6
20.VEHARI                2.48        1.50 !       37.7      30.6 !    63.0       93.9
21.NUZAFFARSARN   !      4.09        0.73 !       32.8      25.7 !    32.7       34.4
22.LAYYAH                3.81        0.97 !       27.0      25.6 !    39.4       53.3
23.D.6. KHAN             2.90        0.79 !       19.4      15.8 !    37.5       41.4
24.RAJANPUR              3.90        1.62 !       21.5      23.4 !    29.4       19.7
25.6AHRNALPUR     !      3.18        1.09 !       26.8      23.0 !    51.2       55.9
26.BAHAWALNAGAR   !      2.32        1.44 !       25.7      24.7 !    64.2       55.6
27.R.Y. KHN       !      3.82        1.05 !       34.8      23.0 !    85.9       83.3
UUZsss*U8ssss38ssU88t8*u3Zl3EZUUZu2*:3t:uu3a35=U-g5g33#aamaga.zzSYI=Sa3g
2.22       0.96 !       34.6      32.7 !    52.8       70.5
SOURCEs DUCATIONAL STATISTICS IN THE PUNJAB 1983-84 (ACADEMIC YEAR 1984-85),
BUREAU OF EDUCATION, EDUCATION DEPARTMENT, BOYERNENT OF PUNJAB, LANORE.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
ISIAMIC WRPULIC Of PAKISTAN
TRliED PUalmy EDUCTION
Table 3:  PRINARY TILCHIZG CIRTIFICAT  (PTC) MNOLMENTS S! INSTITUTION AND YI1
I     I    I      /  ii I   zi           Vi  Ii    I                                              I /VA
I Institution   I N/F I No. 1  1984185 I 1985/86 1 1986/87 I 1967188 I No. 1 1988/89 I No.! 1989/90 I 1990/91 I 1991/92 I  Total I
I1. GcET          IN    15           6901       9601       960!           I               I    II                                   2,600 1
I (in-Service) IF    I    I              IIII                                 II              III                              I       01
I             I~~~~TotISI5       680!1      960 1      960!1        0 10 1               010   0     1!       0          0 12,600 1
I2. GCCT          I        14 I    2,200 I3,630 I 3,630 I   2,200 I 14 I  2,420  I 17 I   2,900 I 2,900 I   2,900 I  22,780 I
I             IF    I~~~ 81    1,9701   2,1801    2,180 1  1,970 I  SI1 2,170  1 12 1   3,010 I  3,010 I  3,010 I  19,500 I
ITot I22 I 4,1701    5,810 I 5,810 I   4,170 I 22 I 4,590  I 29 1   5,910 I   5,910 I 5,910 I42,280I
13.Normnal        IN    1 61         770 1   1,370!1   1,370!1       770 13 1    430 1    I                                         4,710 1
I  school       I F   I  I1I       150 I      320 I     320 1      150 I 4 I    490  I    I                                       1,430 I
I             I ~~~Tot 17 1      920 1   1,690 1   1,690 I        920 I 7 1    920  I 0 1           0 I        0 1       0 1  6,140 I
l4.PTC Units    IN    110            4901       9001       9001      4901           490  I     I      400 1          II 3,670 1
I             I ~~~F go0       3,150 I5,040 I 5,040 I   3,150 I    I 3,150  I    I   2,000 I                                  21,530 I
I             I~~~~TotI90I     3,6401    5,9401    5,9401   3,6401  0 1  3,640 10 1   2,400 1                                 2 15,2001
I5. A.I.0.U.  /I         ISooII                                        00           5001       I      5001      5001       5001    2,5001
I             IF    I    I           I          I          I   3,000 1    I 3,000  I    I  3,000 1   3,000 1   3,000 1  15,0001I
I            ~~~~ITotI    II         I                     1 3,500 1       1 3,500  I    1 3,500 1   3,500 1   3,500 1  17,500!1
16. Totals        IN   135         4.140 I6,8601    6,860 I 3,960 117 I 3,840  I17 I   3,800 I   3,400 I   3,400 I 36,260 1
I             IT~~~~ 1 891    5,270 1  7,540 !   7,540 1   8,270 112 1  8.810  1 12 1   8,010 1   6,010 I  6,010!1  57,460!1
I             I ~~~Tot 1124 I    9,410 I 14,400 I14,400 I12,230 I29 I 12,650  1 29 I  11,810 I   9,410 I   9,410 I 93,720I
11DPI data. "Norm" considered "caracity" for each institution.
.21 Mandated extra seats assigned to each institution; an overall 351 increase with regard to facility space.
.2/ Based on (a) rededication of in-service GCCT's to in-service training; and (b) reverting to norms for the institution.
M4 Based on (a) gender redesignation of selected Normal Schools; (b) phase out of FTC Units.
5j Based on completed upgrading of Normal School. to GCET status.
~/Includes civil works capacity increase of 50 sales and 350 females.
LINew rural placements.



-52-
A-aEZ 3
Page 1
lSUMIC REPUBLIC OF PKISTAN
THIRD PRIMRY EDUCASTION
TABLE 1: GDP. GNP. AND GOVERNMENT REC-RRENT AND DEVELOPMENT SPNXDING ON ALL
SECTORS. EDUCATION AND PRIMARY EDUCATION PAKISTAN 1976-87
|   I      I          I  Total Public    I Total               |  Primary           I
|             I  GNP JJ G   GDP  S/  I   Spending 1I I  Education j/    I  Education 3/    I
I             I          I           IRe-      IDevelop- lIe-      IDevelop- IRe-       IDevelop- I
|  Y E A R   I           |url9gt I Kent  I current I  ment I                  1 current I  ment  I
I         I           I         ~     ~I   I          I         I         I         I          I
1975-76    I 133,356 I 119,736       19,963 I 12,366 I  1,560 I   716  I   720  I   139
1976-77    I 155,228 I 135,982  I 20,133    15,038 I  1,726 I   574  I   776  I    49
1977-78    I 188,558 I 159,925       25,545 I 15,353 I  2,310 I   656  I 1,015  I   102
1978-79    I 209,642 I 178,038  I 30,500 I 18,494 I  2,484 I   784  I 1,046  I   164
1979-80    I 252,812 I 210,602  I 35,547 I 19,082 I  2,867 I   830  I 1,230  I   138
1980-81    I 300,653 I 247,596  I 40,318 I 23,321 I  3,260 I 1,233  I 1,400  I   259
1981-82    I 347,189 I 289,834  I 44,544 I 26,469 I  3,726 I 1,409  I 1,604  I   322
1982-83    I 401,560 I 326,190  I 57,738 I 29,383 I  4,528 1 1,600  1 1,920  1   460
1983-84    I 457,796 I 372,748 U    71,945 I 28,057 I  6,197 1 1,592  1 2,407  1   270
1984-85    1 508,222 1 424,865  1 83,723 1 33,837 1  7,219 1 1,964  1 2,788  1   405  I
I 1985-86 0  I 570,719 I 474,049  I  94,604 I 39,400 I  8,306 I 2,311  I 3,684  I   608
1986-87 V        -    I   -       I _       I _       I _       I 3,594  I   -    I 1,002
11 Valued at. factor cost (market price net of indirect taxes).  Data taken from Governmnt of
Pakistan (Finance Division, Economic Adviser's Wing), 1986, "Economic Survey 1985-86,"
page 99, 21.
/j Data on recurrent expenditure after 1982-83 are obtained from ibid page 170; other data are
are from Planning and Development Division, Ministry of Education, Islamabad.
W/ Data after 1982-83 for recurrent spending are devised from various provincial government and
and federal goverrment budget documents. All other data are from Planning and Development
Division, Ministry of Education, Islawabad.
fU Figures correspond to the revised budget.
F Figures indicate allocation, not expenditures.



-53-
ANNEX 3
Page 2
TABLE 2: PUBLIC SPENDING ON PRIMARY EDUCATION
PAKISTAN 1975-1987
I             1  Z in all recurrent         I X in all development   I
I  Y I A R   Iesendint on education   I soeodita on education
1975-76    1          46.2             I          19.4
1976-77    1          45.0             I           8.5
1977-78    1          43.9             I          15.5
I 1978-79    I           42.1            I          20.9
I 1979-80    I           42.9             I         16.6
1980-81    I          42.9             1          21.0
1981-82    I          43.0             I          22.9
1982-83    I          42.4             I          28.8
1983-84    1          38.8             I          17.0
1984-85    I          38.6             I          20.6
1985-86 I/1           44.4             I          26.3
1986-87 _V              -              I          27.9
.11 Revised budget
2/ Allocations
SOURCE: FCU, Ministry of Education, Goverument of Pakistan
TABLE 3: TOTAL DEVELOPMENT SPENDING ON EDUCATION AND SNARE
OF PRIMALY EDUCATION. PAKISTAN
I             I    Total Education       I  Primary as share of  I
Plan      I Development Expenditure  I   total development
__       _    I      (Rs. Million)       I    exudeniture (X)    I
|  First      1           208            1          11.0           1
t(1955-60)   1                          1
S Second    1             442            1           4.3           1
(196_-65)   1_
I  Third      1           526            1           4.8           1
_(1965-70)                                    __            _
I Non-Plan    I         2,911            I          15.3
_(1970-78)   1                           I
I  Fifth      1         5,258            I          26.9
1_(1978-83)_I_ _I
I  Sixth 1L  I         18,830                       37.2
(19__-_)_
1  Allocation
SOURCE: FCU, Ministry of Education, Government of Pakistan



-54-                          ANNEX 3
Page 3
TABLE 4: SHARE OF SPENDING ON EDUCATION AND PRIMARY EDUCATION
PUBLIC RECURRENT SPENDING IN PUNJAB. 1980-86
I   I                   I      (Percentage)
1 Share of Primary Education
I             1 Share of Education in I in goverment lin education I
I  Y E A R   j Government spendinl   I  seendina   I  suendina   I
1980-81    I          23.9         I      12.5           5 52.2
1981-82    I          23.0         I      11.8     I    51.5
1982-83    I          24.9         I      12.8     I    51.3
1983-84    I          24.6         I      12.2     I    49.7
1984-85    I          25.0         I      12.3     I    49.2
I 1985-86 1J I          25.6          I     13.0      I    50.9
2/ Reflects allocation
SOURCE: Table 10
TABLE 5: SALARIES AND ALLOWANCES IN THE RECURRENT BUDGET
OF PRIMARY EDUCATION. PUNJAB. 1980-86
I              I                1   As X of primary
I             I              1 Salaries and  I  recurrent oDendina   I
S Salaries    I Allowances   I             18alaries andl
I  Y E A R   I (Rs. million)l (Rs. million) I Salaries ILAllovances I
1980-81    1    605.7    I    756.5       1   78.5   1   98.0    1
1981-82    1    654.8    I    844.5       I   74.8   1   96.5
1982-83    I    713.1    I  1,110.0       1   63.3   I   98.6
1983-84    I  1,106.2          1,376.7   I   78.6   I   97.8
1984-85    I  1,328.1    I  1,603.3       I   81.5   I   98.3
1985-86 if I  1,631.6    I  1,968.6       I   81.6   I   98.5
1l  Budget estimate
SOURCE: Development Associates, Inc., page 120



-55-3
Page 4
TABLE 6:  GDP. GNP, AND GOVERIENT RECURRENT AND DEVELOPMENT SPENDING
ON ALL SECTORS. EDUCATION AND PRIMARY EDUCATION
PAKISTAN. 1976-87
I             I.              I          I         . I               I
I             | RecuTrent Expenditure on Mducation I Development
I             I               I  I        I           expenditure
I As % of       IAs % of  IAs l of  lon education
I             I all recurrent |  GNP    1  GDP    Ias a % of all I
I             I expenditure  I            I          I development   |
I  Y  E A R   |                          I           |exenditure   I
1975-76    I      7.8       I  1.2    I  1.3    I    5.8
1976-77    I      8.6      1  1.1    I  1.3    I    3.8
1977-78    1      9.0      I  1.2    I  1.4    I    4.3
1978-79    I      8.1      I  1.2    I  1.4    I    4.2
1 979-80    I     8.1      I  1.1    I  1.4    1    4.3
1980-81    I      8.1      I  1.1    I  1.3    I    5.3
I 1981-82    I       8.4      I  1.1    I  1.3    I    5.3
I 1982-83    I       7.8      I  1.1    I  1.4    I    5.4
1983-84    I      8.6       I  1.4    I  1.7    I    5.7
1984-85    I      8.6      I  1.4    I  1.7    I    5.8
1985-86 i/ I      8.8      I  1.5    I  1.7    I    5.9
1986-87Z/I         -       I   _       I   _      I      _
1/ Figures correspond to the revised budget.
2. Figures indicate allocation, not expenditure.
SOURCE: Table JPT 3.



-56-
ANME 3
Page 5
TAILE 6J: RECURRENT AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENDITURES IN
PUNJAB PROVINCE. PAKISTAN. 1980-90
I  I                     ~~~~~~I (Rs. Njllilon)                         I
I           I    Total Puniab    I    All Education    I  Primary Education
I  Year    IRecurrent IDevelopment I Recurrent IDevelopment l Recurrent iDevelopmentI
1970-71   1   -    I    -       I   _      I    _       1   1281        20
1971-721    -    I    -         I   -      I    -       I   1711        13    I
11972-73                                                      1 -    I    -  I   -  I    -  I   190   I    19    1
1973-741    -    I    _         I   _      I    _       1   2621        10    1
11974-75   I   -    I    -        I   -      I    -      I   3711         32
11975-76   1   -    I    -            7711sI       -     I   4411         29
11976-771    -              -         849j/I       -     I   446   1       7    I
11977-78   I   -    I    -        l1,105Lsi        -     I   566   1    32    1
11978-79   1   -    I    -            1,163LI      -     I   573   1    33
11979-80                            1 -      -  1,243 Lc I    -  I   671   1    71    1
1980-81   I 6,186  I  2,659   1 1,480    I    266   1   772   1    86
1981-82   1 7,400  I  3,351    I 1,699    1    295   1   875   1   114
, 1982-83   I 8,807  I  3,979   I 2,196    1    415   I 1,127   1   163
1983-84     10,969  I  4,208   1 2,696    1    532   1 1,340   1    84
1984-85   I 13,270  I  4,087   I 3,313    I    510   1 1,630           109 
1 1985-86 Lg, 15,332  1  5,271   1 3,928       1 1,147    I 1,998   I   425    I
11986-87 LkI   -    j    _        14,801    1  1,210   1   -        I    _      I
1.987-88L/b     -    I    -       16,005    I  1,780   I   -        I    -
:1988-891    -    I    -          17,206    12,1281    -            I    -      I
1989-90  8|         I    _      18,647    |2,629    |           _    |       _
la Allocation.
Lb Expected allocation.
la Data from Development Associates Inc. page 116.
SOURCE: Communication from Finance Department, Goversment of Punjab.



-57-                        A=3
Page 6
TABLE 7: EXPEDIURES ON RURAL DEVELOPNT FINANCED UIDER
TIE PRIME NIISTR-8' PXOGRM. PAKISTAN 1986-90
(Rs. billion)
Total   I
1986-87   1987-88   1988-89   1989-90   1986-90
---  …-------
I A. Recurrent Expenditure
I    __ _________c                                                             I
Education                   2.64      3.20      4.39      6.02    16.25  I
B B. Development                                                               I
1 1. Education                    1.82      2.40     3.12      3.90     11.24
1 2. Health                       0.91      1.30     1.50      2.00      5.71  I
- 3. Water Supply                 1.30      1.70     2.20      2.90      8.10  1
& Sanitation
4. Rural Roads                 1.00      1.30      1.70      2.20     6.20
. 5. (a) Rural Electrification    1.45      1.92     2.48      3.15      9.00  1
(b) Cost of Generation      2.18      2.88      3.71     4.73    13.50  1
& Transmission
I    Subtotal (B)                 8.00    11.50     14.71     18.88    53.75  I
TOTAL (A.B)                11.30    14.70    19.70    24.90       70.00
TABLE 8: DEVELOPME  EXP _NDITURES ON RURAL DEVELOPMENT UDR
THE P1R1  MINISTER'S PROGRAM MD THE PRIORITY PROGRAM
PAKSTN. 1986-90
(Re. billion)
I              I Prime Minister's      Priority    I    Additional         I
I     Year     I    Program       I    Program      I    Requirements      I
I              I       (1)        I       (2)       I     (1) - (2)        I
I   1986-87    I       8.66       I      7.14       I       1.52           I
1   1987-88    1      11.50       1     8.33        I       3.17           I
1988-89    I     14.71       I      9.73       I       4.98           I
1989-90    I     18.88       I    11.37        I        7.51           I
I   Total      I      53.75       I    36.57        I      17.18           I
SOURCE: Planning and Developmet Ministry, IsImbad.



-58-
ANNEX 4
ISLAMIC REPUILIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD PRINARY EDUCATION
EDUCATION PLANS. TURGETS AND ACHIEVEMENTS AT THE PRIMARY LEVEL
I                 First   f Second  I Third   I Interim  I Fifth  I Sixth ] P.Minister I
I Five-Year        Plan   I  Plan   I  Plan   I   Plan   1  Plan  |  Plan  I   Plan    I
I Plans         (1955-60) 1(1960-65) 1(1965-70) 1 (1970-78) 1(1978-83)1(1983-88)1 (1986-90)  1
I                          I         I          I           I         I   1 ---. I.....
I Allocation of Educational Expenditure (Rs. Mil.)
I Primary           105.0      154.0 1   520.0 1    547.0 1 3,050.01  7,000.01    7,463.5 1
I Total Education   571.0 1 1,323.0 1 2,730.0 1  3,665.0 1 9,646.01 18,800.01   27,490.0 1
I X of Primary      18.3921    11.64Z1    19.0521     14.92Z1   31.6221  31.171 1    27.15X I
I Actual Educational Exnenditure (Re. Nil.)     I           I         I         I
I                         I          IIIIII
I Primary            23.0 1    19.0 1   25.0  1    444.0 1 1,413.01             I
I Total Education   208.0 1   442.0 |  526.0  1  2,911.0 1 5,258.01             I
I % of Primary      11.0611     4.30S1   4.75S  I    15.25Z1  26.8721           I
I Primary Enollments (Millions)
I  at8ets:               I          I          I           j         j         I            I
I Number                  1    2.87 I    4.35 1        4.54 1   8.60 1 12.35  1    10.48  1
- lof Age Group           1       271        45         501       681      75  I    72.2   1
I     -                                       I           I         I         I            I
I                I         ~     ~~~I  I           I         I         I            I
I Achievegents:           i          I          I
I Nimber             1.951      3.101      3.821       5.461    6.751           1            1
- lof Age Group        261        281        401         501       481          1            1
I                                               I           I         I         I            I
I lof Total Enroll-       i          I          I           I         I         I
I ments achieved          I  108.0111   87.821 I   120.15X1   78.5311           I            1
I   .                      I          _          _          L                                1 I  I
Source: Ministry of Education, Central Bureau of Education
Sector 1-9, Islamabad.
Sixth Five-Year Plan (1983-88), Chapter 18, Annex C



-59-
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN                           ANNEX 8
---------------------- ----                            Paqe I
THIRD PRIMARY EDUCATION PRWOECT
PRINARY SCHOOL ENROLLNENT PROJECTIONS (PUNJAB)
A. FIVE-YEAR INVESTNENT PROGRAM
1984/85   1985/86  1986187  1987/88  1988/99  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93
TOTAL POPULATION (Nillions) 1/
MALE          29.02    29.86    30.72    31.61    32.53    33.47    34.45    35.44    36.47
FEMALE        26.70    27.48    28.27    29.09    29.9        30.81    31.70    32.62    33.56
TOTAL         55.72    57.34    59.00    60.71    62.47    64.28    66.14    68.06    70.04
SCHOOL AGE POPULATION 45-9 YEARS) lNillions) 21
NALE           3.97      4.07     4.18      4.28     4.39      4.50     4.60      4.72     4.84
FEMALE         3.55      3.63     3.75      3.88     4.00      4.13     4.25     4.37      4.49
TOTAL          7.52      7.70     7.93      8.16     8.39      8.63     8.85      9.09     9.33
CLASSROOMS STUCK 31
MALE         36,492   38,492   38,492   38,492   38,492   38,492   38,492   38,492   38,492
FENALE       19,660   21,J660   21,660   21,660   21,660   21,660   21,660   21,660   21,660
TOTAL        56,152   60,152   60,152   60,152   60,152   60,152   60,152   60,152   60,152
CLASSROOMS IN P.N. S PRO6RAM (PUNJAB) 4/
MOSQUE SCHOOLS S/                1,350    1,462    1,462    1,463
NALE
FENALE                           2,500    5,900    5,800    5,800
CLASSROONS BUILT UNDER PUNJA 'S ADP
NALE                                                2,924    3,898    3,897    4,875    3,897
FENALE                                              3,220    4,292    4,292    5,368    4,293
7OTAL                                               6,144    8,190    8,189   10,243    8,190
TOTAL AVAILABLE CLASSROOMS
KALE         36,492   38,492   30,492   38,492   41,416   45,314   49,211   54,086   57,983
FEMALE       19,660   21,660   24,160   29,960   38,980   49,072   53,364   58,732   63,025
TOTAL        56,152   60,152   62,652   68,452   80,396   94,386  102,575  112,818  121,008
STUDENT ENROLLNENTS (thousand) 6/
MALE          2,498    2,578    2,619    2,662    2,753    2,953    3,139    3,343    3,561
FEMALE        1,53      1,619    1,719    1,951    2,235    2,639    2,845    3,068    3,308
TOTAL         4,037    4,197    4,338    4,613    4,988    5,591    5,983    6,410    6,069
PARTICIPATION RATE (5-9 YR.OLDS)
MALE           62.92    63.32    62.62    62.22    62.7X    65.62    68.22    70.92    73.62
FENALE         43.42    44.62    45.82    50.3X    55.92    63.92    66.92    70.22    73.7X
TOTAL          53.72    54.52    54.72    56.52    59.52    64.82    67.62    70.52    73.6Z
SOURCES/ASSUMPTIONS
1/ Sourcet World Population Projections 1984.
21 Ibid
3/ Only 'pukka6 classrooms are considered.
4/ Includes all classrooms to be built under the PN's proqrae for the PUNJAB.
5/ Assumes each Mosque school enrolls 30 uale students. No nex classrooms to be constructed.
6/ Assumes that 40 students would be accomodated in eech new classrooe, and an additional
10 new students in each classroom built for shelterless schools



-60-
ISLANIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTA                          ANEX 5
THIRD PRINAV EDUCATION PROJECT
.  ............ ...........
PRIWARY SCIHOL ENROLWNT PROJECTIONS tPJAD)
........ ............. ... .... ... ..... . ..............
B. CORE PROSRAN
... .. ....... ............. .... .. ............. ....................... .... ....... ... ..... w............................................  .. .
I            1984i85   1985/6  1i&81  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  199"/91  1991/92  1992/93 !
.._........ ... ..__................._......_......._...  ._...  _........
'TOTAL POPULATII  flillions) 1/
!  lE           29.02    29.86    30.?2    31.61    32.53    33.47    34.45    35.44    34.47
! Ft£E          24.70    27.48    28.27    29.09    29.9    30.61    31.70    32.62    33.56
! TOT4L         55.72    57.34    59.00      0.71    42.47    64.28    4.14    48.06    70.04
WSCNOOL AME POPULATION 15-9 YEW) (Nillions) 2/
HALE           3.97     4.0?     4.18     4.28     4.39     4.50     4.40     4.72     4.64
FEN!           3.55     3.63     3.75     3.6      4.00     4.13     4.25     4.37     4.49
TOTAL          7.52     7.70     7.93     8.14     8.39     8.43     8.85     9.0      9.33
CLASSROOIS STOCK 37
IIIE         34,492   36,492   38,492   38,42   36,492   38,492   33,492   36,492   38,492
FIIALE       *9,660   21,660   21,660   21,440   21.660   21,440   21,40   21,60   21,40 
! TOTAL        56,152   60,152   60,152   4,I152   40,152   60,152   40,152   40,152   40,152
!CL1SSR0ON  IN CORE PRS      4/
5Now   SCNHOOLS 5/              1,350    1,442    1,442    1,443
! HALE
!FENALE                                       600    3,200    5,600    4,200    3,800     B60
,TOTAL AVAILAILE CLBSSO
! ALE          34,492   38,492   38,492   38,492   38,492   38,492   30,492   36,492   38,492
! FENE         19,60   21,b60   21,60   22,440   25,66    31,440   37,40   41,460   42,240
! TOTAL        56,152   60,152   60,152   60,952   44,152   69,952   76,152   79,952   60,752
STUDENT EOLNENTS (thougand) 4/
!ALE          2,498    2,5l6    2,619    2,442    2,753    2,677    3,006    3,142    3,263
FEINALE       1,539    1,419    1,692    1,600    1,972    2,203    2,442    2,601    2,715
! TOTAL         4,037    4,197    4,311    4,463    4,725    5,060    5,448    5,742    5,989
!PARTICIPATION RTE (5-9 YR.OLDS)
!WLE             62.92    63.3Z    62.7?    42.21    62.7J    63.9%    65.4?    4.4?   647.8Z!
! FEALE          43.4?    44.62    45.12    46.4?    49.32    53.3?    51.5?    59.5Z    60.5?'
! TOTAL          53.7X    54.5?    54.4%    54.7n    56.3?    56.92    41.64    63.22    64.32!
w-as U*SEENUS aaasusass#Xass sausau#ws suaaunwg- a a-*:JJS#a ss atwacaaaawuaazuz
ES/ASSUIONS
II Sowrces lorld Poplation Projections 1984.
Ibid
3/ bly "peba' cliseOm  considerd.
4/ Core prwas for the  WAJA  concetrate  on eirls   elttrles       new schols.
Si 4ssem  acah   oequ school ewolls 30 eale studiets. No new cleseroo  to be constructed.
4/ Aguset tA annuil *rowth rate for eele end 4ulo earolleeta of 4.52 and eddinq 40 ne
stUdents per neo clia'r, "d ' sea student Pw clI6sroe built .tor V'elterless sclsool.



-61-
ANNEX 6
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
ACTION PROGRAM
FIRST YEAR OF PROJECT
September 1986 (Appraisal) - December 1987.
A. MANACEMhNT IMPROVEMENT
1. Establiahing the ADPI (PE)
(a) Sign agreements with EEC and CIDA (Implementor: MOEIEAD)
(b) Approve the establishment of the proposed Additional Directorate of
Public Instruction with appropriate delegation of financial authority
(Implementor: Punjab Finance Dept.).
(c) Approve PC-I (Implementor: ECNEC)'
(d) Issue delegation of appropriate administrative and financial powers
to ADPI (Implementor: DOE)
(e) Appoint ADPI Director (Implementor: DOE).
(f) Form a Steering Committee composed of the Additional Education
Secretary, Director of Public Instruction (Schools)(DPI), and Amdi-
tional Director of Public Instruction (Primary Education) (ADPI)
(Imptementor: DOE).
(g) Finalize job descriptions of ADPI staff (Implefentor: Steering
Comittee).
(h) Prepare TORs and arrange for recruitment of technical assistance
staff (Implementor: DOE)
2. Monitoring and Evaluation
(a) Prepare a draft Monitoring and Evaluation Plan, including a schedule
for the development of an M&E manuaL and of Rapid Low Cost Studies
(Implementor: FCU/DPI).
(b) Finalise Terms of Reference, and arrange for appointment of new
monitoring and evaluation staff to the FCU (Implmentor: FCU).



-62-
ANNEX 6
Page 2
(c) Prepare TORs and arrange for recruitment of technical assistance
staff to advise Punjab primary education management in developing and
operating the Management Information System (MIS) (Implementor:
Punjab Education Department).
(d) Design baseline survey and arrange for research institutions to
conduct survey (Implementor: DOE)
3. Audited Accounts
Annual Audited accounts are required no later than nine months after
the end of the Fiscal Year (June 30), i.e., by March of the following year.
The first Audit for this operation would be due in March 1989.
B. CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT/MATERIALS SUPPLY
1. Curriculum Development
(a) Prepare a work plan for implementing curriculum reform including
detailed benchmarks for process evaluation (Implementors: NBCT/CRDC).
(b) Prepare TORs and arrange for recruitment of Technical Assistance
staff. (Implementor: NBCT and CRDC)
(c) Finalize TORs and identify research institutions for study on student
achievements and teachers competencies in language and mathematics in
Grades 3-5 1988-1992 (Implementor: CRDC).
2. Materials Development and Supply
(a) Prepare TORs for textbook writing specialist and arrange for recruit-
ment of technical assistance staff. (Implementor: Punjab Textbook
Board).
C. TEACHER SERVICE
1. Pre-Service Teacher Training
(a) Prepare TORs and appoint local consultants to conduct GCET surveys
to: i) examine existing physical facilities; ii) develop educational
profiles of each GCET including information on staffing, libraries,
science laboratories, and allied primary schools used for practice
teaching (Implementor: PSC).
(b) Prepare statement of intent to provide trainers allowances for GCET
staff (Implementors: Education and Planning and Development Depart-
ments).
(c) AIOU to complete detailed plan for upgraded PTC distance education
program for rural women with particular emphasis on (i) student/
supervisor ratio, (ii) extended workshop period, (iii) increased



-63-
ANNEX 6
Page 3
practice peer teaching, (iv) new modules on multi-grade teaching
guides, and (vi) use of VTR micro-teaching (Implementor: AIOU).
(d) Finalize TORs and identify research institution for study on Teacher
Performance related to Teacher Training Certification (Implementorss
Education Department/ADPI).
(e) Complete TORs for design of instructional units on (i) multi-grade
teaching, (ii) school/community relations, (iii) rural education,
and (iv) child growth and development (Implementor: CRDC).
2. In-Service Teacher Training/Management Training
3. Teacher Career Development
(a) Finalize TORs for study of special incentives package for rural
teaching. The incentives would cover such aspects as (i) provisions
for preferential transfer/reassignment of female teachers to urban
schools after a maximum of four years in rural service, (ii) special
scholarships for training through distance education; higher compen-
sation for teachers with outstanding teaching performance, (iii)
arrangements for secure housing through community support, (iv)
assignment of teaching spouses to schools in the same location, and
(v) fee concessions and scholarships for school- age children of
teachers (Implementor: DOE).
4. Female Teacher Appointment
(a) Remove all age-of-entry restrictions for older women to teacher
training and service (Administrative Order to be issued).
D. COMMUNICATIONS/DEMAND GENERATION
1. Compulsory Enrollment/Motivation Program
(a) Start implementation of incentive (advanced increment) program
(Implementators: DOE/DPI).
2. Community Management
(a) Provincial Primary Education Council, District Primary Education
Committeet Union Council Education Committees and School Parent
Associations start activities. Committees formed where not yet
established [Implementors: PEC(DOE)].
3. Flexible Scheduling
(a) Identify all districts where policy not in place (Implementor:
NOE/FCU).



-64-
ANIIEX 6
Page 4
4. Communications Training/Media Campaign
(a) Appoint additional staff to the National Institute for Communications
through Education (Implementor: NICE).
(b) Prepare a plan for communications support including (i) the training
program (organizational arrangements and schedules), (ii) technical
development of communications packages for radio, television, films,
newspapers, bulletin boards, and (iii) national and provincial award
schemes. (Imolementor: NICE)
(c) Prepare specific measures on means to inform, motivate and enlist
coamunity leaders and local educators in the active involvement in
primary education (Implementor: NICE).
(d) Prepare TOBs for consultants to assist in the development of multi-
media products and activities (Implementor: NICE).
S.  SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE
(a) Appoint Consulting Engineers (Implementor: DOE).
(b) Finalize TORe for maintenance study (Implementor: DOE).
(c) Appoint consultants and/or identify Government staff to undertake
maintenance study (Implementor: DOE).



-65-
ANNEX 6
Page S
ACTION PROCRAN
SECOND YEAR OF PROJECT
(January 1988 - December 1988)
A. MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT
1. Establishing the ADPI
February     (a) First Annual Review of implementation progress held
(Implementor: MOE/DOE/IDA)
(b) Appoint key ADPI staff. (Implementor: WDE)
April        (c) Appoint Deputy Directors and support staff in ADPI's
office. (Implementors: DPI/ADPI)
May          (d) Start process of preparing decentralized Primary Education
budget (Implementor: WDE/ADPI)
(e) Appoint Assistant Director for Career Development in
ADPI. (Implementorss DPI/ADPI)
(f) Appoint Deputy Directors and support staff in the offices
of Divisional Directors of Education. (Implementors:
DPI/ADPI)
June         (g) Conduct orientation training for ADPI/Deputy Director/
Assistant Directors (both provincial and divisional
staff). (Implementors: NIPA/AEPM)
July         (h) Appoint additional staff in each DEO's (male and female)
office. (Implementors: ADPI/DDE)
August       (i) Appoint additional staff in each subdivisional (Tehsil)
office (male and female) (Implementors: ADPI/DDE/DBO)
September    (j) Appoint additional AEOs. (Implementorst DDHs/DMOs)
Oct./Nov.    (k) Appoint Learning Coordinators (male and female).
(Implementorst DEOs, DDEOs)
Nov.-Dec.    (1) Conduct orientation training for Learning Coordinators
(male and female). (Implementors5 DeECs)
December     (m) Certify that all new staff under the ADPI are in
position and have received the first orientation training.
(Inplementors: ADPI/DPI/Project Steering Committee)



-66-
ANNEX 6
Page 6
2. Monitoring and Evaluation
January      (a) Consultants in place to assist in development of
of provincial MIS. (Implementors: Education
Department)
(b) Finalize contract for Baseline survey and begin work
(Implementor: ADPI)
Feb/May      (c) Design MIS at ADPI level.  (Implementors: Consultants)
May          (d) Review and approve M&E manual and MIS design at ADPI
level. (Implementors: Steering Committee/DOE).
June/August  (e) Design M&E manual and MIS at divisional and district
levels. (Implementors: Consultants).
September    (f) Review and approve M&E manual and MIS design at
divisional and district levels. (Implementors:
Steering Committee/DOE).
Oct/November (h) Design M&E manual and MIS for Learning
Coordinator/teacher levels. (Implementors:
Consultants).
November     (i) Review and approve M&E manual MIS at Learning
Coordinator and teacher levels. (Implementors: Steering
Committee/DOE).
Nov/December tj) Baseline survey completed. (Implementors: Consultant).
December     (k) Review M&E manual and MIS with MOE/FCU.
(Implementor: FCU/ADPI).
B. CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT/MATERIAL SUPPLY
1. Curriculum Development
Jan. - April (a) Establish and appoint staff to the Primary Education Units
at NBCT and CRDC. (Implementors: NBCT/MOE and CRDC/D0E)
(b) Complete work plan for the implementation of
curriculum reform including detailed benchmarks
for development, field testing of teaching/learning
units, and related manuscripts for teacher guides.
(Implementor: NBCT and CRDC)
February     (c) Arrange contract for carrying out study on Student
Performance. (Implementor: CRDC).



-67-
ANNEX 6
Page 7
March        (d) Prepare fellowship training program for NBCT and CRDC
staff. (Implementors: NBCT and CRDC).
(e) Prepare 'or the procurement of equipment, books and vehicles.
(Implemintors: NBCT and CRDC).
(f) Begin studies on Student Achievement and Teacher
Competencies. (Implementort Contracted research
institutions)
(g) Technical Assistance staff recruited and in post.
(Implementors: NBCT and CRDC)
July - Sept. (h) Staff of Primary Education Units of NBCT and CRDC begin
study tour. (Implementor: NBCT/CRDC).
2. Materials Development and Supply
Jan. - April (a) Complete workplan for production of new textbooks and
teachers guides for the period 1988-93. (Implementor:
Punjab Textbook Board)
April        (b) Technical Assistance staff in post. (Implementor: Punjab
Textbook Board)
March-April (c) Establish a financial mechanism and supply system for the
replacement and replenishment of Learning Kits and
instructional/consumable materials on an annual
basis. (Implementor: ADPI)
(d) Agree on a per student budget allocation for
consumable learning materials for next fiscal
year (Implementor: DPI, Finance Department)
C. TEACHER SERVICE
1. Pre-Service Teacher Training
January      (a) Approve design (including field testing methodology and
schedule) and begin production instructional units on:
(i) multi-grade teaching, (ii) school/community
relations, (iii) rural education, and (iv) child growth
and development. (Implementor: CRDC)
February     (b) Start GCET surveys (Implementor: DOE, ADPI,
Consulting Engineers).
Feb. - March (c) Begin study on Teacher Performance Related to Teacher
Training Certification. (Implementor: Contracted
research institution).



-68-
ANNEX 6
Page 8
April        (d) Begin detailed In-service training program for
GCET staff. (Implementor: PEEC/ADPI).
April - May (e) Submit detailed production plan for the visual data base
of exemplary practices in rural primary education.
(Implementor: AIOU).
June         (f) Begin production of visual data base of exemplary
practices is Rural Primary Education. (Implementor:
AIOU).
July-Sept.   (g) Complete GCET surveys.  (Implementor:ADPI/ Consultants).
July         (h) Begin trainers allowance payment to GCET staff.
(Implementor: Dept. of Finance).
Set. - Oct. (i) Start recruitment of all new CCET staff with performance
for those with MA/ED, MSC/ED, or NED degrees.
(Implementor: ADPI).
November     (j) Begin phase out of temporary PTC units.  (Implementor: ADPI)
December     (k) Submit annual results of studies on (i) student
achievement related to teacher competency, and (ii) study
of teacher performance related to teacher training
certification.
(1) Issue policy statement based on results of review, on the
the duration GCET academic year, (Implementor: ADPI/PENC).
2. In-Service Teacher Training and Management Training
February     (a) Review re-organization plans of PEEC/DEECs.
(Implementor: MOE).
March        (b) Approve re-organization plans of PEEC/DEECs. (Implementor:
Punjab Education Department/Finance Department).
(c) Notify new Charters for PEEC/DEECs. (Implementor:
Education Department).
April        (d) Re-organize staff in PEEC/DEECs in accordance with their
respective new Charters. (Implementor: DBO/DPI).
(e) Prepare short list of management training consultants for
PE8C. (ImplementorS Project Steering Committee).
May          (f) Recruit management instructors for PMEC/DEECs.
(Implementor: DOE)



-69-
ANNEX 6
Page 9
July - Aug.  (g) Contract with management training institutions (NIPA/AEPAM)
to assist PEEC in undertaking management training programs.
(Implementor: Education Department).
August       (h) Establish a Training Curricula and Materials Development
Unit and a Management Training Unit in the PEEC, and
Management Training Cells in each DEEC. (Implementor:
DOE/DPI).
September    (i) Prepare training plans for orientation training of primary
education management/supervisory staff. (Implementor:
PREC/DEECs).
October      (j) Conduct first program of orientation training for
APEOs. (Implementors: PEEC/DEECs).
November     (k) Conduct second program of orientation training for
Learning Coordinators. (Implementor: PEEC/DEECs).
December     (1) Prepare first drafts of in-service training curricula.
(Implementor: PEEC).
3. Teacher Career Development
January      (a) Appoint consultants to undertake studies on Teacher Career
Development and Incentives for Rural Teaching.
(Implementor: SC and ADPI).
April        (b) Career Planning and Development Unit in ADPI(PE)
established (Implementor: ADPI) .
Oct/Nov.     (c) Complete study on teacher career development.
(Implementor: Consultants).
Oct.- Nov.   (d) Review recommendations of Career Development Study.
(Implementor: DOEtADPI).
December     (e) Initiate process to enact legislation/Administrative
Order, etc. to institute new Career Development
policies. (Implementor: DOE).
4* Female Teacher Appointment
April    (a) Official announcement of approval of incentives for
rural service (Implementor: DOE).
April-Nay(b) Develop a Plan showing schedule of female teacher
appointments including goals and timetqbles to
meet ratio of 1 teacher to 40 female students
(Implementor: DOE).



-70-
ANNEX 6
Page 10
May      (c) Design a plan for the preferential recruitment and
admission or girls from rural areas to teacher
training at GCETs.
Sept.    (d) Increase number of scholarships for females at GCETs.
D. COMMUNICATIONS/DEMAND GENERATION
1. Compulsory Enrollment/Motivation Program
February     (a) Complete assessment of first year of incentive/motivation
program. (Implementation: DOE)
2*  Coomunity Management
Jan.- July   (a) Further organize and/or reactivati moribund UCECs and SPA
throughout the province. (Implementor: ADPI/Punjab/Govt).
3.  Flexible Scheduling:
Jan/Dec.     (a) Introduce flexible scheduling of school hours and calendars
in all provinces and districts. (Implementor: MOE and
Provincial Education Departments).
4. Communication Training/Media Campaign
January      (a) Recruit consultants for development of multimedia
products. (Implementor: NICE).
February     (b) Develop multimedia products for mass media campaign
according to Communications Support Plan. (Implementor: NICE).
March/April  (c) Start selection of AEOs who would be responsible for
Community Relations program. (Implementor: DDE/DEOs).
(d) Coordinate program elements with the Literacy and Mass
Education Commission (LAMEC) and other agencies active in
rural development. (Implementors: NICE and consultants).
October      (e) Train AEOs in community involvement, communications
support and related subjects. (Implementor: DEECs/NICE).
November    -(f) Prepare a basic training program for SMCs and PTAs in
such areas as fund-raising, and leadership techniques
related to community mobilization for primary education
(Implementor: AEO/NICE).
(gY Select SMC and PTA members to receive intensive
communications and organize arrangements for conducting
training. (Implementor: ADO).



-71-
ANNEX 6
Page 11
December     (h) Provide orientation/training to SMC and PTA members.
(Implementor: AEO/NICE).
E. SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE
January      (a) start maintenance study. (Implementor: Consultants/CEC).
April!May    (b) Review draft annual civil works program with IDA.
(Implementor: CEC/ADPI/CE).
May/June     (c) Complete maintenance study and allocation made in FY89
Budget. (Implementor: Consultants/DOE).
Sept./Dec.   (d) Appoint  Project Committeest start tendering and award
contracts. (Implementors: CEC/CE and LGRD).



-72-                      ANNEX 6
Page 12
ACTION PROGRAM
THIRD YEAR OF PROJECT
(January 1989-December 1989)
A. MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT
1. Establishing the ADPI
January     (a) Appoint all remaining ADPI staff and start their training
(Implementor: ADPI).
Feb. -June  (b) Ensure all vehicles, equipment and furniture provided
to all field offices (Implementor: ADPI).
(c) Complete first decentralized Primary Education Budget
(Implementor: ADPt).
2. Monitoring and Evaluation
Jan/March   (a) Prepare and approve annual monitoring and evaluation plan.
(Implementors: DPI and SC).
February    (b) Review with IDA annual monitoring and evaluation plan.
(Implementors: DOE and IDA).
March/Dec.  (c) Implement annual monintoring and evaluation plan, including
supervision/management of rapid low cost and in-depth
studies. (Implementor: ADPI).
June-Dec.   (d) Train ADPI staff (Provincial, district and divisional level
and learning coordinators) in use of M&E maual and MIS
including data gathering formats and prcedures, and
relevance of this to decision making and planning
(Implementor: Consultants).
3. Audit Accounts
March       (a) Completion and submission to IDA of first annual audits for
this operation. (Implementor: Auditor General).
B. CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT/MATERIALS SUPPLY
1. Curriculum Development
March      (a) Complete teaching/learning units for integrated program
in language and mathematics for Grades 1-3 (including
manuscripts for teacher's guides). (Implementors: NBCT and
CRDC).



-73-
ANNEX 6
Page 13
April      (b) Organize Seminars/workshops for teachers/researchers on child
development and instructional methods as related to new
curriculum (Participation of local and foreign short-term
consultants). (Implementorss NBCT and CRDC).
February   (c) Review with IDA progress in developing curriculum reform
program. (Implementors: NBCT, CRDC and IDA).
On-guing   (d) Develop and micro-test teaching/learning units
for Grades 4-5, including manuscripts for teachers' guides
(Implementors: NBCT and CRDC).
August     (e) Second group of NBCT/CRDC staff on fellowship training.
(Implementors: NBCT and CRDC).
2. Materials Development and Supply
Jan/March (a) Undertake a review of the present system for publishing/printing/
distribution of textbooks. (Implementors: Punjab Textbook
Board).
February   (b) Review with IDA progress in the textbook program
and announce new pricing schedule.
(Implementor: Punjab Textbook Board).
On-going   (c) Prepare manuscripts for new textbooks for Grades 1-3 in
coordination with curriculum development activities
(Implementor: Punjab Textbook Board and CRDC).
April      (d) Agree on per student budget allocation for instructional
materials (Implementor: DOE, Finance Dept).
C. TEACHER SERVICE
1. Pre-Service Teacher Training
Jan        (a) Begin GCET rehabilitation and normal school upgrading
(Implementor: CM/CEC).
(b) Complete detailed annual training plan.
(Implementor: ADPI).
February   (c) Review detailed annual training program with IDA.
(Implementors: DOE and IDA).
April      (d) Complete Phase I of the visual data base of exemplary
teaching practices in rural education.
(Implementor: AIOU).



-74-
ANNEX 6
Page 14
May-June  (e) Complete the design and field test GCET instructional units on
(i) multi-grade teaching, (ii) school/community relations,
(iii) rural education, and (iv) child growth and development.
(Implementor: ADPI).
July       (f) Begin pilot programs of recurrent in-service teacher training
on reorganized pattern (Implementors: ADPI/PEEC).
Sept.      (g) Start use of new PTC examination for external candidates.
(Implementor: ADPI).
October    (h) Complete instructional units to be introduced into GCET
curriculum. (Implementor: CRDC/ADPI).
October    (i) Complete classroom/teaching schedules for extended GCET
instructional year. (Implementor: CRDC/ADPI).
December   (j) Complete first year of AOIU upgraded PTC program.
(Implementor: AIOU).
(k) Verify compliance of phase out of temporary PTC units.
(Implementor: PSC).
December   (1) Review second year results of studies on Student Achievement,
and Teacher Performance. (Implementor: ADPI/Consultants).
December   (m) Complete GCET rehabilitation and Normal School upgrading
(Implementor: CEC/CE).
2. In-Service Teacher Training and Management Training
January    (a) Start AIOU upgraded distance education PTC program for
rural women (Implementor: AIOU).
February   (b) Review annual training plan with IDA.
(Implementors:* DOE and IDA).
(c) Identify areas and institutions for foreign fellowships of
PEEC/DZEC staff. (Implementor: SC).
March      (d) Short list PEEC/DEEC candidates for foreign training.
(Implementor: DOE).
May        (e) Approve list of candidates selected for study tours.
(Implementor:  WE).
June/Oct.  (f) Conduct local and oveseas training of selected candidates in
batches. (Implementors: Foreign training institutions).
Nov/Dec.   (g) Conduct regional study tours for senior managers.
(Implementors: Identified institutions).



ANNEX 6
Page 15
3. Teacher Career Development
February   (a) Review proposed teacher career development program with IDA.
(Implementors: MOE, DOE and IDA).
March      (b) Review and approve recommendations of Consultants.
(Implementors: MOE and Inter-Provincial
Education Committee).
May        (c) Begin implementation of teacher career develnpment program
by issuing Administrative Circular. (ImplementorsS MOE/
and Provincial Education Departments).
4. Female Teacher Appointment
February   (a) Review with IDA status of policy implementation.
(Implementators: MOE, DOE and IDA).
D. COMMUNICATIONS/DEMAND GENERATION
1. Compulsory Enrollment/Motivation Program
February    (a) Review of implementation progress (Implementors: DOE and IDA).
2. Community Management and Training
Jan/March   (a) Finalize recurrent training program in school community/
relations for APEOs, Learning Coordinators, teachers in
Center schools, and community leaders in S?'Cs and UCECs.
(Implementors: DEECs, APEOs, and Learning Coordinators).
February    (b) Review with IDA annual community relations training
program. (Implementors: DOE and IDA).
May/July    (c) Implement recurrent training program for:
(i) APEOs,
Aug/Nov.        (ii) Teachers and Learning Coordinators,
November        (iii) Community leaders of SMCs and UCECs, and
December        (iv) teachers in Center schools.
(d) Begin organization of two seminars per year, one each for
male and female community leaders. (Implementors: Learning
Coordinators, Head teachers).
3. Flexible Scheduling
February   (a) Review with IDA results from implementation of flexible
scheduling. (Implementors: DOE and IDA).



-76-
ANNEX 6
Page 16
4. Communications/Media Campaign
Jan/March (a) Finalize annual plan for multi media campaign.
(Implementor: NICE).
February   (b) Review with IDA annual plan for multi media campaign.
(Implementors: NICE, DOE, and IDA).
May/Dec.   (c) Implement antnual media campaign.  (Implementors: NICE
in collaboration with Provincial Education Department).
(d) Develop and approve plan for National and Provincial Award
schemes. (Implementors: NICE and consultants).
(e) Obtain required financial resources for national and
provincial award schemes. (Implementors: Provincial
Education, Planning and Development, and Finance Departments)
E. SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE
January    (a) Start implementation of recommendations on measures
for community responsibility in school maintenance.
(Implementors: HOE and Provincial Education Department).
February   (b) Review with IDA proposed measures to implement school
maintenance. (Implementors: MOE, DOE, Finance Dept.).
(c) Review annual civil works program for 1988/89 with IDA.
(Implementors: DOE/CEC/CE).
April/June Cd) Prepare annual civil works development program for 1989/90.
(Implementor: CEC/CE).
May/Dec.   (f) Implement school maintenance program. (Implementors: DOE/CEC).
Sept/Dec. (g) Tendering, contract awarding, and appointment of Project
Committees. (Implementors: CEC/CE and LCRD (Local Government
and Rural Dev.).



-77-
ANNEX 6
Page 17
ACTION PROGRAM
FOURTH YEAR OF PROJECT
(January 1990-December 1990)
A. MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT (DPI)
1. Establishing the ADPI
January    (a)  Identify areas of training for foreign fellowships.
(Implementor: PSC).
February   (b)  Review annual training plan with IDA. (Implementor: DOE, IDA)
March      (c. Short lists candidates for foreign training.
(Implementor: ADPI).
April      (d)  Make arrangements for training placements.
(Implementors: DPI).
May        (e)  Approve list of candidates selected for study tours.
(Implementors:  Education Department).
June/Oct.  (f)  Conduct training of selected candidates in batches.
(Implementors: Foreign training institutions).
Nov/Dec.   (g)  Conduct study tours of senior managers.
(Implementors:  Identified institutions).
2. Monitoring and Evaluation
January     (a) Prepare and approve annual monitoring and evaluation plan.
(Implementors: DPI and PSC).
February    (b) Review with IDA, annual monitoring and evaluation plan.
(Implementor: DOE and IDA).
May/Dec.    (c) Implement annual monitoring and evaluation plan, including
superiision/management of rapid low cost and in-depth
studies. (Implementor: ADPI/M&E Unit).
3.  Audited Account.:s
March       (a) Submission of Audited Accounts for
previous fiscal year. (Implementor: Auditor General).



-78-
ANNEX 6
Page 18
B. CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT/MATERIALS SUPPLY
1. Curriculum Development
February     (a) Review status of implementation of curriculum reform
with IDA (Implementors: MOE/DOE/IDA).
March        (b) Start development of micro-testing of teaching/
learning units for new integrated program in language
and mathematics for Grades 4-5 (including manuscripts
for teachers' guides). (Implementors: NBCT and CRDC)
Jan. - April (c) Seminars/workshops for teachers/researchers on mathematics
and integrated science teaching as related to new
curriculum (participation of local and foreign short-term
consultants). (Implementors: NBCT and CRDC).
April - Dec. (d) Introduce new curriculum in Grades 1-3. (Implementor:
NBCT/CRDC).
2. Materials Development and Supply
Jan. - March (a) Production of new textbooks for Grades 1-3 completed.
Start distribution. (Implementor: Punjab Textbook
Board).
(b) Production of teachers' gu:les for Grades 1-3 completed.
Start distribution. (Implementors: NBCT, CRDC).
Oa.-going    (c) Preparation of manuscripts for new textbooks for Grades
4-5 started. (Implementor: Punjab Textbook Board).
February     (d) Review with IDA decisions made regarding changes
in textbook production/distribution system/pricing
of textbooks. (Implementors: Punjab Textbook Board
and IDA).
February     (e) Review with IDA, progress in the supply of
instructional materials and related budgeting allocatins
(Implementors: DOE, Finance Dept.).
C. TEACHER SERVICE
1. Pre-Service Teacher Training
January      (a) Complete annual detailed training plan.
(Implementor: ADPI).
(b) Complete visual data base of exemplary teaching
practices in rural education. (Implementor: AIOU)



-79-
ANNEX 6
Page 19
(c) Evaluate recurrent in-service training for first year.
(Implementor: PSC).
February     (d) Review with IDA, annual detailed training program.
(Implementors: DEO and IDA)
July-Aug.    (e) Monitor new PTC examination results. (Implementor: SC)
(f) Evaluate GCET instructional year. (Implementor: SC)
(g) Monitor new GCET instructional units, multi-grade
teaching, etal. (Implementor: SC)
September    (h) Complete second year AIOU PTC program.  (Implementor: SC)
(i) Verify compliance of PTC unit phaseout.
(Implementor:SC)
December       (j) Complete third year report of Study #1. (Implementor:
Research Institution)
(k) Complete third year report of Study #2. (Implementcr:
Research Institutions).
2.  In-Service Teacher Training and Management Training
January       (a) Identify areas of training for foreign fellowships.
(Implementor:. PEEC).
(b) Identify foreign training institutions suited for
providing fellowship training. (Implementor:
ADPI/PEEC).
(c) Short list candidates for foreign training.
(Implementor: ADPI)
February      (d) Review training plan with IDA (Implementors: DOE and IDA)
(e) Make arrangements for training placements.
(Implementor: FCU/DOE).
May            (f) Approve list of candidates selected for
study tours. (Implementor: WE).
June/Oct.     (g) Conduct training of selected candidates in batches.
(Implementors: Foreign training institutions)
Nov/Dec.      (h) Conduct study tours of senior managers.*
(8 batches, each of 3 persons with study tour
duration
of 2 weeks) (Implementors: Identified institutions)



-80-
ANNEX 6
Page 20
3. Teacher Career Development
February      (a)  Review with IDA, the proposed teacher career development
program. (Implementors: MOE, DOE and IDA).
4. Female Teacher Appointment
February      (a)  Review with IDA, status of implementation of policy to
recruit more female teachers (Implementors:
MOE/DOE/IDA).
D. COMMUNICATIONS/DEMAND GENERATION
1. Compulsory Enrollment/Motivation Program
February    (a) Review implementation of the plan to increase enrollment
by incentives/motivation (Implementors: DOE).
2. Community Manyagement
February    (a) Review with IDA the annual community relations training
program. (Implementors: DOE and IDA).
May/July    (b) Implement recurrent training program for:
(i) AE0s,
Aug/Nov.        (ii) Teachers and Learning Coordinators,
November        (iii) Community leaders of SMCs and PTAs, and
December        (iv) Teachers in Center Schools.
(c) Organize two seminars per year, one each for male and
female community leaders.  (Implementators: Learning
Coordinators, Head teachers)
3. Flexible Scheduling
February    (a) Review with IDA results from implementation of Fle7ible
Scheduling (Implementators: MOE/DOE and IDA)
4.  Training/Media Campaign
February    (a) Review with IDA annual plan for media campaign
(Implementors: MOE, DOE, and IDA)
June        (b) Make budgetary allocation for national and provincial
award schemes. (Implementors: MOP/Finance Dept.)
May/Dec.    (c) Implement annual media campaign.  (Implementors:
NICE in collaboration with provincial Education
Department)



-81-
ANMEX 6
Page 21
E. SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE
February   (a) Review with IDA progress of annual civil works program £or
for 1989/90. (Implementors: DOE/Punjab and IDA).
April/June (b) Prepare annual civil works development program for 1990/91.
(Implementor: CEC/CE)
Feb.-June (d) Make budgetary allocation for school maintenance.
(Implementor: MOF and Punjab Finance Department)
July - Dec.(e) Tendering, contract awarding, and school construction.
(Implementor: CEC/CE).



-82-
ANNEX 6
Page 22
ACTION PROGRAM
FIFTH YEAR OF PROJECT
(January 1991 - December 1991)
A. MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT
1. Establishing the ADPI
Jan.- Mar. (a) Local training of ADPI staff (Implementor: DOE).
Apr.-June (b) Ccmplete assessment of technical assistance program. Undertake
joint UNDP/CIDA/GOP review (Implementor: EAD/MOE/DOE).
2. Monitoring and Evaluation
February   (a) Complete and submit for review, Annual Evaluation Report
including results of completed Rapid Low Cost Studies
(Implementor: ADPI).
3. Audited Accounts
March      (a) Audit Accounts for FY89 completed (Implementor: Auditor
General).
B. CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT/MATERIALS SUPPLY
1. Curriculum Development
April      (a) Distribute new Teacher's guides developed on basis of new
curriculum to all schools and GCETs (Implementor: CRDC).
June       (b) Make budget allocation for consumable learning/teaching
materials at agreed levels in FY92 recurrent budget
(Implementors: DOE/Finance Department).
C. TEACHER SERVICE
1. Pre-Service Teacher Training
February   (a) Develop and Review with IDA - Annual Training Plan for
GCETs (Implementor: DOE).
2. In-Service Teacher Training
February   (a) Develop and review with IDA, Annual Training Plan for
(i) AIOU program; and (ii) recurrent in-service program
(Implementors: FCU/DOE/AIOU).



-83-
ANNEX 6
Page 23
3. Teacher Career Development
May        (a) Submit Report on progress in the implementation of the
new Career Development Policy, including numbers of new
teachers appointed, where trained, where posted to, and
numbers promoted/and basis of promotion (Implementor: ADPI).
4.  Female Teacher Appointment
July       (a) Submit Report on number of female teachers admitted to CCET
Training, scholarships awarded, number appointed, where
posts taken, and numbers promoted (Implementor: ADPI).
D. COMMUNICATIONS/DEMAND GENERATION
1. Compulsory Enrollment/Motivation Program
February   (a) Review progress of enrollment incentive/motivation program
(Implementor: ADPI/IDA)
2. Flexible Scheduling
February   (a) Review progress of flexible scheduling practices
in all districts (Implementor: ADPI/IDA)
3. Community Management
February   (a) Review status and activities of SMCs, UCEC.
(Implementor:  ADPI/IDA)
4. Communication Training/Media Campaign
February   (a) Review Plan of Activities for Year - Program to include
Annual Training and Media Campaign Program
(Implementor: NICE/IDA)
E. SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE
February   (a) Complete annual civil works plan for FY92, and review with IDA
progress. (Implementor: CEC/LGRD)
February   (b)  Make appropriate budgetary allocation in FY92
Recurrent budget for school maintenance.
(Implementor:  DPI/P&D Department)
February   (c)  Review with IDA, progress in completing FY91 construction
program. (Implementors: CEC/LGRD/CM).



-84-
ANNEX 6
Page 24
ACTION PROGRAM
SIXTH YEAR OF PROJECT
(January 1992 - December 1992
A. MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT
1. Establishing the ADPI
Jan.- Mar. (a) Local and foreign training of ADPI staff (Implementor: ADPI.
2. Monitoring and Evaluation
January    (a) Complete and submit for review, Annual Evaluation Report
including results of completed Rapid Low Cost Studies
(Implementor: ADPI).
3. Audited Accounts
March      (a) Audit Accounts for PY90 completed (Implementor: Auditor
General).
B. CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT/MATERIALS SUPPLY
1. Curriculum Development
December   (a) Complete new curriculum in Grades 4-5 (Implementor:
NBCT/CRDC).
Dec.- Sept.(b) Complete textbooks and teacher's guides based on new
curriculum Implementors: CRDC and Punjab Textbook
Board).
2. Materials Development and Supply
February   (a) Make budgetary allocations for instructional materials at
agreed levels for FY93 (Implementor: DOE and Finance Dept.
C. TEACHER SERVICE
1. Pre-Service Teacher Training
February   (a) Develop and Review with IDA - Annual Training Plan for
GCETs (Implementor: DOB).



-85-
ANNEX 6
Page 25
2. In-Service Teacher Training
February   (a) Develop and review with IDA, Annual Training Plan for
(i) AIOU program; and (ii) recurrent in-service program
(Implementorss FCU/DOE/AIOU).
3. Teacher Career Development
September (a) Submit Progress Report on the implementation of the
new Career Development Policy. (Implementor: ADPI).
4.  Female Teacher Appointment
September  (a) Submit Progress Report on number of female teachers admitted
to GCET training, scholarships awarded, number appointed,
where posts taken, and numbers promoted (Implementor: ADPI).
D. COMMUNICATIONS/DEMAND GENERATION
1. Compulsory Enrollment/Motivation Program
February   (a) Review progress in the implementation of the incentive/
motivation enrollment program (Implementor: ADPI)
2. Flexible Scheduling
February   (a) Review progress of flexible scheduling practices in all
districts (Implementor: ADPI)
3. Community Kanagement
February   (a) Review status and activities of SMCs, UCEC.
(Implementor: ADPI)
4. Communication Training/Media Campaign
February   (a) Review Plan of Activities for Year - Program to include
Annual Training and Media Campaign Program
(Implementor: NICE)
go SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE
Feb./Mar. (a) Review annual Civil works plan for PY93
(Implementors CEC/LGRD).
(b) Make appropriate budgetery allocation in FY92
Recurrent budget for school maintenance.
(Implementor: DPI/P&D Department)
February   (c)  Review with IDA, progress in implementing FY92
construction program (Implementors: CEC/LGRD/CM).



-86-
ANNEX 6
Page 26
ACTION PROGRAM
SEVENTH YEAR OF PROJECT
(January 1993 - December 1993 (Credit Closing))
A. MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT
1. Establishing the ADPI
(a) Local training of ADPI staff (Implementor: ADPI).
2. Monitoring and Evaluation
January    (a) Review experience with M&E manual and MIS (Implementor
DOE/FCU).
(b) Complete and submit for review, Annual Evaluation Report
including results of completed Rapid Low Cost Studies
(Implementor: ADPI).
April-June (c) Revise M&E manuals and MIS as necessary (Implementor: ADPI)
3. Audited Accounts
March      (a) Audit Accounts for FY91 completed (Implementor: Auditor
General).
B. CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT/MATERIALS SUPPLY
1. Curriculum Development
April        (a) Introduce new curriculum in Grades 4-5 (Implementor:
NBCT/CRDC)
April - Sept.(a) Distribute textbooks and teachers guides based on
new curriculum (Implementor: CRDC and Punjab
Textbook Board).
2. Materials Development and Supply
February   (a) Review with IDA, progress in supply of instructional
materials (Implementor DPI Finance Dept. and IDA).
C. TEACHER SERVICE
1. Pre-Service Teacher Training
February   (a) Develop and Review with IDA - Annual Training Plan for
GCETs (Implementor: ADPI).



-87-
ANNEX 6
Page 27
2. In-Service Teacher Training
February   (a) Develop and review with IDA, Annual Training Plan for
(i) AIOU program; and (ii) recurrent in-service program
(Implementors: FCU/DOE/AIOU).
3. Teacher Career Development
May        (a) Submit Final Report on implementation of the
new Career Development Policy. Implementor: ADPI).
4. Female Teacher Appointment
May        (a) Submit Final Report on number of female teachers
appointment. (Implementor: ADPI).
D. COMMUNICATIONS/DEMAND GENERATION
1. Compulsory Enrollment/Motivation Program
February   (a) Review progress of motivation/incentive enrollment program and
submit final report. (Implementor: ADPI).
2. Flexible Scheduling
February   (a) Review progress of flexible scheduling practices and
submit final report in all districts (Implementor: ADPI).
3. Community Management
February   (a) Review status and activities of SMCs, UCEC and submit
Final Report. (Implementor: ADPI)
4. Communication Training/Media Campaign
February   (a) Review Plan of Activities for Year - Program to include
Annual Training and Media Campaign Program
(Implementor: NICE)
B. SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE
February   (a) Review with IDA Annual Civil works plan for FY92.



-88-
Page 1
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Technical Assistance and FellowshiD Prosram
A. Foreign Exnerts
Staff Months
1 Post I Component and Area of       ITotal 1 1988 1 1989 1 1990 1 1991 1 1992 1
I No.  1  SDecialization             1 I   - L
I Manasemeut Imrovement
(ADPI)                      I      I      I      I      I      I
1.10 | Organizational Developmeut   1 18  1 12  I  6  |        |      I     I
- 1.11 I Management Information      I      I      I     I      I      I
ISystems                      I 24  I 12  I 12
3     1                              I      I      I      I     I      I      I
|     | Curriculum Develonment       I      I      I      I     I             I
I     | (NBCT.CRDC),                 I      I      I      I                   I
1 1.20 I Management of Curriculum    I      I      I     I      I      I      I
I     I Reform                       1 241   9 112131 3 
I 1.21 I Child/Educational Psychology 1  6  1      1  3  1  3  1       1      1
1 1.22 | Teaching Methodology        1  3  1       1  3  I      1      1
1 1.23 I Educational Technology      |  3  I       1  3  1      1      1
1 1.24 I Curriculum Evaluation       1 18  1       I  6  1  6  1  6  1        1
1 1.25 | Programmed Instruction      I  3  1       1     1  3  1
ITrainin   (PBEC)             I
1 1.30  N Management Training        I 24  1       1 12  1 12  1       1
|   In-Service Teaching Trainint
I     I  (AIOU)                      I      I      I      I     I      I      I
11.40  Evaluation                    I  3  1       I      1  3  1      1      1
11.41 ITeacher Training              1  3  1  3  |        I     I      |
I     I Communications (NICE)        I      |      |     I      I      |      I
1 1.50 | Community Development       1  6  I       1  6  1      1      1
11.51  Communication Support         1241   9 1121   31 
I     I Textbooks (PTB)              I      I      I     I      I      I      I
1 1.60 I Textbook Production            6      3      3
Total I     165I - I    IL8          -   - I 6    - I
j      I                  Total      .1 165  1  817      3      



-89-
AWEX 7
Page 2
B. Local Experts
Staff Months
IPost                                             I .i   I    I 1            I
| No.  | Component and Area of      |Total | 1988 | 1989 | 1990 | 1991 | 1992 |
_    I  Specialization             I _          i
Management Improvement      I       I           1      1      1      I
I     I (ADPI)
| 2.10 | Management & Organizational
|     | Development                 | 12  | 12  |
|     | Curriculum Development
J(NBCTtCUDC)
2.20 |Language Teaching            |  7  |  4  I  3  |
- 2.21 | Child/Educational Psychology |  7  |  4  |  3  |
12.22  Health Studies               |  6|  3|  3
j2.23 |Environmental Studies        |  7  |  4  I  3  |
I Management Training (PEEC)   |
| 2.31 | Educational Management     I  9  I       I  9
02.32  Community Organization       I  3  |           3  |
| 2.33 | Training Materials Develpmnt.1 12  |     | 12  1
| 2.34 | Educational Management and               I      I         I
I     I Evaluation                  I  3  I       I  3
2.31 I Management of Educational
i Innovations                 16  |61                    I      t
|2.36  Operations Research          I  6  1       |  6  |       |   .
In-Service Teacher Training  |
I  I   (AIOU)IIIIIII
| 2.40 | Tutors and Supervisors     16750  | 1350 | 1350.  1350 | 1350 | 1350 |
I.    I                             I     I      I      I      I      3 
| Communications (NICE)
I 2.50 | Rural Sociologist          I 24  I       I  12 | 12  I       I      I
| 2.51  I Radio Spe^ialist          |290  | 58  |  58   58         58|  58 1
12.52  Film Specialist              166 1221   22 1221                 
I     I                   .                I      I      I      I     I      I
Monitoring and Evaluation
I   I(F-CUIADPI)                                                     
I 2.60 I Local Consulting Firms/    t      I      I      I     I      I      I
I     I Research Organizations      | 556  | 110  I 110  I 110  | 110  | 116  t
Total    17764  11567  | 16031 1522 1 1518 | 1524 1



-89-
ANNEX 7
Page 2
B. Local Experts
Staff Months
IPost                               I        I    I                   I I
No.  | Component and Area of      ITo 41 | 1988 | 1989 | 1990 | 1991 | 1992 |
I     I  Specialization                                                      I I   _   I __ L _
I T IManagement Improvement          
(ADPI)
2.10 I Management & Organizational
Development                I 12  I 12
I     I                             I      I      i     I      I      I     I
| Curriculum Development
I     | (NBCT,CRDC)I
|2.20  Language Teaching            |  7  |  4  |  3  |
I 2.21 I Child/Educational Psychology I  7  I  4  I  3
|2.22  Health Studies               |  6  |  3  |  3  |
2.23 |Environmental Studies       |  7  |  4  |  3  |
I     I Management Training (PEEC)   |
| 2.31 | Educational Management     |  9  I      I  9  |
2.32 I Community Organization     I  3  I       I  3
| 2.33 | Training Materials Develpmnt.1 12  |     | 12  |
| 2.34 | Educational Management and              I      I         I
|     | Evaluation                  |  3  |      I  3  |
| 2.31 | Management of Educational
Innovations                16            16  |
|2.36 |Operations Research          |  6  |       |  6  |      I   .
I     | In-Service Teacher Training  |     I      I     I      I      I     I
I     I   (AIOU)                    I      !            I      I      I     I
| 2.40 | Tutors and Supervisors     16750  | 1350 | 1350 | 1350 | 1350 | 1350 |
I.    1                             1      1     1      I      1      1     1
I Communications (NICE)
2.50 1 Rural Sociologist          I 24  I       I  12 I 12
2.511 Radio Specialist            1290  I 58       581  58  I  581   58
2.S2  Film Specialist             I 66  I 22       221  22
I     | Monitoring and Evaluation
I     l(-tPCU-FADPI)           -           I     I      I
2.60 I Local Consulting Pirms/    I      I      I     I      I      I      I
| Research Organizations     | 556  | 110  I 110  | 110  | 110  I 116  |
TI                                  1      1     1 1 T  -- I -              I
|  |               ~~~~Total    |T74   157   1603 | 1522 | 1518 |1524 |



-90-
ANNEX 7
Page 3
C. Foreign Fellowships
Staff Months
| Component and Area of      ITotal | 1988 | 1939 | 1990 | 1991 | 1992 1
I  Specialization            I      I _       I _     I _
| Management Improvement      I            I     I r                -
|  _(ADPI)
| Educational Planning and
| Management (Study Tour)    | 30  | 15  | 15  |
| Curriculum Development
|(NBCT, CRDC)
| Educational Psychology     |  6  |       |     |  6  |
I Curriculum Development     I  6  I       I  6
I Measurement and Evaluation   |  6  I     |  6  |
| Short Specialized Courses    | 12  |     | 12  |
I  and Study Tours
|Training (PEEC)
| Educational Planning and
I Management                 I 24  I 12  I 12
| Pre-Service Teacher Training
|(GCETs)
| Teacher Training College
M Management and Leadership
|(Study Tours)          .24    12    12  |
| Supervisory/In-Service Trng. |
I(DEEC)                   _
i Achievement Testing        | 10  | 10  |
| Training Organization and
I Management                 I  6  I  6
FPield Extension             I  3  1  3
| Instructional Management   I  3  |  3  |
I Communications (NICE)
I Community Organization
|  (Study Tour)              I 18  I  9  I 9
i Development Support Comm.    | 12  | 12  I _     I    I      I
j           _        Total   |160  | 82  | 72  |  6  | 0   1 0   |



-91-
ANNEX 7
Page 4
D. Local Fellowships
Staff Months
| Component and Area of      |Total 1 1988 | 1989 T 1990 | 1991 1 1992 1
I  Specialization                   I      I _     I    _       ___
I Curriculum Development       I           I      1      1     1      1
I  (NBCT, CRDC)
I Seminars and Workshops      | 60  | 15  | 15  I 15  | 15  1         I
I Management Training (PEEC)   I    I
IProject Orientation          I 56  1 56  I       I     I      I      I
1Project Implmentation       I 112  I 80  I 32  1       1      I      I
| Educational Management     | 88  | 60  | 28  |
| School Supervision         | 74  | 50  | 24  I        I             I
; Achievement Testing         I 27  I      I 27
_Pre-Service Teaching Trng.   |    I     I      I      I      I     I
(GCETs)                                                        
| Retraining of Instructional  |
|  Staff                     |435  1 145  1 145  1145  I
| In-Service Teacher Tra:.ning  |
(AIOU)
| Micro-Teaching Master
|  Trainer Seminar           | 125  | 125  |
I                          .1I      I      I      I     I      I      I
| Supervisory/In-Service
I Teacher Training. (DEEC)
I Training of Learning        I     I      I      I     I      I      I
I Coordinators               I 8296 I 1659 | 1659 | 1659 | 1659 | 1660 |
| Training of APEOs          |1370   274 | 274 | 274 | 274 | 274w
I                            I      I      I      I  .  I      I      I
Communications
| Formal Training            | 2500 | 500 | 500 | 500 | 500 | 500
| Non-Formal Training        | 2669 | 534 I 534 I 534 I 534 1 533 |
| In-Formal Training         | 3000 | 600 | 600 | 600 | 600 | 600 |
Total        118,8121 4098 1 3838 1 3727 1 3582_1 3567 |



-92-
ANNEX 8
Page 1
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Schedule of Appointment of Additional Staff
Year of Appointment
ICrade  r- -               I      I      I      I
| Institution and Type of     I 55   I Totali 1987 | 1988 | 1989 | 1990 | 1991 |
I      Staff                                                                  I !  !  I  !  !  !  !
| Additional Directorate of    I       II                I             I      I
|  Public Instruction (ADPI)  |
| Additional Director of
|Public Instruction           |19      11|1   |
!Deputy Directors             |18   |  9  | S   |  4  |
| Assistant Directors (Male)   | 17   | 12  | 4   |  8  |
I Assistant Directors (Female) | 17   | 11  | 6   |  5  |
! Deputy District Education
!Officers (Male)              117   130 115   115
| Deputy District Education
IOfficers (Female)            117   130       S   1 20   51  
! Assistant Education
I Officers (Male)             115   1249  1       1125  1124
- Assistant Education
Officers (Female)          115   12491            1125   1241       I      I
I                    ~   ~I  I      I      I      I     I      I      I
- Naticaal Bureau of Curriculuml     I     I      I      I      I      I
and Textbooks
*  -I                                I     I      I      I      I      I      I
Deputy Director             |19   I 1   | 1
Research Associates         I 17   j 3   I       |  3
I Curriculum Research and     |
I Development Center
|Deputy Director              s18   | 1    I 1   |
|Research Associates          |17   13   |        13   |
I Provincial Education
Extension Center
|IManagement Training Spec.
I and e.ale (Male)            118   1  2  |       1  2
|Management Instructor
I (Kale/Femle)                I17   I  2  I       I  2
R Research Officers
I (Kale/Female)               I17   I  2  I       I  2
C Graphs Technician (Xale)    114   |  1  I       |  1  |       I      I      I
I                         j                           



-93-
ANNEX 8
Page 2
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Schedule of Appointment of Additional Staff
Year of ApAointment
I' -                          IGrade I     I      I      I      I-    I       I
| Institution and Type of     I BS   I Totall 1987 I' 1988 | 1989 | 1990 | 1991 |
Staff                 _
Government Colleges for     1       I            I      I     1      1      I
I Elementary Teachers
| Teaching Staff (Male)       | 18   1  6  |      I      I      |  6  |
|Teaching Staff (Female)      |18   I  8  |       I      I      |  8  |
. Allama IQBAL Open University |
,Project Director             I 20  I  1  I 1   |
| Project Coordinator         | 19  |  1  | 1   |
| Regional Coordinators       | 18  |  5  |       | 5   |
Educational Technologist    | 18  |  1  I        | 1   |
-Research Assistant           1171   1i| 1   |
- Assistant Registrar         | 15  |  1  |       | 1   |
I                    ~I      I      I      I     I      I      I      I
- Divisional Education
ExtensionlCenters          I      I      I      I     I      I      I      I
Audio Visual Technician
(KXale)                       I13       31        131
j Audio Visual Technician
I(Female)                  113I21              12 1 2
I                    ~I      I      I      I     I      I      I      I
Federal Coordinating Unit
I Development Comamunication   I  .        I      I      I      I
Specialist                 119  11              I       1 1
lCurriculum Specialist        j    17    1    1      i         I 1
M onitoring Officer           | 15  I  2  I       I  2  I
Total                              T |      1043 | 70  |422|3S9|
.1     ~~Total             1       10431  70   _4221359  11921             I



-94-                                           AN    9
Page 1
ISLIAC  JPUDg C Q1 MIUMT8!'
THIRD PRIMRY DUCATION PROJECT
TABLE 1: SUIOIAY OF PROJI cTCOSTS By COMPON                           T
OB  Costs                                        Total
8?/88     88/89       89/90        90/91       91/92      92/93       RWEL      (US. 000)
:33333J33: X33S333*,~*   .   R*-S3aa 2  3mz3331z t:a8aauu8  t3&z ;zZ.  Ft3?8~ZS3&t  Ua3333
A. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENTS
FEMALE STAFF DIR, PUB. INSTR.                                   575.19   1.837.63    2.686.12    3M898.07   4.689.75   5,845.54      19,S32.27S   1,129.03
HALE STAFF DIR, PUB. INSTh,                                      824.02   5s112,45    59613.95 i   6754.71  6b883.85  64024.68    31,213.66   1,804.26
Sub-Total INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPIENTS                              1,399.21   6,950.07   85300,07    109652.78  11,573.61  114870.22     50745.96   2s933.29
B. CURRICWLII DEVELOPRENT
NATIOAL CURRICULUM MUREAU                                       265.97   2t073.46     1,747.98     1,339.50   1,521.55    205,63      7s454.09    430.87
SURRICULU)I BEV. AD RESEACJW                                    254.77  2.028.45    2,063.36    2#007.31   1,897.39        309.08    8$60.36    494.82
Sub-Total CURRICULUM DEVELOPtENT                                   520,74   4.101.91     3,811.31    39346.81   3,718,94    514.70      16,014.45    925.69
C. PHYSICAL DEVELOMNEIT
PRIME MINISTERS NEV SCHOOLS FEIAE                            520745.35 131,863.38   197.795.07   1970795.07 65,931.69  z6.372.68    672450'.22  386873.02
SHELTERLESS SCHlOLS FEMALE                                           - 117s474.95   2744108,21   313s266.53 274P108.21  39.158,32  10184116.22  58,850.65
CIVIL ENGINEERIN6 CELL                                          711.65  16s959.83     19950.62     1,950,62   19950.62  1W384.4      24,907.7i  1,439.76
CONSTRUCTION M6AER                                            2.571.05  5.142.11    5,142.1t    5,142.11   5,142.11   295;1#05       250710.53   1,486.16
Sub-Total PHYSICAL DEVELOPMENT                                  56hO28,05 271,440.26   478,996,00   518,154.32 347,132.62  69,486.48  1741#237.73 100,649.58
D. TRAINING
PRE  SERVICE tEACHER TRAINING MALE                           16U5.6.48  37,722.46   67,227.32    749605,73 73,653.74 73,653.74   343,389.47  19t849.10
PRE - SERVICE TEACHER TRAININ6 FENALE                         70952.80  20#388.85    31,674.44    60.138.76  86,652.11 109,994.38    316P801.34  18,312.22
UNTRAINED TEACHER TRAINING FMALE                              3,604,49  lI775.20    8,157.77    6.961,51   7s005.88   24371.61      39,876.46  2,305.00
SUPERVISORY TRAINING MALE                                     20484.02  11,862.27    14.121,81    19,201.80 23,961.83 24,593.59    96,225.31   5,562.16
SUERVISORY TRAINFINS FEMALE                                     115.21   5,098.06    6,894.74    9,128.44  14,038.73  26,302.13    61577.32   3r529.36
CWEKENT TRAINING MULE                                           204.48  2#131.25      1,828.07       649.29    343,51     185,33      5S341.93    308.78
M MENT  TRAININS FEMALE                                          49.30   1,336.72    1,371.23        204.58     188.97     90.38      3,241.17     187.35
Sub-Total TRAINI                                                30t936.79  90,314.81   131,275.39   170,890.11 205.844.76 237,191,14    866,453.01  50,083.99
E. CONWIITY INVOLVEMENT AND CWJUlICATIONS SWPORT
COMMUNICATION S9PPORT FEMLE                                   5.289.78   7,340.32     6,492,51    4W2840  4,137.17             -    27.V55818   1,592,96
CONJUMICATION SUPORT MALE                                     5.289.78  10s448.32    94600.51      4,298.40   4.137,17         -    33,774.18   1t952.26
Sub-Total COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT AND COMICATIONS SUPORT          10.579.57  17.788.64   16,093.01      8,596.80   8.274.33         -    61,332.35  3.545.22
Ft MATERIALS SUPPLY
NATERIAL WSPLY FEMALE                                        31,593.46  45.334.14    46h120.76    45,334.14 29,694.98  154167.69    213,245.15  12,326.31
IATERIAL SUPPLY MALE                                         32,061.44 46h557.28    48,203.07   46557,28  295U3.79  14,281.33   217,224.20  12426.31
Sub-Total MATERIALS SURPPY                                      639654.91  91,891.42    94M323.83   91.891.42  P9,258.77 29t449.02   430,469.35 241882.6
0. INITORING AND EVALUATION
FEbERAL COORDINATION UNIT                                       855.33     759.19       785,07       823.89    823,89     158.27      44205,65    243.10
DIRECTORATE OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTIONS                           1662.57   2s794.33    2,794.33       1M9.98   1,989.98   1,838.23      13,069.44    755.46
Sub-Total fONITORING AND EVALUATION                              2,517.91   3,553.52     3.579,41     2,813,88   2,813.88  1,996.50     17,275.09    9fl.56
- - - - --- - -- ----- - - - --- ----       ......   
Dthl ASELINE COSTS                                              165,637.16 486,040.64   736t37.04   806,346.11 6380616.91 350,508.07 3s183p527.4 184,018,96
Psiwcal Contin*ncs                                             14,6.14.47  43t878.26   66p478.76   70h969.35  S2313.33  22,419,00    270,693#17 15,647.00
Price ContinNmin                                               21,478,46 103,751.66   219,133.80   29790.59 272s895,43 165,218.55  14S814268.49  8,207,21
At.  PROJECT COSTS                                              201750,.09 633470.56 1,021.991.60 1,176,106.06 963,825.67 538145,62  4,535,489.60 707873,17
Taes                                                            6060,99 29,549,70   26,167.74   239944,52  16P824.88  5S165.09    107721.90   4t963.70
Forein Exd=ft                                                  44,308,71 123,087.75   145,388.97   135.712,73 82,908.82 179972,93   549379.91  25,324.35



-95-
Page 2
ISUISIC   R    ILKC  0          tIS
ThIM Pa=  IUTIOR P1OJI3m
TASLE 2: fUIIKW1 OJ IC? GM COScI                          M            OF ZXRMr11    AMD TIM
Totals Includini Contlosnts                                    Totlis lu3.d1na C,tn1imsss
(RWEE million)                                                    (USt 000)
7/Se  8a8/9   89/90    90/S1   91/92  92/93   Tohl    87/88        88/89     89/90     90/93     91,92     92193     Total
s8Eans *gas"  *58a a salasa, 2"VWX 2PA., as*esas                 aat.S* tn         t anaa.nn MILM"La, s"S#aS  2*Ltad.ta :
i. INSTHENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORhS                                 59.27 310.49   6.8.02   707.16 492.42  97-68 21295.03  2,919.66 14577.01 28546.-17 32.143.53 22,382.79  *44-88 43 105.O09.04
u  FURNITURE                                    4,92  .1.2    41.70    45.99  29.36   6.40   150-29    242,57  1.028.91  1,695-68 21090.62  1t334.41    290-76  6W882.96
C. PROFESSIONL SERViCES                         3.01   6,43     6.88     7.24   7.54   3-90    35.00    148.06    301.79    312.73   329.31    3t2.60    17/.29   1,411.78
0. ELUISINT                                     1.48  10,97    13.32     1.36   0.10      -    27.22     72.67    514.83    60.-68     61-67      4.57         -   19259.42
E. UEHICLES                                     2.17  26.28     0.68        -      -      -    29-13    106.98  1423.83      30.9b         -         -         -   1437179
F. NOTOCYLES                                    0.87   4-19    2.49      2.63   1.28      -    11.47     42.92    196.95    113-33    119-36    58.36          -    530.81
6. UICYCES                                      0.63   0.67     0.72     0.76   0.99      -     3.76     30.84     31.44     32.63     34.44     44.89         ^    174.23
H. IOOKS                                        9.28  17.55    10.27     5.76   5.16      -    48.02    457.21    824.16    466.99    261.63    234.37         -    224436
1. PRINTINS PAPER                              23.64  41.96    4J.99    44.87  18.49      -   172.93  1164.42  1.969.80  1,99935  MM3941    840.29            - 0013,27
J. FCRE181 ADISERi                                 -  10.25    12.38     5.33   4.86      -    32.82         -    481.23    562.77    242.05    220.94         -   1,507.00
K. L0A  ADISERS ND CONRACT                     4.33  11.45    11,97    12.26  12.59   2.64    55.24    213.27    537.33    544.30    557.11    572.4    120.20  2.544.70
L. LOCAL FELLtlSiiIP                            7.64   8.17     8.79     9.31   t-70      -    43.61    376.24    383.78    399-37    423.20    441U10             2-023.69
8. fORE18iNFELLUhSIIP                              -   1.51     2.71     1.69   0.56      -      .47         -    70.81    123-36      77.04     25.26         -    296.48
n. TEAOMINO KITS                                6.53   9.31     9.96    10.48   8.18   5-64    50,10    321-76    437.19    i52.79    476.40    371.62    256.42   2t316,18
0, CASSRON EQUlUIPIET                          47,67  67.97    72.0    76.49  59.67  41.17   365.68  2.348.38  3.190.86  3,304.66 3.477.04  2,712.27  187147  16,904.
Total INWSTENT COSTS                             171.43 549.11   6o.60   f31.32 650.89 157.43 34326.79  8.444.97 250779.84 39,390.79 42.332.81 29.585,97  7M156,03 152,690.40
nt asa  aestnat a5.aa :s*-aan   -ts- ass.n.at van,,  a.aa, ntaataa  *a_aa  ata**sasaa tat,,a,.. -.as tgsnaa
11, RECWRRENT COSTS
A. SALRIES                                    27.42  72.17   139.53   227.61 298.23 371-81 1,136.77  1.350.62  3.38821  6,342.31 10.346-02 133555.84 16.900.50  51.883.51
S. TRAWL ALLOCES                               2.10   7.46     8.28     8.12   4.58   4.31    34.86    103.26    350.43    376.48    369.09    208.38    195,87   1.603.51
C. CONAW E NATERIAL                            0.43   1.78     2.16     2.28  2.38   2.19    11.23      21.28     83.69     98.36   103.81    10U.07    49.33       514.54
8. OPERATION AnD JIINTE        OF VEHICLES     0.02   1.19     1.54     1.62   1.69   1,19    7.25       1.CO     56.05     69.80     73-65     76-67    54.11      331*29
E. OPERATION AND lAINTED E OF OFFICE           0.17   0.54     0.76     0.80   0.84   0.69     3.80      8.14     25.34     34.51     36.57     38.12     31.28     173.97
F. OPERATION AND M1INT1AEN   OF NDTOCYCLES        -   1.01     2.48     3.44   3.98   0.53    11.44         -    47.54    112.77    156-21    180-82      24.05     521.38
. OPERATION AND MINTENINCE  F BICYCLES         0.19   0.40    0.64      0.91   1.24      -     3.37      9.16     18.68     29.16     41.20    56.38          -     154.58
Total RECURRDIT COSTS                             30.32  84.56   15539   244.78 3M2.93 380.71 1.208,70  1.493.45  3.969.95  7,063-38 11.126-56 14o224.29 17305.14  5b.182.77
._, a---   D--a-          tan,, stntu, sman,   analx,  aaaa         a.   a-,*a,tn  "asa, .    n, Satn,'t.ass
tOal PROJECT COSTS                                201.75 633.7 1#021.99 1,176.11 963.83 538.15 49535.49  9938.43 29,749.79 46.454.16 53,459.37 43,810.26 24.461.16 207.873,17
sa,aat Zto:an,   SaSas a                Stxwt *assa  a           S-z.flan  a.naa ,aa  a,tSSaaa .nann  ns.  an,a,na



.    . . . . . .                . . .   . . .    . .  .
z. r                                                                              .
aa | a ~~~~I                       -a                                                                           ,tgs eljii I  0X
0    I            4     I         0       "ai    i a-C 
}   U     I   ?;                                      ,     a    aaaaa          ali  l
:1:i as a
ij   | .}                                             . . . .                           - - -.      '  i. i_ r
i2t40      t4.a?0                   0000                 VI       0    0.      e       0
JIPI
t  i    ffJ                t         ~    .         ,  ,,,,,,,,, ,,t,, , SS
i  jl     i                                                                                                - it  h  I
I              I                                                                                lE i 
i - |, ; t                                       a . I . . . . . . . t
-     . !;f          .   a. ..........                   ......   O            a..... . I..
&NilP;S\t*4 ,,,,,, I                           a,                                 'Jii... ...
a~~~~ia,a a.,~~~~~~~~~i



A___                   ~                 ~                ~                  m
tin. man   ,gm                                                                                        P.S. Sb
5   Sb                                       at 
-u
fE -    ff -i                                                              _      t o        M _ A     I                                                      ftrl l  tt1
1*3030228531                 0I        101t0                   10038103      llttfl 15                   - - - - 591    Slu  0 2lU00l
tinflfl S*'W  nn.NO a.s,.ahawe.                                 n          m..inm =    OL  OWN   -                                        m                          ---
MUtl MMFIUM     t NM tlB MU _m  M MM Fe    mW   X WL  t    t                                                                            l        l        i            tetZ
3. t3lltE11 ttCOSTS
A. CIVIL  Ss 1.40    724                                                     -          -                                                                                                                 0  -  -  ,.- o".U   U00  359.4
S. f4Iit(iRE                                0.52    0.71     0.25                                              -              -            -        -                       -             -   1        zo.o 1 0.52
L0.1430  13003(14il   SEStS                                                        -                 -         -              -                     -          -            -37 5- '5                    0    1
C. (ES0INl7E3      C44    4.90                                1.6         0.34       023          0.30         *.-                         2                             o.0           2.02     4.7   0.0   I.$9
t, *tL1ES                                              -     0.77         0.75       0.50         0.4          -              -            -                    -        0.37          047    20.00  10.0   2.03
F. I0    1 ES4''.'                                                          7           '            -    -    -                           --                                             -                   01.    9.0   0.t3
I. ICYtE                                       '                          2.70                                    -               -                                                       -     2.70   10.0   0:27
o.                                          Mo5 .10    2.01  5.1          0434       0.2a         O.tS                     4.54         4.53     7.7        7.0             -                  A5.47  40.0   3.55
1. m111        3tftR70 _4 aM 14.3   10.0  13.9
J. fO00140' A,WtS3S                                            i 41          -         -          1n        1.n2           2.t5         2.15       -        0.0            -             -      .4    s.0   l.10
1. UA. 033135tS tJ  C03 t                      -       -    19.41                       -         0.51      0.M            3.4          L"f4                   -         24            9.47    41.U    3.0   7.46
1 . LCrA  113403819                            -                                        -                 -4    -                       6.50        - -                                        33.16   5.0   1.46
R. (EI4   F4L31WII                          2.41    o.u        0-.2                  0.,2         0.32      e.n2            .40         0.40        -                                           4- 4.2   5.0   0.23
T WNS116 143 S                                -                 -            -          -            -                                     - -74           17.74           3-.40  10.0   3.2
0. USS3    EtUlOjIOl                                                                                                                            tn -  -  .  -   -   133    12s3.07  -         2ss.00  10.0  22.fi
',t, I7TF0  (t1054TS                         .1.1?   12    e0.35            10.40       1.20        3.50       2,29          27.0        3S3L7   213.25      217.22        3.27         131  2.33.10   0.7 226."
11. 304UIIPE1T COStS
A.  ss                                   I.M4  302.7       I4          6A3        5.56          0.Is      047                            -                             O4                   79o.s0  5.0   3.395
t,1 4613EL0W1                             0.39    0.21      3.39         03         0.03         0.A       0.0                                     *          -            -                  2S.1    1.0   1.21
Z. 003140L 1033IAL.                       1.56    1.22      3.62         0.         0.12         o.31                                                         -         0.10          0.30     '.75  40.0   0.77
P. 0130051N  MM rAm1INT       OF MILt-       -       -      0.4          0.20       0.17         0.15                         -           .                   -         0.00         0."       4.0  10.0   0.50
1.  4PATIO5 AN) 0 A3 10 0 Of MffItE       0.40    0.43      04.7           *                      -                  -             -          -               -         0.2           0.4      2.3   10.0   0.26
F. (*44411A110  4A         W\t l   OM': f'.  -       -         -        s.. -                      -                                     -         -          -           -                      3      0   0.76
*. 441W4ONAn0110  43111 t1 1                          .        -tt       2.25 .  _                                                                             :.IS                           .45   10.0   0.23
'MA  30C1       coils                       22.0  304.74       l.43         1.43       07           13.4      o.91                           -        -                    o.3           1.22    10.43   2.2  423.
Totul 0S41E COGSTS                           A.39  36.0        3.0    *       .23      43.           5.J4      L4            2740         14.7    212.25     217.22         4.24         1107 3hU.53   0.5 770.69
Pn,sa; Coc,t,oisr                          1744   3u.s2      2.64         1.72       3.14         0.34      o.46           1.40         2.23    24.32       22a.         0.25          0.3   Xv.60   0.0   0.00
Prize  ttontiWlts                          MM0.70  In."4    tlS2         34.9       24.22         1.4       o.9            7.23         9.34      3.46      70.1?        1.20          4.12 4013.27   ?.   01.41
!o icl "MCI oST                              4.e90  40.26    S4.4          130.1       4.            7.32      4.30          36.3*        434   30.43        309.07         5.64         1302 4,12.40   7.6 354.20
511.01                                     4I.      1-23     3.41         0."        01           0.40         -              -         1.13    104.1      10.0          0.24          1.25   H0IM      .0    .72
roXln Ex,hu.                                4.75    3.n      *.u          3."3       3.02         3.t5      2.43           4J3         10.15    MU .2     1344?7         0.2t          :.3    1".33   0.8  40.22



E-98
IEWiT    1ITIIIhL n.                    l E1meC  011_T U
SSIOCLIOt10    KIPOIT    ?CI         CRITITY          PAKISTA          TObl
Locl (fxdl. hbts.  I
AM.nt X2   2 ImI           I  2      ot             buat    I       hASA    2    rot. foh.    Ton)          Tam
A. INSTITUTIINL DPELETS
PEIW  STAFF WIR. Fl. ISTR.                                   828.30 6444                         26.04  2.04    423.07 33.12   1.7740   0.61        S0.97     1,151.13    45.31
rME STAFF DIR- * .   IIISTR-                               1050.63 51.81          -      .      424.0  20.95    152.33 273   20t.03  0.9B          489.35     1.444.B9    93.80
Sub-Tot  I6STITITN    EWIIET 1E879.13 56.85                                                 -      450.92 13.64    975.39 29.51   3#3.44  1.59        570,31     2*59602   139.10
S. C1RIUlE  KWL WT
NfATLt CRuRICII mm                                            92.27 19.21         -       -     301.25 62.71      86." I9.09      480.43  0.23     292.89       157.69    29.85
CIUICUll MEY. AND REStW                                      125.30 22.6          -      -      332.35 60.08      95.5 17.27      553.21  027      326.32       192.13    34.76
Sub-Totl C3ICU1W  KEW1      T                                  217.57 21.05                6- 33.60 61.30    182.47 17.65   I3.U4  0.50               619.20       349.83    64.41
C. PH5CM BDIT
PRkIM MIliSTERS NV    (18 FEE                             346394.70 n.04                 -   2532-.61  5.82  6,588.26 15.14  43*515.56 20.93   3.842.41    38401,87  1*071.28
USRLESSa       S FEWE                                     53.3421 79.04           -      -    39222  s.82  10,218.77 15.14  67495.21  32.4-    5914.71       59910,46 1.67003
CIVL EISilKEERIII Cmil                                       400.49 24.59                           -          1227.98 75.41    162.47  0.78       522.15       629.72   476.60
CoISIRITIII WSER                                           1*S31.19 95.0                                   -      80.59  5s-0   1*611.7   0.7      252.64     l.278.56     0.59
9b-TotaI P91nCM  CNEL OPSEN894.60 78.49                                                     -    6,46083  5.65  IS115.60 15.86 314*251.02 51.96  10,531.91   100.420,61  3*28.50
D. TRAMnS
8RE - SEaCE TEAER 1R*6IB 61E .                             5.285,5 69.62              -          52.46  0.24  6,618.26 30.14  21s956.27  10.56     218.45    21*665.94    71.88
PK1 - SERVICE TE1aER TRAINIKI ft1L                        14*483.87 69.74         -      -       39.22  0.19  6243.95 30.07  20767.05  9.          172.78    20537.79    5647
uTRAe  TIMER 11*166 Frfow                                   712.90 28.43                -    1*2A4.54 50.03    540.31 21.52   2.07,n  1.21        241.50     29200.93    65.31
51ItSORY TR1IIL 11  E                                     4072,66 65.09          -      -       20.40  0.33  24*63.91 34.58   6,256.97  3.01      183.47     6,028.04    45.46
IRISO    13*111  Ft1L.                                     29954.63 72.9e                -       16.97  0.42  1,481.20 26.68   4,052.80  1.95       47.31     3.983.06    22.42
N EIT    T R16  WE                                           110,86 32.83         -       -     161.52  47.83     65.30 19.34     337.68  0.16     145.54       169.64    22.51
MNOET TPAI(N1   FELE                                          52.37 25.8          -      -      142.8  70.59       7.16 3.53      202.41  0.10     112.28        90,13        -
Sb-lTowl T1NINB                                             37.672.84 67.18          -           14688.00  3.01 16720s.0 29.81  56*80.93 26.5    1.121-34    54*675.53   284.05
I. CO8 1TY IDOWI MAG C ECA4Un              10T
U1NICATION sWPMT                                                 -    -   1691.69  100.00            -     -       0.0  0.0o    1691.69  0.81      200.90     1490.79
CU8UUClA S9O3  PE                                                -    - f    960.35  013             -     -    144.66 6.87   2*105.01   ,01       469.56     1,490.79   144.66
Sib-Totl ca uT  I6 Lt   w6 CIc UnoIB 59T                            -    -   31652.04  96.19            -     -    144.66 3.81   3.796.70  1.83       670.46     2,981.58    144.66
F. ATERMAL SY
ATEkLR   8      FEW.                                       79919.75 56.51   3,604.47  2.72           -     -  2490.92 1777  14*015.14  6.74   5,473.77        8046.39   494.s
1ATEtL "MYWtL                                              7,456.94 52.16   4,463*26  31.22          -     -  23752  16.62  14t2.42  6.          69221.86     7*607.4    466.06
SFTotal 81t31 &S fY                                          15.376.,69 54.31   8,067.73  28.50         -     -  4s866.13 17.19  2B 310.56 13.62  11*69.63    15*653.88    61.04
8. 16TORD33 are tV1 TM
FEttN CO0RDM TION OUltT                                       43.0 16.3           -      -      176.40 67.19      42.73 1628     262.52  0.13       14,37       235.29    1287
D13    *     mkO s UC IIBITIS                                142.06170            -      -      595.91 71.59      94.411,34      832.37  0.40      101.12       62.39   s58.7
TolUITi    An EVITIU                                           185.46 16.94          -      -      772.31 70.54    137.12 12.52   1#094.*   053       115.48       97.6      71.73
Total Di $Ucaag                                               14*006.2 09.76  11,71.77   5.64   10,02.66  4.81 41*141.46 1979 207873.7 100.00  25324.35   17758513  4*963.70
..... ..iug               i.in   ...i- ---- -- --- --                              __                     . uE _u,



-99-
ISLANIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
----            _ --- ---*-----ag
THIRD PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
RECURRENT COST IMPLICATIONS
TABLE 1: SCENARIO 1 1/
1984/8S   1985/86  1986187  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  1990u91  1991/92  1992/93
A. PROVINCIAL RECURRENT EDUCATION BUDGET (Rs. Mill.)
FIVE-YEAR INVESTMENT PROGRAM 21
ALL EDU. 3/            3,313    3,928    4,517    5,195    5,974    6,870    7,901    9,086   10,449
PRIMARY 4/             1,630    1,998    2,298    2,642    3,039    3,495    4,019    4,621    5,315
OPERATION Si                                                  56.70   158.38   260.44   403.50   656.27
OPER.IPRIMARY 6/         0.0%      0.0      0.02     0.0%      1.9%      4.5%     6.5X      8.7%    12.3%
OPER*PR/ALL EDU 71      49.2%    50.91    50.9%    50.9%    51.8'    53.2%    54.2%    55.3%    57.1%
UNIT COST Rs. 8/         404       476       530      573       621       653      715       784       869
CORE PROSRAM 9/
ALL EDU.               3,313    3,928    4,117    5,195    5,974    6,070    7,901    9,086   10,449
PRIMARY                1,630    1,998    2,298    2,642    3,039    3,495    4,019    4,621    5,315
OPERATION                                           34.25    84.42   163.36   267.44   349.33   326.80
OPER./PRIMARY            0.0%      0.02      0.0%      1.3%     2.8%      4.7%     6.7%      7.6%      6.1%
OPER+PR/ALL EDU         49.2%    50.9%    50.9%    51.5%    52.3%    53.2%    54.3%    54.7%    54.0%
UNIT COST Rs.            404       476       533      600       661       720      787       866       941
P. FEDERAL DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION BUDGET (Rs. Mill.)
:=:s:s::s:::s:uu3 ::g33::as:S:::2ztz:2
FIVE-YEAR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
ALL EDU. 10/           1,964    2,311    2,773    3,328    3,993    4,792    5,751    6,901    8,281
PRIMARY 11/              405       608       730      876    1,051    1,261    1,513    1,815    2,179
OPERATION                                                     56.70   158.38   260.44   403.50   656.27
OPER./PRINARY            0.0%      0.0%      0.0%     0.0%      5.4%    12.6%    17.2%    22.2%    30.1%
OPER+PR/ALL EDU         20.6%    26.3%    26.3%    26.3%    27.7%    29.6%    30.8%    32.2%    34.2%
CORE PROGRAN
ALL EDU.               1,964    2,311    2,773    3,328    3,993    4,792    5,751    6,901    8,281
PRI ARY                  405       608       730      876    1,051    1,261    1,513    1,815    2,179
OPERATION                                           34.25    84.42   163.36   267.44   349.33   326.80
OPER./PRIMARY            0.0%      0.0%      0.0%     3.91      8.0%    13.0%    17.7%    19.2%    15.0Z
OPER+PR/ALL EDO         20.6%    26.3%    26.3%    27.31    28.41    29.7%    31.0%    31.4%    30.3%
1/ Assumes that after 1985/85 Punjab Recurrent Education Budget groms at 15% per annua and
Federal Government Development Budget grows at 20% per annus.
2/ bhole of PM's (for Punjab province) and Punjab's ADP investaent prograas.
3/ Punjab's total educa' ion recurrent budget.
4/ Punjab's recurrent budget for primary education.
5/ Recurrent costs (including contingencies) of the operations obtained from COSTAP tables.
6/ (Operations Returrent Costs)/(Primary Education Recurrent Budget)
7/ (Operations + Prima-y Recurrent Budget)/(Tota: Education Recurrent Budget).
8/ (Operations * Primary Recurrent Budget)/ (Total projected enrollmnnts).
9/ Mission estimates of Punjab's construction capacity.
10/ Federal Government total education development budget.
11/ Federal Government development budget for primary education.



-100-
ISLAMIC REPUWLIC OF PAXISTAN                           ANNEX It
. . _ --.-................  .                          Page 2
THIRD PRIMARY EDUCPTION PROJECT
.... .......... .......................
RECURRENT COST IMPLICATIONS
TABLE 2: SCENARIO 11 I/
~~~~~~~~~~~. ... .... ..... ...... ... .....*
:984/85   1985/16  1990197  1907/88  1988/89  1989/90  1993!91  1991/92  19"2193
A. PROVINCIAL RECURPENT EDUCATION BUDGET (Rs. Mill.)
massasuasauaua:aazuaeusussttau333ua3uan
FIVE-YEAR INVESTNENT PRO0RAM 2/
ALL EDW. 3/            3,313    3,928    4,321    4,753    5,229    5,751    6,326    6,959    7,655
PRINARY 4/             1,630    1,998    2,199    2,418    2,659    2,925    3,218    3,540    3,894
OPERATION 5/                                                56.70   158.38   260.44   403.50   656.27
OPER./PRIMARY 6/         0.01     0.02      0.01     0.02     2.11      5.42     8.11    11.42    16.92
OPEROPR/ALL EDU 7/      49.22    50.92    30.92    50.92    52.02    53.62    55.02    56.72    59.42
UNIT COST RS. 8/         404      476       507      524      545       551      581       615      662
CORE PROGRAM 9/
ALL EDU.               3,313    3,929    4,321    4,753    5,220    5,751    6,326    6,959    7,655
PRIMARY                1,630    1,998    2,198    2,418    2,659    2,925    3,218    3,540    3,04
OPERATION                                          34.25    84.42   163.36   267.44   349.33   326.80
OPER./PRIIARY            0.02     0.02     0.02      1.42     3.22      5.62     0.32     9.92      8.42
OPER+PRiALL EDU         49.22    50.92    50.92    51.62    52.52    53.72    55.        55.92    55.12
UNIT COST RS.            404      476      S10       549      581       608      640      677       704
B. FEDERAL DEVELOPMENT EDOUCATION BUDET  Ru. Nill.l
FIVE-YEAR INVESTMENT PRCSRAN
kLL EDU. 10/           1,964    2,311    2,658    3,056    3,515    4,042    4,649    5,345    6,147
PRIMARY 11/              405      608      699       804      925    1,063    1,223    1,406    1,617
OPERATION                                                   56.70   158.38   260.44   403.50   656.27
OPER./PRIMARY            0.02     0.02     0.02      0.02     6.12    14.92    21.32    29.72    40.62
OPER4PR/ALL EDU         20.62    26.32    26.32    26.32    27.92    30.22    31.92    33.92    37.02
CORE PROGRAM
ALL EDU.               1,964    2,311    2,658    3,056    3,515    4,042    4,648    5,345    6,147
PRINARY                  405      608      699       904      925    1,063    1,223    1,406    1,617
OPERATION                                          34.25    84.42   163.36   267.44   349.33   326.80
OPER./PRIWARY            0.0     0.02     0.02      4.32     9.1%    15.42    21.92    24.82    20.22
OPERtPR/nLL EDU        20.6%          26 .3%  2    27.42    28.7%    30.42    32.12    '2.89    31.Z%
1/ Assums that after 1985/85 Punjab Recurrent Education Budget grows at 102 per nnu  and
Federal Government Developmnt Budget grows at 152 peW ann.
2/ Uhole of PR's (for Punjab provincel and Punjab's ADP investaent progrm.
3/ Pui)ab's total education recurrent budget.
4/ Puijab's recurrent budget for priaary education.
Si Rhcurrent tosts Oinc!udirg cont:ngencies) of the operations obtained from COSTAB tables.
c! 'Operations Recurrent Costs'IPraaury Education Recurrent Budget)
7J  (Operations + Pritarv Rtcurrent BudgetiTotal Education Recurrent Budget).
9/ (Operations + Primary Recurrent Budget! (Total projected onrollmentsl.
91 Mission netimates of Punjab's construction capacity.
10/ Federal Sovernmnt total education development budget.
11' Federal Government developmnt budget for prisary education.



-101-
ISLANIC REPUUIC OF PAKISTAM                              ANIIE  11
----------------- - -,----                               e  3
THIRD PRIIiARY DUCATION PROJECT
TABE 3: CONPARATIVE RECURRENT EXPENDITURES 41980)
Total Recurrent Expenditure No. of Countrie
Nation 6roups                                 per Pupil IUS5)            Reporting
Develcpment statuss
LaN-income countries                                 59                  21
Niddle-incone countries                             195                  42
Industrialized countries                         2,297                   19
Developing Countries only
by region:
Sub-Sahara Africa                                    92                  24
Niddle East & N.Africa                             221                    5
East Asia & Pacific                                210                    6
South Asia                                           1?                   6
Latin Awer. & Caribbean                            209                   19
SOURCE: Unesco, Statistical Yearbook 1983 (Paris, 193).



-102-
ANNEX 12
PAKISTAN
THIRD PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
FORECAST OF EXPENDITURES AND DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ million)
|I  I  Expenditures             D Disbursement        I
|_  IDA Fiscal Year           | Semester    Cumulative  | Semester    Cumulative_|
I       1988                 1                           1                          I
2nd (Jan. 1988 - June 88)  I       9.94       9.94      I   5.90          5.90
1989
1st (July 88 - Dec. 1988)  |      14.87      24.81      I   9.30         15.20
2nd (Jan.89 - June 1989)   I    14.87        39.68      I   9.30         24.50
1990
I                          I                           I                         I
1st (July 89- Dec. 1989)  |    23.23         62.91      I  16.34         40.84   |
2nd (Jan.90 - June 1990)   1    23.23        86.14      I  16.34         57.18
I       1991                                              II
I                             i                           I                         I
| 1st (July 90 - Dec. 90)    I    26.72       112.86      |  19.24         76.42   |
1 2nd (Jan 91- June 91)       I    26.72      139.58      I  19.24         95.66
I       1992                 I                            I                        I
_                         I                           I                         I
l lst (July 91 - Dec.91)    I    21.90        161.48      |  15.78        111.44
j 2nd (Jan.92 - June 92)    I    21.90        183.38      I  15.78        127.22
I                             !                           I                         I
!       1993
I 1st (July 92 - Dec.92)    |       12.23     195.61      |   8.89        136.11   |
2nd (Jan. 93 -June 93)   I        6.10     201.71      I   4.45        140.56
1994
I~                         I                           I                         I
1st (July 93-Dec.1993)            6.16    207.87       |   4.44         145.00   |
Credit Closing Date: Dec. 1993



-103-
ANNEX 13
Page 1
ISLAMIC REBUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
THIRD PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. REPORTS AND STUDIES RELATED TO THE SECTOR/SUBSECTOR
A.1    A Report on the Implementation of National Education Policy
(First two-years of the Sixth Five-year Plan 1983-1985) Ministry
of Education, March 1986.
A.2    Advanced Level Workshop on Universalization of Education at
Primary Level (AEPAM, Islamabad November 1984.
A.3    A conceptual paper on New Developments in Primary Education in
Pakistan, AEPAM. Islamabad, December 1985.
A.4    Action Plan for Educational Development 1983-88. MOE, Islamabad
1984.
A.5    A Compendium of Acts, Ordinances, Laws, and Rules by the
Education Department, Punjab Bureau of Education, Lahore, 1982.
A.6    Diagnostic Studies on Educational Management.  Country Studies -
Pakistan - UNESCO Regional Office, Bangkok, 1984.
A.7    (i)   Education Statistics - 1977-78
(ii)  Education Statistics - 1978-79
(iii) Education Statistics - 1979-80
(iv)  Education Statistics - 1982-83; Bureau of Education, Lahore.
(v)   Education Statistics (school statistics) in Punjab,
1983-84.
A.8    A Survey of Dropouts at the Primary Level in Punjab. Bureau of
Education - Lahore.
A.9    Financial Position of Local Councils in Punjab.  1982-83 to
1984-85. Local Government and Rural Development Department.
L).-ore, July 1985.
A.10   Educational Development in Pakistan.  The Role of User Charges
and Private Education - Jimenez, E, Tan, J.P., World Bank,
December 1985.



-104-
ANNEX 13
Page 2
A.11   Guide Book of Education Department - Punjab.  Bureau of
Education - Lahore, 1982.
A.12   West Pakistan Primary Education Ordinance, 1962.
A.13   Punjab Edu,ation Code - Rules and Appendices - Third Edition.
Education Department. Government of Punjab, March 1982.
A.14   PC-1.  Prime Ministers's Five-Point Program.  (1982-1990).
Ministry of Education.
A.15   Primary Education in Pakistan and other Asian Countries.
AEPAM.
A.16   Primary Education Project - National Achievement Tests.
(Protocol Analysis). Primary and Non-Formal Education Wing.
MOE. Islamabad, 1984.
A.17   Primary Education in Pakistan - Four Volumes.  Devel)pment
Associates July 1986.
A.18   Promotion of Girls Education in the Context of Universalization
of Primary Education. AEPAM, September 1985.
A.19   Pakistan Education Statistics (1947-1979).  Research Wing.  MOE
- 1979.
A.20   Pakistan Education Statistics 1986.  Central Bureau of
Education. Islamabad.
A.21   School Statistics.  Federal Area Islamabad.  1970-71-1983-84.
Central Bureau of Education. Islamabad, 1986.
A.22   School Statistics of Pakistan: 1983-1985.  Central Bureau of
Education. Islamabad, 1986.
A.23   Social Indicators of Pakistan 1985.  Central Bureau of
Statistics. GOP. December 1985.
A.24   Sixth Five-Year Plan 1983-88.  Chapter 18 EduLcation.  A Vital
Investment in Human Resources Development. Planning
Commission. Islamabad.
A.25   Budget Statistics on Education of the Federal and Provincial
Governments, 1982-83. CBE. 1985.
A.26   Statistics of Schools in the Punjab.  Academic Year 1984-85.
Bureau of Statistics. Lahore, December 1985.
A.27   Statistics Profile of Children of Pakistan - Planning and
Development Division. Islamabad. January 1980.



-105-
ANNEX 13
Page 3
A.28   Three-Year Priority Program (Core Program).  Education
Sector (1983-1985). Planning and Development Division.
A.29   Women's Development in Punjab. Ministry of Social Welfare.
Punjab.
B. REPORTS AND STUDIES RELATED TO THE PROJECT
B.1    Initial Draft Project Proposal for Third Primary Education
Project. Primary and Non-Formal Education Wing.
Islamabad. June 1986.
B.2    Recommendations of National Annual Conference on Primary
Eduction Teachers - Federal Coordinating Unit.
B.3    Supervisory Structure for Primary Schools Extract from
Minutes of Third Inter-Provincial Committee Meetings.
September 1983.
B.4    Legislation for Compulsory Primary Education. Extract from
Third Inter-Provceneme. MOE, 1985.
3.5    Primary Education Incentives Scheme.
B.6    Role of the Curriculum Research and Development Center in the
Primary Education Project Curriculum Research and Development Center
Lahore.
B.7    Guide Book of the Curriculum Research and Development Center.
Govt. of Punjab, Lahore, 1982.
B.8    Report on integrated Subject Curriculum for Classl CRDC, Lahore 1982.
B.9    Reading Teaching Project for National Language (URDU)
Phase II, CRDC - January 1986.
8.10   Punjab Textbook Board.  At a glance 1983-1984.  Lahore, May, 1983.
B.11   National Bureau of Curriclum and Textbooks:  Organization and
Function.
B.12   Establishing District Statistical Cells for the Collection
of Educational Statistics. PC-1. Education Section.
Planning and Development Division. December 1985.
B.13   Assessment of the and Achievements of In-service
Training Courses - Education Extension Center - Lahore, 1986.
B.14   A Survey of Outcomes of the In-Service Training Program.  EEC.
September 1977.



-106-
Page 4
B.15   Curriculum and Syllabi for PTC (Primary Teaching Certificate and
Ct. (Certificate in Teaching). Curriculum Wing. Islamabad.
1983.
B.16   Rules for Admission to PTC/CT courses.  DPI - Lahore (schools),
1985.
B.17   PEDEP. Master Trainers Workshop (October 1985).  Primary and
Non-Formal Education Wing. Islamabad. 1985.
B.18   Report on "The Assessment of, and Development of a Strategy for
Multi-grade Teaching in Two-Teacher Rural Primary Schools of the
Punjab. CRDC - Lahore, 1983-84.
B.19   Allama Iqbal Open Uity.  An Overvew 1986.
1.20   Statistical Profile of AIOU.  May 1985.
3.21   Distance Education System and Role of AIOU, August 1985.
1.22   Bconomic and Social Program of Prime Minister in Education Sector
(1986-1990) (Tro Volumes) Government of Punjab, Education
Department. (School Map)
C.  SELECTED WORKING PAPERS
C.1    Complete set of working papers - March 1987.
D. DOCUMNTS AND TOR-S. SUBMITTED PRIOR TO CREDIT NEGOTIATON
D.1    Establishment of different committees for the primary education.
D.2    Flexible scheduling.
D.3    Draft TOR for study on career development of primary school teacher.
D.4    Draft study on construction/maintenance.
D.5    Report on conducting O&M survey.
D.6    Pre-service and in-service teacher training.
D.7    Functions of the Civil Engineering Cell.
D.8    Draft agreement between owner and consulting engineers.
D.9    Procedure for maintenance of high schools and colleges.
D.10   Appointment of CEC staff.
D.11   Cost of operation of the CEC.
D.12   Draft PC-1.



IBRD 19894
.J -            .                        .                               \.
y rJ-SLAMABAD fw tX  < +                         =                                *      Approxlrnate line
i!  AFGHANfSTAN  x.~*                                                              Ro;  ,   twalpindi    , i     of control
)   ,_J   ;  {                         .,/  AITOCK
JAMMU
PAKISTAN                                                                                                       ANDJheu    ) _
~~ ~~~         . ~~~INDIA                                                               ut
_ J                                                               . ...  # ....... |.>   ' \HW \\,i
Aranik!' $9a   "  ---ujt*
NORTH WEST FRONTIER                                          ,SLKOT
*320                                                                                         GWIMNWALA\                      .         32L
SHE                           To Amnitsar
.,n   ' ,1    |             "/|'' ; ~~~JHANG    ,                            ,ms
BALUCHISTAN  I  kuHMF )
!   I  r/W___        >sQ4Xhawapu=                          /         PUNJB  PRO\/NC
!  |I(.j.'*l   >- a,,,,,v,                NuAt.   <    >    | N D I A
'  ^';2       ,         McMUZAF 
w1 it / ( \ ,' ! ~~~~~~~~PAKISTAN
co                                >fhwlpr                      _                      PUNJAB PROVINCE
<,  t; t-S   /                       , -              ./THIRD PRIMARY EDUCATION
/RAIAPUR                                         02 ~/PROJECT
;  I  ¢ /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ds X/ t- rct boundciries
)  {/  ( Ff!*2  /   /    BAHAWALPUR         v  -       -    -   ~~~~~~Division boundaries
/  t  f   /    /                             j            -   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Province boundaries
/ ._   ;                                                           f /   \!     -. -   Intematlonal boundares
Rohl Fan~      I                        ,!NUMBER FOR EACH ADMINISISAIIVE UNIT:
;   /    RAHIMYARM-  \                                         8    Divisions
29    Districts
-28°  >AX  \           /   >            \                i                         87    Tehsils                                      28t
A,           \            >._.~289   Morkaz
23b7   Union Councils
SIND        .
|                                                                   69    National capital
0  20 30 40 50  60 70                                          @     DMsion capitals
KiLOMETERS                                            MUTANLIL    Division names
Major Roads
Itt  tO  tt$ 11r0 > E   b* *1. *ol B.* 0 M.   eO .  for tit foOn_ O- ROfs
1101*60*0*  kndl for 0b00 10 of TOorl rbSfo* .oda hddl -nE7eo.  -   -     ~
I Frn. CotOobJdo., The 00JD oort.o. 00 bed hto ofWre lirowo on000  0 o
/ E'l  0011  gOp ad Of The atrl&,t a lt  0* brten.o.  l.C    Oao0o    0jst
~7po                                              720                                          740



