Report No. PID11475
Project Name             CARIBBEAN-Mainstreaming Adaptation to Climate Change Project
Region                   Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                   General public administration sector (30%); Other industry (20%);
General water/sanitation/flood protection sector (20%); General
agriculture; fishing and forestry sector (15%); Housing
construction (15%)
Project ID               P073389
Borrower(s)              CARICOM (SEE COUNTRIES LISTED BELOW)
Implementing Agency
Address CARICOM, OAS (FOR PDF-B)
CARICOM
Address: P.O. Box 10827, Bank of Guyana Building
Georgetown, Guyana.
Contact Person: Mr. Byron Blake, Assistant
Secretary-General
Tel: 592 025 2961
Fax: 876 977 2194
Email: byronb@caricom.org
Environment Category     C
Date PID Prepared        February 3, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date      November 3, 2002
Bank Approval Date       March 6, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Main Sector Issues. Caribbean countries, small islands and/or low-lying
states, are economically, socially and environmentally vulnerable, and the
climate change variations will exacerbate this vulnerability. Global
climate change is expected to induce permanent climate changes in the
Caribbean region, as well as an increase in extreme weather events, both
of which will be difficult to reverse. Most Caribbean islands are too
small to be identified with a grid point in global climate models,
limiting the ability to generate future projections for climate change.
However, most projections at the regional level are reasonably robust and
suggest that permanent climate shocks to the Caribbean countries are
expected to include sea level rise, and higher surface air and sea
temperatures; extreme weather events, such as tropical storms and
hurricanes, and more "El Nino-like" conditions are also expected to become
either more frequent or more severe, or both; rain intensity is also
expected to increase, leading to both more frequent as well as more severe
flooding events.
These permanent shocks and changes in extreme events are expected to
result in loss of livelihood, and to affect the region's resource base,
damaging natural ecosystems and man-made infrastructure. Beaches,
mangrove stands, wetlands and other coastal lands could be lost to rising
sea levels and higher storm surges. Coral reefs may be lost due to higher
water temperatures, leading to changes in fish stocks. Some agricultural
crops may become less productive with climate change. Fresh water supplies



may be reduced, or increased, by long-term changes in rainfall patterns
and evaporation, as well as saline intrusion from sea level rise. There
is a risk of damage to buildings, roads, sewer and water systems, port
facilities and other infrastructure due to rising sea levels, higher storm
surges, and more intense tropical storms. Flood damage from heavy rains
may also occur, rising exponentially with the intensity of extreme weather
events. These changes in the regions' resource base (natural ecosystems
and infrastructure) will have economic impacts such as loss of coastal
lands, loss of coastal infrastructure, reduced earnings from tourism,
lower levels of fish landings and agricultural production, and loss of
livelihood.
Over the last three decades, these countries have suffered direct and
indirect losses due to natural disasters that is estimated to be between
US$700 million to US$3.3 billion (2002 Report by Inter-American
Development Bank on Natural Disasters in Latin America and Caribbean). It
is difficult to approximate the impact of climate change on the SIDS
economies, due partly to the varying global climate change scenarios,
limited geographical projections for the Caribbean, and the inadequate
inventory of vulnerable assets and resources in these economies. A recent
estimate of the potential economic consequences of the impacts of climate
change on the economies of Caribbean countries (Haites, 2002), in a
"no-adaptation" scenario, ranges from 5t to over 30t of GDP on average
(annualized values), with an even broader range for some individual
countries.   Tourism, agriculture, forestry, and fisheries sectors
contribute significantly to the SIDS' economies, and together with water
resources, are most vulnerable to climate change. These sectors are at
greatest risk from the anticipated deleterious impacts of climate change.
As a result, there is a clear risk that in the event of poor preparedness
or the adoption of a reactive adaptation strategy, the SIDS economies may
end up diverting scarce resources earmarked for development projects to
relief and reconstruction for mitigating impacts from more extreme climate
change related disasters. This is expected to set back economic growth.
Environmental degradation further exacerbates the impacts of climate
change. There is a close link between environmental degradation and
poverty, and the low-income populations and communities are likely to be
particularly adversely affected because they settle on lands more
vulnerable to climate change related disasters,. Limited resources or
land ownership and tenure patterns induce the poor to settle on unstable
slopes, riverbanks and low-lying coastal areas. In addition, easy access
to some resources, such as fishing grounds or fertile soils on volcanic
slopes, prompt settlements in hazardous locations. Impacts of climate
change are therefore likely to be more intense for the poorer sections of
the populations.
Thus, if sustainable pro-poor development is to be achieved in the SIDS'
economies, these countries will have to manage the impacts emanating from
expected climate change. The Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic
Development Report (2002) on Natural Hazard Risk Management in the
Caribbean concluded that there is a considerable level of experience with
the "risk management" approach to natural hazards in the region, covering
groups of activities under the broad headings of risk identification, risk
reduction and risk sharing/transfer. Proper hazard risk management
contributes to efforts to adapt to climate change. The techniques used to
- 2 -



determine the impacts of climate change are closely related to those used
in disaster management, namely, vulnerability and risk assessment,
development of adaptation policy, and identification of a strategy to
implement the adaptation policy. Natural hazard risk management and
adaptation to climate change draw on the same institutional capacities and
technical skills. The risk management approach is equally applicable to
addressing climate change impacts, vulnerabilities and risks. The Report
points out that (i) "existing knowledge" for climate change impacts
assessment is not well-developed; (ii) "wide sharing of information" with
affected stakeholders or policy-makers has not taken place; and (iii)
"mainstreaming climate change responsive adaptation measures into the
planning and development process," both in the public and private sectors,
has not yet commenced.
The main climate change sector issues are discussed under the three broad
categories of risk management actions - risk identification (climate
change vulnerability and risk assessment), risk reduction (adaptation
strategy to climate change), and risk sharing/financing mechanisms (meet
the costs of adaptation to climate change).
Issues relating to the identification of vulnerability to climate change
n Projecting climate change is a starting point in developing adaptation
programs. The existing climate change models are global in nature and too
aggregated to permit projections at the Caribbean countries' level. These
models require downscaling to be tailored to meet the requirements of
Caribbean SIDS.
n The information database on climate and sea-level monitoring, including
monitoring of coral-reefs, which feeds into the climate change projection,
is rather limited. There is a need for upgrading infrastructure already
created under CPACC to deepen the process of collection, analysis and
mapping for a comprehensive climate and sea-level monitoring information
database. In addition, standard mapping and interpretation approaches
need to be developed to make the information easy to understand by the
policy makers, the private/public sector and the civil society.
fn The knowledge base to effectively perform climate change impact
assessment on SIDS' ecosystems is rather weak. This includes an
assessment of the physical and socio-economic vulnerabilities and risks
associated with climate change that is insufficient to inform the process
of identification of climate change risk and formulation of appropriate
adaptation strategies. Models and capacity to assess the impact of
climate change scenarios on coastal ecosystems and on the water-cycle
specific to the Caribbean SIDS' situation are yet to be developed. In
most Caribbean SIDS, there is a lack of comprehensive inventory of
existing critical facilities to assess the vulnerability of key
infrastructure and economic sectors to climate change. The focus of the
limited vulnerability assessments carried out until now ignores the social
vulnerabilities and does not incorporate community level information in
the assessments. The range of available climate change impact models,
vulnerability and risk assessment methodologies needs to be carefully
reviewed, selected, tailored and applied to SIDS economies, so as to
develop a more refined and reliable knowledge base covering the expected
impacts of climate change on the national economies.
-3 -



n Human skills and institutional capacity in each of the Caribbean SIDS is
inadequate to address the needs of climate change related vulnerability
and risk assessment, given the small size of these countries. A
coordinated approach will be required that: delineates activities best
performed at the regional level to build regional human and institutional
capacity, and achieve economies of scale (typically including
identification and fine-tuning climate projection models, climate impacts
assessment models, developing harmonized methodologies for vulnerability
assessment and adaptation approaches); and identifies areas for country
level capacity and institution building to sustain the process of
identification of adaptation strategies, and facilitate their
implementation in each participating country (typically including sector
specific vulnerability assessments, assessment of economic costs,
developing adaptation policy options, identifying institutional
constraints, and public education).
Issues relating to the reduction of vulnerability to climate change
n There is a perception that climate change management is the sole
responsibility of government rather than a shared responsibility involving
the private sector, civil society, government ministries, and trade
associations. This results in low public demand for climate change
adaptation. There is a need to educate the public and disseminate
information with respect to the potential impacts of climate change, and
the benefits and advantages of reducing vulnerabilities to climate change
through user-friendly documentation of successful pilots. Civil society,
the business community and industry require accurate information to make
decisions on participation for adaptation to climate change. An
information clearing house is required at the regional level, and a strong
public education and outreach program needs to be developed and
implemented. There is a clear need to stimulate public demand for climate
change risk management related information.
n Adaptation to climate change is not mainstreamed into the planning and
development processes. Climate change implications are not incorporated
into the policies and programs that guide development, (private and
public) investments, and disaster mitigation strategies towards reduced
vulnerability to climate change. For example, building codes and
standards would need to incorporate the expected impacts from climate
change to reduce infrastructure vulnerability to climate change impacts;
land use control tools such as Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) and
land use plans would need to take into consideration climate change
concerns to identify appropriate investment locations that are less
vulnerable to climate change; water resource management and infrastructure
plans would need to reflect shifts in water availability induced by
climate change.
n A coordinated multi-sectoral approach is required to implement the
national climate change adaptation policies relating to specific sectors.
This is particularly true in the context of small islands' economies and
ecosystems. Assessment of institutional requirements, their readiness and
existing capacity, and cross-sectoral working arrangements to implement
the national sectoral climate change adaptation strategy remain to be
carried out.
-4-



n Enforcement of existing policies and programs that guide development and
investment decisions is weak. For example, existing building codes and
design standards to cope with natural hazards are not vigorously
implemented. Existing land use controls throughout the region are
generally weak and poorly applied; enabling legislation to require the use
of EIAs is often lacking, and many EIAs do not include hazard issues;
planning and physical development legislation could benefit from
updating. Water rights, markets and pricing could be better used to
facilitate the sustainable and efficient use of water. These weaknesses
would need to be identified and addressed, preferably before policies are
enhanced, to reflect climate change concerns. Creating incentives, as
well as education and awareness, for the private sector, local communities
and governments to apply or enforce existing, as well "climate
change-enhanced", policies would be a prerequisite to reducing
vulnerabilities to climate change.
Issues relating to Climate Change risk sharing & financing mechanisms
n Inability to differentiate between good and bad risks. Some of the
risks associated with climate change may be insurable, others may not be.
However, in the absence of precise information on vulnerability and risk
assessment to climate change, it is not possible for either the insurance
industry or its clients to distinguish between "good" and "bad" risks;
i.e., between those risks that could be transferred at a fair price and
those that could not. In the absence of such information, it is likely
that insurers would either not be willing to assume any climate change
related risks, or would charge high premiums to do so.
n High cost of insurance. If "good" risks could be identified, another
set of issues has to do with the observed or potential inefficiencies
associated with the insurance industry in the Caribbean region.
Governments, businesses, industry and households can reduce the financial
impacts of climate change by insuring "good" risks associated with key
assets, infrastructure or business activities. However, one deterrent is
high cost stemming from a variety of factors, such as inadequate
legislation and regulation, or their weak enforcement, uneven human
resource capacity and technical knowledge in the industry, or lack of
product innovations, such as risk-pooling mechanisms. A recent Bank
report (see Catastrophe Insurance Market in the Caribbean Region: Market
Failures and Recommendations for Public Sector Interventions) has
identified a series of policy, regulatory and institutional constraints to
a more efficient regional insurance industry.
n Inadequate preparedness to access UNFCCC and other financial mechanisms
for climate change adaptation. Some of the risks and costs associated
with climate change may not be insurable because they are either too
large, systemic or permanent in nature.    The UNFCCC attempts to overcome
this long-recognized market failure problem. The principle of Common but
Differentiated Responsibilities that underlies the UNFCCC assigns the
financial lead in combating climate change impacts to industrialized
countries, including a pledge to developing countries, notably those
particularly vulnerable to climate change such as the Caribbean SIDS, to
meet their costs for adaptation to climate change.     With the exception of
funds for the preparation of National Adaptation Programs of Action,
global funds for investments in adaptation are still something of the
- 5 -



future. Most Caribbean countries are unwilling to trade existing
development aid for adaptation interventions they regard as incremental.
It does not help that "no regrets" adaptation measures (which by
definition have domestic benefits other than climate change adaptation)
may not qualify as incremental costs under current GEF policies.
The institutional needs and preparedness of SIDS to undertake adaptation
were assessed through a Capacity Development Initiative that recommended
that SIDS should: (a) cooperate in the formulation of climate change
policies, standards and guidelines, and enhance national capacity to
effectively plan, manage and monitor their climate change policies; (b)
develop a common position for international negotiations on issues related
to climate change, energy and sustainable development; and (c)
participate, based on the common position, in climate change-related
international fora and negotiations.
Government Strategy. There has been a recognition for some time now that
given the small size of the SIDS countries, there is a need and
opportunity for collaboration at the sub-regional and regional level to
address climate change issues. The response of Caribbean governments
covers two broad actions - building capacity to address climate change and
taking regional disaster management initiatives that complement the
climate change initiatives.
n Building capacity to address climate change. At the SIDS Ministerial
Meeting held in Barbados in 1994, climate change was accorded the highest
priority among issues to be addressed under the Barbados Programme of
Action. The importance of this issue as a critical element in dealing
with regional sustainable development was further underlined by several
pronouncements and actions taken by regional governments to address
building national and capacity to cope with the challenges posed by
climate variability/change to regional sustainable development and
culminating in the decision by Caribbean Heads of Government at their
Meeting in Canouan in 2000 to establish a Regional Climate Change Center.
At the 2000 meeting of the Caribbean Ministries of Finance and
Environment, priority activities for sustainable development were
identified, including planning for climate change. In April 2001, the
OECS countries signed the St. George Declaration, under which, Principle 4
states: "member States shall implement obligations under the UNFCCC and
establish appropriate legal, technical, and regulatory mechanisms for
adaptation to the impacts of climate change."
CARICOM small island and coastal developing states realize there are
constraints to building institutional capacity in the region and to
promoting an efficient allocation of available resources. The Community
has responded with education, training and capacity-building initiatives
to promote the acquisition and retention of technical skills in the
region. Efforts are being made to improve coordination between existing
institutions and reduce fragmentation of institutional efforts. In
February 2002, CARICOM member countries established the Caribbean
Community Climate Change Center (CCCCC) to provide an institutional
mechanism for the coordination of climate change adaptation at the
regional level. In December 2002, CARICOM member countries decided to
locate the CCCCC in Belize.
-6-



The GEF-funded Caribbean Planning for Adaptation to Global Climate Change
(CPACC; 1997-2001), a Stage I Enabling Activities project, was the first
regionally coordinated effort to enable Caribbean countries to prepare to
cope with global climate change, particularly sea level rise in coastal
and marine areas through vulnerability assessment, adaptation planning,
and capacity building linked to adaptation planning. Under the CPACC
project, a collaborative approach was used to develop a National Climate
Change Adaptation Policy and Action Plan for each of the twelve CARICOM
participating countries. This approach provided considerable opportunity
for stimulating broad-based interests in and exchange of information on
climate change issues of national and regional importance, and for the
close coordination of the policy development process at the regional
level. This ensured buy-in and consistency and uniformity in the
development of adaptation policy options. The exchange of Issues Papers
and participating countries' respective National Climate Change Adaptation
Policy and Action Plans provided further opportunities to coordinate and
rationalize adaptation policy options within the Region, and was
particularly effective in disseminating information on climate change
policy issues and options. National Climate Change Adaptation Policy and
Action Plans have been approved by the Governments of St. Lucia and
Dominica, thereby raising the profile of the climate change agenda to the
highest level.
At the completion of the CPACC project in December 2001, the government of
Canada initiated its contribution to MACC, in the form of a project
entitled Adaptation to Climate Change in the Caribbean (ACCC), funded by
the Canadian Climate Change Development Fund (CCCDF). The project is
funding activities that are aimed at maintaining the momentum that was
built under CPACC and extending selected experiences until the GEF funded
portion of MACC comes on-stream in early 2003. The proposed MACC project
logically builds upon this Stage I activities, to consolidate the
achievements of CPACC, and also to extend the coverage to move to Stage II
Enabling Activities.
n Taking regional disaster management initiatives. Two new regional
initiatives, the proposed strategy for comprehensive disaster management
(CDM) in the Caribbean, and the establishment of the Disaster Mitigation
Facility for the Caribbean (DMFC) within the Caribbean Development Bank
(CDB), have been taken in 2001. The proposed CDM (2001) emphasizes risk
reduction, while incorporating preparedness and response activities. The
Caribbean Disaster Emergency Response Agency (CDERA), a CARICOM agency
responsible for disaster management, is the promoter of CDM; its mandate
and activities are being expanded to include broader risk management
activities with a view towards identifying gaps, targeting interventions
and capacity building, and coordinating activities for risk management.
At the national level, consultations are being held to encourage
governments to develop national strategies for disaster mitigation within
the CDM framework. The CDB established the DMFC to assist member states
with the adoption and institutionalization of successful disaster
mitigation policies and practices, and to strengthen the capacity of the
CDB to implement its 1998 Natural Disaster Management Strategy and
internalize disaster management into its own policies and programs. Both
these regional initiatives can benefit from incorporating the outputs
generated through the proposed climate change activities.
-7 -



2. Objectives
1. Project Development/Global Objective. To facilitate the creation of
an enabling environment for climate change adaptation in CARICOM small
island and coastal developing states (the participating countries are:
Antigua & Barbuda; Bahamas; Barbados; Belize; Dominica; Grenada; Guyana;
Jamaica; St. Kitts; St. Lucia; St. Vincent & the Grenadines; Trinidad &
Tobago).
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Bank's comparative advantage in managing climate. The GEF's role in this
project is essential. Issues relating to climate change are global, and
in the case of Caribbean countries, transboundary and regional in
character. Incremental cost aspects can be addressed adequately through
grant support at the regional level.
Relevant Sector Work. The World Bank brings to this project its
considerable capacity to address climate change related environmental
issues and its ability to convene governments around issues of common
concern. The Bank will provide the recipient with access to climate
change related initiatives in other regions, including the Pacific
Islands' proposed adaptation effort, the sector work on adaptation by
low-lying areas, and the development policies and regulations on climate
change used in other regions. Likewise, the sector work on optimization
of participation in the Clean Development Mechanism, undertaken under the
aegis of the National Strategic Studies partnership in Colombia,
Argentina, and Bolivia will be useful in the discussions leading to
adoption of regional positions at the UNFCCC Conference of Parties.
Successful experience with CPACC project. The Bank has gained
considerably from the experience of implementing of the CPACC project.
Since this project is a logical extension from Stage I (CPACC project) to
Stage II enabling and adaptation activities, the Bank is ideally suited to
provide support for the proposed project, as it brings institutional
memory and continuity to consolidate the achievements under the CPACC
project.
Extensive experience in institutional, strategic, economic, and social
aspects. Climate change initiatives in the Caribbean have, until now,
paid limited attention to policy and institutional considerations and PEO
activities, with some work on developing knowledge base for SLR
adaptation, and with limited work on social vulnerabilities and impacts
assessment or economic assessment of potential climate change
damage/loss. Some very basic work was done under the CPACC project on
climate projection and vulnerability assessments for selected coastal
areas. In the Stage II initiatives, it is important to move towards a
more comprehensive and participatory approach to social and economic
vulnerabilities and economic assessments, and develop adaptation
strategies, identify institutional prerequisites for implementation of the
action plans, and bring about a coordinated action at the regional level.
The Bank has considerable experience in these areas that could be shared
with the region for effective implementation of the project.
Complementarity with projects funded by other donors. There are several
completed, ongoing and proposed initiatives in managing climate change
- 8-



risks by the Caribbean SIDS. The recently completed CPACC project created
a platform to launch the proposed project. Activities of several on-going
projects need to be coordinated with the proposed project. In the area of
strengthening observational and monitoring networks and climate-related
data generation, FINNIDA is an important contributor.     The  Comprehensive
Disaster Management Strategy developed by CDERA will be used as starting
framework to incorporate climate change issues into governmental response
strategy. The proposed project is co-financed with contributions from the
Governments of Canada and the United States. The Integrated Watershed and
Coastal Areas Management Project is another proposed project funded by GEF
and directly relevant to this project. The Bank brings a unique
comparative advantage of coordinating the activities of these completed,
on-going and other proposed projects at the national and regional level,
yielding considerable benefits in terms of experience and best-practice
sharing.
4. Description
Component I: Build Capacity to Assess Vulnerability and Risks Associated
with Climate Change and Climate Variability (Total US$5 m; GEF US$2.1 m)
This component will build regional capacity to collect and analyze data,
and expand the overall knowledge base on climate change impacts and
associated physical, social and economic vulnerabilities. The first four
sub-components will operate at the regional level, and will focus on
strengthening and expanding the knowledge base as a sound platform for
analysis and decision making at the national and local levels, and will
be: (a) strengthening the climate and coral reef monitoring network; (b)
downscaling global climate models in support of decision making for
adaptation at the regional and country level; (c) generating climate
change impact scenarios; and (d) developing a harmonized approach for
assessing climate change vulnerability and risk, and adaptation policy
decision making.
The fifth sub-component will draw upon the information and techniques
developed under the above four sub-components to prepare, vulnerability
and risk assessment studies for selected countries, or groups of
countries, in key economic sectors (tourism, water resources and
agriculture), focusing on coastal areas. The countries where the studies
will be implemented will be selected based on an agreed set of criteria
(an indicative list is provided in the Detailed Project Description -
Annex 2). Non-study countries will still benefit from the vulnerability
and risk assessment exercises by: (a) participating, as members, in the
country teams conducting the vulnerability assessment studies to actually
use the harmonized approaches, and in the dissemination and training
workshops; and (b) adapting the outputs of such assessments to their own
country sectoral settings to evolve appropriate sectoral adaptation
strategies.
The project will widely disseminate the outputs of the climate projection
and impacts assessment modelling exercise, and the harmonized approach to
vulnerability and risk assessment. It will build capacity by
strengthening regional and national agencies and having them as
coordinating agencies for identified activities, imparting information
about the models and the approach to the country teams, and training these
teams in their use by actual participation with expert consultants in the
-9-



country level sectoral vulnerability and risk assessment studies.
Component II: Build Capacity to Reduce Vulnerability to Climate Change
(Total US$1.8 m; GEF US$0.8 m)
This component will build in-country capacity to formulate and analyze
adaptation policy options, and finalize sectoral adaptation strategies
which will be prepared for all participating countries: (i) in the first
instance, for those countries where the vulnerability and risk assessment
studies are implemented (directly); and (ii) in the second instance, for
non-study countries (indirectly), through derived vulnerability
assessments based on lessons learned from the country-level sectoral
studies. The adaptation strategies for the non-study countries will be
informed by the outcomes of the field-based vulnerability studies, and
therefore, these strategies will emanate later than those for the
countries where the studies are implemented.
This component will have four sub-components: (a) identification of "no
regrets" adaptation measures for all countries (carried out in parallel
with, and informed by, the vulnerability assessment studies); (b)
development of adaptation approaches to food security, water, health and
fishery sectors, and incorporation of climate change concerns relating to
environmental impact assessments; (c) development of recommendations
relating to upgrading technical norms for infrastructure in response to
climate change concerns, including risk reduction incentives by the
insurance and banking industry; and (d) finalization of country level
multi-sectoral adaptation strategies based on the vulnerability and risk
assessment studies, and inputs from the three sub-components (a) to (c)
above.
The project will build capacity for developing adaptation strategies
through training of country teams, having them participate with
consultants in the actual strategy development exercise, and providing
technical assistance to the country teams to extend their hands-on
training to develop other sector-country setting climate change adaptation
strategies.
Component III: Build Capacity to Effectively Access & Utilize Resources to
Reduce Vulnerability to Climate Change and Variability (Total US$0.4 m;
GEF US$0.2 m)
This component will have two sub-components: (a) building the regional
capacity to prepare a regional position for the UNFCCC and other
international fora to enhance the region's visibility and influence on
relevant negotiations and policy decisions, and provide member countries
with a consolidated and common position on key issues in the international
forum; and (b) learning from the implementation of the CPACC project,
activities under this project, and the outcomes of the monitoring and
evaluation exercise, the second sub-component will provide for the
preparation of a regional strategy designed to better and more effectively
organize the region in a manner that will facilitate access to cost
sharing or financing mechanisms (UNFCCC and others), and improve regional
coordination and harmonization on climate change adaptation and
policy-making. The project will specifically examine and finalize the
role and functions (including a detailed project design and business
- 10 -



plan), and the financial viability of the regional Caribbean Community
Climate Change Center, which is foreseen to help guide and implement the
future climate change strategy for the region. It will also identify
opportunities for resource mobilization, including designing and proposing
projects and developing concept papers to be presented at a donors meeting
to obtain support for furthering the implementation of the adaptation
strategy.
Component IV: Public Education & Outreach (Total US$1.27 m; GEF US$ 1.17m)
This component will support a public education and outreach (PEO) program
geared towards improving decision-making, encouraging policy changes where
required, strengthening information access and data resources for key
stakeholders, disseminating project-generated data and information, and
fostering public awareness about the potential impacts climate change.
The project will have four sub-components: (a) finalizing the ACCC
developed regional PEO strategy, and developing national PEO strategies;
(b) implementing the regional PEO strategy; (c) implementing the national
level PEO strategies; and (d) undertaking a mid-term and final monitoring
and evaluation strategy to evaluate the effectiveness of the PEO
strategies, inputs and activities. Key areas of focus will be: (a) to
facilitate a participatory process in the development, discussion,
finalization, and dissemination of the outputs of the other project
components such as climate projection and impacts assessment models,
vulnerability and risk assessment strategies, adaptation strategies,
technical norms upgradation in construction industry; and (b) establish a
clearing house of information which will facilitate both access to
information by the stakeholders, and dissemination of information by the
PIU.
The project will build capacity at the regional and national level by
participatory approach to formulation of the PEO strategies, and training
the national PEO teams in the latest techniques of PEO.
Component V: Project Management (Total US$2.24 m; GEF US$0.63 m)
This component will provide support to CARICOM and the PIU for the
efficient and timely execution of the project, including project
administration as well as planning, monitoring and evaluating project
activities over the duration of the project. The component will finance
the required consultancies, training, auditing, and operating costs.
I. Build Capacity to Assess Vulnerability and Risks Associated with
Climate Change and Climate Variability
II. Build Capacity to Reduce Vulnerability to Climate Change
III. Build Capacity to Effectively Access & Utilize Resources to Reduce
Vulnerability to Climate Change and Variability
IV. Public Education and Outreach (PEO)
V. Project Management
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT $3.10
IBRD
IDA



CANADA, GOV. OF $2.00
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY $5.00
US, GOV. OF $0.80
Total Project Cost $10.90
6. Implementation
Implementation period. The Grant is expected to become effective in
mid-April 2003 for a four year period, up to March 31, 2007.
Project oversight and implementation arrangements. The CARICOM (located
at Georgetown, Guyana) will be the Grant recipient and the Executing
Agency for the implementation of the project. CARICOM is a
not-for-profit, developmental, inter-governmental organization of the
independent states of the Caribbean, established under the Revised Treaty
of Chaguaramas, and enjoys tax-exempt status relating to its member
countries (all the project participating countries are CARICOM member
countries). It will execute the project under the supervision of the Bank
which will function as the GEF Implementing Agency, and under the guidance
of the Project Advisory Committee.
The project will be implemented by a dedicated Project Implementation Unit
(PIU), established within CARICOM, and physically located in Belize, where
the region has recently decided to establish the Caribbean Community
Climate Change Center (CCCCC). The PIU will be responsible for the
day-to-day operation and management of project. It will be in charge of
project oversight, coordination, maintenance of institutional networks,
and articulation and collaboration with stakeholders. It will undertake
some activities with regional and other international institutions (for
example, relating to climate projection modeling, harmonization of
vulnerability assessment and adaptation approaches), and will work with
the participating countries for the implementation of the country-level
project activities (for example, vulnerability assessment and adaptation
studies, implementation of the national PEO strategies). The PIU will be
headed by a Project Manager who will be responsible for overall project
management, and specifically for Component III. He will be assisted by:
(a) a Technical Coordinator (to manage Component I); (b) a Public
Education & Outreach Specialist (to manage Component IV); and (c) an
Economist (full-time, but whose services will be required when
implementation of Component II commences). The Terms of Reference for
these core consultancies have been agreed with CARICOM and included in the
Project Operations Manual. The process of recruiting the consultants has
already been initiated, and their contracting by May 30, 2003 at the
latest, is a dated covenant included in the Grant Agreement. During the
interim period, CARICOM has established a transitional PIU at Barbados
headed by a Project Manager, who will also be managing Component I in the
absence of a Technical Coordinator. He will be supported by a PEO
Specialist and a MIS expert. The transitional PIU will kick-start the
project time-critical activities, initiate the process of establishment of
the PIU at Belize, install the MIS for the project activties at Belize,
and eventually hand over the project to the core consultants who will be
positioned in the PIU at Belize in early June 2003.
Two key functions for the PIU will be performed by CARICOM, namely,
accounting and financial management, and procurement. CARICOM has already
identified staff exclusively for these functions. CARICOM would be
- 12 -



reimbursed the salaries of these staff, subject to an aggregate of
US$176,000 over the four year life of the project. This amount will be
ballooned in the initial project implementation period, and will reduce
with advancement in implementation.
Each participating country will establish a National Implementation
Coordination Unit (NICU) for this project which would, inter alia,
coordinate with the PIU, CARICOM, and with other country NICUs, implement
the in-country project activities such as vulnerability assessments and
preparation of multi-sectoral adaptation and national PEO strategies,
ensure maintenance of national level infrastructure feeding into climate
information generation, interact with national agencies relating to
project activities, disseminate regional and national reports, participate
in M&E activities, and provide feedback to PIU on project performance in
their respective states. NICUs already exist in the participating
countries for the CPACC project; these entities will be reoriented for
this project. The reoriented NICUs will be established and functional by
Board Presentation, and will have representation from Government
Ministries (Finance, Planning, Education, Information, Agriculture),
private sector, NGOs, specialized agencies (for example, Environmental
Management Authorities, Coastal Zone Management Units) as core members.
Other institutions would be co-opted as members at different times
depending on the nature of the exercise. The NICUs would be adequately
empowered by the participating country governments to discharge their
responsibilities under the project.
The roles and responsibility of CARICOM, participating states and their
respective NICUs are embodied in the Co-participating Agreements, to be
signed between CARICOM and the 12 participating states. The draft
Co-participating Agreements have been discussed between the Bank and
CARICOM, will be finalized at Negotiations, and the signing of all 12
Co-participating Agreements will be a condition of Board Presentation to
avoid start-up delays. Under the Agreement, each participating state will
be required to establish and maintain the NICU as a precondition for their
participation in the project, provide counterpart funds, assist with the
implementation of project components assigned to them, and exercise due
diligence with project implementation requirements.
The Project Advisory Committee (PAC) will consist of one representative
from CARICOM who will chair the PAC, the OECS Secretariat, two
representatives from the NICUs, and one representative each from the UN
Environmental Program/Caribbean Environment Program, two representatives
of the University of West Indies (one of whom would be UWICED), the
Caribbean Development Bank (CDB), the Caribbean Disaster Emergency
Response Agency (CDERA), and a NGO community representative. The PAC will
provide policy guidance for the project, review implementation progress,
and evaluate its progress and results. It will meet at least once every
year at the invitation of CARICOM. The PIU will act as the technical
secretariat to the PAC.
The PIU will work through five lead Beneficiary/Coordinating Agencies for
the climate and coral reef monitoring, for the climate projection and
impacts modelling, and for developing climate change responsive
infrastructure standards. These regional specialized institutions are
neither co-financiers nor consultants hired under the project. They have
- 13 -



been specially targeted for capacity building in the above areas, based on
their specialization, and would work closely with other international
agencies or consultants to provide support to the project. Separate
Memoranda of Understanding are being entered into between the PIU and
these coordinating agencies to support implementation of identified groups
of activities. The draft MOUs have been reviewed by the Bank and found to
be satisfactory, and are included in the Project Operations Manual. The
five beneficiary agencies are:
I The Caribbean Institute for Meteorology and Hydrology (CIMH) will serve
as the Regional Coordinator for the climate change monitoring network.
The CIMH will also continue to operate the Tidal and Climate Gauge
Replacement Fund, a fund designed to finance the replacement of monitoring
instruments and related equipment. It will also work closely with the
national meteorological and hydrological agencies, which will continue to
manage all climate monitoring stations;
I The UWI, St. Augustine campus will continue to support the operation of
the Regional Archiving Center for climate change data;
I The Marine Studies Center of the UWI, Mona will serve as the Regional
Coordinator for coral reef monitoring, and will be supported by its
Caribbean Coastal Data Center which currently functions as the regional
archiving center for coastal ecosystem data. It will work closely with
the Coastal Zone Unit of Barbados for the yet-to-be established Eastern
Caribbean Technical Support Node, with the OECS coral reef monitoring
network countries, and with the Discovery Bay Jamaica platform for the
oceanographic parameters;
I The Climate Studies Group at UWI, Mona will be the Regional Coordinator
for climate projection and impact assessments. It will work closely with
NOAA-NCAR which is very active in climate modelling, and with CIMH and the
Physics Department at UWI, Cave Hill to broaden its capacity to undertake
this activity. It will also interact with international centers of
excellence (such as the UK Climate Impacts Programme (UKCIP) based at the
Environmental Change Institute, University of Oxford) which have already
developed an approach combining climate projections with climate impacts
and development of adaptation options in national and sectoral settings.
It will also work closely with the Canadian Climate Center, NOAA and the
Hadley Center for techncial inputs; and
I The CDERA will review and initiate mainstreaming upgraded infrastructure
norms and standards into its regional Comprehensive Disaster Management
strategy, and promote their use in disaster management, infrastructure
design and construction, property insurance and banking industry at the
national level. It will also develop links with the Caribbean Council of
Engineering Organization, and the Faculty of Engineering of UWI, St.
Augustine to execute the studies for updating infrastructure standards.
This activity will be carried out in coordination with efforts to update
Caribbean Uniform Building Code, coordinated under the Caribbean
Development Bank.
The PIU will also ensure, through appropriate insertions in the respective
TORs of the selected consultants for the country level sectoral
vulnerability and risk assessment, and adaptation strategy studies, that
- 14 -



these consultants work closely with other specialized institutions in the
identified sectors. These include: FAO, CARDI, CEHI, IICA, CWWA,
OECS-ESDU, Caribbean Tourism Organization and CAST, which will provide
support to the country study teams in their areas of expertise. The PIU
will also coordinate with the Caribbean Dialogue on Water and Climate and
the Integrated Watershed & Coastal Area Management Project being developed
by UNEP-CAR-RCU, CEHI, the CFRAMP for the fishery program, and the
GEF-assisted Meso-American Barrier Reef System Project. A Coordination
Protocol already exists for coordination with the project management team
of the Integrated Watershed & Coastal Area Management Project (included in
the Project Operations Manual), and similar protocols will be developed
with other projects during implementation .
Financial Management System. All project accounting will be centralized
at CARICOM, which has a well-established finance and accounting division,
with clear policies, rules and procedures in place. The accounting system
has been redesigned (under the 2001 reorganization) to be able to capture
financial information across expenditure/disbursement categories (the
Bank's legal/disbursement categories) and project components. A CARICOM
Operations Manual has been developed as a part of the reorganization of
the finance division by KPMG, and has been reviewed by, and found
acceptable to, the Bank. Procurement information is also linked to
accounting and budgeting information to enable the finance division to
undertake effective contract management. The financial management
capacity of CARICOM has been rated as satisfactory. A separate Chart of
Accounts has been prepared for project expenditures, and found to meet
Bank requirements for project accounting and financial reporting. This is
now being incorporated into CARICOM's Solomon IV-based accounting system.
Procurement capacity assessment. The procurement assessment rated the
risk as "high" since CARICOM has limited international procurement
capacity, and no prior experience with, or knowledge of, Bank policies and
procedures. In addition, responsibilities for procurement of consultants
are diffused across several CARICOM departments who carry out the
selection processes, according to their needs. In order to address these
weaknesses, it was agreed that adequate procurement technical assistance
will be provided, and separate procedures acceptable to be Bank will be
adopted by CARICOM for the project. Specifically, the following
three-point risk mitigation action plan was agreed: (a) nominate a
qualified professional staff and a support staff on a full-time basis,
within CARICOM, to work on procurement administration for the project; (b)
retain an experienced international procurement consultant to provide
intensive technical assistance at critical times; and (c) include in the
procurement section of the Project Operations Manual a clear definition of
roles and responsibilities with respect to procurement, clear procedures
for maintaining separate files, and a file control system. CARICOM has
already identified two staff members with appropriate qualifications to
support the procurement function relating to project activities, and has
also prepared a comprehensive section on procurement function
(organization, delineation of responsibilities across CARICOM and PIU,
procurement procedures relating to individual consultants including the
contract format, invitations for shopping, and procedures relating to
operating costs, proposal evaluation arrangements, first year procurement
plan, among other aspects). This has been found to meet Bank
requirements. The Terms of Reference for the international procurement
- 15 -



consultant have been agreed with the Bank, and the process for retaining
the services of the consultant for a six-month period over the first two
years of the project, until mid-term review, has been initiated.
Contracting of this consultant position is a condition of Board
Presentation.
Funds flow and disbursement arrangement. GEF Grant funds will be
disbursed to a Special Account, maintained in a commercial bank in
Washington D.C. This account will be utilized for the purposes of project
disbursement, and will be managed by CARICOM. Since accounting would be
centralized at CARICOM, this arrangement will not require additional
Special Accounts for Bank funds, and all financial transactions will flow
directly from the designated Special Account. This arrangement will also
fall under the normal scope of work for the annual external audit. No
funds are expected to be transferred to the NICUs for country-level
activities. All payments will be made directly by CARICOM under
instructions from PIU. Likewise, most PIU activity, procurement,
consultancy-related payments will be made directly by CARICOM upon request
from PIU. An imprest account for local level office and administration
expenditures will be maintained with the PIU (about US$20,000) since it
will be physically located at Belize, under which arrangement, following
the first imprest from CARICOM, subsequent advances by CARICOM to the PIU
will be linked with submission of expenditure reports and bank
reconciliation statements.
CARICOM is an institution with "tax-exempt" status, and therefore local
taxes such as VAT and sales tax on goods procured by such entities can be
financed under Bank-funded grant agreements on an exception basis. Also,
under GEF procedures, all incremental costs are eligible for full
disbursement. Since all operating costs under this Grant are incremental
in nature, these are eligible for 100% reimbursement.    Disbursements
against all expenditure categories indicated in Schedule 1 to the Grant
Agreement have been agreed at 100%.
Although Financial Monitoring Reports will be prepared under the project,
these will be primarily for the purposes of project management. The
initial disbursement into the Special Account will be an advance, and
subsequent requests for replenishment of the Special Account from the GEF
Trust Fund Account will be supported by Statements of Expenditure,
including full documentation for contracts beyond the established
thresholds.
Retroactive Funding. The Grant provides US$500,000 in retroactive funding
for eligible project expenditures, covering all disbursement categories,
before the date of the Grant Agreement signing and after January 1, 2003,
but such period not exceeding six months prior to the Grant Agreement
signing date. The retroactive funding will cover the following main
expenditures: (a) transitional PIU consultant fees; (b) time-critical
activites of evolving downscaled climate project models and developing
harmonized vulnerability and risk assessment, and adaptation strategies;
(c) other project activities on a modest scale; and (d) the PIU and agreed
CARICOM operating costs (as defined in the Schedule 1 to the Grant
Agreement) for the period.
Financial monitoring and reporting system. Financial statements and
- 16 -



reports will be prepared in formats satisfying CARICOM and the Bank's
monitoring and fiduciary requirements. On a monthly basis (at least), the
CARICOM Finance Division will prepare the project's Statement of
Expenditure, a matrix classifying receipts by financing source, and
expenditures by project component and disbursement category, as required
by CARICOM's operational guidelines for donor-funded projects. This
information will be available from the CARICOM accounting system, which
will have a separate Chart of Accounts for project expenditures. The
actual expenditures would be compared to the projected figures per the
budgets prepared for the project.
In addition to Statement of Expenditure, the monthly financial reports
will include the Special Account Reconciliation Statements. Any difference
in the amount of expenditures reported under the two financial statements
would be explained. The project financial statements, along with the
physical progress and procurement sections of the Financial Monitoring
Reports, will be submitted to the Bank on a quarterly basis, and will be
submitted no later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each
quarter. The contents of the FMRs have been discussed and the initial
design of the reports has been agreed between the CARICOM Finance Division
and the Bank. The reports, structured for this project, are included in
the Project Operations Manual.
Annual audit arrangements. Annual project financial statements will be
audited in accordance with International Standards on Auditing, by
independent auditors (Deloitte and Touche audited CARICOM's accounts for
FY 2001) acceptable to the Bank. In addition to the audit opinions on
project financial statements, Special Accounts and Statements of
Expenditures, the audit report for CARICOM (entity report with Statement
of Cash Flows, Income Statements and Balance Sheet) will be required.
Both reports will be submitted to the Bank no later than four months
following the end of each fiscal year (January-December). For Bank
purposes, the annual financial statements will include a schedule of
Statements of Expenditure presented during the year in support of
Withdrawal Applications. CARICOM has already contracted Deloitte and
Touche to audit project expenditures as per standard Bank audit TORs; the
contract and the TORs are incorporated in the Project Operations Manual.
The grant will finance the audit of project expenditures under the head
"Consultancies".
Co-financing arrangements. In addition to the counterpart funds from the
participating states and grant assistance by GEF, the project will be
co-financed by the Governments of Canada (CIDA) and United States (NOAA).
The NOAA support will be parallel in nature, and will take the form of
in-kind assistance consisting of consultancies, technical assistance and
studies, workshops, seminars, and training.    There will be no fund flow,
and therefore no procurement-related conflict with Bank procedures in this
instance. The CIDA funding covers several activities, in the nature of
parallel and joint funding with GEF. The CIDA will provide funds in
advance to CARICOM for project expenditures, and procurement will follow
Bank procedures. The detailed sharing of activities between GEF, CIDA and
NOAA is indicated in Table 1, Annex 2 (Project Description Summary). The
co-financing agreement between CIDA and CARICOM is already in place and
found acceptable by the Bank; a Letter of Commitment has been received by
CARICOM from NOAA confirming the scope of assistance and the allotment of
- 17 -



funds to this project. The NOAA co-financing amount will be finalized
after the US government budget is adopted, and the co-financing agreement
between CARICOM and NOAA will be reviewed by the Bank upon
finalization.
Monitoring and Evaluation. This will be undertaken at three levels:
regular monitoring and concurrent evaluation; mid-term review, and final
assessment. Regular monitoring of project activities will be the
responsibility of the PIU, which will prepare quarterly reports on the
implementation progress. This will cover reporting on the progress
achieved vis-a-vis the PIP, the Procurement Plan, and agreed Work Plan for
the year, among other aspects. An annual report will also be prepared
indicating project achievements, experiences, problems and lessons learned
during the year.    Since the key outputs of the project relate to
tailoring of climate projection and climate impacts models, vulnerability
assessment and adaptation approach, regional and national level staff and
institutional capacity building, formulation of adaptation strategies,
there will be an assessment of the quality of the outputs by a range of
external consultants (scientist, social experts, economist) as and when
required, which will supplement the monitoring work done by PIU. The
quarterly reports from PIU should incorporate these qualitative
assessments too. These consultants will be funded under the project.
Finally, with regard to staff capacity building, the project will fund
periodic "self-assessment" exercises through which the trained staff will
do an internal assessment of the quality, usefulness, and "on-the-job"
application of the training modules. The quality of capacity building
will also be reflected in the quality of the outputs (vulnerability
assessment, economic costs, adaptation policies, institutional analyses,
etc.) which the trained staff will be assisted to self-prepare in teams.
These will be reviewed by external consultants.
Mid Term Review. An independent review of the progress in project
implementation will be undertaken approximately halfway through the
project. An independent consultant(s) will be contracted to review general
project execution and review the execution of specific components.     The
outcomes of the MTR would be discussed at a review workshop, where
recommendations will be developed for the remaining project period.
Final Evaluation/Review of Project Execution. It is a requirement that
all projects funded by GEF undertake a final evaluation of the project and
its execution, particularly to review success and lessons learnt. CARICOM
and the PIU will carry out such a review with the assistance of an
independent consultant acceptable to all parties. The project will
support a review workshop or Implementation Completion Report stakeholder
meeting, wherein all countries and agencies will participate to review and
assess the findings of the study and recommend the next steps.
7. Sustainability
The project benefits include the following: (a) improvements in the
information monitoring networks, including enhanced maintenance capacity;
(b) availability of tested and tailored models and approaches for climate
projections, impacts assessments, vulnerability and risk assessments and
adaptation initiatives at the sectoral level, which with the capacity
built up during the project, can be scaled up to a multi-sectoral
exercise; (c) enhanced understanding of proactive risk-reduction
- 18 -



initiatives in reducing vulnerabilities to climate change of
infrastructure, populations, and the environment; and (d) articulation of
a regional strategy and approach for climate change adaptation.
Improvement in the information network will be sustained in the
post-project period as the project will build adequate technical capacity
in regional and country level staff to maintain the monitoring station
facilities. Requirement of counterpart funds for maintenance is modest
and can be provided through budgetary support. Sustainability of the
infrastructure created under the CPACC project was threatened due to poor
technical maintenance capacity, particularly in the smaller SIDS.
The climate projection, climate impacts generation and the vulnerability
and risk assessment models will be sustained for two key reasons: first,
the project will train a rather large constituency of technical staff,
both at the regional and country level, to be able to use these
methodologies; second, successful mainstreaming of climate change concerns
into sectoral, national and regional development planning will facilitate
sustainability of the climate change agenda in the long-term. Processes
and tools to support the formulation of the adaptation agenda to climate
change will be integrated into planning activities, as decision support
mechanisms, and this is expected to facilitate the long-term
sustainability of these tools.
The possibility of reducing the vulnerability to climate change impacts
will depend on civil society, the business community and private sector to
understand the climate change risk management measures and proactively
embrace them for implementation. It will also depend on the political
will and the cost associated with the actual implementation of the
sectoral and national level climate change adaptation strategies. It is
premature at this stage to even guess whether this be a constraint to the
longer-term sustainability of adaptation processes. The project addresses
these risks to sustainability through a vigorous public education program
that will target politicians, line departments, industry, NGOs, and other
stakeholders to build the institutional and political support needed to
facilitate mainstreaming during project completion.
The regional strategy and agenda have been the result of a continuous
dialogue among the Caribbean SIDS and their acceptance of the fact that
individually these countries do not have the capacity to address climate
change issues. A regional approach has been taken by the SIDS
voluntarily, which was furthered by CPACC, and which the project proposes
to strengthen.
Financial and institutional sustainability of the regional approach to
climate change adaptation is a concern. The project will address this
concern by supporting the development of a regional adaptation strategy
that will identify and formulate options for securing the financial and
institutional support for a regional approach to climate change
adaptation. This will involve, in particular, examining and finalizing
the functional responsibilities, possible sources of financing, and
governance structure of the recently created Caribbean Community Climate
Change Centre.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
- 19 -



A key lesson learned and reflected in the proposed project is the
sequencing of the activities to address climate change issues, given the
long-term horizon over which these initiatives have to be phased in.
There is a crucial and immediate need to build an enabling environment to
embrace climate change adaptation policies, rather than investing in
mitigation measures. The proposed project attempts to create an enabling
environment for climate change adaptation to occur on a sustainable
basis. Specifically, it focuses on building and refining the knowledge
base for informed decision-making, on piloting the process of preparation
for adaptation policies, identifying institutional gaps and remedies for
implementation and enforcement of adaptation policies, and forging a
strong academic, private sector, NGO, public sector, civil society and
government (sector level and national) partnership for developing and
implementing a climate change adaptation strategy.
Another central lesson learned and reflected in the project design has to
do with the fundamental need to mainstream climate change issues into
national sustainable development strategies. Good progress has been made
under CPACC and other projects in technical capacity building and
institutional strengthening; however, climate change issues still are not
generally a part of the mainstream policy dialogue at the national level.
To this end, the proposed project has been designed to broaden and deepen
capacity building efforts with stakeholders in local communities and key
sectors to incorporate climate change impact and risk assessment into
their ongoing development planning and investment decisions. Public and
political awareness activities will also be intensified through a vigorous
education and outreach effort to further sensitize the general public
about the relevance of climate change issues in their daily lives and to
build political support for adaptation initiatives.
A related issue is the need to expand climate change monitoring and impact
assessment as a basis for national and regional decision making. CPACC
and other projects in this area have underscored the need for
region-specific climate models for the Caribbean in order to make more
accurate projections about climate change impacts, and develop appropriate
strategies in individual countries. To this end, the proposed project
will support: (a) the downscaling of global climate models; (b) assisting
the already established monitoring networks, including planning and
building capacity for their routine operation and maintenance; (c) further
development of data applications relevant to the design of national
adaptation activities for selected sectors; and (d) expanding
vulnerability assessments from a focus on coastal management issues to
include water resources, tourism, and agricultural impacts of climate
change, and also from a pure engineering assessment focus to include
social and economic aspects.
Other regional projects have underscored the importance of an effective
regional coordination mechanism to address system-wide transboundary
issues. CPACC has been instrumental in taking the first step of
establishing a regional network of national government agencies, private
sector representatives and regional institutions addressing climate change
and its effect on economic, social and cultural development in the
Caribbean region. The proposed project will consolidate this initiative
and formalize the regional institutional mechanisms to articulate a
regional strategy for climate change and also to determine the national
- 20 -



level actions required to further the region level strategy. In addition,
the regional mechanism will also assist individual countries in crafting
their national communications, as required under the UNFCCC.
In order to effectively mainstream climate change into development
planning, strong national institutions such as the finance, planning,
economic ministries and line agencies need to be involved. Keeping the
climate change agendas within the environmental agencies has not led to
effective mainstreaming of these issues into policy decisions. Through
the development of a national policy framework, evolving sectoral policies
for climate change management, setting the stage at the end of the project
for multi-sectoral planning for climate change risk management, and the
technical support and capacity building efforts for line ministry and
national agency staff, the project will facilitate dialogue between line
agencies, finance ministries and environment ministries to include climate
change considerations in their respective agendas.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  This project will undertake technical studies,
conduct feasibility assessments and develop guidelines for monitoring in a
range of potentially vulnerable sectors (tourism, water, agriculture,
infrastructure), but will not finance any construction works.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Benoit Blarel
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-4427
Fax:   (202) 676-1494
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
February 14, 2003.
- 21 -



