Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 25540
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED GRANT FROM THE GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILlTY
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5.0 MILLION
TO THE
CARIBBEAN COMMUNITY
FOR
THE CARIBBEAN
MAINSTREAMING ADAPTATION TO CLIMATE CHANGE PROJECT
March 24, 2003
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 31, 2003)
Currency Unit = US$
FISCAL YEAR
January I -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACCC          Adaptation to Climate Change in the Caribbean
AOSIS         Alliance of Small Island States
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CAST          Caribbean Alliance for Sustainable tourism
CARDI         Caribbean Agricultural Research and Development Institute
CARICOM       Caribbean Community
CCA           Caribbean Conservation Association
CCCCC         Caribbean Community Climate Change Centre
CCCDF         Canadian Climate Change Development Fund
CDB           Caribbean Developmnent Bank
CDERA         Caribbean Disaster Emergency Response Agency
CDM           Comprehensive Disaster Management
CEIS          Caribbean Energy Information System
CERMES        Center for Resource Management and Environmental Studies
CFRAMP        Caribbean Fishery Resources Assessment and Management Program
CIDA          Canadian International Development Agency
CIMH          Caribbean Institute for Meteorology and Hydrology
COP           Conference of the Parties
CORS          Continuously Operating Reference Stations
CPACC         Caribbean Planning for Adaptation to Climate Change
CREWS         Coral Reef Early Warning Stations
CROFP         Caribbean Regional Oceans and Fisheries Program
CTO           Caribbean Trade Organization
DMFC          Disaster Mitigation Facility for the Caribbean
EIA           Environmental Impact Assessment
EEB           European Investment Bank
EMP           Environmental Management Program
EU            European Union
FAO           Food and Agriculture Organization
FINNIDA       Finnish International Development Agency
FMR           Financial Monitoring Reports
GCC           Global Climate Change
GCOS          Global Climate Observing System
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GEF           Global Environmental Facility
GLOSS         Global Sea Level Observing Center
GHG           Greenhouse Gasses
LADB          Inter-American Development Bank
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA           International Development Association



UCA           Inter-Ameican Institute for Agricultural Cooperation
MACC          Mainstreaming Adaptation to Climate Change
M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS           Management and Information System
MOU           Memorandum of Understanding
MTR           Mid-Term Review
NICU          National Implementation Coordination Unit
NOAA          National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
OAS           Organization of American States
OECS          Organization of Eastem Caribbean States
OECS-ESDU     Organization of Eastem Caribbean States - Environment and Sustainable
Development Unit
PAC           Project Advisory Committee
PAHO          Pan-American Health Organization
PEO           Public Education and Outreach
PETRTRIN      Petroleum Company of Trinidad and Tobago
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
RCM           Regional Climate Modelling
SIDS          Small Island Developing States
SOE           Statement of Expenditures
SST           Sea Surface Temperature
TOR           Terms of Reference
UKCIP         United Kingdom Climate Impacts Programme
UNDP          United Nations Development Programme
UNEP          United Nations Environment Programme
UNEP-CAR-     United Nations Environment Programme - Caribbean /
RCU           Regional Coordinating Unit
UNFCCC        United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
UWI           University of the West Indies
UWICED        University of the West Indies Centre for Environment and Development
VAT           Value Added Tax
Vice President:  David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:   Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Director:  John Redwood
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Benoit Blarel






CARIBBEAN
MAINSTREAMING ADAPTATION TO CLIMATE CHANGE PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                         2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 9
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                10
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     12
3. Benefits and target population                                                    13
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     14
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                         19
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies     21
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                               23
4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership                    25
5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this project                            25
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          26
2. Financial                                                                         27
3. Technical                                                                         27
4. Institutional                                                                     28
5. Environmental                                                                     30
6. Social                                                                            31
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                32



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   33
2. Critical fisks                                                                    34
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    36
G. Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           37
2. Other                                                                             37
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         37
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        37
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         38
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   44
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        57
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary          58
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary   63
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                   64
(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                        70
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    75
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  76
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 78
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           86
Annex 11: STAP Roster Technical Review                                                 106
Annex 12: Eligibility of Island Nations and Territories for Adaptation Funds under UNFCCC  109
Annex 13: Caribbean: Planning for Adaptation to Global Climate Change Project          1t0



CARIBBEAN
Mainstreaming Adaptation to Climate Change Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSES
Date: February 26, 2003                          Team Leader: Benoit Blarel
Sector Manager/Director: John Redwood            Sector(s): General public administration sector (30%),
Country Manager/Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos  General water, sanitation and flood protection sector
Project ID: P073389                              (20%), Other industry (20%), General agriculture, fishing
Focal Area: G                                     and forestry sector (15%), Housing construction (15%)
Theme(s): Climate change (P), Natural disaster
management (P), Environmental policies and institutions
(S), Vulnerability assessment and monitoring (S)
Project Financing Data. .            ,  -.               -
[ Loan      t] Credit    [X] Grant    [ Guarantee      [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 5.0
Financing Plan (US$m): -  Source                          ' Local         Foreign  .     Total
BORROWERIRECIPIENT                                             3.15           0.00          3.15
CANADA, GOV. OF                                                0.00           2.00          2.00
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY                                    0.00           5.00          5.00
US, GOV. OF                                                    0.00           0.80          0.80
Total:                                                         3.15           7.80         10.95
Borrower/Recipient: CARICOM (SEE COUNTRIES LISTED BELOW)
Participating Countries: Antigua & Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada,
Cooperative Republic of Guyana, Jamaica, St. Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, St. Vincent & the
Grenadines, Trinidad & Tobago.
Responsible agency: CARIBBEAN COMMUNITY (CARICOM)
CARICOM
Address: P.O. Box 10827, Bank of Guyana Building
Georgetown, Guyana.
Contact Person: Mr. Byron Blake, Assistant Secretary-General
Tel: 592 226 7952           Fax: 592 227 4537           Email: byronb@caricom.org
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
: - .Y s2003     20'. - 2005 - V.2006      - :    :2007 .   .- .            i
Annual      0.81      1.59       1.26       1.17      0.17
Cumulative     0.81       2.40      3.66       4.83       5.00
Project implementation period: April 1, 2003-March 31, 2007
Expected effectiveness date: 04/15/2003 Expected closing date: 09/30/2007



A. Project Development Objective
I. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
1. Project Development/Global Objective. To facilitate the creation of an enabling environment for
climate change adaptation in CARICOM small island and coastal developing states (the participating
countries are: Antigua & Barbuda; Bahamas; Barbados; Belize; Dominica; Grenada; Cooperative
Republic of Guyana; Jamaica; St. Kitts and Nevis; Saint Lucia; St. Vincent & the Grenadines; Trinidad
& Tobago).
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex I)
o      Strengthened regional knowledge base:
-      90% of the stations reporting with 90% reliability;
-      Wide dissemination of climate change related data and documentation;
-      Models, databases, vulnerability assessments and adaptation approach developed under
the project are found useful by potential users/beneficiaries who are also willing to use
them, and are assessed of satisfactory quality.
o      A large constituency of sectoral staff equipped and trained to incorporate climate change
concerns into their work (vulnerability and risk assessment, economic analysis, policy aspects,
adaptation options and the use of a risk management framework%to determine the best options
available, and the development of a strategy to implement these).
o      Public awareness to climate change issues and impacts enhanced
o      National Multi-sectoral Adaptation Strategies and Implementation Action Plans, developed in a
participatory fashion with stakeholders, are presented to Cabinet, or being considered in
appropriate committees/commissions
o      Plans prepared for improving the application and enforcement of existing policies and
regulations which have been identified as raising vulnerability to climate change;
o      Regional coordination on climate change issues improved, such as representation to international
fora (United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change) and in addressing climate
change adaptation
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex I)
Document number:
(a) Jamaica CAS: R2003-0186; Date: October 24, 2002 Date of latest CAS discussion:
(b) Belize CAS: R2000-154; Date: September 5, 2000
(c) Eastern Caribbean Sub-Region CAS: R2000-0105 [IFC/R2001-01271; Date: June 28, 2001
(d) Guyana CAS: IDA/R2002-0156; Date: September 19, 2002
(e) Trinidad and Tobago CAS: R99-44; Date: April 13, 1999
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project. Climate change is an important topic of discussion
between the Caribbean countries and the World Bank. The most recent CAS for the Eastern Caribbean
(June 2001) highlights the serious impacts that global climate change could have on OECS small island
developing states (SIDS). A specific CAS objective is the need to complement traditional disaster
management approaches in the region with comprehensive disaster mitigation, sustainable land use, and
risk minimization measures to address anticipated changes in sea-level, sea surface temperature, and
other regional impacts of global climate change. The CAS for Guyana clearly identifies breaches of sea
defenses and corresponding flooding as a threat to settlements and economic activities in coastal areas. It
- 2-



emphasizes upgrading quality standards for road maintenance to reduce their vulnerability to natural
disasters. It also suggests the development of a disaster management strategy as a key to sustainable
economic development. The Jamaica CAS identifies improving disaster preparedness as one of the key
elements in its overall poverty reduction and economic development strategy. It articulates the need for a
regional approach to disaster management, including building adequate human resource capacity to deal
with such contingencies. The Trinidad and Tobago CAS suggests developing a regional agenda for
dealing with disaster management and climate change impacts.
The proposed project supports these natural disaster and climate change related CAS objectives to
achieve environmentally sustainable development. The project will build adequate knowledge base and
capacity at the regional and country level to identify the climate change impacts, assess vulnerability of,
and concomitant risks for, key sectors of the SIDS' economies, and build capacity in individual countries
to develop and mainstream adaptation strategies into the planning and development processes. The
project will help facilitate the transition from data collection and analysis and technical interventions to
creating an enabling environment for climate change adaptation. To achieve this transition, the project
will additionally focus on public education and outreach, and on the policy and regulatory environment
(policies, regulations and their enforcement).
la. Global Operational strategy/Program objective addressed by the project:
The strategic goal of the proposed project is to create an enabling environment for adaptation to climate
change. This is consistent with the GEF operational criteria for enabling activities under the UNFCCC
(UN Framework Convention on Climate Change). The proposed project builds upon the Caribbean
Planning for Adaptation to Global Climate Change (CPACC) project, a Stage I activity project, which
closed in 2001. The proposed project is a Stage II activity as defined under the UNFCCC and the
Conference of Parties (COP) decisions, and is also consistent with the July 2001 guidelines issued by
COP on climate change adaptation and capacity building. Stage 1 activities as envisaged in Article 4.1
of the UNFCCC include "measures, including further capacity building, which may be taken to prepare
for adaptation". The project will enable incorporation of climate change projections into disaster
management to enhance the disaster mitigation approach adopted by the region.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main Sector Issues. Caribbean countries, small islands and/or low-lying states, are economically,
socially and environmentally vulnerable, and the climate change variations will exacerbate this
vulnerability. Global climate change is expected to induce permanent climate changes in the Caribbean
region, as well as an increase in extreme weather events, both of which will be difficult to reverse. Most
Caribbean islands are too small to be identified with a grid point in global climate models, limiting the
ability to generate future projections for climate change. However, most projections at the regional level
are reasonably robust and suggest that permanent climate shocks to the Caribbean countries are expected
to include sea level rise, and higher surface air and sea temperatures; extreme weather events, such as
tropical storms and hurricanes, and more "El Nino-like" conditions are also expected to become either
more frequent or more severe, or both; rain intensity is also expected to increase, leading to both more
frequent as well as more severe flooding events.
These permanent shocks and changes in extreme events are expected to result in loss of livelihood, and to
affect the region's resource base, damaging natural ecosystems and man-made infrastructure. Beaches,
wetlands and other coastal lands could be lost to rising sea levels and higher storm surges. Coral reefs
may be lost due to higher water temperatures, leading to changes in fish stocks. Some agricultural crops
may become less productive with climate change. The availability of fresh water supplies may be
affected by long-term changes in rainfall patterns and evaporation. There is a risk of damage to
- 3 -



buildings, roads, sewer and water systems, port facilities and other infrastructure due to rising sea levels,
higher storm surges, and more intense tropical storms. Flood damage from heavy rains may also occur,
rising exponentially with the intensity of extreme weather events. These changes in the region's resource
base (natural ecosystems and infrastructure) will have economic impacts such as loss of coastal lands,
loss of coastal infrastructure, reduced earnings from tourism, lower levels of fish landings and
agricultural production, and loss of livelihood.
Over the last three decades, these countries have suffered direct and indirect losses due to natural
disasters that is estimated to be between US$700 million to US$3.3 billion (2002 Report by
Inter-American Development Bank on Natural Disasters in Latin America and Caribbean). It is difficult
to approximate the impact of climate change on the SIDS economies, due partly to the varying global
climate change scenarios, limited geographical projections for the Caribbean, and the inadequate
inventory of vulnerable-assets and resources in these economies. A recent estimate of the potential
economic consequences of the impacts of climate change on the economies of Caribbean countries
(Haites, 2002), in a "no-adaptation" scenario, ranges from 5% to over 30% of GDP on average
(annualized values), with an even broader range for some individual countries. Tourism, agriculture,
forestry, and fisheries sectors contribute significantly to the SIDS' economies, and together with water
resources, are most vulnerable to climate change. These sectors are at greatest risk from the anticipated
deleterious impacts of climate change. As a result, there is a clear risk that in the event of poor
preparedness or the adoption of a reactive adaptation strategy, the SIDS economies may end up diverting
scarce resources earmarked for development projects to relief and reconstruction arising from extreme
climate change related events. This is expected to set back economic growth.
Environmental degradation further exacerbates the impacts of climate change. There is a close link
between environmental degradation and poverty, and the low-income populations and communities are
likely to be particularly adversely affected because they settle on lands more vulnerable to climate
change related disasters,. Limited resources or land ownership and tenure patterns induce the poor to
settle on unstable slopes, riverbanks and low-lying coastal areas. In addition, easy access to some
resources, such as fishing grounds or fertile soils on volcanic slopes, prompt settlements in hazardous
locations. Impacts of climate change are therefore likely to be more intense for the poorer sections of the
populations.
Thus, if sustainable pro-poor development is to be achieved in the SIDS' economies, these countries will
have to manage the impacts emanating from expected climate change. The Caribbean Group for
Cooperation in Economic Development Report (2002) on Natural Hazard Risk Management in the
Caribbean concluded that there is a considerable level of experience with the "risk management"
approach to natural hazards in the region, covering groups of activities under the broad headings of risk
identification, risk reduction and risk sharing/transfer. Proper hazard risk management contributes to
efforts to adapt to climate change. The techniques used to determine the impacts of climate change are
closely related to those used in disaster management, namely, vulnerability and risk assessment,
development of adaptation policy, and identification of a strategy to implement the adaptation policy.
Natural hazard risk management and adaptation to climate change draw on the same institutional
capacities and technical skills. The risk management approach is equally applicable to addressing
climate change impacts, vulnerabilities and risks. The Report points out that (i) "existing knowledge" for
climate change impacts assessment is not well-developed; (ii) "wide sharing of information" with
affected stakeholders or policy-makers has not taken place; and (iii) "mainstreaming climate change
responsive adaptation measures into the planning and development process," both in the public and
private sectors, has not yet commenced.
The main climate change sector issues are discussed under the three broad categories of risk management
- 4 -



actions - risk identification (climate change vulnerability and risk assessment), risk reduction (adaptation
strategy to climate change), and risk sharing/financing mechanisms (meet the costs of adaptation to
climate change).
Issues relating to the identification of vulnerability to climate change
*      Projecting the extent of climate change is a starting point in developing adaptation programs.
The existing climate change models are global in nature and too aggregated to permit projections at the
Caribbean countries' level. These models require downscahng to be tailored to meet the requirements of
Caribbean SIDS.
*      The information database on climate and sea-level monitoring, including monitoring of
coral-reefs, which feeds into the climate change projection, is limited. There is a need for upgrading
infrastructure already created under CPACC to deepen the process of collection, analysis and mapping
for a comprehensive climate and sea-level monitoring information database. In addition, standard
mapping and interpretation approaches need to be developed to make the information easy to understand
by the policy makers, the private/public sector and the civil society.
*      The knowledge base to effectively perform climate change impact assessment on SIDS'
ecosystems is weak. This includes an assessment of the physical and socio-economic vulnerabilities and
risks associated with climate change that is insufficient to inform the process of identification of climate
change risk and formulation of appropriate adaptation strategies. Models and capacity to assess the
impact of climate change scenarios on coastal ecosystems and on the water-cycle specific to the
Caribbean SIDS' situation are yet to be developed. In most Caribbean SIDS, there is a lack of
comprehensive inventory of existing critical facilities to assess the vulnerability of key infrastructure and
economic sectors to climate change. The focus of the limited vulnerability assessments carried out until
now ignores the social vulnerabilities and does not incorporate community level information in the
assessments. The range of available climate change impact models, vulnerability and risk assessment
methodologies needs to be carefully reviewed, selected, tailored and applied to SIDS economies, so as to
develop a more refined and reliable knowledge base covering the expected impacts of climate change on
the national economies.
*      Human skills and institutional capacity in each of the Caribbean SIDS is inadequate to address
the needs of climate change related vulnerability and risk assessment, given the small size of these
countries. A coordinated approach will be required that: delineates activities best performed at the
regional level to build regional human and institutional capacity, and achieve economies of scale
(typically including identification and fine-tuning climate projection models, climate impacts assessment
models, developing harmonized methodologies for vulnerability assessment and adaptation approaches);
and identifies areas for country level capacity and institution building to sustain the process of
identification of adaptation strategies, and facilitate their implementation in each participating country
(typically including sector specific vulnerability assessments, assessment of economic costs, developing
adaptation policy options, identifying institutional constraints, and public education).
Issues relating to the reduction of vulnerability to climate change
*      There is a perception that climate change manazement is the sole responsibility of government
rather than a shared responsibility involving the private sector, civil society, government ministries, and
trade associations. This results in low public demand for climate change adaptation. There is a need to
educate the public and disseminate information with respect to the potential impacts of climate change,
- 5-



and the benefits and advantages of reducing vulnerabilities to climate change through user-friendly
documentation of successful pilots. Civil society, the business community and industry require accurate
information to make decisions on participation for adaptation to climate change. An information
clearing house is required at the regional level, and a strong public education and outreach program needs
to be developed and implemented. There is a clear need to stimulate public demand for climate change
risk management related information.
o      Adaptation to climate change is not mainstreamed into the planning and development processes.
Climate change implications are not incorporated into the policies and programs that guide development,
(private and public) investments, and disaster mitigation strategies towards reduced vulnerability to
climate change. For example, building codes and standards would need to incorporate the expected
impacts from climate change to reduce infrastructure vulnerability to climate change impacts; land use
control tools such as Environmental Impact Assessments (ELAs) and land use plans would need to take
into consideration climate change concerns to identify appropriate investment locations that are less
vulnerable to climate change; water resource management and infrastructure plans would need to reflect
shifts in water availability induced by climate change.
o      A coordinated multi-sectoral approach is required to implement the national climate change
adaptation policies relating to specific sectors. This is particularly true in the context of small islands'
economies and ecosystems. Assessment of institutional requirements, their readiness and existing
capacity, and cross-sectoral working arrangements to implement the national sectoral climate change
adaptation strategy remain to be carried out.
o      Enforcement of existing policies and programs that guide development and investment decisions
is weak. For example, existing building codes and design standards to cope with natural hazards are not
vigorously implemented. Existing land use controls throughout the region are generally weak and poorly
applied; enabling legislation to require the use of EIAs is often lacking, and many ELAs do not include
hazard issues; planning and physical development legislation could benefit from updating. Water rights,
markets and pricing could be better used to facilitate the sustainable and efficient use of water. These
weaknesses would need to be identified and addressed, preferably before policies are enhanced, to reflect
climate change concerns. Creating incentives, as well as education and awareness, for the private sector,
local communities and governments to apply or enforce existing, as well "climate change-enhanced",
policies would be a prerequisite to reducing vulnerabilities to climate change.
Issues relating to Climate Change risk sharing & financing mechanisms
o      Inability to differentiate between good and bad risks. Some of the risks associated with climate
change may be insurable, others may not be. However, in the absence of precise information on
vulnerability and risk assessment to climate change, it is not possible for either the insurance industry or
its clients to distinguish between "good" and "bad" risks; i.e., between those risks that could be
transferred at a fair price and those that could not. In the absence of such information, it is likely that
insurers would either not be willing to assume any climate change related risks, or would charge high
premiums to do so.
o      High cost of insurance. If "good" risks could be identified, another set of issues has to do with
the observed or potential inefficiencies associated with the insurance industry in the Caribbean region.
Governments, businesses, industry and households can reduce the financial impacts of climate change by
insuring "good" risks associated with key assets, infrastructure or business activities. However, one
deterrent is high cost stemming from a variety of factors, such as inadequate legislation and regulation, or
-6-



their weak enforcement, uneven human resource capacity and technical knowledge in the industry, or
lack of product innovations, such as risk-pooling mechanisms. A recent Bank report (see Catastrophe
Insurance Market in the Caribbean Region: Market Failures and Recommendations for Public Sector
Interventions) has identified a series of policy, regulatory and institutional constraints to a more efficient
regional insurance industry.
*      Inadequate preparedness to access UNFCCC and other financial mechanisms for climate change
adaptation. Some of the risks and costs associated with climate change may not be insurable because
they are either too large, systemic or permanent in nature. The UNFCCC attempts to overcome this
long-recognized market failure problem. The principle of Common but Differentiated Responsibilities
that underlies the UNFCCC assigns the financial lead in combating climate change impacts to
industrialized countries. With the exception of funds for the preparation of National Adaptation
Programs of Action, global funds for investments in adaptation are still something of the future. Most
Caribbean countries are unwilling to trade existing development aid for adaptation interventions they
regard as incremental. It does not help that "no regrets" adaptation measures (which by definition have
domestic benefits other than climate change adaptation) may not qualify as incremental costs under
current GEF policies.
The institutional needs and preparedness of SIDS to undertake adaptation were assessed through a
Capacity Development Initiative that recommended that SIDS should: (a) cooperate in the formulation of
climate change policies, standards and guidelines, and enhance national capacity to effectively plan,
manage and monitor their climate change policies; (b) develop a common position for international
negotiations on issues related to climate change, energy and sustainable development; and (c) participate,
based on the common position, in climate change-related international fora and negotiations.
Government Strategy. There has been a recognition for some time now that given the small size of the
SIDS countries, there is a need and opportunity for collaboration at the sub-regional and regional level to
address climate change issues. The response of Caribbean governments covers two broad actions -
building capacity to address climate change and taking regional disaster management initiatives that
complement the climate change initiatives.
*      Buildinz capacity to address climate change. At the SIDS Ministerial Meeting held in Barbados
in 1994, climate change was accorded the highest priority among issues to be addressed under the
Barbados Programme of Action. The importance of this issue as a critical element in dealing with
regional sustainable development was further underlined by several pronouncements and actions taken by
regional governments to address building national capacity to cope with the challenges posed by climate
variability/change to regional sustainable development and culminating in the decision by Caribbean
Heads of Government at their Meeting in Canouan in 2000 to establish a Regional Climate Change
Center. At the 2000 meeting of the Caribbean Ministries of Finance and Environment, priority activities
for sustainable development were identified, including planning for climate change. In April 2001, the
OECS countries signed the St. George Declaration, under which, Principle 4 states: "member States shall
implement obligations under the UNFCCC and establish appropriate legal, technical, and regulatory
mechanisms for adaptation to the impacts of climate change."
CARICOM small island and coastal developing states realize there are constraints to building
institutional capacity in the region and to promoting an efficient allocation of available resources. The
Community has responded with education, training and capacity-building initiatives to promote the
acquisition and retention of technical skills in the region. Efforts are being made to improve
coordination between existing institutions and reduce fragmentation of institutional efforts. In February
- 7 -



2002, CARICOM member countries established the Caribbean Community Climate Change Center
(CCCCC) to provide an institutional mechanism for the coordination of climate change adaptation at the
regional level. In late 2002, CARICOM member countries decided to locate the CCCCC in Belize.
The GEF-funded Caribbean Planning for Adaptation to Global Climate Change (CPACC; 1997-2001), a
Stage I Enabling Activities project, was the first regionally coordinated effort to enable Caribbean
countries to prepare to cope with global climate change, particularly sea level rise in coastal and marine
areas through vulnerability assessment, adaptation planning, and capacity building linked to adaptation
planning. Under the CPACC project, a collaborative approach was used to develop a National Climate
Change Adaptation Policy and Action Plan for each of the twelve CARICOM participating countries.
This approach provided considerable opportunity for stimulating broad-based interests in and exchange
of information on climate change issues of national and regional importance, and for the close
coordination of the policy development process at the regional level. This ensured buy-in and
consistency and uniformity in the development of adaptation policy options. The exchange of Issues
Papers and participating countries' respective National Climate Change Adaptation Policy and Action
Plans provided further opportunities to coordinate and rationalize adaptation policy options within the
Region, and was particularly effective in disseminating information on climate change policy issues and
options. National Climate Change Adaptation Policy and Action Plans have been approved by the
Governments of St. Lucia and Dominica, thereby raising the profile of the climate change agenda to the
highest level.
At the completion of the CPACC project in December 2001, the government of Canada initiated its
contribution to MACC, in the form of a project entitled Adaptation to Climate Change in the Caribbean
(ACCC), funded by the Canadian Climate Change Development Fund (CCCDF). The project is funding
activities that are aimed at maintaining the momentum that was built under CPACC and extending
selected experiences until the GEF funded portion of MACC comes on-stream in early 2003. The
proposed MACC project logically builds upon this Stage I activities, to consolidate the achievements of
CPACC, and also to extend the coverage to move to Stage 1I Enabling Activities.
o     Taking regional disaster management initiatives. Two new regional initiatives, the proposed
strategy for comprehensive disaster management (CDM) in the Caribbean, and the establishment of the
Disaster Mitigation Facility for the Caribbean (DMFC) within the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB),
have been taken in 2001. The proposed CDM (2001) emphasizes risk reduction, while incorporating
preparedness and response activities. The Caribbean Disaster Emergency Response Agency (CDERA), a
CARICOM agency responsible for disaster management, is the promoter of CDM; its mandate and
activities are being expanded to include broader risk management activities with a view towards
identifying gaps, targeting interventions and capacity building, and coordinating activities for risk
management. At the national level, consultations are being held to encourage governments to develop
national strategies for disaster mitigation within the CDM framework. The CDB established the DMIFC
to assist member states with the adoption and institutionalization of successful disaster mitigation
policies and practices, and to strengthen the capacity of the CDB to implement its 1998 Natural Disaster
Management Strategy and internalize disaster management into its own policies and programs. Both
these regional initiatives can benefit from incorporating the outputs generated through the proposed
climate change activities.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proiect will build capacity and knowledge base. consolidating the achievements of CPACC, and
adopting a "learning-by-doing" approach to capacity building. The project will support activities that
strengthen the capacity of Caribbean SIDS to:
-8-



*      better identify climate change vulnerabilities and concomitant risk. The project will support
activities that build the regional capacity to establish and expand its knowledge base about climate
trends, the impacts of climate change, and climate change vulnerability and resultant risk in key
economic sectors. As a strategic choice, the project will focus its efforts on expanding the knowledge
base on climate change vulnerability and risk for the tourism, water supply, and agricultural sectors;
*      reduce their vulnerability to climate change by focusing on building the national capacity to
identify policy issues and measures for adaptation to climate change. The project will adopt a sequential
approach to capacity building, identifying and formulating national adaptation strategies and
implementation action plans that build on climate change vulnerability and risk assessments previously
prepared for key sectors and their integration into National Development Plans; and
*      effectively access and utilize resources to reduce vulnerability to climate change and variability.
Consistent with the conclusions of the Capacity Development Initiative, the project will support the
development of a regional agenda to the UNFCCC, and of a regional strategy that enhances national
capacity to effectively plan, manage and monitor their climate change policies. The project will
consolidate the work initiated under CPACC on the formulation of National Adaptation Policies and
Action Plans and contribute to the completion of the Second National Communications of participating
countries to the UNFCCC.
The project will seek to build capacity in a cost effective way. This will contribute to the sustainability
of project activities and objectives, and enable participating countries to extend the scope of project
interventions outside of the project. For example, one strategic choice supported by the project will be to
build capacity for the development of climate change hazard information (monitoring network,
downscaling of climate change models, climate change impact scenarios) with specialized regional
institutions in order to take advantage of economies of scale and make effective use of highly specialized
skills, tools, techniques, and hardware. Similarly, economies of scale will be sought by developing for
the region a harmonized approach in vulnerability and risk assessments and adaptation approach models
that meet the needs of Caribbean SIDS. Capacity will be enhanced at the national level (with support
from regional institutions) in the development of climate change vulnerability and risk assessments, the
identification of adaptation options and formulation of adaptation strategies, and measures to reduce
vulnerability to climate change in key economic sectors. Additionally, the capacity to formulate a
regional agenda and adaptation strategy to climate change will be developed at the regional level.
The proiect will support the mainstreaming of adaptation to climate change into national and sectoral
planning and policies. This will be achieved through the use of models tailored under the project to
address key economic sectors. This economic sector approach lends itself better to clearly identifying
the institutions and stakeholders ultimately responsible for taking actions, whether in water supply,
coastal zone management, or spatial planning. Representative adaptation strategies will be developed for
each sector in different country settings, and all participating countries will be able to modify these
strategies to reflect their respective country settings.
The project will support a strong public education and outreach program, and a comprehensive
communications strategy. Learning from CPACC, a strong public education and outreach program is
important to inform stakeholders (policy-makers, national and local governments, private sector, local
communities) about: the adverse effects of, and vulnerabilities to, climate change; the actions that could
be taken to reduce these vulnerabilities; and the efforts necessary to build consensus and willingness
across all stakeholders to contribute to, and endorse, the adaptation strategies.
- 9-



The project will attempt to create an enabling environment for adaptation to climate change. The project
will build on the progress achieved under CPACC, further building institutional capacity, strengthening
the knowledge base, and deepening awareness and participation. The project will also address the need
to establish a policy and institutional environment that encourages and provides the incentives for
adaptation by public and private sectors and local communities. For example, the project will assist and
complement the work initiated by CDERA and other agencies on building standards by developing
additional climate change risk responsive standards to be incorporated into existing standards. The
project will also target key economic sectors (tourism, water supply, agriculture) to evaluate policy and
institutional options, identify policy or enforcement gaps that would need to be addressed, and to
formulate and implement climate change adaptation strategies.
Strengthening of the insurance sector will not be addressed by the proiect. A parallel project
(OECS/Barbados Catastrophe Risk Management & Insurance Reform Project) is being prepared by the
World Bank (IDA/IBRD and Caribbean Development Bank) that attempts to strengthen the domestic
insurance sector and its arrangements within the international reinsurance and credit markets for
Barbados and the OECS countries. It also proposes to augment the capacity of domestic insurance
markets to manage and transfer large risk exposures, while building requisite reserves to pre-fund and
insure against future natural and climate change related disasters. The proposed insurance reform project
will become effective around the same time as this project.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component I: Build Capacity to Assess Vulnerability and Risks Associated with Climate Change (Total
US$4.88 m: GEF US$2.32 m)
This component will build regional capacity to collect and analyze data, and expand the overall
knowledge base on climate change impacts and associated physical, social and economic vulnerabilities.
The first four sub-components will operate at the regional level, and will focus on strengthening and
expanding the knowledge base as a sound platform for analysis and decision making at the national and
local levels, and will be: (a) strengthening the climate and coral reef monitoring network; (b)
downscaling global climate models in support of decision making for adaptation at the regional and
country level; (c) generating climate change impact scenarios; and (d) developing a harmonized approach
for assessing climate change vulnerability and risk, and adaptation policy decision making.
The fifth sub-component will draw upon the information and techniques developed under the above four
sub-components to prepare, vulnerability and risk assessment studies for selected countries, or groups of
countries, in key economic sectors (tourism, water resources and agriculture), focusing on coastal areas.
The countries where the studies will be implemented will be selected based on an agreed set of criteria
(an indicative list is provided in the Detailed Project Description - Annex 2). Non-study countries will
still benefit from the vulnerability and risk assessment exercises by: (a) participating, as members, in the
country teams conducting the vulnerability assessment studies to actually use the harmonized
approaches, and in the dissemination and training workshops; and (b) adapting the outputs of such
assessments to their own country sectoral settings to evolve appropriate sectoral adaptation strategies.
The project will widely disseminate the outputs of the climate projection and impacts assessment
modelling exercise, and the harmonized approach to vulnerability and risk assessment. It will build
capacity by strengthening regional and national agencies and having them as coordinating agencies for
- 10 -



identified activities, imparting information about the models and the approach to the country teams, and
training these teams in their use by actual participation with expert consultants in the country level
sectoral vulnerability and risk assessment studies.
Component II: Build Capacity to Reduce Vulnerability to Climate Change (Total US$2.15 m: GEF
US$0.73 m)
This component will build in-country capacity to formulate and analyze adaptation policy options, and
finalize sectoral adaptation strategies which will be prepared for all participating countries: (i) in the first
instance, for those countries where the vulnerability and risk assessment studies are implemented
(directly); and (ii) in the second instance, for non-study countries (indirectly), through derived
vulnerability assessments based on lessons learned from the country-level sectoral studies. The
adaptation strategies for the non-study countries will be informed by the outcomes of the field-based
vulnerability studies.
This component will have four sub-components: (a) identification of "no regrets" adaptation measures for
all countries (carried out in parallel with, and informed by, the vulnerability assessment studies); (b)
development of adaptation approaches to food security, water, health and fishery sectors, and
incorporation of climate change concerns relating to environmental impact assessments; (c) development
of recommendations relating to upgrading technical norms for infrastructure in response to climate
change concerns, including risk reduction incentives by the insurance and banking industry; and (d)
finalization of country level multi-sectoral adaptation strategies based on the vulnerability and risk
assessment studies, and inputs from the three sub-components (a) to (c) above.
The project will build capacity for developing adaptation strategies through training of country teams,
having them participate with consultants in the actual strategy development exercise, and providing
technical assistance to the country teams to extend their hands-on training to develop other
sector-country setting climate change adaptation strategies.
Component III: Build Capacity to Effectively Access & Utilize Resources to Reduce Vulnerability to
Climate Change (Total US$0.42 m: GEF US$0.18 m)
This component will have two sub-components: (a) building the regional capacity to prepare a regional
position for the UNFCCC and other international fora to enhance the region's visibility and influence on
relevant negotiations and policy decisions, and provide member countries with a consolidated and
common position on key issues in the international forum; and (b) learning from the implementation of
the CPACC project, activities under this project, and the outcomes of the monitoring and evaluation
exercise, the second sub-component will support the development of a regional strategy designed to
better and more effectively organize the region in a manner that will facilitate access to cost sharing or
financing mechanisms (UNFCCC and others), and improve regional coordination and harmonization on
climate change adaptation and policy-making. The project will specifically prepare a business plan for
the regional Caribbean Community Climate Change Center, which is foreseen to help guide and
implement the future climate change strategy for the region. It will also identify opportunities for
resource mobilization by the region, including designing and proposing projects and developing concept
papers to be presented at a donors meeting to obtain support for furthering the implementation of the
adaptation strategy.
Component IV: Public Education & Outreach (Total US$2. 10 m: GEF US$0.59 m)
This component will support a public education and outreach (PEO) program geared towards improving
decision-making, encouraging policy changes where required, strengthening information access and data
resources for key stakeholders, disseminating project-generated data and information, and fostering
public awareness about the potential impacts climate change. The project will have four
- 11 -



sub-components: (a) finalizing the ACCC developed regional PEO strategy, and developing national PEO
strategies; (b) implementing the regional PEO strategy; (c) implementing the national level PEO
strategies; and (d) undertaking a mid-term and final evaluation of the effectiveness of the PEO strategies,
inputs and activities. Key areas of focus will be: (a) to facilitate a participatory process in the
development, discussion, finalization, and dissemination of the outputs of the other project components
such as climate projection and impacts assessment models, vulnerability and risk assessment strategies,
adaptation strategies, technical norms upgradation in construction industry; and (b) establish a clearing
house of information which will facilitate both access to information by the stakeholders, and
dissemination of information by the PIU.
The project will build capacity at the regional and national level by participatory approaches to the
formulation and implementation of PEO strategies, and training the national PEO teams in the latest
techniques of PEO.
Component V: Project Manazement (Total US$1.38 m: GEF US$1.18 m)
This component will provide support to CARICOM and the PIU for the efficient and timely execution of
the project, including project administration as well as planning, monitoring, and evaluating project
activities over the duration of the project. The component will finance the required consultancies,
training, auditing, and operating costs.
. .       Indicatve         Bank    9% of     GEF     % of
" Cmponent                          Ccts    S % of  financing  BfnC  filnanchip  GEF
-  -. -   -. (US:)  Tozal  (USS_)  rinanciaq  (UST.,J) financing
I. Build Capacity to Assess Vulnerability and Risks  4.88  44.6  0.00  0.0    2.32    46.4
Associated with Climate Change
H. Build Capacity to Reduce Vulnerability to  2.15   19.7    0.00      0.0    0.73     14.6
Climate Change
III. Build Capacity to Effectively Access & Utilize  0.42  3.8  0.00   0.0    0.18     3.6
Resources to Reduce Vulnerability to Climate
,Change
[V. Public Education and Outreach (PEO)      2.10    19.2    0.00      0.0     0.59    11.8
V. Project Management                        1.38    12.6    0.00      0.0     1.18    23.6
Total Project Costs  10.93   100.0   0.00       0.0    5.00   100.0
Total Financing Required  10.93   100.0   0.00      0.0     5.00   100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project will not directly seek the implementation of policy or institutional reforms. It aims to create
the technical, knowledge and institutional base to ensure that climate change adaptation is articulated and
mainstreamed into national planning, and that policies and incentives for adaptation to climate change are
identified. It will support the development of an enabling environment within each SIDS to mainstream
and implement sectoral climate change adaptation strategies.
The project will work with existing institutions. It will support capacity building for regional and
national institutions in climate and sea-level change data generation and collation, climate projection and
impacts assessment modeling, vulnerability assessments, and adaptation approaches, improving the
existing public outreach and education building programs. The project will also support the
establishment of institutional mechanisms for national and regional coordination, including the
articulation of a regional agenda. At the regional level, the project will seek an efficient coordinating
mechanism consisting of CARICOM and the PIU, its Technical Committee, its Council of Ministers, and
- 12-



the National Implementation Coordination Units. Finally, the project will support the development of a
regional climate change adaptation strategy that would address, among other things, the preparation of a
business plan for the recently created Caribbean Community Climate Change Center.
3. Benefits and target population:
Project benefits mainly revolve around creating an enabling environment to take adaptive measures to
address climate change, and to institutionalize a mechanism for a coordinated regional approach to
climate change adaptation. Specific project benefits include:
6      improvements in the information monitoring networks, including enhanced maintenance leading
to better sustainability.
*      availability of tested and tailored models and approaches for climate projections, impacts
assessments, vulnerability and nsk assessments and adaptation initiatives at the sectoral level, which with
the capacity built up during the project, can be scaled up to a multi-sectoral exercise.
*      enhanced understanding of proactive risk-reduction initiatives in reducing vulnerabilities to
climate change of infrastructure, populations, and the environment;
*      articulation of a regional strategy and approach for climate change adaptation.
The main beneficiaries of the project include:
e      the region and the individual SIDS countries, and the global environment, through protection of
infrastructure, human life, and natural resource.
*      the 12 participating countries, which will use the methodologies developed and refined under the
project to mainstream climate change risk management activities into planning and development
processes, and implement national sectoral adaptation strategies.
*      the Caribbean region, which will benefit from more comprehensive climate change forecasting
techniques and be better prepared for climate change related disasters. The region will also be able to
benefit from pooled insurance possibilities in the light of better "self insurance" measures adopted by the
public and private sectors, and a more dispersed (geographical and hazard-type) risk resulting in
lower premiums for risk insurance.
o      the public and private sectors, which will be able to: (a) make better-informed decisions on
location of the infrastructure based on more accurate hazard impact data; and (b) better protect its assets
through incorporating risk-responsive structural standards; and (c) benefit from wider insurance
coverage, insurance and financing incentives, and lower insurance rates.
e      the populations, and in particular the coastal populations which comprise about 60% or more of
the 5.2 million population in the small SIDS countries, which are particularly vulnerable to climate
change risks and extreme events. In some countries (i.e. Guyana), some 90% of the population resides on
the coastal plains. The implementation of the national climate change adaptation strategies focusing on
environmental, physical, economic and social vulnerabilities of the Caribbean SIDS, should reduce the
vulnerability of this group to climate change.
*      donor community, which through strategic programming of resources, improved coordination in
project/program implementation, and consolidation through the next level projects, will be able to
achieve greater-national and regional impacts.
*      regional institutions, such as CARICOM, UWI, CDERA, etc. will be strengthened through
increased synergy among projects implemented in the area of climate change and disaster management.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period. The Grant is expected to become effective in mid-April 2003 for a four year
period, up to March 31, 2007 (the expected project completion date).
- 13-



Proiect oversight and implementation arrangements. The CARICOM (located at Georgetown, Guyana)
will be the Grant recipient and the Executing Agency for the implementation of the project. CARICOM
is a not-for-profit, developmental, inter-govemmental organization of the independent states of the
Caribbean, established under the Revised Treaty of Chaguaramas, and enjoys tax-exempt status relating
to its member countries (all the project participating countries are CARICOM member countries). It will
execute the project under the guidance of the Project Advisory Committee. The Bank will function as
the GEF Implementing Agency.
The project will be implemented by a dedicated Project Implementation Unit (PIU), established within
CARICOM, and physically to be located in Belize, where the region has recently decided to establish the
Caribbean Community Climate Change Center (CCCCC). The PIU will be responsible for the
day-to-day operation and management of project. It will be in charge of project oversight, coordination,
maintenance of institutional networks, and articulation and collaboration with stakeholders. It will
undertake some activities with regional and other international institutions (for example, relating to
climate projection modeling, harmonization of vulnerability assessment and adaptation approaches), and
will work with the participating countries for the implementation of the country-level project activities
(for example, vulnerability assessment and adaptation studies, implementation of the national PEO
strategies). The PIU will be headed by a Project Manager who will be responsible for overall project
management, and specifically for Component m. He will be assisted by: (a) a Technical Coordinator (to
manage Component I); (b) a Public Education & Outreach Specialist (to manage Component IV); and (c)
an Economist (full-time, but whose services will be required when implementation of Component If
commences). The Terms of Reference for these core consultancies have been agreed with CARICOM
and included in the Project Operations Manual. The process of recruiting the consultants has already
been initiated, and the establishment of the permanent PIU at Belize by June 30, 2003 is a dated covenant
included in the Grant Agreement. During the interim period, CARICOM has established a transitional
PIU at Barbados headed by a Project Manager, who will also be managing Component I in the absence of
a Technical Coordinator. He will be supported by a PEO Specialist and a MIS expert. The transitional
PIU will kick-start the project time-critical activities, initiate the process of establishment of the PIU at
Belize, install the MIS for the project activties at Belize, and eventually hand over the project by June 30,
2003 to the core consultants who will be positioned in the PIU at Belize.
Two key functions for the PIU will be performed by CARICOM, namely, accounting and financial
management, and procurement. CARICOM has already identified staff exclusively for these functions.
CARICOM would be reimbursed the salaries of these staff, subject to an aggregate of US$176,000 over
the four year life of the project. This amount will be ballooned in the initial project implementation
period, and will reduce with advancement in implementation.
Each participating country will establish a National Implementation Coordination Unit (NICU) for this
project which would, inter alia, coordinate with the PIU, CARICOM, and with other country NICUs,
implement the in-country project activities such as vulnerability assessments and preparation of
multi-sectoral adaptation and national PEO strategies, ensure maintenance of national level infrastructure
feeding into climate information generation, interact with national agencies relating to project activities,
disseminate regional and national reports, participate in M&E activities, and provide feedback to PIU on
project performance in their respective states. NICUs already exist in the participating countries for the
CPACC project; these entities will be reoriented for this project. The reoriented NICUs will be
established and in operation by Effectiveness, and will have representation from Government Ministries
(Finance, Planning, Education, Information, Agriculture), private sector, NGOs, specialized agencies (for
example, Environmental Management Authorities, Coastal Zone Management Units) as core members.
Other institutions would be co-opted as members at different times depending on the nature of the
exercise. The NICUs would be adequately empowered by the participating country governments to
- 14-



discharge their responsibilities under the project.
The roles and responsibility of CARICOM, participating states and their respective NICUs are embodied
in the Co-participating Agreements which have been signed between CARICOM and each of the 12
participating states. Under a co-participating agreement, each participating state will be required to
establish and maintain the NICU as a precondition to their participation in the project, provide
counterpart funds, assist with the implementation of project components assigned to them, and exercise
due diligence with regard to project implementation requirements.
The Project Advisory Committee (PAC) will consist of one representative from CARICOM who will
chair the PAC, the OECS Secretariat, two representatives from the NICUs, and one representative each
from the UN Environmental Program/Caribbean Environment Program, two representatives of the
University of West Indies (one of whom would be UWICED), the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB),
the Caribbean Disaster Emergency Response Agency (CDERA), and a NGO community representative.
The PAC will provide policy guidance for the project, review implementation progress, and evaluate its
progress and results. It will meet at least once every year at the invitation of CARICOM. The PIU will
act as the technical secretariat to the PAC and will meet to review the annual progress report prepared by
the PITJ.
The PIU will work through five lead Beneficiary/Coordinating Agencies for the climate and coral reef
monitoring, for the climate projection and impacts modelling, and for developing climate change
responsive infrastructure standards. These regional specialized institutions are neither co-financiers nor
consultants hired under the project. They have been specially targeted for capacity building in the above
areas, based on their specialization, and would work closely with other international agencies or
consultants to provide support to the project. Separate Memoranda of Understanding are being entered
into between the PIU and these coordinating agencies to support implementation of identified groups of
activities. The draft MOUs have been reviewed by the Bank and found to be satisfactory, and are
included in the Project Operations Manual. The five beneficiary agencies are:
*      The Caribbean Institute for Meteorology and Hydrology (CIMH) will serve as the Regional
Coordinator for the climate change monitoring network. The CIMH will also continue to operate the
Tidal and Climate Gauge Replacement Fund, a fund designed to finance the replacement of monitoring
instruments and related equipment. It will also work closely with the national meteorological and
hydrological agencies, which will continue to manage all climate monitoring stations;
*     The Faculty of Engineering of the UWI, St. Augustine campus will continue to support the
operation of the Regional Archiving Center for climate change data;
*      The Marine Studies Center of the UWI, Mona will serve as the Regional Coordinator for coral
reef monitoring, and will be supported by its Caribbean Coastal Data Center which currently functions as
the regional archiving center for coastal ecosystem data. It will work closely with the Coastal Zone Unit
of Barbados for the yet-to-be established Eastern Caribbean Technical Support Node, with the OECS
coral reef monitoring network countries, and with the Discovery Bay Jamaica platform for the
oceanographic parameters;
*     The Climate Studies Group at UWI, Mona will be the Regional Coordinator for climate
projection and impact assessments. It will work closely with NOAA-NCAR which is very active in
climate modelling, and with CIMH and the Physics Department at UWI, Cave Hill to broaden its capacity
to undertake this activity. It will also interact with international centers of excellence (such as the UK
Climate Impacts Programme (UKCIP) based at the Environmental Change Institute, University of
- 15-



Oxford) which have already developed an approach combining climate projections with climate impacts
and development of adaptation-options in national and sectoral settings. It will also work closely with the
Canadian Climate Center, NOAA and the Hadley Center for techncial inputs; and
n      The CDERA will review and initiate mainstreaming upgraded infrastructure norms and standards
into its regional Comprehensive Disaster Management strategy, and promote their use in disaster
management, infrastructure design and construction, property insurance and banking industry at the
national level. It will also develop links with the Caribbean Council of Engineering Organization, and
the Faculty of Engineering of UWI, St. Augustine to execute the studies for updating infrastructure
standards. This activity will be carried out in coordination with efforts to update Caribbean Uniform
Building Code, coordinated under the Caribbean Development Bank.
The PIU will also ensure, through appropriate insertions in the respective TORs of the selected
consultants for the country level sectoral vulnerability and risk assessment, and adaptation strategy
studies, that these consultants work closely with other specialized institutions in the identified sectors.
These include: FAO, CARDI, CEHI, IICA, CWWA, OECS-ESDU, Caribbean Tourism Organization and
CAST, which will provide support to the country study teams in their areas of expertise. The PIU will
also coordinate with the Caribbean Dialogue on Water and Climate and the Integrated Watershed &
Coastal Area Management Project being developed by UNEP-CAR-RCU, CEHI, the CFRAMP for the
fishery program, and the GEF-assisted Meso-American Barrier Reef System Project. A Coordination
Protocol already exists with the project management team of the Integrated Watershed & Coastal Area
Management Project (included in the Project Operations Manual) which will serve as a model for
developing similar protocols with other projects during implementation .
Financial Management System. All project accounting will be centralized at CARICOM, which has a
well-established finance and accounting division, with clear policies, rules and procedures in place. The
accounting system has been redesigned (under the 2001 reorganization) to be able to capture financial
information across expenditure/disbursement categories (the Bank's legal/disbursement categories) and
project components. A CARICOM Operations Manual has been developed as a part of the
reorganization of the finance division by KPMG, and has been reviewed by, and found acceptable to, the
Bank. Procurement information is also linked to accounting and budgeting information to enable the
finance division to undertake effective contract management. The financial management capacity of
CARICOM has been rated as satisfactory. A separate Chart of Accounts has been prepared for project
expenditures, and found to meet Bank requirements for project accounting and financial reporting. This
is now being incorporated into CARICOM's Solomon IV-based accounting system.
Procurement capacity assessment. The procurement assessment rated the risk as "high" since CARICOM
has limited international procurement capacity, and no prior experience with, or knowledge of, Bank
policies and procedures. In addition, responsibilities for procurement of consultants are diffused across
several CARICOM departments who carry out the selection processes, according to their needs. In order
to address these weaknesses, it was agreed that adequate procurement technical assistance will be
provided, and separate procedures acceptable to be Bank will be adopted by CARICOM for the project.
Specifically, the following three-point risk mitigation action plan was agreed: (a) nominate a qualified
professional staff and a support staff on a full-time basis, within CARICOM, to work on procurement
administration for the project; (b) retain an experienced international procurement consultant to provide
intensive technical assistance at critical times; and (c) include in the procurement section of the Project
Operations Manual a clear definition of roles and responsibilities with respect to procurement, clear
procedures for maintaining separate files, and a file control system. CARICOM has already identified
two staff members with appropriate qualifications to support the procurement function relating to project
activities, and has also prepared a comprehensive section on procurement function (organization,
- 16-



delineation of responsibilities across CARICOM and PIU, procurement procedures relating to individual
consultants including the contract format, invitations for shopping, and procedures relating to operating
costs, proposal evaluation arrangements, first year procurement plan, among other aspects). This has
been found to meet Bank requirements. The Terms of Reference for the international procurement
consultant have been agreed with the Bank, and the process for retaining the services of the consultant
for a six-month period over the first two years of the project, until mid-term review, has been initiated.
Contracting of this consultant position is a condition of Board Presentation.
Funds flow and disbursement arrangement. GEF Grant funds will be disbursed to a Special Account,
maintained in a commercial bank in Washington D.C. This account will be utilized for the purposes of
project disbursement, and will be managed by CARICOM. Since accounting would be centralized at
CARICOM, this arrangement will not require additional Special Accounts for Bank funds, and all
financial transactions will flow directly from the designated Special Account. This arrangement will also
fall under the normal scope of work for the annual external audit. No funds are expected to be
transferred to the NICUs for country-level activities. All payments will be made directly by CARICOM
under instructions from PIU. Likewise, most PIU activity, procurement, consultancy-related payments
will be made directly by CARICOM upon request from PIU. An imprest account for local level office
and administration expenditures will be maintained with the PIU (about US$20,000) since it will be
physically located at Belize, under which arrangement, following the first imprest from CARICOM,
subsequent advances by CARICOM to the PIU will be linked with submission of expenditure reports and
bank reconciliation statements.
CARICOM is an institution with "tax-exempt" status, and therefore local taxes such as VAT and sales
tax on goods procured by such entities can be financed under Bank-funded grant agreements on an
exception basis. Also, under GEF procedures, all incremental costs are eligible for full disbursement.
Since all operating costs under this Grant are incremental in nature, these are eligible for 100%
reimbursement. Disbursements against all expenditure categories indicated in Schedule I to the Grant
Agreement have been agreed at 100%.
Although Financial Monitoring Reports will be prepared under the project, these will be primarily for the
purposes of project management. The initial disbursement into the Special Account will be an advance,
and subsequent requests for replenishment of the Special Account from the GEF Trust Fund Account will
be supported by Statements of Expenditure, including full documentation for contracts beyond the
established thresholds.
Retroactive Funding. The Grant provides US$500,000 in retroactive funding for eligible project
expenditures, covering all disbursement categories, up to six months before the date of the Grant
Agreement signing but after January 1, 2003. The retroactive funding will cover the following main
expenditures: (a) transitional PIU consultant fees; (b) time-critical activites of evolving downscaled
climate project models and developing harmonized vulnerability and risk assessment, and adaptation
strategies; (c) other project activities on a modest scale; and (d) the PIU and agreed CARICOM operating
costs (as defined in the Schedule I to the Grant Agreement) for the six-month period.
Financial monitoring and rePorting system. Financial statements and reports will be prepared in formats
satisfying the Bank's monitoring and fiduciary requirements. On a monthly basis (at least), the
CARICOM Finance Division will prepare the project's Statement of Expenditure, a matrix classifying
receipts by financing source, and expenditures by project component and disbursement category, as
required by CARICOM's operational guidelines for donor-funded projects. This information will be
available from the CARICOM accounting system, which will have a separate Chart of Accounts for
project expenditures.
- 17-



In addition to Statement of Expenditure, the monthly financial reports will include the Special Account
Reconciliation Statements. Any difference in the amount of expenditures reported under the two financial
statements would be explained. The project financial statements, along with the physical progress and
procurement sections of the Financial Monitoring Reports, will be submitted to the Bank on a quarterly
basis, and will be submitted no later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each quarter. The contents
of the FMRs have been discussed and the initial design of the reports has been agreed between the
CARICOM Finance Division and the Bank. The reports, structured for this project, are included in the
Project Operations Manual.
Annual audit arrangements. Annual project financial statements will be audited in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing, by independent auditors (Deloitte and Touche audited CARICOM's
accounts for FY 2001) acceptable to the Bank. These will include audit opinions on project financial
statements, Special Accounts and Statements of Expenditures. The audited statements will be submitted
to the Bank no later than four months following the end of each fiscal year (January-December). For
Bank purposes, the annual financial statements will include a schedule of Statements of Expenditure
presented during the year in support of Withdrawal Applications. CARICOM has already contracted
Deloitte and Touche to audit project expenditures as per standard Bank audit TORs; the contract and the
TORs are incorporated in the Project Operations Manual. The grant will finance the audit of project
expenditures under the head "Consultancies".
Co-financing arrangements. In addition to the counterpart funds from the participating states and grant
assistance by GEF, the project will be co-financed by the Governments of Canada (CIDA) and United
States (NOAA). The NOAA support, aggregating to US$800,000, will be parallel in nature, and will take
the form of in-kind assistance consisting of consultancies, technical assistance and studies, workshops,
seminars, and training. There will be no fund flow, and therefore no procurement-related conflict with
Bank procedures in this instance. The CIDA funding of US$2.0 million equivalent, covers several
activities, in the nature of parallel and joint funding with GEF. The CIDA will provide funds in advance
to CARICOM for project expenditures, and procurement will follow procedures acceptable to the Bank.
The detailed sharing of activities between GEF, CIDA and NOAA is indicated in Table 1, Annex 2
(Project Description Summary). The co-financing agreement between CIDA and CARICOM is already
in place and found acceptable by the Bank; a Letter of Commitment has been received by CARICOM
from NOAA confirming the scope and amount of assistance to this project. The exact amount of NOAA
assistance will be finalized with the adoption of the US government budget, and the co-financing
agreement between CARICOM and NOAA is expected to become effective latest by June 30, 2003.
Monitoring and Evaluation. This will be undertaken at three levels: regular monitoring and concurrent
evaluation; mid-term review, and final assessment. Regular monitoring of project activities will be the
responsibility of the PIU, which will prepare semi-annual reports on the implementation progress. This
will cover reporting on the progress achieved vis-a-vis the Project Operations Manual timeline for project
activties, the Procurement Plan and Schedule, and agreed Work Plan for the year, among other aspects.
An annual report will also be prepared indicating project achievements, experiences, problems and
lessons leamed during the year to be discussed in March each year. Since the key outputs of the project
relate to tailoring of climate projection and climate impacts models, vulnerability assessment and
adaptation approach, regional and national level staff and institutional capacity building, formulation of
adaptation strategies, there will be an assessment of the quality of the outputs by a range of external
consultants (scientist, social experts, economist) as and when required, which will supplement the
monitoring work done by PIUJ. The semi-annual reports from PIU should incorporate these qualitative
assessments too. These consultants will be funded under the project. Finally, with regard to staff
- 18 -



capacity building, the project will fund periodic "self-assessment" exercises through which the trained
staff will do an internal assessment of the quality, usefulness, and "on-the-job" application of the training
modules. The quality of capacity building will also be reflected in the quality of the outputs
(vulnerability assessment, economic costs, adaptation policies, institutional analyses, etc.) which the
trained staff will be assisted to self-prepare in teams. These will be reviewed by external consultants.
Annual Reviews. While the Bank will be reviewing the project through review missions, a full-scale
review of the progress in project implementation will be undertaken around March of each year. An
independent consultant(s) will be contracted to review general project execution and review the
execution of specific components immediately preceding the second annual review. The outcomes of
this review would be discussed at a workshop, where recommendations will be developed for the
remaining project period.
Final Evaluation/Review of Proiect Execution. It is a requirement that all projects funded by GEF
undertake a final evaluation of the project and its execution, particularly to review success and lessons
learnt. CARICOM and the PIU will carry out such a review with the assistance of an independent
consultant acceptable to all parties. The project will support a review workshop or Implementation
Completion Report stakeholder meeting, wherein all countries and agencies will participate to review and
assess the findings of the study, and evolve a sustainability plan for project activities in the post-project
period.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Focusing on creating an enabling environment versus implementing adaptation measures. Progress on
adaptation to climate change requires a balanced development of the knowledge base, institutional
capacity, public education and outreach, and policy environment. Building upon CPACC achievements,
the project will facilitate policy formulation and integration of climate change concerns and actions into
the planning and development process. An alternative approach considered was to support the
formulation and implementation of adaptation investments. However, the knowledge base is insufficient
to identify the adaptation investments. Further, this approach may not be sustainable if not supported by
an appropriate institutional and policy environment. Also, this approach risks sending a signal to
participating countries that all adaptation measures would be funded through the financial support
mechanism of the UNFCCC. The project focuses on enhancing the knowledge base, building capacity at
national and regional level for evolving climate change risk adaptation policies, and identifying
institutional prerequisites to implement the adaptation policies.
Having a regional versus a series of country level projects. "Global" climate change is an important
environmental challenge to sustainable development. The project will work at both the national and
regional levels to: (i) build capacity and formulate sectoral risk management and adaptation policies; and
(ii) build capacity at the regional level for climate and sea-level monitoring, including coral data
collection, climate projections, refinement of approaches to vulnerability assessments, and formulation of
adaptation policies, the development of a regional position for the UNFCCC, and a regionally
coordinated action plan to deal with climate change concerns. An alternative approach considered was to
work with individual countnes. However, the CARICOM countries have limited national capacity and
resources to address this serious environmental challenge individually. Also, the success of the CPACC
project provides a strong justification for espousing a regional approach that is particularly effective in
disseminating and replicating lessons learned during the implementation of country-specific pilots. The
regional approach also facilitates a more cohesive stance to international negotiations under the
- 19 -



UNFCCC, and the harmonization of policies across countries to deal with climate change impacts on
specific sectors.
Focusing on adaptation versus mitigation. The aggregate regional contribution to the global emission of
green house gases is estimated at 0. 15% of the total. As low emitters, for the Caribbean SIDS, mitigation
should not be a priority, although mitigation would emanate from the adaptation policy formulation
process. For the Caribbean SIDS, their highest environmental priority relates to actions to cope with
climate change impacts on their most vulnerable sectors through appropriate climate change adaptation
strategies. The agreements in Bonn and Marrakesh (Conference of Parties 6 and 7) support adaptation
activities in the more vulnerable countries, endorsing the project approach.
Adopting a proiect versus programmatic approach. Through the implementation of the CPACC, the
Caribbean SIDS country governments have come to realize that the challenges posed by climate change
are pervasive and long-term in nature. Responding to these challenges requires a long-term commitment
of resources. This will ensure that as climate change sciences mature in the medium- to long-term,
adaptation policies are fully integrated into the planning and development process of these economies. A
programmatic approach requires a sound baseline to be in place. It was therefore agreed that a project
approach at this stage should be adopted, laying out the basis for longer-term programmatic assistance by
creating the required enabling environment, by defining a longer-term national and regional strategy to
address climate change risk management aspects, and by strengthening the institutions and processes at
the national and regional level to evolve and implement adaptation policies.
Including multi-sectoral pilots versus limiting proiect scope to sectoral adaptation policies. While it is
well-recognized that evolving a coordinated multi-sectoral adaptation policy would be useful for small
SIDS' economies, the process of introducing pilots to demonstrate the range of activities involved,
including information collection, multi-sectoral climate change impacts, multi-sectoral vulnerability and
risk assessments, policy formulation, and institutional implications for implementing a multi-sectoral
adaptation policy at the national level would be too time-consuming and too ambitious at this stage,
especially given limited financial resources. Also, given limited experience of the governments and the
sectoral agencies with adaptation policy formulation and implementation, such an approach could have
frustrating consequences. The project therefore proposes to focus on the impact of climate change in key
sectors, build capacity in sectoral agencies, and identify the cross-sectoral institutional and coordination
issues relating to sectoral climate change adaptation policy implementation. The multi-sectoral approach
could be considered in the next phase of the program.
Implementation through the Caribbean Community Climate Change Center versus Proiect
Implementation Unit. CARICOM established the Caribbean Community Climate Change Center
(CCCCC) in February 2002, which will be physically located in Belize. During project preparation, the
capacity of the CCCCC to implement the project was evaluated through an Institutional Review produced
in August 2002, the results of which were shared and discussed at a meeting between CARICOM, World
Bank and co-financiers (GEF, CIDA) in early September 2002. During this meeting, a consensus was
reached between the parties that it was premature for the CCCCC to assume project implementation
responsibilities at this early stage of its development. The alternative arrangement of implementing the
project through a dedicated project implementation unit (PIU) established within CARICOM (which
would be the recipient of the Grant and the executing agency of the project), was agreed.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
-20-



eLatest Superyvision
. -   'jSetor Issue                  !Project         ,(PSR)Ratings-
-                      , [', ' ' . , ;C-t . ,(Bank-financed pf,ojects,only),
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progress (IP)  Objective (Do)
Climate change vulnerability     Caribbean Planning for           S            S
assessment, adaptation planning and  Adaptation to Global Climate
related capacity building.       Change Project (GEF).
Mitigation of adverse effects of natural OECS Emergency Recovery  S            S
disasters through institutional  and Disaster Management
strengthening and infrastructure  Program (Dominica, Grenada,
support.                         St. Kitts & Nevis, St. Lucia and
St. Vincent) (IIBRD).
Restoration of agricultural capacity in Guyana El Nifio Project   S            S
drought-stricken areas; vulnerability  (IBRD).
reduction measures; flood protection
and restoration of water supplies in
low-lying areas.
Improvement of potable water supply  Guyana Water Supply          S            S
and sanitation services; reduction of  Technical Assistance and
vulnerability to hydrologic extremes;  Rehabilitation Project (IBRD).
modernization of water sector policy
and institutional framework.
Management of wastes, coastal and  OECS Solid Waste               S             S
marine resources, capacity building.  Management Project
(GEF;IBRD;IDA;CDB;EIB;EU
;OECS)
Rehabilitate hydraulic infrastructure of Saint Lucia Watershed and  S           S
priority watersheds; strengthen  Environmental Management
government capacity for environmental Project (IBRD).
management and flood preparedness
S            S
Barrier reef protection, coastal zone  Mesoamerican Barrier Reef
management, institutional        Project (GEF).
strengthening and harmonization of
national policy frameworks.
Develop comprehensive country and  OECS/Barbados Catastrophe
sub-regional risk management ex ante Risk Management and
funding strategies, strengthen domestic Insurance Reform Project
insurance industries, and facilitate  (IBRD, IDA, CDB)
arrangements with international
reinsurance and credit markets.
(Under Preparation)
- 21 -



Second National Communications to  St. Vincent and Grenadines:
the United Nations Framework     Climate Change Enabling
Convention on Climate Change.    Activity (Additional Financing
(Under Preparation)              for Capacity Building in
Priority Areas) (GEF)
Other development agencies
Climate change enabling activity  Caribbean: Climate Change
support to Caribbean countries for  Enabling Activity Projects
preparation of first National    (UNDP;UNEP;GEF).
Communications (with exception of St.
Vincent and the Grenadines under
CPACC).
Testing and improvement of       Global/Antigua and Barbuda:
methodologies and guidelines through Country Case Studies on
a series of country studies for  Climate Change Impacts and
assessing climate change impacts and  Adaptations Assessment -
adaptation.                      Phase I (UNEP;GEF).
Capacity building, training and  Global: Climate Change
institutional strengthening for  Training Phase II - Training
development of national strategies for Program to Support the
implementation of UNFCCC.        Implementation of the
UNFCCC (UNDP;GEF).
Information exchange and technical  Global: National
assistance for preparation of initial  Communications Support
national communications.         Program (UNDP;UNEP;GEF).
National/regional studies and capacity Global: Assessment of Impacts
building to assess climate change  and Adaptations to Climate
impacts on socioeconomic sectors and Change in Multiple Regions
ecological systems for development of and Sectors (UNEP;GEF).
adaptation response options.
Disaster mitigation in housing and  Caribbean Disaster Mitigation
infrastructure.                  Project (USAID).
Development of national, long-term  Implementation of an
integrated island management and  Integrated Archipelagic
sustainable development strategies  ecosystem management and
throughout the sub-region and within  sustainable development
the context of GEF operational   program for the Eastern
program 12.                      Caribbean (UNDP-OECS
PDF-B Proposal)
Coastal and marine resources capacity Caribbean Regional Oceans
building.                        and Fisheries Program
- 22 -



(CROFP), Fisheries Resource
Assessment and Management
(CIDA).
Disaster preparedness in the health  Caribbean Hospital Mitigation
sector.                          and Mass Casualty Training
(PAHO)
Rehabilitation and Disaster
Preparedness                     Belize Hurricane Rehabilitation
and Disaster Preparedness
(IADB)
Post-hurricane Reconstruction and  Belize Emergency
Disaster Preparedness            Reconstruction Facility
Following Hurricane Keith
(IADB)
Post-hurricane Reconstruction and  Dominican Republic
Disaster Preparedness            Reconstruction and
Improvement in the Wake of
Hurricane Georges (LADB)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
Coordination with other GEF proiects. The project team coordinated with other GEF project executors
and sponsors to address potential overlaps at the earliest opportunity and agree upon a mechanism for
cooperation and collaboration in areas of mutual interest. During project preparation, opportunities for
collaboration with projects already approved or under implementation were explored. The PIU will also
coordinate with the project management teams of the Caribbean Dialogue on Water and Climate and the
Integrated Watershed & Coastal Area Management Project being developed by UNEP-CAR-RCU, CEHI,
the CFRAMP for the fishery program, and the GEF-assisted Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System Project.
A Coordination Protocol already exists for coordination with the project management team of the
Integrated Watershed & Coastal Area Management Project (included in the Project Operations Manual),
which will serve as a model to develop similar protocols with other project management units during
implementation.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
A key lesson learned and reflected in the proposed project is the seguencing of the activities to address
climate chan2:e issues, given the long-term horizon over which these initiatives have to be phased in.
There is a crucial and immediate need to build an enabling environment to embrace climate change
adaptation policies, rather than investing in mitigation measures. The proposed project attempts to create
an enabling environment for climate change adaptation to occur on a sustainable basis. Specifically, it
focuses on building and refining the knowledge base for informed decision-making, on piloting the
process of preparation for adaptation policies, identifying institutional gaps and remedies for
implementation and enforcement of adaptation policies, and forging a strong academic, private sector,
NGO, public sector, civil society and government (sector level and national) partnership for developing
and implementing a climate change adaptation strategy.
-23-



Another central lesson learned and reflected in the project design has to do with the fundamental need to
mainstream climate change issues into national sustainable development strategies. Good progress has
been made under CPACC and other projects in technical capacity building and institutional
strengthening; however, climate change issues still are not generally a part of the mainstream policy
dialogue at the national level. To this end, the proposed project has been designed to broaden and deepen
capacity building efforts with stakeholders in local communities and key sectors to incorporate climate
change impact and risk assessment into their ongoing development planning and investment decisions.
Public and political awareness activities will also be intensified through a vigorous education and
outreach effort to further sensitize the general public about the relevance of climate change issues in their
daily lives and to build political support for adaptation initiatives.
A related issue is the need to expand climate change monitoring and impact assessment as a basis for
national and regional decision making. CPACC and other projects in this area have underscored the need
for region-specific climate models for the Caribbean in order to make more accurate projections about
climate change impacts, and develop appropriate strategies in individual countries. To this end, the
proposed project will support: (a) the downscaling of global climate models; (b) assisting the already
established monitoring networks, including planning and building capacity for their routine operation and
maintenance; (c) further development of data applications relevant to the design of national adaptation
activities for selected sectors; and (d) expanding vulnerability assessments from a focus on coastal
management issues to include water resources, tourism, and agricultural impacts of climate change, and
also from a pure engineering assessment focus to include social and economic aspects.
Other regional projects have underscored the importance of an effective regional coordination
mechanism to address system-wide transboundary issues. CPACC has been instrumental in taking the
first step of establishing a regional network of national government agencies, private sector
representatives and regional institutions addressing climate change and its effect on economic, social and
cultural development in the Caribbean region. The proposed project will consolidate this initiative and
formalize the regional institutional mechanisms to articulate a regional strategy for climate change and
also to determine the national level actions required to further the region level strategy. In addition, the
regional mechanism will also assist individual countries in crafting their national communications, as
required under the UNFCCC.
In order to effectively mainstream climate change into development planning, strong national institutions
such as the finance, planning, economic ministries and line agencies need to be involved. Keeping the
climate change agendas within the environmental agencies has not led to effective mainstreaming of
these issues into policy decisions. Through the development of a national policy framework, evolving
sectoral policies for climate change management, setting the stage at the end of the project for
multi-sectoral planning for climate change risk management, and the technical support and capacity
building efforts for line ministry and national agency staff, the project will facilitate dialogue between
line agencies, finance ministries and environment ministries to include climate change considerations in
their respective agendas.
4. Ilndications of borrower and recipient comniitmnent and ownership:
The topic of climate change remains a high priority to the Caribbean SIDS. All participating countries
have ratified the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and have also
signed the Kyoto Protocol. The region has also been actively involved in the discussions relating to the
design of the Clean Development Mechanism, and is now playing an important role in shaping the
climate change debate in special interest groupings - AOSIS, G77 and China.
-24 -



The Caribbean SIDS have been full participants in the implementation of the CPACC project. Under this
project, governments have committed resources for its operation through National Focal Points and
National Implementation Coordinating Units. Some countries have even established cross-sectoral
National Climate Change Committees that have been actively involved in implementing CPACC
activities, such as vulnerability assessments, coral reef monitoring, national climate change adaptation
policies and coastal resource inventories. These groups will now be expected to support the
implementation of the proposed project. Through an interface with the region-promoted CPACC project,
PETROTRIN (the Petroleum Company of Trinidad and Tobago) has supported climate change activities
in the region and has recently established an in house climate change institute to advise the industry on
actions which they need to take for compliance with some aspects of the UNFCCC. One country, St
Lucia, has declared that it will pursue a policy of a totally non-fossil fuel based economy, and it has
already taking steps to implement this initiative. Further, under CPACC all countries are committed to
developing and adopting a National Climate Change Adaptation Policy and Implementation plan
formally at the national level.
Under the UNDP Enabling Activities project, all participating countries have completed their first
National Communications. Some of these communications were submitted to the UNFCCC secretariat at
COP6. All of these communications identify adaptation to climate change as a high priority issue for the
region, and support the regional approach adopted for implementation of CPACC. At the national level,
the initial national communication reports from CARICOM countries requested support for a second
regional project (as a follow-up to CPACC), to continue capacity building and technical assistance in the
area of climate change, and to further strengthen the adaptation process.
At the regional level, therefore, the CARICOM Heads of Governments approved a resolution during their
last meeting in July 2000, authorizing the then implementation team of the CPACC project to submit a
request to the GEF to support the development of a full proposal to continue the process of adaptation.
The CARICOM Heads of Government also endorsed a resolution calling for the establishment of
institutional capacity to champion adaptation policies and to coordinate climate change activities in the
region.
5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this project:
Bank's comparative advantage in managing climate. The GEF's role in this project is essential. Issues
relating to climate change are global, and in the case of Caribbean countries, transboundary and regional
in character. Incremental cost aspects can be addressed adequately through grant support at the regional
level. The World Bank brings to this project its considerable capacity to address climate change related
environmental issues and its ability to convene governments around issues of common concern.
Relevant Sector Work. The Bank will provide the recipient with access to climate change related
initiatives in other regions, including the Pacific Islands' proposed adaptation effort, the sector work on
adaptation by low-lying areas, and the development policies and regulations on climate change used in
other regions. Likewise, the sector work on optimization of participation in the Clean Development
Mechanism, undertaken under the aegis of the National Strategic Studies partnership in Colombia,
Argentina, and Bolivia will be useful in the discussions leading to adoption of regional positions at the
UNFCCC Conference of Parties.
Successful experience with CPACC proiect. The Bank has gained considerably from the experience of
implementing of the CPACC project. Since this project is a logical extension from Stage I (CPACC
-25-



project) to Stage II enabling and adaptation activities, the Bank is ideally suited to provide support for the
proposed project, as it brings institutional memory and continuity to consolidate the achievements under
the CPACC project.
Extensive experience in institutional. strategic. economic, and social aspects. Climate change initiatives
in the Caribbean have, until now, paid limited attention to policy and institutional considerations and
PEO activities, with some work on developing knowledge base for SLR adaptation, and with limited
work on social vulnerabilities and impacts assessment or economic assessment of potential climate
change damage/loss. Some very basic work was done under the CPACC project on climate projection
and vulnerability assessments for selected coastal areas. In the Stage l: initiatives, it is important to move
towards a more comprehensive and participatory approach to social and economic vulnerabilities and
economic assessments, and develop adaptation strategies, identify institutional prerequisites for
implementation of the action plans, and bring about a coordinated action at the regional level. The Bank
has considerable experience in these areas that could be shared with the region for effective
implementation of the project.
Complementarity with other projects. There are several completed, ongoing and proposed initiatives in
managing climate change risks by the Caribbean SI)S. The recently completed CPACC project created a
platform to launch the proposed project. Activities of several on-going projects need to be coordinated
with the proposed project. In the area of strengthening observational and monitoring networks and
climate-related data generation, FINNIDA is an important contributor. The Comprehensive Disaster
Management Strategy developed by CDERA will be used as starting framework to incorporate climate
change issues into governmental response strategy. The proposed project is co-financed with
contributions from the Governments of Canada and the United States. The Integrated Watershed and
Coastal Areas Management Project is another proposed project funded by GEF and directly relevant to
this project. The Bank brings a unique comparative advantage of coordinating the activities of these
completed, on-going and other proposed projects at the national and regional level, yielding considerable
benefits in terms of experience and best-practice sharing.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Incremental Cost
O Other (specify)
The project is a Stage II enabling activity for climate change adaptation as defined under the UNFCCC
and at the Conference of Parties (COP) meeting. Annex 4 compares the baseline scenario with the GEF
alternative, identifying an incremental cost of US$9.9 million to achieve the global benefits.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Impact:
The anticipated fiscal impact of the project on participating countries is expected to be minimal. The
financial plan for the project relies largely on grants from the GEF under the enabling activities window,
and from the Governments of Canada and the United States. Almost all funding is either for climate and
coral reef monitoring equipment, or for building knowledge base and capacity amongst participating
countries through workshops and training, to use the tailored models for climate projection, climate
- 26 -



impacts, and vulnerability and risk assessment, or to educate the stakeholders about the climate change
risk management strategies. Since the project will be implemented through existing institutions, with
only a small coordinating PIU, the "recurrent" costs pertaining to the PIU are very modest. Counterpart
contributions are largely in kind, in terms of staff time, during the project period, and do not have any
budgetary implications for the participating countries. In the post project period, the demand for
counterpart resources on the SIDS countries for recurrent costs would be about US$500,000 for the entire
region (see Annex 5), and can be easily absorbed into the participating country financial budgets.
3. Technical:
The SIDS are particularly vulnerable to the impacts of climate change and, under the UNFCCC financing
mechanism, need to be assisted with capacity building initiatives for adaptation to climate change
impacts. The project design is technically appropriate, as it focuses mainly on the development of
knowledge base through upgrading the climate monitoring infrastructure and tailoring models, which will
facilitate climate change and impacts projection, and undertaking vulnerability and risk assessment that
will inform the development of climate change adaptation strategy. As such, there are issues relating to
only two project interventions: expansion of the monitoring network and the tailoring of appropriate
climate projection models for SIDS situation. These are discussed below.
Expansion of the monitoring network. The existing CPACC monitoring network was designed in 1997
as a long term sea-level and meteorological trend monitoring system. At the time this system was
designed and procured, it was the best technology available. The network is operating satisfactorily, but
is vulnerable to failure. The main reason for this vulnerability is inadequate maintenance capacity, which
exacerbates problems of normal wear due to the age of the equipment. This wear is largely seen in the
form of "drift" in electronic equipment. The other vulnerability is damage caused by extreme events. The
network needs to be enhanced to include measurements that will complement direct readings on sea level
and sea surface temperature.
To address these problems, the project proposes to: (a) upgrade existing infrastructure and equipment
with new technology by adding optional attributes that have become available since the equipment was
procured in 1997; (b) introduce a system of early replacement of selected sensors; (c) improve
maintenance capacity by training national staff, especially in the smaller countries; and (d) strengthen the
equipment to reduce its vulnerability to damage from hurricanes. In addition, the project will specifically
identify issues relating to, and promote, linkages with other networks such as Global Climate
Observation System (GCOS) and Global Sea-level Observing System (GLOSS) to ensure compatibility
and effectiveness.
Tailoring global climate projection models. All climate projection models that are being used today are
global in nature and do not lend themselves to direct adoption for smaller regions or countries. There is
wide consensus on the advantages of downscaling global models; however, there is less certainty on
which instruments should be used. The project will adopt two actions to provide the region with climate
change projections at a resolution compatible with the size of the landmasses in the Caribbean. First, it
will specifically support the development of downscaled models using statistical techniques to serve as a
starting point for the first iteration of climate change scenarios to formulate climate change impacts.
Second, it will support the development of a regional climate model based on dynamic assumptions
relating to variables, and obtain expected scenarios with a range of climate-related variables.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
- 27 -



Project Executing Agency - Caribbean Comrnunity (CARICOM)
Project Implementation Agency - Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
4.2 Project management:
CARICOM will be the Grant recipient and also the executing agency. Project implementation will be the
responsibility of PIU, which will be assisted by the National Implementation Coordination Units of each
participating country at the country level for national level activities. These entities will be able to
participate effectively in regional activities and contribute to intra-regional and international discussions.
Both CARICOM and the PIU have limited experience in implementing Bank-funded projects, and
therefore limited understanding of the procurement and financial management related aspects. Since
CARICOM is an already established institution with considerable capacity in financial management, and
some exposure to procurement processes, it will liaise closely with the World Bank, as well as house the
project-related accounting, financial management and overall reporting and carry out procurement-related
activities for the project. While its accounting and financial management capacity is rated as adequate to
support the project, its procurement capacity is rated as inadequate. CARICOM and the Bank have
agreed to an action plan to mitigate risks related to project funds flow, and to strengthen CARICOM
capacity in procurement aspects (see Section 4.3 and Annex 6A for Procurement-related, and Section 4.4
and Annex 6B for Financial Management-related, detailed Action Plan).
Given the regional nature of the project, the PIU will be headed by a Project Manager with strong
management skills. He/she will be assisted by a Technical Coordinator and Economist to manage the
development of climate change knowledge base, including the finalization of vulnerability and risk
assessment studies, and the formulation of country-level, sector-specific climate change adaptation
strategies. A PEO specialist will support the Public Education and Outreach sub-component. The
economist will support selected country teams in conducting the adaptation strategy preparation exercise.
To facilitate expeditious implementation of project activities, to establish the PIU at Belize, and to ensure
continuity in the on-going ACCC project activities, a transitional PIU has been set up in Barbados. Three
consultants with relevant experience and qualifications have been contracted on a short-term basis from
January 1, 2003 to perform the above functions. Synchronously, an advertisement is being released
soliciting consultants to staff the PIU on a transparent, competitive, and permanent basis. Following
their appointment, the transitional PIU staff will handover the responsibilities of project management to
the newly appointed PIU core consultants by June 30, 2003. Since most payments will be made by the
CARICOM Finance Division with only an imprest account being maintained at the PIU in Belize, an
experienced accountant/book-keeper will be either positioned in the PIU on a part-time basis, or her
services contracted out.
Also, since the PIU will have minimal staff, it will work through five coordinating beneficiary agencies
(CIMH, UWI Mona (Marine Studies Center and the Climate Studies Group), UWI St. Augustine, and
CDERA) for climate and coral reef monitoring, climate and impacts assessment modelling, and
upgrading infrastructure standards and norms under separate MOUs. Project implementation is expected
to be shared and carried out in a collaborative framework by CARICOM, PIU, the participating
countries, and the regional and national agencies, and will involve partnerships at the regional and
international level.
4.3 Procurement issues:
All procurement responsibilities under the project would rest with CARICOM, the executing agency. A
- 28-



procurement capacity assessment was carried out during project preparation under which the
procurement risk was assessed as "high". Project management would be the responsibility of a PIU to be
established within CARICOM, although physically located initially in Barbados, and eventually in
Belize. The PIU will closely coordinate with CARICOM staff assigned to the project on all technical
aspects relevant to procurement (e.g. technical specifications and terms of reference, approval of
consultant short lists, bid and proposal evaluation, supervision and evaluation of consultant
performance). CARICOM has limited procurement capacity and no prior experience with, or knowledge
of, Bank policies and procedures. In addition, responsibilities for procurement of consultants are not
assigned to any specific unit, and all departments carry out selection processes, according to their needs.
Agreed Action Plan. To address the above inadequacies, it was agreed that: (a) an appropriate focal
point would be established at CARICOM to manage procurement for the project within the existing
structure; (b) adequate procurement technical assistance would be provided by the project to CARICOM;
and (c) separate procedures acceptable to be Bank would be adopted for the project procurement (see
Annex 6A for more details on the Action Plan). Most of these actions have been completed (institutional
arrangements relating to procurement, specially designated procurement staff in CARICOM, separate
chapter in the Project Operations Manual on procurement aspects, documentation of CARICOM
procedures for procurement where applicable, initiating the process of retaining the services of an
international procurement consultant, among other things).
4.4 Financial management issues:
Accounting and financial management capacity of CARICOM has been assessed to meet Bank
requirements. CARICOM has a well established finance and accounting division, with clear policies,
rules and procedures in place. The internal control mechanisms are also adequate, permitting the
safeguarding of project assets. Auditing arrangements have been found to be satisfactory. Since
CARICOM has no experience with implementation of Bank-funded projects, and given the inadequate
banking sector arrangements in Guyana and the moderate to high risk associated with various aspects of
implementation, the overall financial management risk is rated as "moderate to high".
Agreed Action Plan: To address the risks, three specific actions have been agreed to with CARICOM:
(a) that for the first year of implementation, financial management supervision will take place every six
months; and (b) that the Special Account would be restricted to a single location (preferably Washington
D.C.); and (c) that SOE procedures would be used for replenishment, but with a lower threshold in the
Special Account (see Annex 6B for more details on the Action Plan). Three additional actions have been
taken by CARICOM: (a) finalizing the Chart of Accounts for project expenditures, and initiating the
process of incorporating it into the CARICOM Solomon IV-based accounting system; (b) contracting
external auditors based on standard Bank auditing TORs; and (c) preparing draft Financial Monitoring
Reports tailored to project requirements.
5. Environmental:                Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project expands the information base relating to projected climate impacts, builds capacity to carry
out vulnerability and risk assessment, and assists with the formulation of adaptation strategies to address
climate change impacts. As this is a capacity building project involving studies, training and strategy
formnulation but not actual implementation (as is required under Stage II Enabling Activity project under
UNFCCC), no adverse environmental impacts are expected to emanate from it. The project will, in fact,
facilitate the incorporation of environmental considerations into planning and development processes at
- 29 -



the country level.
As a result of global climate change, over the medium to long-term, major changes in sea level,
hydrological regimes, vegetation cover, and agricultural patterns, are anticipated that could be considered
to have major environmental impacts. For example, project generated climate projection and impacts
models and the vulnerability and risk assessment exercises may reveal that the changing patterns of
agricultural use and rise in sea level could have major impacts on natural habitats, and could potentially
displace a significant portion of the population in some countries. Rather than directly supporting the
design, or redesign, of an adaptation option, the project will encourage the formulation of a range of
options and assist in the identification of environmental issues for the different options. In this context,
the project will contribute to address more explicitly the question of assisting countries in adapting
national (and sectoral) planning frameworks to take into account environmental impacts arising from
climate change.
Although no preparation or implementation of adaptation pilots is considered, the stakeholders will
benefit from capacity building on aspects that will include: environmental screening based on potential
impact; environmental impact analysis; and design and implementation of environmental management
plans where applicable. The procedures will also assess compliance with any applicable safeguard
policies. A key intervention under the project will be to conduct workshops to build capacity within
participating country teams, and dessiminate knowledge on a range of possibly relevant safeguards
issues.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Not applicable.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: Not applicable
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Not applicable.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The project generated adaptation strategies will be reviewed for quality and compliance with
environmental considerations. This will be done at two stages: first, while evaluating the range of
adaptation options, a transparent and participatory process will be followed to discuss the options with
representatives of various stakeholder groups; and second, evaluation of this aspect has been specifically
built into the M&E plan for the project, under which both the breadth and depth of the participation, and
the quality of the selected adaptation option(s) from the environmental/social standpoint will be
evaluated by an external expert consultant.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The project focuses on planning and capacity building to address the impact of anticipated climate
change, and does not involve any physical investments (other than upgrading monitoring stations) nor
does it assist with the implementation of any adaptation pilot. The project is not expected to have any
direct impact on specific populations. No negative social impacts are therefore expected to emanate from
the project. In fact, since the coastal areas and more environmentally fragile areas are generally more
-30-



accessible by the poorer sections of the population, these stakeholder groups may be more vulnerable to
climate change impacts. Risk management procedures proposed under the project may eventually result
in the preparation of adaptation strategies that disproportionately benefit these sections of the population.
As with environmental concerns, rather than directly supporting the design or redesign of an adaptation
option, the project will encourage the formulation of a range of options, and assist in the identification of
social issues for the different options. In this context, the project will contribute to address more
explicitly the question of assisting project states in adapting national (and sectoral) planning frameworks
to take social issues into account. The project will also support workshops on social analyses, and
related topics to build capacity within participating country teams, and dessiminate knowledge on these
aspects.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The project will address issues of mainstreaming climate change into the national planning processes.
Accordingly, a key interlocutor will be the Planning Ministry. In addition, the planning offices of the
line ministries (water, agriculture, fisheries and land use, tourism) will also play an important role.
These agencies have participated in the design of the project through representation at the meetings of the
heads of governments dealing with the inclusion of climate change in the regional development agenda,
and will continue to be involved through their participation in national and regional stakeholder meetings
as part of the project's regional consultations. These agencies will also play an important role in the
implementation of the project, and in particular, in the formulation of adaptation strategies for the
participating countries, and in the institutional assessment exercise. Other important stakeholders, such
as the scientific communities and the Ministry of Environment, will be engaged in specific technical
consultations during the implementation of the project, and will contribute the environmental focus to the
adaptation strategies.
The project specifically includes a Public Education and Outreach component. Civil society, NGOs, the
banking and insurance sectors, construction industry, and other national and regional institutions will all
be targeted to receive information on project activities and outputs, encouraged to participate in
discussions and deliberations, designed to build awareness and coordinate the regional position,
participate in the development of adaptation strategies and pilots, propose for adoption upgraded building
standards, examine a proposed insurance and financing incentive framework for a consensual and
participatory environment. The campaign itself will be designed to provide opportunities for public
participation. The public awareness campaign will also have a strategy for dialogue and involvement of
key politicians in the region. Stakeholders targeted under the public awareness campaign and involved in
the consultation process will also include private sector representatives from key economic sectors, such
as fisheries, real estate, banking and tourism. NGOs working in this region will also be engaged. Initial
contacts have already been made with representative NGOs, and this practice will continue through
project implementation.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
NGOs working on climate change and related sustainable development issues will participate in project
implementation through representation on the Project Advisory Committee, and through involvement in
capacity building, training and planning activities under the proposed project. Various NGOs and civil
society representatives have already participated in CPACC. The NGO community will be strongly
encouraged to continue to participate in the implementation of this project, which is a CPACC follow-up
project.
- 31 -



6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
See Sections 6.2 and 6.3 above.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The project generated adaptation strategies will be reviewed for quality and for compliance with social
considerations. This will be done at two stages: first, while evaluating the range of adaptation options, a
transparent and participatory process will be followed to discuss the options with representatives of
various stakeholder groups; and second, evaluation of this aspect has been specifically built into the
M&E plan for the project, under which both the breadth and depth of the participation, and the quality of
the selected adaptation option from the environmental/social standpoint will be evaluated by an external
expert consultant.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Are any of the following safeguard policies triggered by the project?
;,   - -  s  --      LGoli-cy                    .            Triggered
Envirommental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)         (9 Yes (9 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                 (9 Yes (9 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                  ( Yes U No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    U Yes (U No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                U Yes ()No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    Yes   No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/lBP 4.12)                       ( Yes U No
Safety of Dams (OP 437, BP 4.37)                             ( Yes U No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  (9 Yes ( No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*      C Yes (9 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Not applicable.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainabiity:
The project benefits include the following: (a) improvements in the information monitoring networks,
including enhanced maintenance capacity; (b) availability of tested and tailored models and approaches
for climate projections, impacts assessments, vulnerability and risk assessments and adaptation initiatives
at the sectoral level, which with the capacity built up during the project, can be scaled up to a
multi-sectoral exercise; (c) enhanced understanding of proactive risk-reduction initiatives in reducing
vulnerabilities to climate change of infrastructure, populations, and the environment; and (d) articulation
of a regional strategy and approach for climate change adaptation.
Improvement in the information network will be sustained in the post-project period as the project will
build adequate technical capacity in regional and country level staff to maintain the monitoring station
facilities. Requirement of counterpart funds for maintenance is modest and can be provided through
budgetary support. Sustainability of the infrastructure created under the CPACC project was threatened
due to poor technical maintenance capacity, particularly in the smaller SIDS.
-32-



The climate projection, climate impacts generation and the vulnerability and risk assessment models will
be sustained for two key reasons: first, the project will train a rather large constituency of technical staff,
both at the regional and country level, to be able to use these methodologies; second, successful
mainstreaming of climate change concerns into sectoral, national and regional development planning will
facilitate sustainability of the climate change agenda in the long-term. Processes and tools to support the
formulation of the adaptation agenda to climate change will be integrated into planning activities, as
decision support mechanisms, and this is expected to facilitate the long-term sustainability of these tools.
The possibility of reducing the vulnerability to climate chan,-e impacts will depend on civil society, the
business community and private sector to understand the climate change risk management measures and
proactively embrace them for implementation. It will also depend on the political will and the cost
associated with the actual implementation of the sectoral and national level climate change adaptation
strategies. It is premature at this stage to even guess whether this be a constraint to the longer-term
sustainability of adaptation processes. The project addresses these risks to sustainability through a
vigorous public education program that will target politicians, line departments, industry, NGOs, and
other stakeholders to build the institutional and political support needed to facilitate mainstreaming
during project completion.
The regional strategy and agenda have been the result of a continuous dialogue among the Caribbean
SIDS and their acceptance of the fact that individually these countnes do not have the capacity to address
climate change issues. A regional approach has been taken by the SIDS voluntarily, which was furthered
by CPACC, and which the project proposes to strengthen.
Financial and institutional sustainability of the regional approach to climate change adaptation is a
concern. The project will address this concern by supporting the development of a regional adaptation
strategy that will identify and formulate options for securing the financial and institutional support for a
regional approach to climate change adaptation. This will involve, in particular, examining and
finalizing the functional responsibilities, possible sources of financing, and governance structure of the
recently created Caribbean Community Climate Change Center.
la. Replicability:
The project will build capacity in the region through: (a) facilitating the country teams to carry out
vulnerability and risk assessments, and to develop adaptation strategies for selected key sectors; (b)
supporting regional institutions on adaptation of appropriate climate projection and impacts scenarios
development models to meet Caribbean SIDS requirements; (c) strengthening and working closely with
local universities, regional institutions such as CIMH, CDB and CDERA (which have spearheaded work
in the area of climate monitoring, formulation of disaster management strategies, development of
infrastructure design standards); (d) developing databases which will be useful to carry out vulnerability
and risk assessments in future; and (e) developing PEO strategies which will enable the process of
vulnerability assessments and development of adaptation strategies to become participatory and
transparent, and facilitate endorsement by various stakeholders. All these activities support knowledge
building and are continuous in nature, extending well beyond the project period.
Replicability is embedded in the project at three levels: first, at the Caribbean region level, where the
project created knowledge (at regional institutions and country level) and database could be used to
extend the vulnerability and risk assessments and adaptation strategy formulation to other sectors in the
participating countries; second, the regional approach to the project could be replicated and bring useful
lessons to other countries, in particular, the Pacific SIDS, which face similar capacity constraints; and
third, the project approach to mainstreaming adaptation to climate chnage is expected to bring useful
- 33 -



lessons that could be replicated elsewhere.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk    -              Risk Rating           -Risk Mitigation Measure' 
From Outputs to Objective
Climate and coral reef monitoring         M         (a) A Maintenance Fund has already been
network is not efficiently maintained, and          established under the CPACC project;
is unable to contribute to expanding the            adequacy of the fund will be assessed during
information base                                    project implementation and will be augmented,
if necessary;
(b) The project will build technical capacity to
undertake maintenance work, which was one of
the main reasons for poor maintenance under
the CPACC project;
(c) An incentive framework for the national
and regional agencies to participate and
collaborate in operating and maintaining
regional-level infrastructure will be evolved
during project implementation.
Inadequate participation and              M         (a) CARICOM and PIU will play a critical
capacity-building in countries not                  coordinating role in getting the countries to
selected to participate in sectoral                 work together. Success has been demonstrated
vulnerability assessments                           by PRJ and CARICOM in this area under the
CPACC project.
(b) Assisting all project participating countries
with the "no regrets" policies studies will
motivate countries not selected for the
vulnerability assessment studies to participate.
Poor capacity-building in countries       M         (a) Selection criteria for country sectoral
selected to participate in sectoral                 vulnerability assessments which include
vulnerability assessments                           availability of minimal data sets for meaningful
assessments, replicability, representativeness,
collaboration mechanisms among countries,
country commitment (including counterpart
funding), are designed to mitigate this risk;
(b) The staff from the non-selected countries
will participate in the actual vulnerability
assessments to gain an understanding of the
process, resulting in hands-on capacity
building, and benefit from the results of the
Country Vulnerability Assessment Studies.
From Components to Outputs
Sectoral departments do not appreciate     S        (a) Selection criteria for adaptation strategies
cross-sectoral nature of climate change             will include country commitment and
impacts, and do not work readily in a               mechanisms for inter-sectoral coordination at
-34 -



coordinated manner to identify and                the national level.
formulate the lead Sectoral Adaptation            (b) The adaptation strategy preparation process
Strategies and Implementation Action              will be transparent and participatory in nature.
Plans                                             In addition to the lead sector department, other
affected departments will also participate in the
process, leading to improved ownership of the
Adaptation Strategy by all;
(c) The strong PEO process is also expected to
build awareness among all stakeholders,
including the other sector departments, to
appreciate the implications and impacts of
climate change, including the coordinated
approach to risk management.
The private and public sectors and civil  M        A strong PEO process has been built into the
society do not show a keenness to                  project to generate awareness and interest in
participate in the identification and             stakeholders to participate in the Adaptation
formulation of lead Sectoral Adaptation            Strategy and preparation of Implementation
Strategies and Implementation Action               Action Plans, among other aspects. This is
Plans                                              critical to building ownership in the project's
processes and outcomes, that will ultimately
facilitate their adoption by stakeholders.
Some countries do not support the        M         Caribbean SIDS are used to working at the
regional approach to climate change               regional level on climate change, as
adaptation and representation at                   demonstrated by the CPACC project.
international fora
Some countries do not endorse actions    M         The outcomes of the Capacity Development
outlined in the Regional Strategy for              Initiative study which highlighted the need for
implementation at the national level               a coordinated regional approach to strategy
preparation and representation at the
international for a have been endorsed by all
participating countries. This indicates their
commitment to work at the regional level.
Donors, PIU, CARICOM and                 M         (a) Preparation of the project has been
participating countries do not work in             participatory in nature, with all agencies
concert, and do not cooperate in the               contributing to the project design. The project
implementation of the project activities           reflects the commitment of all agencies;
(b) Caribbean SIDS have the experience of
implementing projects in a collaborative
manner, as demonstrated by CPACC;
(c) A Co-participating Agreement signed
between CARICOM and each participating
country will clearly develop their respective
relationship and corresponding responsibilities
for the project;
(d) MOUs will be signed between CARICOM
-35-



and the implementing agencies of other
projects to lay down the rules of coordination
and information sharing to facilitate
cooperation.
CARICOM and PIU are unable to             H         (a) Action Plans for Procurement and Financial
comply with Bank financial management               Management have been agreed with
and procurement standards, and are                  CARICOM and PIU to strengthen their
unable to implement the project                     capacities in these areas. Many actions have
satisfactorily                                      already been taken;
(b) The Project Operations Manual indicates
the sharing of the roles and responsibilities
between CARICOM and PIU;
(c) The staffing of PIU has been agreed to with
CARICOM; a key strategy has been to flexibly
staff PIU as per the needs of the project over
the implementation period.
The Public Education & Outreach           M         A tentative PEO strategy has already been
program does not create an environment              developed under the ACCC program. The
of shared understanding of climate                  project will facilitate finalization of the
change risks, risk reduction possibilities,         strategy, and commence implementation
or a collaborative approach to risk                 immediately. This will facilitate awareness
management                                          building fairly early on during the project
period.
Overall Risk Rating                       M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
G. Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
The National Implementation Coordination Units (NICUs) have been established and staffed by the
participating countries, and are operational.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Dated Covenants:
(a) Replacement, not later than June 30, 2003, of the transitional PIU at Barbados by a permanent PIU to
be established in Belize;
(b) Effectiveness of the NOAA Grant Agreement not later than June 30, 2003;
(c) Annual work plans to be provided to the Bank not later than November 30 of each year; and
(d) Provision of biannual Project progress reports on March I and September I of each year, and annual
review of Project progress on March 31 of each year.
- 36 -



(d) Provision of biannual Project progress reports on March I and September 1 of each year, and annual
review of Project progress on March 31 of each year.
H. Readiness for Implementation
E 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
3 1. b) Not applicable.
El 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
B 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
a 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Benoit   Je                       ohn Redwood           S         Ors ia I4alantzopbulos
Team Leade                       Sector Manager/Director          Country Manager/Director
-37-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
CARIBBEAN: Mainstreaming Adaptation to Climate Change Project
Key P  dornense,e  1     tapilection  trs ii
H-1-ierarchy-of Objives        lndicatCr^s'.                                k CriOiAll Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:    Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Reduce vulnerability to  Enhanced technical     CARICOM, OECS,          Sustained political
natural disasters and   capacity to evaluate,   UNFCCC, World Bank and commitment to adaptation
climate related negative  monitor and plan for  IDA sector and country  and preparedness for
impacts                 climate change related  reports                 natural disasters and
impacts                                         climate change impacts
GEF Operational Program:  Outcome I Impact
Indicators:
Climate Change          National capacity to
Enabling Activity in    effectively plan, manage
Adaptation              and monitor climate change
Stage 11                policies in Caribbean SIDS
enhanced
Common Caribbean SIDS
position for international
negotiations on issues
related to climate change
developed
Global Objective:       Outcome / Impact        Project reports:        (from Objective to Goal)
Indicators:
To facilitate the creation of Strengthened regional  A blend of the following  Continuity of government
an enabling environment  knowledge base:        evaluation mechanisms:  commitment to climate
for climate change      *90% of the stations                            change adaptation
adaptation in CARICOM   reporting with 90%      PIU Progress Reports   initiatives and to
small island developing  reliability                                    implementation of the
states (the participating  *wide dissemination of  Bank/Donor Review    Adaptation Strategies
countries are: Antigua &  climate change related data Mission Aides Memoire
Barbuda; Bahamas;       and documentation                               Policy issues relating to
Barbados; Belize;       * Models, databases,    Independent expert      individual sectors -
Dominica; Grenada;      vulnerability assessments  consultant assessment  tourism, agriculture, water
Guyana; Jamaica; St. Kitts and adaptation approach  reports             resources addressed by the
and Nevis; Saint Lucia; St. developed under the project                 governments
Vincent & the Grenadines; are found useful by   Special stakeholders survey
Trinidad & Tobago).     potential               - households, construction  Regional climate projection
users/beneficiaries who are industry, finance and  model, climate impacts
also willing to use them,  insurance sector players,  assessment model, and
and are assessed of     government staff, etc.  V&A methodology is used
satisfactory quality                            by trained staff to extend
Mid-term and final      the formulation of Climate
A large constituency of  evaluations            Change Adaptation
sectoral specialists                             Strategies to other sectors
equipped and trained to  Regional agenda, PIU
incorporate climate change generated reports on the  The insurance and finance
-38-



concerns into their work  UNFCCC, and regional  sectors proactively adopt an
(vulnerability and risk  strategy papers and work  incentive framework which
assessment, economic   plan                    promotes adoption of
analysis, policy aspects,                      upgraded infrastructure
and adaptation strategies)                     standards
Public awareness of climate                    Each participating country
change issues and impacts                      implements actions agreed
enhanced                                       to at the national level,
which are a part of the
National Sectoral                               regional strategy
Adaptation Strategies and
Implementation Action
Plans, developed in a
participatory fashion with
stakeholders, are presented
to Cabinet, or being
considered in appropriate
committees/commissions
Plans prepared for more
effective enforcement of
existing policies and
regulations, especially
where these have
implications for addressing
climate change concerns
Regional coordination on
climate change issues
improved and access to risk
sharing mechanisms like
the UNFCCC increased
Output from each        Output Indicators:      Project reports:        (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
I. Build Capacity to Assess Climate and sea-level  A blend of the following  Climate and coral reef
Vulnerability and Risks  monitoring infrastructure  monitonng mechanisms:  monitoring network is
Associated with Climate  upgraded with additional                       efficiently maintained
Change                  hardware and software   PIU Progress Reports   through counterpart
funding, and continues to
Training provided to    Bank/Donor Review       contribute to expanding the
Meteorological and Survey Mission Aides Memoire  information base
Offices to maintain the
upgraded stations and   Independent expert     Inadequate participation
manage use of collected  consultant assessment  and capacity-building in
data                    reports                 countries not selected to
participate in sectoral
Coral reef analyses and  GCOS & GLOSS reports   vulnerability assessments
monitoring carried out in  on Caribbean monitoring
- 39 -



eight additional CARICOM stations on quality of  Poor capacity-building in
countries              support provided       countries selected to
participate in sectoral
Global climate change  Dissemination reports on  vulnerability assessments
models downscaled with  coral ref monitoring,
resolution adequate for  climate change modeling,
national level application  climate impact modeling,
(statistical and dynamic)  and VA methodology (also
reviewed by independent
Climate change impact  consultant for relevance to
models reviewed, selected  SIDS countries and
economies)
Experts trained in
utilization of climate  Reports on Country-level
projection and impact  Sector specific Adaptation
models                 Strategies (also reviewed
by independent consultants
Workshop conducted for  for technical, social,
V&A approaches, and a  economic and policy
refined and harmonized  substance)
approach for assessing
climate change         Self-assessments by
vulnerability and      trainees on the quality of
adaptation policy- making  the training, relevance, and
developed.             usefulness "on-the-job"
Stakeholders trained in
applying harmonized V&A Workshops' reports
approaches in country and
sector settings        Mid-term and Final
Evaluations
Country-level sectoral
vulnerability and risk
assessment studies
completed
II. Build Capacity to  Country-level Sector   A blend of the following  Sectoral departments do not
Reduce Vulnerability to  Adaptation Strategies  monitoring mechanisms:  appreciate cross-sectoral
Climate Change         prepared                                       nature of climate change
PIU Progress Reports   impacts, and do not work
Institutional Analysis for                     readily in a coordinated
implementation of the  Bank/Donor Review       manner to identify and
Adaptation Strategies  Mission Aides Memoire  formulate the lead Sectoral
completed                                      Adaptation Strategies and
Independent expert     Implementation Action
Action Plan to support  consultant assessment  Plans
implementation of the  reports
Country-level Sector                           The private and public
Adaptation Strategy    Reports on Country-level  sectors, and civil society do
defined                Sector specific         not show a keenness to
- 40 -



Implementation Plan for  participate in the
Training programs      Adaptation Strategies (also identification and
conducted to build capacity reviewed by independent  formulation of lead
for adaptation plan    consultants for technical,  Sectoral Adaptation
preparation process    social, environment,    Strategies and
economic and policy    Implementation Action
Technical study completed substance) - first batch  Plans
and guidelines for updating (detailed) and second batch
building codes, as well as  (derived)
special recommendations
for updating CUBiC,    Reports from workshops to
developed              disseminate outputs of the
comprehensive VA studies
Technical study to develop
feasibility options for the  Technical reports on
introduction of risk   infrastructure Standards
reduction incentives   and Incentive Framework
completed              Outcomes of workshops
designed to disseminate
Climate change         infrastructure standards and
sensitization campaigns  incentive framework
and workshops aimed at
insurance and banking  Self-assessments by
industries, and other  trainees on the quality of
stakeholders completed  the training, relevance, and
usefulness "on-the-job"
Mid-term and Final
Evaluations
mI. Build Capacity to  A unified regional position A blend of the following  Each country continues to
Effectively Access &   paper (based on national  monitoring mechanisms:  support the regional
Utilize Resources to   and regional position                          approach to climate change
Reduce Vulnerability to  papers), and a regional  PIU Progress Reports  adaptation and
Climate Change         operational strategy                           representation at
developed for UNFCCC   Bank/Donor Review       international fora
discussions            Mission Aides Memoire
Each country endorses
A Regional Long-term   Independent expert      actions outlined in the
Strategy for Adaptation to  consultant assessment  Regional Strategy for
Climate Change prepared,  reports             implementation at the
showing regional and                           national level
national actions for   Adaptation to Climate
implementation of National Change: Regional Strategy
Adaptation Plans
Regional Agenda to the
Resource mobilization  UNFCCC
strategy prepared and
donors meeting held    Annual policy reports and
-41 -



background documents,
including Second National
Communications
IV. Public Education and  Public education and  A blend of the following  All donors, PIU,
Outreach                awareness materials     monitoring mechanisms:  CARICOM and
developed and                                   participating countries
disseminated            Bank/Donor Review       work in concert, and
Mission Aides Memoire   cooperate in the
Web site improved and                           implementation of the
managed to serve as     Annual Work Plans       project activities
clearinghouse point,
including access to a digital PIU Progress Reports  CARICOM and PIU, which
resource climate change                         have never implemented
library housed in the PIU  Regional and National PEO Bank-financed projects are
Strategies              able to comply with Bank
Workshops conducted and                         financial management and
project outputs         Education currucula     procurement standards, and
disseminated to secure  materials               implement the project
participatory approach to                       satisfactorily
vulnerability assessments  Mid-term and Final
and adaptation strategy  Evaluations            The PEO creates an
development                                     environment of a shared
Web page, digital resource understanding of climate
Course materials developed library, newsletter & others change risks, provides
for education curricula -  (including expert    possible measures to reduce
schools and UWI         assessment and stakeholder the risks, a encourages
feedback)               collaborative approach to
Separate M&E system for                         risk management
the PEO component
implemented
V. Project Management   PIU established, staffed  A blend of the following
and functional          monitoring mechanisms:
Monitoring and evaluation  Bank/Donor Review
systems in place and    Mission Aides Memoire
assisting in improving
project management      Annual Work Plans
Disbursement under the
project
PIJ Progress Reports
Mid-term and Final
Evaluations
-42-



Key Perormance       Daia CollectionStrategy|
Hierarchy of Objectives      Indicators-                                Critical Assumption s ....
Project Components /    Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:     (from Components to
Sub-components:         component)                                     Outputs)
I. Build Capacity to  US$4.88M              A blend of the following  PIU has sufficient authority
Assess Vulnerability  (GEF:US$2.32 M)       monitoring mechanisms:  and technical competence
and Risks Associated                                                to implement the project
with Climate Change                         Bank/Donor Review       activities
Mission Aides Memoire
UI. Build Capacity to  US$2.15M             Copies of contracts     Competent staff is
Reduce Vulnerability  (GEF:US$0.73M)        Financial Management    appointed to the PIU
to Climate Change                           Reports
m. Build Capacity to  US$0.42M              P1U Progress Reports    CARICOM provides
Effectively Access and (GEF:US$0.18M)                               adequate support on
& Utitlize Resources to                                            financial and procurement
Reduce Vulnerability                                                matters to P1U
to Climate Change
IV. Public Education  US$2.IOM                                      There is continued political
and Outreach        (GEF:US$0.59M)                                  support for regional
cooperation and national
level implementation
V. Project Management US$1.38M
(GEF:US$1.18M)
TOTAL                   US$10.95M; financed as
follows:
US$5.OOM - GEF
US$2.OOM - CIDA
co-financing
US$0.80M - NOAA
co-financing
US$3.15 M - counterpart
contribution by
Recipient/Participating
Countries
-43 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
CARIBBEAN: Mainstreaming Adaptation to Climate Change Project
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$4.88 million
Build Capacity to Assess Vulnerability and Risks Associated with Climate Change
The objective of this component is to identify and quantify climate change vulnerability and risk through
building regional capacity to collect and analyze data, and expanding the overall knowledge base on
climate change impacts and associated physical and economic vulnerabilities. The first four
sub-components will operate at the regional level, but will focus on strengthening and expanding the
knowledge base as a sound platform for analysis and decision making at the national and local levels.
The fifth sub-component will finance the preparation of vulnerability and risk assessments for selected
individual or country groups using a harmonized approach.
1.1 Strengthening the climate impacts-monitoring network
This sub-component will strengthen the existing climate and coral reef network monitoring for the region
in order to provide reliable data, and to explore linkages between climate and coral reef monitoring.
Principal activities will include:
Relating to Climate Monitoring
a     Upgrading existing climate monitoring stations with new hardware and software to improve their
performance and data reliability. Training will be provided for maintenance and operation of the stations
to the operating staff. A Global Positioning Survey of the stations will be conducted, and local and
regional capacity will be enhanced through a training program for Survey Department technicians for
similar future follow-up surveys.
a     Strengthening the capacity of the National Meteorological Offices through workshops and
in-country training to manage climate monitoring stations, to expand the applications and use of the data
collected through the monitoring stations, and in the installation and implementation of the twelve
Continuously Operating Reference Stations (CORS); and
3     Institutional support consisting of (a) archiving and quality assurance of sea level monitoring
data by supporting the operation of the Regional Archiving Center (RAC) at Faculty of Engineering,
UWI, St. Augustine; and (b) capacity building of the Caribbean Institute for Meteorology and Hydrology
(CIMH) to provide technical back-stopping to the smaller participating countries for sustainable
operation of the monitoring stations.
Relatin,g to Coral Reef Monitoring
a3    Expanding the coral reef monitoring network to the remaining eight countries, namely, OECS
participating countries and Barbados, and Trinidad and Tobago (Belize, Jamaica and The Bahamas were
covered under CPACC; providing the required equipment and software, training staff for operation and
maintenance, and undertaking actual coral reef monitoring activity along the lines of the CREWS system;
upgrading the platform at Discovery Bay, Jamaica with additional sensors and CREWS equipment to
monitor oceanographic parameters;
a     Institutional strengthening through: (a) enhancing the capacity of the Caribbean Coastal Data
Center at the Center for Marine Sciences, UWI, Mona to improve its functioning as the regional
archiving center for coastal ecosystem data, and to undertake reviews of coral reef conditions in the
context of climate change, and appropriate dissemination; (b) establishing an Eastem Caribbean
-44 -



Technical Support Node with support from the Coastal Zone Management Unit of Barbados to
coordinate training and capacity building relating to the coral reef monitoring system expansion
initiative; and (c) exploring and understanding the linkages between climate and coral reef monitoring
efforts to define (and expand) the appropriate correlation between reef condition, oceanographic and
climate parameters.
The Caribbean Institute for Meteorology and Hydrology (CIMH) will serve as the
Coordinating/Beneficiary Agency for the climate change monitoring network. The CIMH will also
continue to operate the Tidal and Climate Gauge Replacement Fund, created under CPACC project, to
finance the replacement of monitoring instruments and related equipment, and work closely with the
national meteorological and hydrological agencies which will continue to monitor all stations. The
Faculty of Engineering, UWI, St. Augustine campus will continue to support the operation of the
Regional Archiving Center and will also be a Coordinating/Beneficiary Agency. The Center for Marine
Science of the UWI, Mona will serve as the Coordinating/Beneficiary Agency for coral reef monitoring,
and will be supported by its Caribbean Coastal Data Center which currently functions as the regional
archiving center for coastal ecosystem data. It will work closely with the Coastal Zone Unit of Barbados
for the yet-to-be established Eastern Caribbean Technical Support Node, the OECS coral reef monitoring
network countries, and with the Discovery Bay Jamaica platform for the oceanographic parameters.
The project will finance the required hardware, software, training, consulting services, and agreed-upon
operating costs of the Beneficiary Agency to execute these activities. The PrU will provide the overall
coordination and supervision for this component, and will enter into MOUs with CIMH and UWI, Mona
and St. Augustine for this sub-component. The Government of Canada (CIDA) will provide parallel
co-financing for strengthening capacity at CIMH. NOAA will provide parallel co-financing in kind for
technical assistance in linking the climate and coral reef monitoring networks using the CREWS system,
installation and implementation of the twelve CORS, training to Survey Department technicians on GPS
technology.
1.2 Generating climate projection scenarios
This sub-component will adapt existing global climate change models to develop appropriate statistically
and dynamically downscaled regional climate change models relevant to the Caribbean SIDS, and make
climate change projections. Principal activities will include:
e     Institutional strengthening of Climate Studies Group at UWI, Mona, to do (i) statistical
downscaling of existing global models; and (ii) to develop an appropriate dynamically downscaled
regional climate model by: (a) exposing select staff to academic training in climate modelling and
practical training in dynamic downscaling of global climate models; (b) licensing models from other
institutions to serve as a starting point for the regional climate model developing exercise; and (c)
providing equipment and software to develop a validated regional climate model;
I     Making climate change projections using both the statistical and dynamic regional climate model
to estimate the expected key climate related variables, including precipitation, sea-surface temperature,
humidity, wind regimes and sea-level, and comparing the results of the two approaches to identify
possible synergies;
0     Coupling climate models with hazard models to predict the impacts of extreme events under
different climate scenarios; and
9     Supporting capacity building and awareness at the regional and national level through; (a)
developing materials for a masters level program on climate change to be offered at UWI; (b) training
identified regional and national experts in the operation of the climate projection models; and (c)
disseminating the outcomes of the model development activity widely through the Public Education and
-45 -



Outreach component.
The Climate Studies Group at UWI, Mona will be the Coordinating/Beneficiary Agency for this activity.
It will work closely with NOAA-NCAR which is very active in climate modelling, and with CEMH and
the Physics Department at UWI, Cave Hill to broaden its capacity to undertake this activity. It will also
work closely with the Canadian Climate Center, NOAA and the Hadley Center for technical inputs.
The project will finance training, hardware, software, consultancies and agreed-upon operating
expenditures for the Beneficiary Agencies. The PIU will provide the overall coordination and
supervision, and will enter into a MOU with the Climate Studies Group at UWI, Mona for this
sub-component. The CIDA will provide parallel co-financing for the development of regional and
localized climate change projections using the statistical downscaling methodology. NOAA will provide
parallel co-financing in kind for technical assistance to the Physics Department at UWI, Cave Hill and
CIMH.
1.3 Generating climate impact scenarios
This sub-component will develop potential climate change impact scenarios on coastal ecosystems and
on the water-cycle, and use these impact scenarios to enable stakeholders to understand how climate
change may impact key economic sectors such as tourism, water resource management and agriculture.
Principal activities will include:
a      Reviewing existing climate impacts development models, evaluating their strengths and
weaknesses, selecting, and acquiring those that will permit simulation of the physical impacts of climate
change on coastal and watershed ecosystems, and inter-linkages between the key sectors of tourism,
water, and agriculture; refining the acquired models for appropriate adaptations;
o      Developing climate impacts scenarios using the refined regional climate models and the adapted
impacts model; and
a      Supporting capacity building and awareness at the regional and national level through; (a)
post-graduate level research in the development of impact modelling; (b) training identified regional and
national experts in the operation of the climate impacts models; and (c) disseminating the outcomes of
the model development activity widely through the Public Education and Outreach component.
The Climate Studies Group at UWI, Mona will be the Coordinating/Beneficiary Agency for this activity.
It will interact closely with international centers of excellence in climate impacts modelling such as the
UK Climate Impacts Program (UKCIP) based at the Environmental Change Institute, University of
Oxford, which has already developed an approach combining climate projections with climate impacts
and development of adaptation options in national and sectoral settings.
The project will finance training, hardware, software, consultancies and agreed-upon operating
expenditures for the Beneficiary Agency. The PIU will provide the overall coordination and supervision,
and will enter into a MOU with the Climate Studies Group at UWI, Mona for this sub-component.
1.4 Refining a harmonized methodology for assessing climate change vulnerability and adaptation
policy making
This sub-component will finance developing of harmonized vulnerability assessment and adaptation
strategy approach appropriate to the Caribbean environment, and capacity building at the national level
and in regional specialized agencies to carry out vulnerability assessments and develop adaptation
measures. This sub-component will include the following activities:
-46-



a     Reviewing the relevance of existing approaches to vulnerability assessment and formulation of
adaptation measures - those used in the CPACC pilot components on coastal vulnerability, economic
valuation and formulation; IPCC guidelines; UNEP Handbook on Methods for Climate Change Impact
Assessment and Adaptation; US Country Studies Intemational Handbook - through actual applications
and results assessment, and identifying lessons for the Caribbean SIDS;
*      Developing an integrated data management framework to accommodate input data for the
approaches, scenarios of climate and socio-economic change, and the model results. A suitable
framework will be developed that will facilitate the integration of sectoral analyses and the evaluation of
vulnerability reduction strategies by stakeholders;
*      Producing a comprehensive guidance document to inform practitioners on selecting appropriate
tools and methods for an effective approach to vulnerability and adaptation analysis, including
recommendations for data acquisition and management, vulnerability assessment and determination of
potential losses, development of adaptation options, and cost benefit analysis of adaptation options; and
0      Supporting capacity building and awareness by: (a) designing and implementing an intensive
training program for national stakeholders and staff of specialized agencies who will be applying
vulnerability and adaptation assessments in their country or sector specific settings; and (b)
disseminating the outcomes of this sub-component widely through the Public Education and Outreach
component.
The PIU will be directly responsible for this sub-component which will be implemented through expert
consultants. The PIU will ensure that the consultants work closely with institutions such as the UWI,
Mona, as well as key regional specialized institutions, including CIMH and CEHI, in providing the
training and expertise, and producing the integrated management framework and comprehensive
vulnerability assessment and adaptation measures development guidebook.
The project will finance the require hardware, software, training, consultancies and agreed-upon
operating expenditures for training activity. NOAA will provide parallel co-financing in kind for
technical assistance to the training program.
1.5 Preparing vulnerability and risk assessment studies in key economic sectors
This sub-component will finance the preparation of vulnerability and risk assessments, using the climate
projection model, the climate impacts model, and the vulnerability and risk assessment approach
developed under the above four sub-components. About 6-8 vulnerability and risk assessments will be
carried out for selected SIDS in key economic sectors.
Given the limited project resources, the project will finance consultancies which will focus on toursim,
agriculture and water resources; these three sectors are key to the Caribbean SIDS economies. The
studies will be implemented in a few selected countries offering comparative advantage. The approach
to vulnerability assessment in the selected focal sectors will be multi-sectoral in nature. For example,
vulnerabilities of the tourism sector to climate change would be addressed through the vulnerability of
the tourism infrastructure (hotels, transport, ports, water supply), assets or amenities (bio-diversity, coral
reefs, beaches). Similarly, the downstream impacts or linkages of tourism with other sectors will also be
identified. The studies would be carried out by consultants with participation from country teams.
Principal activities will include:
W.    selecting the countries for situating the vulnerability assessment studies. This will be done in a
collaborative manner, based on a set of predetermined selection criteria (discussed below). Once the
potential country-sector-specific studies are selected, a detailed proposal will be prepared by the selected
-47-



country on the selection of the sector, the specific features of the country and the sector setting, scope of
the study, and the possibility for replication in other country settings;
a3    supporting capacity building through: (a) dissemination of the harmonized vulnerability
assessment approach; (b) training country teams to develop skills required to conduct such assessments;
and (c) participation of country teams in the vulnerability and risk assessment studies;
D3     Conducting vulnerability assessments using country-and sector-specific climate projections and
the harmonized approach to such assessments; performing risk assessments by applying the probability of
specific hazardous, climate change-related events to the vulnerability of resources, facilities and
populations affected by such an event (focusing on coastal areas), to determine the expected economic,
social, and environmental loss from the impacts;
a      Disseminating to all countries the final vulnerability and risk assessment reports produced by the
country teams, and holding workshops to discuss the results and lessons learned;
o      Providing technical assistance to other non-study countries to adapt the study findings to their
country-sector setting and prepare initial vulnerability and risk assessment reports;
D      Using the Public Education and Outreach component to make the process of assessment more
collaborative and participatory, and disseminating the outcomes of this sub-component widely with a
view to improving the quality of the assessment and to facilitate adoption of climate change adaptation
measures by the affected stakeholders (private sector, public sector, local communities, etc.); and
a      Establishing database to support future vulnerability and risk assessments in related sectors.
The country selection criteria for the studies will likely include the following:
a      availability of information database for meaningful vulnerability and risk assessments;
D      institutional capacity in the relevant sector to support the study being conducted by the
consultants;
3      importance of the sector in the selected country's economy;
a      representativeness of the country to facilitate adaptation of study outcomes to other
country settings;
a      level of country ownership (including counterpart support) and commitment to secure
inter-sectoral coordination;
a      correspondence of the proposal with issues raised in the UNFCCC National
Communications;
a      cost-effectiveness; and replicability.
The PIUJ will initiate a workshop to disseminate the requirements of the vulnerability assessment and
adaptation studies, identify possible sectors and scoping of the study, offer justification for situating the
studies in specific country settings, possibility of adapting the study results in other country settings
through project-offered technical assistance, and guide the discussion on the consensual selection of the
sector-country match for the studies. Countries that do not have any study identified for implementation
will participate in the formulation of the vulnerability and risk assessment studies as members in the
selected country teams to help build their capacity to utilize the harmonized approach.
The component will be managed by PIU, and will be implemented through expert consultants, with
assistance from country teams which will be coordinated through the NICUs. It is expected that the
PIU/consultants will interact closely with national, regional and international specialized institutions,
including CARDI, IICA, FAO, CWWA, OECS-ESDU, CEHI, Caribbean Tourism Organization and
CAST, which will provide guidance, technical support and training in their areas of expertise. The PIU
will also coordinate with the Caribbean Dialogue on Water and Climate and the Integrated Watershed &
Coastal Area Management Project being developed by UNEP-CAR-RCU and CEHI. This
sub-component will also support close work with private sector,local communities and NGOs to ensure
-48 -



public/private sector partnership in the execution of this sub-component.
The project will finance technical assistance and consultancies for the vulnerability and risk assessment
studies, including costs relating to training, dissemination workshops, etc. NOAA will provide parallel
co-financing in kind for technical assistance to the country teams.
Project Component 2 - US$2.15 million
Build Capacity to Reduce Vulnerability to Climate Change
The objective of this component is to build in-country capacity to formulate and analyze adaptation
policy options, and develop the multi-sectoral adaptation strategies, and implementation action plans.
These sectoral adaptation strategies will be prepared for all participating countries: (i) in the first
instance, for those countries where the vulnerability and risk assessment studies are implemented
(directly); and (ii) in the second instance, for non-study countries (indirectly), through derived
vulnerability assessments based on lessons learned from the country-level sectoral studies. The
adaptation strategies for the non-study countries will be informed by the outcomes of the field-based
vulnerability studies.
The first three sub-components will provide additional inputs to develop the adaptation strategies, and
are as follows: (a) identification of "no regrets" adaptation measures for all countries (carried out in
parallel with, and informed by, the vulnerability assessment studies); (b) development of adaptation
approaches to food security, water, health and fishery sectors, and incorporating climate change concerns
relating to environmental impact assessments; and (c) development of recommendations relating to
upgrading technical norms for infrastructure industry, and incentives for nsk reduction measures through
insurance and banking industry. The fourth sub-component will develop the country multi-sectoral
adaptation strategies based on the vulnerability and risk assessment studies conducted under Component
1, and the outputs of the three sub-components (a) to (c) above.
2.1    Identifing and incorporating "no regrets" adaptation measures
This sub-component will identify "no regrets" adaptation measures for all countries. Given the present
uncertainties about site-specific impacts, and learning from recent experience in the Pacific Islands, a
consensus is emerging that adaptation strategies should emphasize a comprehensive program of "no
regrets" adaptation measures. These are measures that would be beneficial even in the absence of
climate change. For example, existing building codes and design standards to cope with natural hazards
should be more vigorously implemented. Existing land use controls throughout the region need to be
vigorously applied; enabling legislation to require the use of ELAs should be enacted; planning and
physical development legislation should be updated. Water rights, markets and pricing should be better
used to facilitate the sustainable and efficient use of water. These measures would be easy to identify in
the context of the vulnerability assessment studies, and could be potentially more effective than other
"hard" interventions, which may require a high degree of certainty about future impacts. Principal
activities will include:
*      Counducting a study in parallel with, and informed by, the vulnerability and risk assessment
studies to: (a) identify "no regrets" adaptation measures for all participating countries; and (b) identify
gaps/weaknesses, either in the current policy and planning framework, or in the level of awareness or
access to hazard and vulnerability information, discouraging the private sector, local communities and
governments from applying or enforcing existing "no regrets" adaptation measures.
The PRJ will be responsible for implementing this component through expert consultants, working with
-49 -



the country teams coordinated by the NICUs. The project will finance the requisite consultancy.
2.2    Developing climate change adaptation approaches for selected sectors, and upgrading EIAs
This sub-component will specifically focus on developing climate change adaptation approaches in the
health, water, food security and fishery sectors, and on incorporating climate change aspects into ELAs.
Principal activities will include:
a      Carrying out specific studies on climate change adaptation approaches in health, water, and food
security sectors, and on incorporating climate change concerns into Environmental Impact Assessments;
and
o      Carrying out a small pilot project in collaboration with the Fishery Resources Assessment and
Management Program (CFRAMP) to develop innovative approaches at adaptation by working directly at
the community level;
The PIU will be responsible for implementing the component through expert consultants to be financed
by CIDA.
2.3 Disaster prevention through strengthening technical norms for infrastructure development
This sub-component will support the development of appropriate technical norms and standards for
infrastructure, and promoting their use in disaster management, infrastructure design and construction,
and property insurance and mortgage banking sectors. Principal activities will include:
o      Reviewing the Comprehensive Disaster Management Strategy and integrating climate change
considerations into the strategy;
o      Improving collaboration between National Disaster and Meteorological Offices to forecast and
better respond to climate-related disasters;
D      Promoting through presentations, meetings and workshops, the use of coastal hazards data base
in all coastal planning, development and construction projects throughout the region;
a      Completing a study that updates infrastructure design standards to adapt to the impact of climate
change, focusing primarily on coastal zones, and that outlines the minimum data requirements for climate
projections required to establish design standards based on statistical and dynamically downscaled
climate projection models;
D      Identifying risk reduction incentives in the property insurance and banking industry, and
encouraging their adoption, through: (a) the preparation of an issues paper reviewing existing efforts and
constraints in using economic incentives for risk reduction; (b) workshops bringing together insurance
and banking representatives and other stakeholders in disaster management, development planning and
construction sectors to identify ways in which insurance can be used as a mechanism to strengthen code
enforcement; (c) a technical study to develop feasibility options for the introduction of risk reduction
incentives and an outline of an Action Plan; and (d) a sensitization campaign disseminating the outcomes
of this component through the Public Education and Outreach component.
-50-



The PIU will work closely with CDERA as the Coordinating/Beneficiary Agency, which will focus on
mainstreaming climate change responsive infrastructure norms and standards within the regional
Comprehensive Disaster Management strategy, and promoting their use in disaster management,
infrastructure design and construction, property insurance and banking industry at the national level. It
will encourage CDERA to develop links with the Caribbean Council of Engineering Organization, and
the Faculty of Engineering of UWI, St. Augustine in conducting studies for updating infrastructure
standards. This activity will be carried out in coordination with efforts to update Caribbean Uniform
Building Code, coordinated under the Caribbean Development Bank. The project will also support
engineering associations and universities to incorporate climate change issues as integral elements of
technical norms for design, maintenance and rehabilitation of infrastructure and support proposals for
changes in infrastructure codes.
The project will finance the training, hardware, software, consultancies, printed materials and their
dissemination, including agreed-upon operating costs.
2.4 Developing country level multi-sectoral adaptation strategies
Based on the outcomes of the vulnerability and risk assessment studies (Component l), and the outputs
of the three sub-components 2.1 to 2.3 above, this sub-component will develop country level adaptation
strategies in all countries. Principal activities will include:
*      Conducting studies with technical assistance to country teams that will: (a) identify policy
options; (b) analyze policy options; (c) formulate adaptation strategies; (d) identify institutional
requirements; and (e) produce an implementation action plan;
*      Through the Public Education and Outreach component, facilitating a participatory strategy
formulation process, and disseminating the final outcomes of the exercise relating to the selection of
sectoral policy options, formulation of adaptation strategies and Action Plans, including an analysis of
the experiences and lessons learned that can guide future efforts to mainstream adaptation in other
sectors/countries; and
*      Institution building by (a) training country teams in the process of development/refinement of
adaptation strategies, conducting institutional assessments, preparing action plans for implementation,
and building public/private sector and civil society support for the strategy; and (b) providing "hands-on"
experience to the country teams through actual participation in the adaptation strategy preparation
exercise.
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.42 million
Build Capacity to Effectively Access & Utilize Resources to Reduce Vulnerability to Climate
Change
The objective of this component is to provide support for the development of a regional agenda and a
regional strategy through two sub-components. The first sub-component will build the regional capacity
to prepare a regional position for the UNFCCC and other international fora to enhance the region's
visibility and influence on relevant negotiations and policy decisions. The second sub-component will
assist with the development of a regional strategy to improve regional coordination and harmonization on
climate change adaptation and policy making, while strengthening the region's ability to mobilize and
utilize effectively financial resources provided through the UNFCCC and other external financing
mechanisms.
- 51 -



3.1 Development of a Regional Agenda
This sub-component will support the development of a regional position and negotiation strategy for the
UNFCCC and other international negotiations, and incorporating project outcomes into the National
Communications process. Principal activities will include:
a     Preparing national briefings on UNFCCC based on the sectoral issues paper and the adaptation
strategy, economic implications of the Kyoto Clean Development Mechanism, and the national position
papers prepared by National Focal Points;
a     Developing a regional agenda for hemespheric and/or other international negotiations based on a
regional position paper (derived from national position papers), and a regional operational strategy (see
below) that will be prepared by the PIU and other consultants, with key inputs from National Focal
Points and sectoral agencies;
a     Facilitating the regional participation in the UNFCCC process by coordinating briefing meetings,
internet based discussion groups, attending key COP and other UNFCCC meetings, and reporting back to
the countries with periodic updates on relevant decisions made or key issues discussed; and
a     Incorporating the results of the project into the National Communications process under the
UNFCCC.
Opportunities to develop closer links with UN implementing agencies will be fully explored, particularly
in areas related to further capacity building for climate change adaptation in the region. More
importantly, efforts will be made to coordinate project activities with all GEF projects implemented in
the region, as well as related projects already being executed by regional specialized institutions.
Cooperation with the UN implementing agencies will also provide an excellent platform for developing
collaborative arrangements with non-CARICOM countries.
The PIU will be responsible for developing and executing this sub-component. The project will cover
the costs of producing the briefing papers, including, if necessary, additional training and consultant fees,
and operating travel costs of PIU for this purpose.
3.2 Development of a Regional Strategy for Adaptation to Climate Change
This sub-component will support regional efforts to develop a Regional Climate Change Adaptation
Strategy and Action Plan. The preparation of this regional strategy will commence at the earliest practical
opportunity drawing, among other things, on the various project outputs, and will define a 15 year
strategic plan of action that: (a) identifies activities and actions that cannot be undertaken in isolation at
the national level and which require regional support or a regional approach in order to effectively
address specific climate change adaptation issues; and (b) clearly defines activities to be undertaken at a
regional level that are necessary to complement and support (where necessary) adaptation programs
defined in the National Communications and in the National Adaptation Strategies and Action Plans.
This strategy will constitute a programmatic basis for the region's response and approach to challenges
posed by climate change. The Regional Adaptation Strategy will be presented at an international donors'
meeting for funding support. Principal activities will include:
a     Developing a briefing paper on regional priorities and needs for climate change adaptation in the
region that incorporates: (a) outputs from CPACC's Formulation of Policy Framework for Integrated
Adaptation Planning; (b) lessons learned from the implementation of MACC activities; (c) the priorities
identified in the First/Second National Communications; (d) issues papers and policy papers from
participating countries; (e) policies and commonalities developed under the UNFCCC and other
- 52 -



international conventions; and (f) regional strategies such as the Sustainable Tourism Zone and the St.
Georges' Declaration;
*     Formulating a regional strategy based on a briefing paper prepared through a collaborative and
participatory consultative process involving the CARICOM Technical Committee, the NICUs, the PIU
and CARICOM. Additional support material will be produced, including recommendations for
institutional arrangements, definition of appropriate approaches to the issues that require a regional
perspective, identification of enforcement mechanisms, a financial analysis with an elaboration of the
required resources, and a participation and dissemination strategy;
*     Developing a detailed business plan for the regional Caribbean Community Climate Change
Center;
*     Formulating a work plan based on the broad consultative process and with more specific
consultations with regional specialized agencies. Once finalized, the work plan, regional strategy and
agenda will be presented to the CARICOM Council of for Trade & Economic Development for approval;
and
*     Identifying opportunities for resource mobilization, including designing and proposing projects
and developing concept papers to be presented at a donors meeting to obtain support for furthering the
implementation of the regional adaptation strategy.
The PIU will be responsible for coordinating with a wide range of stakeholders for the execution and
completion of this sub-component. The project will finance the production of the briefing papers and
other documents, including, if necessary, additional training and consultant fees. The CIDA will finance
the preparation of a business plan and detailed project design for the proposed Caribbean Climate
Change Center that will provide the basis for further analysis of the functions and management structure
of the Center.
Project Component 4 - US$2.10 million
Public Education and Outreach
The objecitve of this component is to support a public education and outreach (PEO) program geared
towards improving decision-making, encouraging policy changes where required, strengthening
information access and data resources for key stakeholders, disseminating project-generated data and
information, and fostering public awareness about the potential impacts climate change. The CIDA
supported Canada-Caribbean Climate Change program has funded a review of the PEO activities and the
Public Awareness and Information Dissemination Strategy. Through this review process and further
consensus building exercises, CARICOM has developed a draft PEO strategy for regional
implementation under this project. This objective will be achieved through four sub-components:
*     Finalizing the regional PEO strategy, and developing national PEO strategies for the participating
countries;
*     Implementing the regional PEO strategy, consisting of the following key ingredients: (a)
developing materials needed for the public awareness generation about climate change issues; (b)
implementing public awareness modules aimed at specific target audiences; (c) establishing an
information clearing house within the P1U; (d) developing course materials with climate change elements
for educational institutions at various levels in consultation with the Caribbean Examination Council and
UWI; and (e) building capacity within the country NICUs on PEO techniques for more effective
dissemination and information access; and (f) developing mutually identified linkages with the Pacific
Islands and Caribbean non-CARICOM countries in website development and other PEO aspects;
*     Implementing the national level PEO strategies, consisting primarily of: (a) information access
and dissemination relating to the vulnerability assessment studies and the adaptation strategy
development components to ensure vigorous public/private and civil society/NGO participation in
- 53-



generation, evaluation, finalization, dissemination, and adoption of the climate change adaptation
measures; and (b) other aspects of the national level PEO strategies as may emerge during the strategy
formulation process; and
0      Undertaking a mid-term and final evaluation to evaluate the effectiveness of the PEO strategies,
inputs and activities of this component.
The PIU will be responsible for the implementation of the activities under this component through expert
consultants, working in coordination with the NICUs. The project will finance the required training,
publications, workshops and consultancies associated with these efforts. The project will also fund the
cost of studies, software and equipment required. One hundred percent parallel co-financing will be
provided by the CIDA for the finalization of the regional PEO strategy sub-component, as well as for the
project activities related to the development of links to the Pacific Islands and other non-CARICOM
countries. All other sub-components and activities will be jointly financed between the GEF and the
CIDA.
Project Component 5 - US$1.38 million
Project Management
The objective of this component is to implement a management system that is efficient, flexible and
transparent that would facilitate the completion of the project objectives and outputs in the time
available, with the financial resources allocated according to the technical specifications and quality
standards articulated by the project documents. This component will provide support to the CARICOM
and PIU for the efficient and timely execution of the project, including project administration, as well as
planning, monitoring and evaluating activities over the duration of the project.
To facilitate expeditious project implementation, and at the same time initiate a broad-based and
transparent process for recruiting PIU staff, a six-month transitional PIU (based at Barbados)
arrangement has been agreed with CARICOM, consisting of a Project Manager, a PEO Specialist, and a
short-term consultant with capabilties in MIS who will also assist the Project Manager. As per the agreed
timeline, project activities will be initiated starting January 1, 2003 with the transitional PIU, and the
process of establishing a fully operational PIU at Belize by June 30, 2003 will commence synchronously.
Due to their assistance to project management in the areas of project accounting and financial
management and procurement, CARICOM will be paid a total of US$176,000 over the life of the project
(relating to salaries and other expenses of staff identified within CARICOM for these functions) as
follows: US$15,000/quarter in Year 1, followed by US$12,000/quarter in Year 2, US$10,000/quarter in
Year 3, and US$7,000/quarter in Year 4 (totalling to US$176,000). Disbursement will be effected under
the "Operating Costs" category in the Schedule I of the GEF Grant Agreement.
The project will cover the costs of all training, hardware, software, consultancies and agreed-upon
operating expenditures for the PIU and CARICOM, which will be jointly financed by the GEF and
CIDA. Audit costs will be covered under the "Consultancies" category in the Schedule I of the GEF
Grant Agreement.
- 54-



Table I: Co-financing Arrangements for MACC Project Activities
The MACC Project will be co-financed by the Canadian and the US Governments with US$2.0 million
and US$800,000 respectively.
Contribution by the Canadian Government
The Canadian Government has had a long-standing relationship with the Caribbean and has been a
significant donor to the region, particularly in the field of environmental management. Acknowledging
the priority status that has been accorded to the issue of climate change by the region, the Government of
Canada has funded a US$2.0 million program on "Adaptation to Climate Change in the Caribbean" or
ACCC project.
This project builds on and furthers the work of the Government of Canada carried out under the
ENCAPD and ENACT projects, which have supported the region and specifically Jamaica and the Easter
Caribbean states in strengthening their capacity to address environmental and sustainable development
challenges. This contribution to the MACC project is a cash contribution and will provide additionality
and complementarity to the activities, which the GEF contribution will support.
The CIDA funding will finance in parallel thefollowing activities: (a) public awareness and outreach
program; (b) collaboration with the Pacific and non-CARICOM Caribbean countries; (c) the integration
of climate change in the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) process; (d) adaptation to climate
change for the health sector; (e) adaptation in the area of agriculture and food security; (f) integrating
climate change into physical planning using a risk management approach; (g) strengthening the capacity
of CIMH; (h) establishing the masters course in climate change at UWI; (i) developing climate change
scenarios (statistical downscaling); and (j) adaptation in the water sector, (see Table below). CIDA will
also jointly finance with the GEF the following activities: (a) production of public outreach materials; (b)
implementation of National and Regional PEO Strategies; and (c) project management.
Contribution from the US Government
Under the MACC project, the Government of the Unites States of America will continue its support of
the Caribbean region in the effort to adapt to climate change as it did under CPACC. Specifically, the
US Government will make a contribution of US$800, 000 to the MACC program mainly in the support of
the expansion of the knowledge base.
The contribution will be through the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) and
will be totally in-kind. This contribution is expected to be initiated at project start-up. The support from
the US government will focus primarily on activities to support the expansion of the existing knowledge
base in areas such as climate monitoring, training and capacity development, the deployment of Coral
Reef Early Warning Stations (CREWS) amd Continuously Operating Reference Stations (CORS)
procured under the project with GEF funds, data collection, technical assistance in the downscaling of
global models and their application to the Caribbean, integrated watershed management and the use of
climate-related information for decision-making. The US Government sees its contribution as one that
can significantly enhance the global observation system and provide a wealth of data related to Caribbean
and global climate monitoring and modelling (see Table on next page).
- 55-



Project Activities by Component                                                 United States Government:
Component activities that do not           Canadian Government:                   National Oceanic and
appear in this Table are financed                 (CIDA)                        Atmospheric Administration
entirely by the GEF                                                                (NOAA)
1.1: Strengthening the climate  1. Strengthen capacity at the CIMH.            1. Linking climate and coral reef
impacts-monitoring network                                                     monitoring using the CREWS
system in Discovery Bay,
Jamaica.
2. Technical assistance to
Survey Department technicians
on GPS technology.
3. Technical assistance in the
implementation and installation
of twelve Continuously
Operating Reference Stations
(CORS).
1.2: Downscaling global climate  Development of regional and localized climate change  1. Technical assistance to the
models                         projections using statistical downscaling.      CSGM on dynamic downscaling.
2. Technical assistance to the
Physics Department at UWI -
Cave Hill and CIMH.
1.3: Refining a harmonized                                                     Providing resource
methodology for assessing climate                   N/A                        persons for the
change vulnerability and adaptation                                            training program.
policy making
1.4: Prepare vulnerability and risk                                            Technical assistance to country
assessment studies in key economic                  N/A                        teams in watershed management
sectors                                                                        assessments.
2.1: Country-level adaptation  1. Development of a comprehensive set of adaptation  1. Technical assistance to
strategies for water, health and agriculture and food  country teams in development of
sectors.                                         action plans relating to
2. Regional study, workshop and training to develop  watershed management for
recommendations for an environmental assessment  incorporation into national land
mechanism that incorporates climate change       use strategies.
considerations into international and national   2. Technical assistance to
development activities.                         incorporate vulnerability and risk
3. Integrating climate change into physical planning  assessment strategies into
using a risk management approach.                national development plans.
2.3: Disaster prevention through                                               Providing resource
strengthening infrastructure norms                  N/A                        persons for training
activities.
3.2: Development of regional   Development of a business plan and detailed project
strategy                       design for proposed Caribbean Community Climate            N/A
Change Center.
4: Public education and outreach  All PEO activities co-financed either jointly or in       N/A
parallel with GEF, including a masters course on climate
change at UWI.
5: Project Management         Joint financing for all project management components       N/A
- 56 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
CARIBBEAN: Mainstreaming Adaptation to Climate Change Project
m*    .* - .~ ,  -  ~   -. ! t~ r ~~       F          l " '  vL       _t s,*;   '  '  *~- ^, zLocal -  '  Foreign  - - *  Tbtal: 
Project Cost By.Compnent      t ;         Us $million  - US $million  US $million "I
1. Build Capacity to Assess Vulnerability and Risks         1.40         3.48          4.88
Associated with Climate Change
2. Build Capacity to Reduce Vulnerability to Climate Change  0.67         1.48         2.15
3. Build Capacity to Access and Effectively Utilize Resources  0.17       0.25         0.42
to Reduce Vulnerability to Climate Change
4. Public Education and Outreach                            0.86          1.25          2.11
5. Project Management                                       0.05          1.26          1.31
Total Baseline Cost                                         3.15          7.72         10.87
Physical Contingencies                                     0.00          0.00          0.00
Price Contingencies                                        0.00          0.08          0.08
Total Project Costs                3.15          7.80         10.95
Total Financing Required                3.15          7.80         10.95
- -   - . '  -        :~.... < .. :t_;  -;:rW,..mcal;  ' -Foreigh,  Total',-
Project Cost By Category .; ; i .     -.iUS$rrillion. - US$ri llion  . US $million:'.
Goods                                                         0.02          0.65          0.67
Services                                                      1.99          5.07          7.06
Training                                                      1.08           1.41         2.49
Operating Costs                                               0.06          0.59          0.65
Contingencies                                                 0.00          0.08          0.08
Total Project             3.15           7.80         10.95
Total Financing Required       3.15           7.80         10.95
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 10 95 (US$m) Therefore. the project cost sharing ratio is 45 66%
of total project cost net of taxes
-57-



Annex 4 Incremental Cost Analysis
CARIBBEAN: Mainstreaming Adaptation to Climate Change Project
Overview. The proposed project seeks to facilitate the development of an enabling environment for
climate change adaptation in the small island and low-lying developing states of CARICOM (the
participating countries are: Antigua & Barbuda; Bahamas; Barbados; Belize; Dominica; Grenada;
Guyana; Jamaica; St. Kitts and Nevis; Saint Lucia; St. Vincent & the Grenadines; Trinidad & Tobago).
This will be achieved through four cproject components: (a) building capacity to assess vulnerability and
risks associated with climate change and variability; (b) building capacity to reduce vulnerability to
climate change; and (c) building capacity to effectively access and utilize resources to reduce
vulnerability to climate change and variability; and (d) public education and outreach. The project
activities will be managed by CARICOM and a dedicated Project Implementation Unit established for
the project.
Context and Broad Development Goals. The Caribbean Small Island Developing States (SIDS) have
been identified as among the most vulnerable to the anticipated impacts of climate change. The expected
sea level rise, increase in sea surface temperature, and altered patterns of precipitation are likely to hit
these areas the hardest. A recent estimate of the economic consequences of the impacts of climate
change concludes that a large share of the economy of the region is vulnerable to its effects and the
consequent damage could be of the order of US$1-9 billion annually which represent up to 30% of the
annual GDP of the CARICOM nations (Haites, 2002). Under these circumstances, the climate change
risk costs borne by the SIDS are the result of external factors, it is imperative for the region to prepare for
the expected induced changes and formulate suitable adaptation measures.
The UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), signed in 1992 by most nations in the
world, seeks to control anthropogenic emissions and stabilize greenhouse gas concentrations in the
atmosphere at levels that would prevent dangerous interference with sustainable economic activity. The
UNFCCC promotes impact assessment of climate change in ecological and economic systems and
supports development of adaptation policies to deal with the climate changes already observed and those
projected for the next century despite implementation of mitigating actions. The Caribbean SIDS have
been identified by the UNFCCC as particularly vulnerable to climate change induced effects, due to their
very nature and situation in tropical areas. Specifically for the region, the anticipated impacts of climate
change would be reflected in flooding of low-lying areas, reduced freshwater availability, increased
weather variability, and forced changes in agriculture. The Kyoto Protocol, signed in 1997, establishes
the process by which the community of nations intends to address this problem, and identifies adaptation
to climate change as a priority activity. It establishes goals for emission reduction and outlines a process
to achieve these goals, but at the same time clearly recognizes the need for immediate climate change
adaptation steps.
Scope of the analysis. The analysis of incremental cost is constrained by the limited physical
investments proposed under the project (expansion and modernization of the network of climate change
observing stations), capacity building initiatives, and the nature of the studies proposed to be funded
under the project.
-58-



Baseline Scenario. In terms of physical investments, the baseline scenario assumes that the existing
stations, including those funded under CPACC and those independently maintained in the region, will
continue to operate without further investments in modernization or expansion of the network. The
baseline also assumes that national planning and sector investment in the island economies will continue
under the current structure, without special consideration to the impacts of climate change or its effects
on the natural resource base or sector investment strategies. The emphasis under the baseline would be
on continuation of sector and national planning in the most cost effective way, with little attention
devoted to the issue of climate change.
The results from implementing the baseline scenario would be the development of rational national and
sector planning strategies that optimize the use of natural resources in the short term.
GEF Alternative. While the UNFCCC emphasizes efforts to mitigate the anthropogenic causes of
climate change, it also recognizes the need to adapt to the anticipated changes. This is required because
of the inertia in current trends in climate change and associated impacts, which will continue despite any
foreseeable progress in reducing emissions of greenhouse gases. The UNFCCC has recognized the
long-term nature of adaptation, and establishes stages of adaptation to be assisted through the financial
mechanism to the Framework Convention (GEF) that are largely designed to promote a gradual
strengthening of institutional capacity, awareness and knowledge of the problem. Participation in the
process of adaptation imposes additional costs on the local economies, in so far as their planning and
decision making process, as well as investment strategies, need to incorporate the additional burden of
anticipated climate change impacts that otherwise would have been ignored.
In the Canbbean region, the adaptation process involves four components: a reliable knowledge base, not
available at this time; effective institutions, in the process of getting strengthened; sound policy
environment, yet to be built; and a coordinated multi-sectoral implementation strategy. Much more work
will be required for the Caribbean SIDS to adapt to the expected climate change impacts due to
anthropogenic activities. The proposed project is intended as a Stage II adaptation project, and will
support further capacity building, the formulation of adaptation measures, and generally facilitate the
creation of an enabling environment for adaptation..
The proposed project is complementary to the baseline scenario, in that it will add climate change
concerns to the processes of national planning and sector investment strategies that would otherwise not
be considered. Under the GEF alternative, climate change considerations would be mainstreamed into
the planning and development process.
Global benefits. Global benefits will be achieved by the GEF project in form of: (a) development of a
"first of its kind" mainstreaming process for climate change considerations into national planning; (b)
development of a modern and comprehensive network of climate observing stations fully integrated into
global observing systems that would build into efforts already made under the previous project; and (c)
identification of policy measures that incorporate climate change considerations, and that could be used
as examples of the manner in which the adaptation process can be addressed.
Incremental Aspects of the GEF Proiect. All activities proposed to be funded under the GEF Project are
incremental to the business as usual scenario, and would not have been undertaken without the GEF
support.
Component 1: Build capacity to assess vulnerability and risks associated with climate change. This
component will build regional capacity to collect and analyze data, and expand the overall knowledge
- 59 -



base on climate change impacts and associated physical, social and economic vulnerabilities. The first
four sub-components will operate at the regional level, and will focus on strengthening and expanding the
knowledge base as a sound platform for analysis and decision making at the national and local levels, and
will be: (a) strengthening the climate and coral reef monitoring network; (b) downscaling global climate
models in support of decision making for adaptation at the regional and country level; (c) generating
climate change impact scenarios; and (d) developing a harmonized approach for assessing climate change
vulnerability and risk, and adaptation policy decision making.
The fifth sub-component will draw upon the information and techniques developed under the above four
sub-components to prepare, vulnerability and risk assessment studies for selected countries, or groups of
countries, in key economic sectors (tourism, water resources and agriculture), focusing on coastal areas.
The countries where the studies will be implemented will be selected based on an agreed set of criteria
(an indicative list is provided in the Detailed Project Description - Annex 2). Non-study countries will
still benefit from the vulnerability and risk assessment exercises by: (a) participating, as members, in the
country teams conducting the vulnerability assessment studies to actually use the harmonized
approaches, and in the dissemination and training workshops; and (b) adapting the outputs of such
assessments to their own country sectoral settings to evolve appropriate sectoral adaptation strategies.
The baseline for this component includes, besides the current climate observing stations, the already
completed work at a national and regional level on coral reef monitoring, on climate projection models
(statistical downscaling), and on training relating to vulnerability assessments for coastal areas under the
CPACC project. Additional investments in the knowledge base for monitoring of climate change impacts
is not likely to happen without the intervention of the GEF. The costs associated with this component are
incremental.
Component 2: Build capacity to reduce vulnerability to climate change. This component will build
in-country capacity to formulate and analyze adaptation policy options, and finalize sectoral adaptation
strategies which will be prepared for all participating countries: (i) in the first instance, for those
countries where the vulnerability and risk assessment studies are implemented (directly); and (ii) in the
second instance, for non-study countries (indirectly), through derived vulnerability assessments based on
lessons learned from the country-level sectoral studies. The adaptation strategies for the non-study
countries will be informed by the outcomes of the field-based vulnerability studies.
This component will have four sub-components: (a) identification of "no regrets" adaptation measures for
all countries (carried out in parallel with, and informed by, the vulnerability assessment studies); (b)
development of adaptation approaches to food security, water, health and fishery sectors, and
incorporation of climate change concerns relating to environmental impact assessments; (c) development
of recommendations relating to upgrading technical norms for infrastructure in response to climate
change concerns, including risk reduction incentives by the insurance and banking industry; and (d)
finalization of country level multi-sectoral adaptation strategies based on the vulnerability and risk
assessment studies, and inputs from the three sub-components (a) to (c) above.
The associated baseline for this component includes some work done on upgrading technical norms for
infrastructure development through the Caribbean Development Bank. Some developments are expected
in the insurance sector through a proposed Bank-funded insurance sector reform project. Activities under
the insurance sector project are considered as parallel to, and feeding into, the initiatives under this
proposed project. However, this proposal is yet to be fully developed. This component would not be
carried out without the GEF project.
Component 3: Build capacity to access and effectively utilize resources to reduce vulnerability to climate
-60-



change. This component will have two sub-components: (a) building the regional capacity to prepare a
regional position for the UNFCCC and other international fora to enhance the region's visibility and
influence on relevant negotiations and policy decisions, and provide member countries with a
consolidated and common position on key issues in the international forum; and (b) learning from the
implementation of the CPACC project, activities under this project, and the outcomes of the monitoring
and evaluation exercise, the second sub-component will support the development of a regional strategy
designed to better and more effectively organize the region in a manner that will facilitate access to cost
sharing or financing mechanisms (UNFCCC and others), and improve regional coordination and
harmonization on climate change adaptation and policy-making. The project will specifically prepare a
business plan for the regional Caribbean Community Climate Change Center, which is foreseen to help
guide and implement the future climate change strategy for the region. It will also identify opportunities
for resource mobilization by the region, including designing and proposing projects and developing
concept papers to be presented at a donors meeting to obtain support for furthering the implementation of
the adaptation strategy.
The business as usual scenario is for each nation to approach the issue in a reactive manner at the
prompting of the commitments under the UNFCCC. However, with GEF support, a regional advocacy
position, both in terms of national and regional agendas, for adaptation, and in terms of a long-term
strategy, would be developed. All activities under this component are incremental.
Component 4: Public education & outreach program. This component will support a public education
and outreach (PEO) program geared towards improving decision-making, encouraging policy changes
where required, strengthening information access and data resources for key stakeholders, disseminating
project-generated data and information, and fostering public awareness about the potential impacts
climate change. The project will have four sub-components: (a) finalizing a regional PEO strategy, and
developing national PEO strategies; (b) implementing the regional PEO strategy; (c) implementing the
national level PEO strategies; and (d) undertaking a mid-term and final evaluation of the effectiveness of
the PEO strategies, inputs and activities. Key areas of focus will be: (a) to facilitate a participatory
process in the development, discussion, finalization, and dissemination of the outputs of the other project
components such as climate projection and impacts assessment models, vulnerability and risk assessment
strategies, adaptation strategies, technical norms upgradation in construction industry; and (b) establish a
clearing house of information which will facilitate both access to information by the stakeholders, and
dissemination of information by the PIU.
The baseline scenario for this component is a tentative regional PEO strategy developed by the region.
All activities and costs associated with this component are incremental in nature.
Component 5: Project management. As Project Management relates fully to the GEF Project, the
associated costs (PTJ and agreed upon costs of CARICOM for providing support services to the project)
are completely incremental. This component includes the implementation of the project, the operational
integration of the activities, and the evaluation of project results.
Incremental Cost of the GEF Project. The implementation of the Baseline Scenario would entail costs
estimated at US$1.0 rnillion, while the GEF alternative would incur costs estimated at US$10.95 million.
The additional costs associated with the implementation of project are estimated at US$9.95 million.
The GEF will fund US$5.0 million of this as part of the project. Two other co-financing sources,
Government of Canada and the Government of United States, and the Recipient/Participating Countries
will fund the balance US$5.95 million.
-61 -



llncremental Cost Matrix (all figures in US$ nillion)
Cost Categories  Baseline  GEF          Incremental   Domestic             Global Benefits
Current   Alternative  Costs         Benefits
situation
A. Build capacity  0.90        4.88         3.98      Build capacity in    Contributions to the
to assess                                             climate projection,  global knowledge base
vulnerability and                                     climate impacts      and climate observing
risks associated                                      assessment, and      systems. Political and
with climate                                          vulnerability        public support for CC
change                                                assessments and      agenda
adaptation approach
B. Build capacity to  0.00      2.15         2.15    Facilitate implementation Example of how CC
reduce vulnerability                                 of sustainable        adaptation concerns
to climate change                                     evelopment policies  can be incorporated
hrough building a strong into the development
takeholder ownership of agenda
risk reduction strategies
C. Build capacity to  0.10      0.42         0.32    Built capacity for    The regional agenda
effectively access                                   formulation of agendas  will illustrate and
and utilize resources                                 nd strategies on     provide guidance to
to reduce                                             daptation at a national  other regions approach
vulnerability to                                      nd regional levels   to their participation in
climate change                                                             the UNFCC process.
The long-term strategy
will provide a practical
example to other
regions' efforts to
develop similar
planning tools to face
CC impacts
D. Public Education  0.00       2.10         2.10     Improved participation by Demonstration of a
and Outreach                                          he stakeholders in the  vigorous public
process of vulnerability  education program in
assessments and       facilitating adoption of
development of        adaptation measures
adaptation strategies
E. Project           0.00       1.38         1.38      mproved efficiency and Effective
Management                                            managerial knowledge  Implementation of
global climate change
aspects of project
Total Costs         1.00       10.95         9.95
-62-



Annex 5: Financial Summary
CARIBBEAN: Mainstreaming Adaptation to Climate Change Project
(figures in US$'000)
Pre-      Year 1    Year 2      Year 3    Year 4   Year 5    Total
project
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          1,633     1,063      1,659      1,170      1,040     136     6,701
Recurrent Costs             399       682       1,177       923       895      159      4,235
Total Financing             2,032     1,745      2,836      2,093      1,935    295      10,936
Financing
Government                 632       407        798         633       585      89      3,144
GEF                                  810       1,587      1,260     1,165     178      5,000
CIDA                     1,400       400        200         0         0        0       2,000
NOAA                                 128        251        200        185      28       792
Total Project Financing  2,032      1,745      2,836      2,093      1,935     295     10,936
Main assumptions:
(1)    Pre-project expenditures reflect the ACCC project expenditure from Sep 2001 - March 2003
which represents 70% of the total project. The rest of pre-project costs are local in-kind contributions.
The remaining ACCC funds, representing approximately 30% of the project, is split 2:1 across years I
and 2.
(2)    Non-ACCC costs in years 1-5 are allocated to other funding sources i.e. GEF, NOAA and in-kind
(from government and beneficiaries) based on their overall % contribution to the entire MACC project.
(3)    It is assumed that Year I would start from April 2003 and that Y5 would run for only one quarter
- January to March 2007.
-63-



Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
CARIBBEAN: Mainstreaming Adaptation to Climate Change Project
Procurement
All procurement will be carried out in accordance with Bank Guidelines on procurement of goods and
works, and using standard documents acceptable to the Bank (Guidelines, Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits, dated January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997,
and January 1999, and Guidelines, Selection and Employment of Consultants by the World Bank
Borrowers, dated January 1997 and revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002), and the
provisions stipulated in the Grant Agreement.
Procurement Methods
The methods to be used for procurement described below, and the estimated amounts for each method,
are summarized in Table A. The agreed threshold contract values for the use of each method are shown
in Table B.
Procurement of Goods
The Project would finance computer hardware and software scientific equipment, such as sensors and
climate monitoring stations. Packages estimated to cost more than US$75,000 would be procured
following International Competitive Bidding Procedures and using the most recent version of the Bank
Standard Bidding Documents. All other goods packages would be procured following international
shopping procedures using procedures and documents acceptable to the Bank and described in the
Project Operations Manual, up to an aggregate amount of US$91,000 equivalent. However, the licenses
for a regional climate model (developed by the Hadley Center in the UK or similar agency) and climate
impacts models costing US$50,000 in aggregate would be procured on a direct contracting basis due to
the proprietary nature and uniqueness of the source. In addition to equipment, satellite imagery estimated
to cost US$136,000 equivalent would be financed under the Goods disbursement category. This
technical services package would be procured following ICB procedures and utilizing the service
documents developed by the Bank and currently available on a trial basis.
Consultant Services
Firms. The Project would finance technical assistance, training and studies for development and
monitoring of data on climate change, institutional strengthening of participating regional entities,
reporting on national monitoring efforts, technical review and dissemination of monitoring information,
and other related activities. Contracts estimated to cost US$1,000,000 in aggregate would be procured
following QCBS procedures. About 3-5 assignments estimated to cost US$62,000 for which there is no
clear advantage in comparing and evaluating full proposals would be awarded following Consultant
Qualification procedures. Audit services for the Project, estimated to cost US$64,000 would be procured
following Least Cost procedures.
Individual Consultants. Project management and monitoring services for the PIU, studies, and
specialized advisory services required to complement the participating entities' in-house expertise,
estimated to cost US$1,806,000, in total would be contracted with individual consultants on the basis of
Chapter V of the Consultant Guidelines. It was determined that such services would be appropriate for
individual consultants. In many cases, outsourcing complete activities to support the technical assistance
needs projected for the participating entities would not be consistent with project's objectives, which
- 64 -



incorporate approaches and methodologies already tested by these entities, and aim at further
strengthening existing capabilities by adding new expertise on climate change monitoring. In addition,
the total amount for individual consultants includes several long-term consultants to the Project
Implementation Unit.
Training
The Project would finance logistic costs associated with training activities such as participants' travel and
subsistence and re-production of training materials, as well as tuition for courses regularly offered by
universities and established training institutions. Such costs will be incurred in accordance with Bank
procedures (see details in the Project Operations Manual).
Operating Costs
The Project would finance operating costs including expenditures incurred for incremental recurrent
costs associated with the implementation of the project, such as: operation and maintenance of vehicles,
equipment spare part and maintenance, office supplies, utilities, operational travel for Project
Implementation Unit staff, support staff, and audit services (see Consultant Services above). For
CARICOM, such costs would cover salaries of three professional staff for procurement, accounting, and
financial management, and related operating costs, subject to an aggregate of US$176,000 over the life of
the project. Such expenditures would be incurred in accordance with Bank procedures (see details in the
Project Operations Manual).
ASSESSMENT OF AGENCY CAPACITY TO IMPLEMENT
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Assessment of Capacity. A procurement capacity assessment was carried out during project preparation
and cleared by the Regional Procurement Advisor. The procurement risk was assessed as "high". All
procurement and financial management responsibilities under the project would rest with CARICOM, the
executing agency. Project management would be the responsibility of a Project Implementation Unit to
be initially established at Barbados (as a transitional arrangement for the first six months starting January
2003), and eventually located at Belize. The Project Implementation Unit will closely coordinate with
CARICOM staff assigned to the project on all technical aspects which are relevant to procurement (e.g.
technical specifications and terms of reference, approval of consultant short lists, bid and proposal
evaluation, supervision and evaluation of consultant performance).
CARICOM has written operating procedures, some internal controls, and adequate accounting and
financial reporting capabilities. However, it has limited procurement capacity and no prior experience
with, or knowledge of, Bank policies and procedures. In addition, responsibilities for procurement of
consultants are not assigned to any specific unit and all departments carry out selection processes,
according to their needs.
Agreed Action Plan. To address the above inadequacies, it was agreed that an appropriate focal point
would be established to manage procurement for the project within the existing structure, adequate
procurement technical assistance would be provided, and separate procedures acceptable to be Bank
would be adopted for the project. Specifically, the following action plan was agreed between the Bank
and the Borrower:
-65-



Action                                                 Date
The staffs qualifications have to be reviewed and agreed upon by the Bank.  By Appraisal (completed)
Assign a qualified professional staff and a support staff to work on a full-time  By Board Presentation
basis on procurement administration for the Project.                           (completed)
Retain an experienced international consultant to provide intensive technical  By Board Presentation
sistance at critical times (i.e. document preparation and evaluations) and  (process iniated)
on-the-job training in an initial phase, and ongoing advisory services thereafter.
The consultant should be retained for a total period of no less than 6 months over
the first two years of the project. The need for continued assistance will be
re-assessed during mid-term evaluation. One of the objectives of the consultant
assignment would be to ensure that the procurement staff can continue to perform
their duties efficiently and independently and that appropriate procedures are in
place.
A procurement chapter of the Project Operations Manual will include, as a  By Board Presentation
minimum, a clear definition of roles and responsibilities with respect to      (completed)
procurement, clear procedures for maintaining separate files and a file control
system, all relevant aspects of the legal agreement (procurement methods and
amounts, thresholds for Bank prior review, etc.), and annexes with agreed
documents to be used for shopping, technical services, and individual consultant
contracts, the procurement plan, and monitoring procedures.
Project Launch Workshop to include a specific session on Procurement       Before March 31, 2003
CARICOM has already nominated staff for the project procurement activities, and the Project Operations
Manual now includes a separate chapter on Procurement. Both these actions have been assessed as
satisfactory by the Bank.
-66-



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
,'', - ; , >7 -      1            ~ ': ..  . . . ~~ r, ,- Procurement Method
Expenditure -Category          -1CB     -  -     C           Othdr    . .  N.B.F.    T"otal Cost
1. Works                            0.00            0.00           0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                            0.34            0.00           0.14         0.19        0.67
see Note 3                          (0.34)          (0.00)        (0.14)        (0.00)     (0.48)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00           2.93         4.13        7.06
(including auditing services)      (0.00)           (0.00)        (2.93)       (0.00)      (2.93)
4. Training                         0.00            0.00           1.10         1.39        2.49
(0.00)          (0.00)        (I. IO)       (0.00)      (1.10)
5. Operating Costs- PIU and         0.00             0.00          0.49         0.24        0.73
CARICOM                             (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.49)        (0.00)     (0.49)
Total                             0.34            0.00          4.66          5.95       10.95
(0.34)          (0.00)         (4.66)       (0.00)      (5.00)
vFigures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant. All costs include contingencies
2 Includes goods to be procured through international shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff of the
project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
managing the project.
3/ This category includes procurement of satellite imagery following ICB procedures, and climate projection and
impacts models following Direct Contracting procedure
-67-



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
-  -  .  -  . -  -   -  -  Salection  lfi s
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category  CCBS   O3BS    SFB   -LCS       CO     Other. M d;IB.F.  TotEl C'St
A. Firms              1.00    0.00    0.00    0.06     0.06    0.00    0.00      1.12
(1.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.06)  (0.06)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (1.12)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    1.81    4.13     5.94
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (1.81)  (0.00)   (1.81)
Total  1.00    0.00    0.00    0.06     0.06    1.81    4.13     7.06
(1.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.06)  (0.06)   (1.81)  (0.00)   (2.93)
Including contngencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial
Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant.
- 68 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
2 '; IT ) _ r . .    Contract Valueie-                   ,.         Contracts Subject to
Threshold'     ' '       Procurement;          .-Prior Review
- Expenditure Category    . (US$ thousand)'-             Method           7.
1. Works                          NA                       NA                       NA
2. Goods                       75 or more                 ICB                       All
Less than 75         International Shopping         First two
(except climate projection
and impacts models to be
procured following direct
contracting procedure
3. Services
Firms                         100 or more                 QCBS                      All
Less than 100         QCBS, or CQ (LC for           First two
Individuals                                               audit)
50 or more           Chaper V Consultant       All (TOR, selection
Guidelines            process, CV, draft
contract)
Less than 50                  .                     First two
4. Training                      N.A.                Bank procedures                None
5. Operating Costs               N.A.                Bank procedures                None
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:   High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed:  One every 6 months
(includes special procurement supervision
for post-review/audits)
Post review should include no less than one in every five contracts or purchase orders signed.
Procurement capacity of staff should be re-evaluated at mid-term to determine whether continued
technical assistance is required.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement
Procurement" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 69-



Annex 6(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
CARIBBEAN: Mainstreaming Adaptation to Climate Change Project
Financial Mana2ement
1. Summary of the Financial Management Assessment
Arrangements for proiect accounting. Project management and implementation will be the responsibility
of the Project Implementation Unit. However, given its limited capacity in accounting, financial
management and procurement, it's parent organization, CARICOM, will extend support to the PIU in
accounting, financial management and procurement activities of the project. However, since this is the
first World Bank project where CARICOM will be providing oversight relating to key fiduciary aspects,
there is no prior experience regarding particular Bank procedures, especially relating to procurement.
CARICOM has a well established finance and accounting division, with clear policies, rules and
procedures in place. There is a strong segregation of duties, with a team a junior staff and clerks to
handle routine processing, a team of experienced officers to oversee operations (internal and donor
funded operations), and a team of senior managers who act as signatories for key documents (including
disbursement applications and audit papers).
Accounting Policies and Procedures at CARICOM. Administrative procedures are in place at
CARICOM to ensure that financial transactions are properly entered into the accounting/monitoring
systems, and also complement safeguarding project assets. The project accounting system has the
capacity to record assets, liabilities and financial transactions of the project, and produce financial
statements useful to project management and meeting Bank fiduciary requirements. The accounting
system was upgraded during the 2001 reorganization to capture all financial information and allocate
among both expenditure categories (the Bank's disbursement categories) and project components. This
is due to the flexibility of the accounting system (Solomon). CARICOM utilizes a cash basis of
accounting with accruals used primarily at year-end (particularly for contributions and dues from member
govemments). Procurement information is linked to the accounting and budget information to enable the
finance division to effectively carry out contract management.
Payments and operation of bank accounts. For processing payments relating to acquisition of goods and
services, a purchase order or contract would have to exist. On the basis of these documents,
appropriation warrants are issued, should budget be available. Bank account reconciliation is prepared
on a monthly basis by a senior accountant, and is available within 15 days after the end of the month.
The same procedures will be applicable for project expenditures.
CARICOM Operations Manual and segregation of accounting staff duties. CARICOM also has a
well-developed Operations Manual, which outlines the roles and responsibilities for staff, clearly details
the segregation of duties and defines the standard operating procedures for the unit. The CARICOM
Operations Manual was developed during the 2001 reorganization of the finance division based on a
study conducted by KPMG. The accounting system and the CARICOM Operations Manual were
subsequently reviewed and found acceptable by the Bank. The finance division has a clear
organizational structure for financial management, but does not have the same level of documented,
well-established procedures for the operation of the project with regard to procurement. The procedures
would support an adequate segregation of duties between procurement and financial management.
Additionally, the procurement assessment found that the procurement capacity in CARICOM was weak
and that procurement activities were dispersed throughout the organization. The assessment specifically
recommended three risk-reducing actions (see Section 6A): appointing a nodal person for Bank
procurement activities; securing technical assistance relating to procurement; and including in the Project
Operations Manual to have a separate section relating to procurement procedures.
- 70-



Safeguard of project assets. Assets acquired by the CARICOM will be in the custody of the respective
institutional departments and reflected in a separate assets register. The amounts in this register will be
reconciled monthly against the respective accounting balances. At least one annual physical asset
inspection and verification will be undertaken by CARICOM staff (in addition to-verification by external
auditors). There is adequate insurance policy coverage against the financial loss of physical assets.
Flow of Funds. GEF Grant funds will be disbursed to one special account (US dollar account for Bank
funds to be held at a bank in Washington D.C.). This account will be utilized for the purposes of the
agreed implementation arrangements and will be managed by CARICOM. The special account will be
replenished via the use of Statements of Expenditure (SOE). Due to the high inherent risk factor, the
lower threshold in the special account would pose a lower risk to the Bank versus report-based
disbursements.
All accounting will be done at CARICOM, including for PIU and country level expenses, to consolidate
expenses at the project-level. The finance division at CARICOM will provide periodic financial
statements to PIU to facilitate financial management by P1U staff. Additionally, CARICOM will execute
all payment orders on behalf of the PIU (for major technical consultancies) which, under the project, will
provide technical input into the studies and consultancies, and also clear the technical content of the
consultant reports, specifically approved in the annual work plans. CARICOM will carry out the
procurement for services and/or goods in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines, and PIU will
issue payment orders for eligible expenditures to the CARICOM finance division for financing and
execution. This arrangement will not require additional special accounts for Bank funds, as all financial
transactions will flow directly from the nodal special account managed by CARICOM. This
arrangement will also fall under the normal scope of work for the annual external audit.
An imprest account for local level office and administration expenditures will be maintained with the
PIU (about US$20,000) since it will be physically located at Belize, under which arrangement, following
the first imprest from CARICOM, subsequent advances by CARICOM to the PIU will be linked with
submission of expenditure reports and bank reconciliation statements.
2. Audit Arrangements
Since accounting will be centralized at CARICOM, all project accounting will be available at CARICOM
with supporting documentation. This will considerably facilitate the process of annual audits. Annual
financial statements will be audited in accordance with International Standards on Auditing, by
independent auditors (Deloitte and Touche) acceptable to the Bank and in accordance with the terms of
reference (TORs) already reviewed and cleared by the Bank. The audit report will include audit
opinions on project financial statements, special accounts and SOEs The report will be required to be
submitted to the Bank no later than four months following the end of the fiscal year (January -
December). The table below sunimarizes audit requirements:
Audit Report                                     Due Date
Project financial statements          Four months after the end of the reporting period
SOE                                   Same as above
Special Accounts                      Same as above
3. Disbursement Arrangements
The Bank and the Recipient have agreed to use the traditional disbursement procedures in accordance
- 71 -



with the Guidelines set in the Disbursement Procedures Handbook. The special account, managed by
CARICOM, will be replenished from the GEF Trust Fund Account via the use Fully Documented Claims
and through Summary of SOEs. Withdrawal Applications will be fully documented, except for
expenditures under contracts costing less than (a) US$75,000 for goods and equipment (except for the
first two contracts under International Shopping procedures which will be fully documented); (b)
US$ 100,000 for consulting firms (except the first two contracts which will be fully documented); (c)
US$50,000 for individual consultants (except the first two contracts which will be fully documented).
All training costs and operating expenses will be covered through SOE procedures.
Expenditures under the categories of "goods" and "operating costs" will be disbursed at 100%. There are
two reasons for this exception: first, CARICOM is an institution with "tax-exempt" status, and therefore
local taxes such as VAT and sales tax on goods procured by such entities can be financed under
Bank-funded grant agreements on an exception basis; and second, under GEF procedures, all incremental
costs are eligible for full disbursement. Since all operating costs under this Grant are incremental in
nature, these are eligible for 100% reimbursement. Disbursement against all expenditure categories,
therefore, has been agreed at 100%.
The project financial statements, along with the physical progress and procurement sections of the
Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs), will be submitted to the Bank on a quarterly basis, and will be
submitted no later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each six-monthly period. The contents of the
FMRs have been discussed and the initial design of the reports has been agreed between the CARICOM
finance division and the Bank. The format of the reports will be finalized by negotiations. While
CARICOM is required to submit the FMRs, these are intended to facilitate project financial management
and do not constitute the basis for disbursement against expenditures incurred under the project.
Co-financing arrannements. In addition to the counterpart funds from the participating states and grant
assistance by GEF, the project will be co-financed by the Governments of Canada (CIDA - US$2.0
million) and United States (NOAA - US$800,000). The NOAA support will be parallel in nature, and
will take the form of in-kind assistance consisting of consultancies, technical assistance and studies,
workshops, seminars, and training. There will be no fund flow, procurement- and disbursement-related
issue in this instance. The CIDA funding covers several activities, in the nature of parallel and joint
funding with GEF. The CIDA will provide funds in advance to CARICOM for project expenditures on
an imprest basis, and procurement will follow Bank procurement procedures. The detailed sharing of
activities between GEF, CIDA and NOAA is indicated in Table 1, Annex 2 (Project Description
Summary). The co-financing agreement between CIDA and CARICOM is already in place and found
acceptable by the Bank; a Letter of Commitment has been received by CARICOM from NOAA
confirming the scope of assistance and the allotment of funds to this project. The NOAA co-financing
amount will be finalized after the US government budget is adopted, and the co-financing agreement
between CARICOM and NOAA will be reviewed by the Bank upon finalization.
Retroactive Funding. The Grant provides US$500,000 in retroactive funding for eligible project
expenditures, covering all disbursement categories, before the date of the Grant Agreement but after
January 1, 2003. The retroactive funding will cover the following main expenditures: (a) transitional PIU
consultant fees; (b) time-critical activites of evolving downscaled climate project models and developing
harmonized vulnerability and risk assessment, and adaptation strategies; (c) other project activities on a
modest scale; and (d) the PIU and CARICOM agreed-upon operating costs (defined in the Grant
Agreement) for the period.
Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
- 72 -



Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Expenditure Category       . Arnount in.US$million  -    Financing Perceritage
1. Goods                                  0.48                          100
2. Consultants                             2.93                         100
3. Training                                1.10                         100
4. Operating Costs - PIU                   0.23                         100
5. Operating Costs - CARICOM               0.18                         100
6. Unallocated                             0.08                      _                _
Total Project Costs                        5.00
Total                                      5.00
REPORTING AND MONITORING
Financial statements and reports will be prepared in formats satisfying CARICOM and the Bank's
monitoring and fiduciary requirements.
On a monthly basis (at least), the CARICOM finance division will prepare the project's SOE, a matrix
classifying receipts by financing source and expenditures by financing source, project component, and
disbursement category, as required by CARICOM's operational guidelines for donor-funded projects.
The expenditures would be compared with the projected budget prepared for the project.
In addition to SOEs, the monthly financial reports will include the Special Account Reconciliation
Statements. Any difference in the amount of expenditures reported under the two financial statements
would have to be clearly explained. The project financial statements, along with the physical progress
and procurement sections of the Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs), will be submitted to the Bank on
a quarterly basis, and will be submitted no later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each
six-monthly period. The contents of the FMRs have been discussed and the initial design of the reports
has been agreed between the CARICOM finance division and the Bank. The format of the reports will be
finalized by negotiations.
For Bank purposes, the annual financial statements will include the Schedule of SOEs presented during
the year in support of Withdrawal Applications.
AGREED FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN
Action                          Responsible Entity          Completion Date
1. Open dedicated bank account  CARICOM                    Immediately after Effectiveness
(Special Account) and provide                               is declared
comfort letter to Loan
Department/Disbursement
2. Letter of appoint for external  CARICOM                  Met
auditors
3. Signed MOU with Auditors     CARICOM                     Met
4. Submit draft Project Monitoring  CARICOM                 Met
Reports (FMRs).
-73-



5. Submit first FMRs            CARICOM                    45 days after the end of the
calendar quarter after
effectiveness
RISK ANALYSIS AND MITIGATORY ACTIONS
Since this is a project which will be implemented by CARICOM, which has no experience with
implementation of Bank-funded projects, and given the moderate to high risk associated with various
aspects of implementation, it is recommended that at least for the first year of implementation, financial
management supervision should take place approximately every six months.
The risks emanating from the financial management assessment, and the agreed mitigation measures are
summarized below.
Risk                             Risk Rating  Risk Mitigation Measures
INHERENT RISK
Country specific                 High         Establishment of a dedicated project
implementation unit within CARICOM
and appointment of qualified staff as
point of contact; restrict location of
Special Account (SA); use of SOEs for
disbursement with lower threshold in the
SA
CONTROL RISK
Implementing Entity - Lack of    Moderate to  Build capacity to carry out procurement
experience with Bank-financed    High         functions
projects.
Funds Flow - inadequate counterpart High      Approval of budget units prior to
funding                                       commencement of fiscal year
Staffing                        low
Accounting policies and procedures low        Implement adequate accounting system
with sufficient internal controls
Internal Audit                  NIA           N/A
External Audit - delay in completion Moderate  Appointment of auditors before
of annual audit                               effectiveness
Reporting and Monitoring - Finance  Moderate   Bank support to generation of flexible
division has experience preparing             draft FMRs prior to effectiveness
reports for multiple donors
- 74 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
CARIBBEAN: Mainstreaming Adaptation to Climate Change Project
Project Schedule       - r;.             ' 7>    ;Panried-i. , ,Actual,
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     2
First Bank mission (identification)            10/14/2000                  10/14/2000
Appraisal mission departure                    10/21/2002                  09/11/2002
Negotiations                                   12/03/2002                  02/06/2003
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  03/01/2003
Prepared by:
Regional Trade and Economic Integration Directorate, CARICOM
Preparation assistance:
PDF-B Grant
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Nanme                :Speciaity
Benoit Blarel                    Sector Leader, and Task Manager
Walter Vergara                   Lead Chemical Engineer
Harideep Singh                   Sr. Rural Development Specialist, and Co-Task Manager
Mark Austin                      Project Management
Alejandro Deep                   Consultant
Jackson Morrill                  Consultant
John Morton                      Consultant
Reynaldo Pastor                  Counsel
Maurizzio Ragazzi                Counsel
Edward Daoud                     Disbursement Officer
Enzo De Laurentiis               Sr. Procurement Specialist
Rajeev Swami                     Financial Management Specialist
Nigel Twose                      Program Manager, Corporate Social Responsibility
- 75 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File'
CARIBBEAN: Mainstreaming Adaptation to Climate Change Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Procurement Plan
Project Inplementation Plan
Operational Manual
Detailed Project Budget by Funding Source, Sequencing, Activity and Expense Category
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Procurement Assessment
Financial Management Assessment
C. Other
Institutional Review:
The Caribbean Community Climate Change Centre: Institutional ReviejiWorld Bank; August
2002.
Caribbean Climate Change Centre: Business Plan [working draft], de Romilly, G., de Romilly
& de Romilly, Ltd.; March 2002.
Selecting an Executing Agency for the Mainstreaming Adaptation to Climate Change Project,
Halter, F.; January 2002.
Institutional Baseline Survey for the Mainstreaming Adaptation to Climate Change Project,
Toure, M.; January 2002.
Other:
Regional Public Education and Outreach Strategy, ACCC Regional Project Implementation
Unit; 2002 [currently being updated].
Synthesis of MACC National Consultations, ACCC Regional Project Inplementation Unit; 2002.
Catastrophe Insurance Market in the Caribbean Region: Market Failures and Recommendations
for Public Sector Interventions, Auffret, P., World Bank; 2002
The Last Straw: Integrating Natural Disaster Mitigation with Environmental Management,
Burton, I. and van Aalst, M., World Bank Disaster Risk Management Working Paper no. 5; July
2002.
- 76-



Agreement Establishing the Caribbean Community Climate Change Centre (CCCCC),
CARICOM; 2002.
Protocol on the Provisional Application of the Agreement Establishing the Caribbean
Community Climate Change Centre, CARICOM; February 2002.
Climate Change and Disaster Management: Issues Paper, Caribbean Disaster Emergency
Response Agency; 2002.
Report of the Brainstorming Workshop on Adaptation to Climate Change in Caribbean Disaster
Risk Management, Caribbean Disaster Emergency Response Agency; 2002.
Natural Hazard Risk Management in the Caribbean: Revisiting the Challenge, Guinard, A.,
World Bank Discussion Draft for the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic
Development; June 2002.
Natural Hazard Risk Management in the Caribbean: Good Practices and Country Case Studies,
Guinard, A., Technical Annex for the World Bank Discussion Draft for the Caribbean Group for
Cooperation in Economic Development; June 2002.
Assessment of the Economic Impact of Climate Change on CARICOM Countries, Haites, E.,
Margaree Consultants, Inc.; July 2002.
Potential Impact of Climate Change on Tourism, Jackson, I.; 2002.
Potential Impact of Climate Change on Tourism: Workshop Report and Draft Plan of Action,
Jackson, I.; 2002
Adaptation of Fisheries and Fishing Communities to the Impacts of Climate Change in the
CARICOM Region: Issues Paper, Mahon, R.; May 2002.
Climate Change and CARICOM Fisheries [draft], Mahon, R. June 2002.
MACC Briefing Paper, Organization of American States; April 2002.
Integrated Resource Management Workshop and Launching of the Caribbean Dialogue on
Water and Climate: Draft Final Report, Organization of American States; July 2002.
Climate Change Impacts on Land Use Planning and Coastal Infrastructure, U.S. National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration; 2002.
Caribbean Planning forAdaptation to Climate Change Project: Implementation Completion
Report, World Bank; 2002.
Including electronic files
- 77 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
CARIBBEAN: Mainstreaming Adaptation to Climate Change Project
0-Feb-2003
Belize
Difence between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Miltons                   disbursements
Project ID  FY  Purpose                            IBRD       IDA                    Cancel   Undisb.   Ong   Frm Revd
P040150       1 ROADSANDMUNICIPALORAINAGEPROJECT       13 00    0 00                      0 00    3 8a     1 02    0 00
P039292     1997 BZ-SOCIALINVEST FUND                   700     0.00                      000     1.42     002     000
Total     20 00     0 00                     0 00     5 31     104     000
CARIBBEAN
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
June 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Comiitted                          Disbursed
IFC                                [IFC
FY Approval          Company                         Loan    Equity   Quasi    Partic    Loan   Equity    Quasi    Partic
1998                 Nova/Ambergns                   4.77     0.00     0.00     0.00     4.77     0.00     0.00     0 00
Total Portfolio:           4.77     0.00     0 00     0.00     4.77     0.00     0.00     0 00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval         Company                             Loan     Equity     Quasi      Partic
2000                BAL                                10.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
2001                Nova Bluewater                      6.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
Total Pending Commitment:          16.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
-78-



Greneda
Difference between expected
and actual
Onginal Amount in US$ Millions                        disbursements
Project ID   FY  Purpose                                 IBRD       IDA       SF       GEF    Cancel   Undisb      Ong   Frm ReVnd
P076715      2003 GR 2nd Phase APL HIVIAIDS Prev &Control    3 00     3 04      0 00     000       0.00     6 23     0 00     0 00
P077682      2002 GrenadaEmergencyRacoveryProject            114       266      000      000       000      243     -040      000
P069922      2001 GD Grenada Disaster Management             5 06      5 01     0 00     0 00      0.00     5 27     1 04     0 00
Total.      9 20     10 71     0 00    0 00       0 00     13 94     064      0 00
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
June 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                              Disbursed
IFC                                   IFC
FY Approval            Company                            Loan     Equity    Quasi     Partic    Loan     Equity     Quasi    Partic
2002                   Bel Air                             1.00      0.00      1.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:              1.00     0.00       1.00     0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
Approvals Pending Commutment
FY Approval           Company                                Loan      Equity       Quasi      Partic
Total Pending Commitment,              000         0.00        0.00       0.00
-79-



Guyana
Dference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS MUhlbons                   disbursements
Project ID  FY  Purpose                              IBRD      IDA       SF      GEF    Cancel.  Undisb.   Ong   Ffm Revd
P074762     2003 GY Pubric Sector Tech Assislance Creot  000      476      0.00     000     0.00     494      000     000
P073851     2003 GY Povery Red. Suppon Crdt I(PRSC)      0 00    12 00     0.00     000     0.00    12.51     0 00    0.00
P007269     1996 GY-SECONDARYEDUCATION                   0.00    1730      000      0.00    000      547      669     570
P007257     1994 GYWATERSUPPLYTAANDREHABILITATION        000     1750      000      O.00    000      691      7.14     703
Total      000      51.56     000    000       000     2983     1383     12.73
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
June 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                           Disbursed
NlFC                                IEFC
FY Approval          Company                           Loan   Equity    Quasi     Partic   Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic
1998                 Guyam Bank                        0.00     1.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.50     0.00     0.00
1998                 SEF Cara Lodge                    0.68     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.45     0.00     0.00     0.00
1998                 SEF IDS                           1.23     0.00     0.00      0.00     1.23   '0.00      0.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:            1.91     1.00     0.00      0.00      1 68    0.50      0.00     0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval          Company                             Loan      Equity      Quasi     Partic
Total Pending Commitment:            0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
-80-



Jamaica
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                    disbursements
Project ID  FY   Purpose                              IBRD        IDA      SF      GEF    Cancel.  Undisb.    Orig  Frm Rev'd
P076837     2003 JM Naional Comnu rity DovL Prolje        15 00     0 00     0 00     0 00     000     15 00     0.03     000
P071589     2003 JM- Reform of Scondary Ed (ROSE 11)      39 80     0 00     0 00    0o00      0 00    39 80     050      000
P087774     2002 JM- Social Safelty Net Projew            4000      000      000      0.00     000     3860     -140      000
P074641     2002 2rdAPL_JM HIV/ADS PREV AND CONTROL DO    15 Do     0 00     0o       00 0     0 00    14 28    -072      0 00
P007490     1997 JMPUBSCTRMODERNIZ                        2840      000      000      000      000      750      7.50     750
Total.    13820      000      000    0.00       000     11519     592      750
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
June 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                            Disbursed
IFC                                  IFC
FY Approval           Company                           Loan    Equity    Quasi     Partic    Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic
1995                  Jam Energy Prtnr                  13.72     0.00     0.00     30.50    13 72     0.00      0.00    30.50
2002                  MBJA Limited                      20.00     0.00      0.00    25.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0 00
2001/02               Mossel                            12.00     8.00      0.00     0.00     12.00     8.00     0.00      0.00
Total Portfolio:           45.72      8.00      0.00     55.50    25.72     8.00      0.00    30.50
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval          Company                               Loan      Equity      Quasi      Partic
Total Pending Commitment:             0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00
-81 -



St. Kitts and Nevis
Difference between expected
and actual
Origmnal Amount in USS Millions                       disbursements
Project ID   FY  Purpose                                 IBRD        IDA      SF       GEF    Cancel.  Undisb      Orig  Frm Rev d
P076798      2003 KN HIV/AIDS PREVENTION AND CONTROL P        4 04     000      0 00      000      0 00     405       000      000
P075978      2002 60-KN EDUCATION (APL01)                     soo      000      0.00      0.00     0.00     4.96      003      000
P077684      2002 St Kitts and Nevis Eirgency Recovery P     4 40      0 00     0 00      000      0.00     325      -018      0 00
P062668      1999 KN6oisast rMgtPJect                        14.07     550      0.00      0.00     0.00     336       139      1 11
Total:     2751       550      0.00    0.00       000      1561      125      111
STATEMENT OF EFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
June 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                              Disbursed
I[FC                                  1IFC
FY Approval            Company                            Loan     Equity    Quasi     Partic     Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
Total Portfolio:             0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval           Company                                Loan       Equity      Quasi       Partic
Total Pending Commitment:               0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00
-82-



St. Lucia
Difference between expected
and actual
Onginal Amount in US$ Millions                         disbursements
Project ID   FY   Purpose                                  IBRD       IDA        SF       GEF    Cancel.   Undisb      Ong   Frm ReVd
P077712      2002 60LCEducation(APLO1)                         600       600       000      000       000      1256      019       000
Po70244      2002 Water Sector RetormTechnical Assistance       130      130       0.00      000      000       255      010       000
P077687      2002 St LuciaEmergencyRecoveryProject              189      441       000       000      000      299     -254       000
P054939      2000 LC- POVERTY REDUCTION FUND                    1 50     1 50      0 00      0 00     000       1 39      1 31     0 00
P070430      1999 Sant Luaa Disaster Managernent                3 04     2 95      0 00      0 00     0 00      289      2 84      0 57
Total      13 73      16 16      00     0 00       0 00      22 38     1 90      057
CARIBBEAN
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
June 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                               Disbursed
IFC                                     IFC
FY Approval             Company                             Loan     Equity     Quasi     Partic     Loan    Equity      Quasi     Partic
Total Portfolio:               0.00      0 00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0 00       0.00      0 00
Approvals Pending Commutment
FY Approval            Company                                 Loan       Equity       Quasi       Partic
Total Pending Commitment:                0.00        0.00        000         0.00
- 83-



St. Vincent and the Grenadines
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Militons                   dsbursements
Project ID  FY  Purpose                              IBRD       IDA      SF      GEF    Cancel.  Undisb.   Orig  Frm Rev'd
P069923     2002 VC Disaster Management                  3 00     2 91     000      00      0 00     607      0 90     0 00
P076822     2002 St Vincent Emergency Recovery Prolect    0 96    2.24     000      000     000      2.11    -053      000
Total      396       515      000   000       000       818      037     000
CARIBBEAN
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
June 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Comniitted                          Disbursed
IDEC                                DEC
FY Approval          Company                           Loan   Equity    Quasi     Partic   Loan    Equity    Quasi    Parnic
Total Portfolio:            0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0 00     0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval          Company                             Loan      Equity      Quasi      Partic
Total Pending Commitment:            0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
- 84 -



Trinidad and Tobago
Difference between expected
and actual
Onginal Amount in US$ Millions                  disbursements
Project ID  FY  Purpose                            IBRD      IDA      SF      GEF   Cancel.  Undisb    Orig  Frm ReVd
P040108    1999 POSTAL SERV REFORM                    1485     000      000     000      340     572     896     000
P035312     1996 TT- BASIC EDUCATION                  5100     0 00     000     0 00     000    14 31   14 31    000
Total     65 85     0 00    0 00   0 00      3 40    20 03   23 27    0 00
STATEMENT OF IEFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
June 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                          Disbursed
IFC                               IFC
FY Approval          Company                        Loan    Equity   Quasi    Partic   Loan    Equity   Quasi    Partic
1996                Caribbean Ispat                 13 70    0.00     0.00    18.33    13.70    0.00     0.00    18 33
2002                 Republic-CUCMBS                20.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0 00    0 00
2001                 Royal Merchant                 20 00     0.00    0 00     0.00    20.00     0.00     0 00    0 00
2002                 Unicell                         5.00     0.00    4.00     0.00     0.00     0 00     0.00    0 00
Total Portfolio:         58 70     0 00     4.00     18.33    33 70    0 00     0.00    18.33
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval         Company                            Loan     Equity     Quasi      Partic
2001                Royal Merchant                     20.00      0 00       0.00      0.00
2002                Republic Bank                      20.00      0.00       0 00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:         40.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
- 85 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
CARIBBEAN: Mainstreaming Adaptation to Climate Change Project
Antigua and Barbuda at a glance
Antigua     Latin   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                  and   America   middle-
Barbuda   & Carib.  Incomm       Daveleoprnrt diamoncr
2001
Population rmrid-vear (mil7ions)                    007       524       504                 Lte expectancy
GNI per caprta (Atlas method. USS)                 9,150     3.560    4,460
GNI (At/a metrodt, US$ tIons)                       063      1,862    2248
Average annual growth. 1995-01
Populatlon (%)                                       0 8       1.5       1 3
Laborforce(%)                                                  22        18      GNI                            Gross
per                   -       pnmaruy
Most recent estinata (latest year availabl  1995s-01)                           capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of popultion below naftornal povedt) tine)
Urban populabon (% of total topu/at/on)              37        76        77
Life expectancy at birth (years)                     75        70        71
Infant mortality (per 1,0G  live btilts)             16        29        24
Child mainutrtion (% of c/ildteron under 5)                      9        9           Access to improlved Vwater source
Access to an improved water source (X of populaton)  91        85        87
Illiteracy (% of populaDotn age 15+)                            11       10
Gross pnmarv enrroment (% ofsdiro-ee populaton)                130      127             Anitgiga and Barbluda
Male                                                        131       128              Upper-dndrlte-/cine gror-,
Female                                                      128       126
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
19t1     1991      2000     2001
Econoerac mtlo
GOP (USS b/IIons)                          0.12     041       066       068
Gross domestic investment/GDP              41 9     37 6      305       272
Exports of goods and servicesWGDP          73.2     90 1      68 0      68 9                    Trade
Gross domestc savings/GDP                  196      37 0      20 7      168
Gross national savings/GDP                 26 3     31 4      15 3      10 5
Current account balance/GDP                -263     -81      -152      -12 8     Dornestic                  testment
Interest payments/GDP                                                            savngs
Total debt/GDP                                                                                   \l
Total debt service/exports
Present value of debtVGDP
Present value of debt/exports
Indebtedness
1914-91  199141    . 2000     2001   200145
(averaqe anrsual growth)
GDP                                69       34       25        02                         AltigruaantdBatbuida
GDPpercapita                       64       27         6       -05                   --Uoper-rce-gorne      mvup
Exports of goods and services      100      07     -100        1 5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991      2000      2001     Growth of tnabrent and GOP
(% of GDP)
Agnculture                                  6 8      42        3 9       4 0     20
Industry                165                         209       202 2t            to,
Manufactunng                               50      30        23        23       o
Services                                   74 8     75 0      75 8      74 9            9     7    ga   99   c     i
Pnvate consumption                         61 s     45 5      55 7      55 4     20
General govemment consumption              18 9     175       236       27 9                    GDI
Imports of goods and servces               95 6     90 7      778       79 3 
1981-91  1991-01      2000     2001      Growth of exporta and tmports (%)
(averare annLial r7wrr)
Agncuiture                                  Z4       0 8       5 6       0 9    e0
Industry                                   109       50        63        33     40
Manufactunng                               2 7      1 8       3 0      32 
Services                                    60       31        13       -07     20
Private consumption                         1 6      6 9       -8 1     -04 4    o          _           a
General govemment consumption               62       7 3       74       18 3    -20
Gross domestic investment                   9 2      1 3       -1 1    -105             -B       b          -Inports
Imports of goods and servres                6 6      3 1     -149        22
Note 2001 data are prelirrrnary estmates
The diamonds show four key Indicators In the country (In bold) compared wrth Its icome-group average. II data are missing. the diamond wnil
be incomplete
-86-



Antigua and Barbuda
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FiNANCE
1981     1991      2000     2001     -_fr_id_n _%)
Domestc Pri
(% change)
Consumer prces   -                                    5        0.4      0.4     4                  A
tmplict GDP delator                         8 6      2 7      -1.2      3.2
Government finance
(% of GDP, indudes cunsnagrants)
Current revenue                                               17.9     182     -2
Currnt budget balance                                         -5.8     -4 8            -GDP defttor      -    CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                       -81     -103
TRADE
1981     1899      2000     2001      Export and Import leves (USS mitl.)
(US$ rwiftonsJ
Total exports (lob)                                            42       42     so
n a
Manufactures                                                                  30.  .
Total imports (cd)                                  299       402      422     20_
Food
Fuel and energy                                                         .     et
Capital goods                                                                  o
Expoor price index (1995-100)
Import price Index (1995=100)                                                               JEipois      *[Ports
Terns of trade (1995-100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1961    1t891      2        Xt0       Cuwent account balance to CiW %P
(US$ rrd/trors) 
Exports o goods and services               104      418       449      470 o
Imports of goods and services               145     429       513      514          9i
Resource balance                            -41      -10       -65     -45                             l
Net income                                   -2     -3         -43     -42       .                 i
Net current transfers                        10       9         7        -1
Currnt account balance                      -33      -3       -100     -88
Finanrcing items (net)                               38        94       81
Changes in net reserves                              -5         6         6     _
Memo:
Reserves Including gold (USSS ni/Ions)        .                63       57
Conversion rate /DEC, ocaWVSS)              2 7      2 7       2 7      2 7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE RLOWS
1981     1991      2000     2001
(USS nilibons)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed
IBRD
IDA
Total dete service
IBRD
IDA
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants
ONicial cradors
Pnvate creditors
Foreign direct investment
Poritfolo equity
World Bank program
Commitments
Distxusements
Pnnr.pal repayments
Net flows
Interest payments
Net transfer
Develpment Economica                                                                                            9/2Y02
-87-



Belize at a glance                                                            Yt2/02
Latin   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         America   middle-
Belie   & CardL   Incorme      Davelopmant dlwmond
200
Population. mid-year (mWblkns)                       025       524     2.164                 life extancy
GNI per capa (Atlas method, US$)                   2,980      3.560    1,240
GNI (Atlas msaho4 US$ blions)                       074       1.862    2,677
Avarcgp onrul grwth, 1996-01
Ppulabon(%)                                           3 3       1.5      10
Labor forc  )                                        43        22        1.2      GNI                            G Grmss
per                            primary
lMosaat recent etimate (inast fsr aavallabb, 1995-01)                            capla                       enrUment
Poverty (% of popation baow national poverty mlne)
Urban poplaion % of ttlpoplairon)                     48        76        46
Ufa epectancyt birth (years)                          74        70        69
faent mortalfty (par l,OO0 lve births)                31        29        33
Chkld man,tntjon (% of children under 5)                         9        11          Access to inmproved water souroe
Aocess to an Improved water source ,t ofpopulation)   76        85        80
Mtneracy (%oIpopudation ea15+)                         7        11        15        -Be    izu
Grossprimaryenroiment (%ofsclhoogepopulaton)         127       130       107
Male                                               130       131       107         -    Lower-mnadle-income groLp
Femaie                                             125       128       107
KEY ECO1OIC RATtOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981     19t1      2000     200
Ecorrorrdc ratios
GDP(aJS$ bltons)                            019     043       0.76      079
Gross domestc investment/GDP                26 0    29 7      34 6      350                      Trade
Exports of goods and selcea/GDP             53 4     580       59.1     565
Grossdomesbc savingaGDP                      41      188       135      149
Gross natonal sawings/GDP                   15 7    22 8       14.1     129
Current account balanceGDP                  -2 3     -6       -20 5     -222     Dornesbc                    h ,  1\
inierest ptwnetGDP                           0 9      1 4       3 0      4 4     sa+n
Tota deBbtGDP                               31 2     396       68 0     736                         t
Toai de- serelexports                        3 8      7 8      146      18 5
Present value of debt/GDP                                     632
Present value of deobtexporls                                 104 9
IndebtdnessI
1981-1   1991-01    2000      2001   201.056
(averaga arne grth)
GDP                                 58       41      111        51                         Betiu
GDP per capita                      31       1.5      75        2.1                      - Lower-mrdl-rncome grp
Exportso goods and serves           6 9      4 5     6 9       0 5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991      2O0       200      Growth of Investrmnt eid GOP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                        o
Agriculture                                 261      1857 211           2031
btruty                                      27 5    26 3      25 2      330      a0 
Manudactunring                            20 3     14 8      16 6      14 5
Servces                                     46 4     550       53 7     468 9
>9    7 sr    r, o   00    01
Puvate consumpton                           769     678        726      711      20D
Generelgovemmentconsumplion                 190      134       139      140                      Gt     - :-GDP
tmports of goods and semces                 75 3    68 9      80.2      766 6G
1991-91  1991-01     2000      2001      Growth a expots and 1110s1(%)
(avea9 annual goth)
Agnculture                                   37      6.2        42      123      40
bidustln                                     44      4,f       178       29      30-.
Manufacturing             2,1                       38       195 t9            2D- 
Services                                      1      3 4       10 5      2 0     1-'
Prtvatleconaurnption                         4 1     4 8       31 6      2 9 
General govemment consumpion                 1 0     3 3       4 3       6 0    -10           sr   Oa    g
Gross domestic vestment                     108      59       218        64              -    Exrpts    -lnrports
rimports of gods and serece                  5 3     5 6      28.9       0 5
Note 2001 data are preliminary estimates
The cdiamonds shaow four key ndIcators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average Iti data are mIssing, the diamond will
be incomplete
- 88 -



Belize
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
19Et    1991      2000      2001     Inton
Domestic prices                                                                l
/% chtnge).
Consumer pneces                                      32        0 7      1.2
Implilt GDP deflator                       -2.2      3 3      -21      -1.2
Governmentfinance
of SGOP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                               229      24 0     -s
Cument budget balance                                          36       3.4              -GPdatator      .*   t:PI
Overall surpiusldeflcit                                      -10 5    -10 9
TRADE
1981    1991      2000      2001      Export and Import levels (US nmill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (lab)                          75     129       212       198    soo
Sugar                                               42        37       30
Banana                                               7        33       21     or 7
Manufactures                                        19        20       16     300- 
Total imports (ctf)                                 251       453      434    2_ LI        J       _  
FDod                                                          62       57
Fuel and energy V                                             37       31      tl   !       H1
Capitalgoods                                        59       142      114      o
90   99   97   96   99   00   S
Export once index (1995=100)                        101        78       73
Import pnce index (1995=100)                        102        96       91                 * Exports    *iSnvots
Terms of trade (1995=100)                            99        81       80
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1981    1991      2000      2001     CurrentaccountlxblancetoGODP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services               103     241       452      449       o 
Imports ot goods and services               130     288       613      608 50           -      M
Resource balance                            27       -47      -161     -160     -s
Net Income                                   -2     -11        *55     -65     -o
Net current transfers                        24      28        59       49
Cuffent account batance                      4       -30      -157    -178
Finanng items (net)                           3       8       208      165
Changes in net reserves                       2      22        *51       11    -s
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USSnllons)                          115      104
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)            20       2.0       20       20
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     1991      2000     2001
(US$ nullons)                                                                  ConVositon of 2001 deto (USS nmtl.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         60     171       505      584
IBRD                                       0       19        40       43                  G S     A 43
IDA                                         0       0         0        0
Total debt servrce                            4      20        67       85
IBRD                                        0       3         7        7
IDA                                         0       0         0        0                                  D     *30
Composinon of net resource flows
Official grants                             7       3        11
Official creditors                          7      10        10       28
Pnvate creditors                            4       3       145       50          F 273
Foreign dirct investment                    0      14        18                                          E 7a
Portolio equlty                            0        0         0
Wodd Bank program
Commitments                                 0       0        13         1     A-lIBD                    E-Bilateral
Disbursements                               0       2         2        7      B - IDA  D - COt rrultlatearl F - Prvat
Pnncipal repayments                         0       1         4        3      C - IMF                   G - Shotr-term
Net ftos                                    0       1         -1       3
Interest payments                           0       1         3        3
Net transfers                               0      -1        -5        0
Development Economics                                                                                           9/1202
- 89 -



Dominica at a glance                                                              Y16tO2
Latin   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         America   middle-
DOnminica  & Carib.  income       Davatopmnt diamond"
2001
Population, mid-year (mlthons)                      007        524      504                 Ute expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas meth7do USS)                 3,140     3.560     4,460
GNI (Atas me"hu, US$ blbos)                         023     1t862      2,248
Average annual growth, 1995401
PopuLatIon(%)                                        00        1 5       13      GNI                             G
Labor force (%)                                                2 2       18      GNI                             Gross
per                            pnmary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1995-01)                            capita              /       enrollment
Poverty (% of populstion below natna poverty line)
Urban populatdon (% of total popu/ation)              71        76        77
Ufe expectancy at birth (years)                       76        70        71
Intant mortariy (per 1,000 ve birtfs)                 16        29        24
Child matnutnhon (% of children uider 5)                         9         9          Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of populabon)             85        87
Iliteracy (% ofpopulation aqe 15+)                              11        10
Grosspnmaryenrollment (%of'school-agepopulation)               130       127
Male                                                         131       128             Upper- ddlA-income group
Female                                                       128       126
KEY ECONOMIC RAtIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981     1991      2000      2001
Economic r~tica
GDP (USS bllions)                          007      018       027       026
Gross domestc investmenttGDP               33 9     31 6      24 7      278                     Trde
Exports of goods and servcestGODP          34 6     512       54 6      512                        d
Gwss domestc savmngs'GDP                   -102     12 8       11 5     152
Goss nabonal savmngsfGDP                   13 8     12 6       6 4      114
Current account balanoe/GDP                -19 3    -18 1     -18 3     -164     Domestcemt
Interest payments/GDP                       0 3      11         11       2 9   sn I              nvestment
Total detnGDP                              217      53 0       60 3     821
Total debt service/exports                   18      5 4        6 6     101
Present value of debt/GDP                                     30 0
Present value of debt/exports                                  49 2
Indebtedness
1981-91  1991-01    2000       2001   2001-05
(average annual grwth)
GDP                                 4 6      17      0 2       -43                   -Donr3a
GDP per capita                      5 0      1 5     0 2       -4 5                        Upper-mrsdidle-ncome group
Exports of goods and services       92      2 8      -5 5     -10 3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991      2000      2001     Growth of Investment and GOP (%)
(% of GOP)                                                                       30
Agncuture                                   317     238        182      172
Industry                                   20 3     18 7      23 4      22 8
Manufactudng                               6 7      7 5       868       7 9
Services                                   480      575        584      600       05
Pnvate consumpton                          84 8     662       65 6      61 6     -is
General govemment consumption              254      210       229       233                -GDI         -=*-GO  P
Imports of goods and semces                78 7     70 0      67 8      638
1981-91  1991-01      2000      2001     Grotnh of exports and imports p.)
(average annual growth)2
Agnculture                                  2 4      -2 0      -1 1     -114
Industry                                    6 0      2 3        4 3      -6 6    is
Manufacturing                              5 4      0 6       8 5     -14 8
Services                                     4 8     2 9        01       -19      0
Pnvate consumpbon                           2 8       10        4 9     -101
Genera govemment oonsumpbon                 2 1      3 1        1 5      -2 6   -.0
Gross domestic investment                   5.9      0 3       -1 6      7 8             -     Exports  -  irOVorts
Imports of goods and seMces                 5.4       1 8      -0 5      -9 9
Note 2001 data are preliminary estimates
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with is mcome-group average n data are missng, the dcamond will
be mrcomplete
- 90 -



Dominica
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1S81     1991      2000     2001     Inflatton (%)
Domestic pfiees3
(% change)                                                                       3      _
Consumer pnces               t        t        5      5 5       I I      I
Implicit GDP deflator                        0 0      7 8       0 6      19
Government finance
(% of GOP, includes cufrent grants)                                                           97    9&    99    00    01
Current revenue                                      28 2      34 3     32.5     1
Current budget balance                                1 7       3 5      0 3            -     GDP deflator  WCPi
Overall surplus/deficit                              -8 0     -t1 1     -10 9
TRADE
1981     1991      2000     2001      Export and import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ mllilons)
Total exports (fob)                                   56         56       45     20
Bananas                                              32        12        8
Other agncultural expons                              2         7        6     ISO
Manufactures                                         19        37       31
Total imports (ca)                                    97        148      131        .*                 *
Food                                                 20        30       26 s4
Fuel and energy                                                15        3
Capital goods39                                                          4 
99   96&  &7    9&   99   00   Si
Export price index (1995=100)                         96        80        78
Import pnce index (1995=100)                          89        103      100                0 Exports     * lnports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                             107       77        78
BALANCE ot PAYMENTS
1981     1991      2000     2001      CurrentaccountbolancetoGW(%)
(US$ millions)                                                                   C
Exports of goods and services                 23      94        147      135
Imports of goods and services                 52     126        183      168                              ! .
Resource balance                             -29      -32      -35       -33
Net income                                     1       -8       -32      -28
Net current transfers                         15       7         18       19
Current aocount balance                      -13      -33      -49       -43
Financing items (net)                          4      37        47        45
Changes in net reserves                        9       -5         2       -2
Memo:
Reserves includcng gold (US$Smlirons)         -2      18        30        32
Conversion rate (DEC. locatVS$)              27       27        27       27
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     1991      2000     2001
(US$ millions)                                                                   ComposIton of 2001 debt (USS nrl).
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          14      96        163      216
IBRD                                         0       0         2         3                       A 3
IDA                                          0      11         14       14                 G2         814
Totaldebtsennce                                1        6        11       15
IBRD                                         0       0          0        0
IDA                                          0       0          0        0         F 41
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              8       3          5
Officialcreditors                            2       8         19       14                                     92
Pnvate credtors                              0       0         30       12
Foreign direct investment                    0       t5        11                       E
Portfolio equity                             0       0          0
World Bank program
Commitments                                  0       0          0        0      A - IBRD                   E - Blateral
Disbursements                                0       t          1        1      B - IDA  D - Other mrl&latasml  F - Privase
Pnncipal repayments                          0       0          0        0      C - IMF                    G - Short-ter
Net tlows                                    0       t          1        1
Interest payments                            0       0         0         0
Net transfers                                0        1         0        1
Development Economics                                                                                             9/61@02
- 91 -



Grenada at a glance                                                               92302
LUtin    Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          America    middle-
Grenada    & Carith  Ir orne      Developmetnt dlmond'
2001
Popuiabon, mdyear (rretrions)                        010        524       504                  Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atas ethod, USS)                    3,660      3.560     4,460
GNI (Atlas ierr , US$ bIlions)                       0 36      1,862     2,248
Average annual growth, 1995-01
Populabon (%)                                         0.8        1.5       13
Labor fome (%)                                                   22        18      GNI                             Grosw
per                            primary
Most recent estimae latest year available, 199-01 )                                capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of populaton belbw national poverty lie)
Urban population (% of total population)               38        76        77
ilfe expectancy at birth (years)                       72        70        71
Infant mortlity (per 1.000 lhve brths)                 13        29        24
Child mainutnton r( of Ghtldr,n undter 5                *         9         9           Access to improved water soarce
Access to an improved water source (% of popuflabon)   94        85        87
Iliteracy (% of popdabon age 15+)                                11        10
Gross pnmary enrollment (% of scxol-age populabon)              130       127               Grnnada
Male                                                          131       128            - Upper-nddle-rne group
Femnale                                                       128       128
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981     1991      200       2001
Econonic retos'
GDP (US$ bllions)                           0.09     024        041       040
Gross domesbc investmenttGDP                41 3     37 9       42.5      320                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP           44 7     40 7       580       58 8
Gross domesbc savings/GDP                    -3 5     16 9      25 6      207
Gross national savlngs/GDP                            17 9      22 1      19 9
Current account balance/GDP                 -18 8    -15 4     -20 3     -176      Domesbc                     ivtn
Interest payments/GDP                        0 5      0 7        0 7       14      savmg                       tnvestment
Total debt/GDP                              412       60 3      48 0      578
Total debt servIce/exports                    3 6      38 8        .
Present value of debttGDP                                       40 8
Present value of debt/exports
Indebtedness
198t-g1  1991-1      2000      2001   2001-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 6 3      3 8      6 9       -4 7                    Grenada
GDP per capita                      5 7      3 3      5 8       45 7         .          - -- Upper-nddle-mncomne group
Exports of goods and servces        6 7      7 8      -0 7      -3 5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991      2l00      2001      Growth ot Investment and GOP)
(% of GDP)                                                                         40
Agriculture                                  254      131        82        82
Industry                                    14 6     20 0       23 8      232      20
Manufacturlng                               35       65        88        84       0
Services                                    59 9      86 8      68 0      686     920     96    97   93    99    0 
Pivate consumption                          83 4     621        60 0      62 2     40
General govemment consumpton                201      210        144       171                     GD1       0*-GDP
imports of goods and services               89 5     61 7       74 8      701                     G
(average annual growth)                  1981-91  19914w1      2000      2001      Growth of exports and inmports (9)
Agnrcuiture                                    4       1 0      -2.2      -33      so
Industry                                     7 6      6 5       14 5      -5 6     o                       A
Manuiactunng                               122       64       138        -76
Servces                                       6 9      3 7       5 1      -26      o 
Pnvateconsumpbon                             26       32        202       -12                   97   98    99
General govemment consumplron                 7 5      1.0       7 5      135     *20
Gross domestc investment                      5 9      5 3      13 2     -28.1                  Expons   -*=-Imports
Imports of goods and services                3 0      6 3       13 9     -107
Note 2001 data are preliminary estimates
The diamonds show tour key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with Its income-goup average i data are missng, the diamond liA
be incompiete
-92-



Grenada
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981     1991      2000     2001     Infladon I%)
D;ornestic prices
(% changs)
Consumer pnces                             18 9      Z6        2 2      3 2    4
ImpliitlGDPdellator                         42       68        07       28     2
Governmentfinance                                                                                        _
(% of GDP, indutes current grants)                                             o                        go    00 s 
Current revenue                                     24 0      271      26 3    -2
Current budget balance                              -0 5       6 1      2 3           -GDP deftiarr -      -CPI
Overall surplus/dellclt                             -9 0      -62     -12 8
TRADE
(USSnsllhons)                              1981    1991      2000     2001      Export and Import levels (USS rmill.)
Total expors (fob)                                   25        85       64     30D T
Cocoa                                                4        1 2      1 4
Bananas                                              2         3        4
Manufactures                                         8        60       34
Total imports (cd)                                  121       243       196
Food                                                28        39       38     *o.
Fuel andenergy                                       9        24       22
Capital goods                                       28        75       65      s   _    _       J     
55   56   97   55   99   55   51
Export pnce mdex (1995S100)                         101       116       117
Import price Index (1995=100)                        92        95       92                a Exports     *rrports
Terms of trade (1995l100)                           110       122       128
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                             1981    1991      2000     2001      Current account balance to GDP (k)
Exports of goods and services                39     114       235      208
Imports of goods and servtces                79     154       304       275
Resource balance                            -39      -40      -69      -87      1
Net income                                            -        3        2
Net current transfers                        23      10        20       23
Current account balance                     -17      -37       -83      -70     20
Fiancing items (net)                         19      38        89        76
Changes in net reserves                      2        0         -7              30
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)               19        59       65
Conversion rate (DEC. locakVS$)             2 7      27        27       2 7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     1991      2000     2001
(US$ milions)                                                                   Composition of 2001 deab (USS mitt.)
Total debt outstandlng and disbursed         36     146        195      230
IBRD                                        0       0         2         3                     A 3 B 9
IDA                                         0       7        10         9
Total debt service                            1       5         14       16
IBRD                                        0       0         0         0
IDA                                         0       0         0         0
Composrton of net resource flows
Otficial grants                             2       9         7
Official creditors                        '        3         13      14
Pnvate creditors                            I      11        28        -4          F 31
Foreign dIrect investment                   0      15        37
Portfolio equity                            0       0         0                                     E 73
World Bank program
Commitments                                 0       0         10        0     A - SBOD                  E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               0       2         3         1     9 - IDA  D - Othier raldlateral F - Private
Pnncipal repayments                         0       0         0         0     C - IMF                   G - Shetr-tarm
Net flows                                   0       2         3         1
Interest payments                           0       0         0         0
Net transfers                               0       2         3         1
Developrnent Economics                                                                                          9/23102
- 93-



Guyana at a glance                                                               9/16102
Latin   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          America   middle-
Guyana    & Carib.  income      Davelopmrnt dlamond'
200t
Population, mid-year (fillOfs)                       077        524     2.164                  ife expectancy
GNI per capta (Adas rethod USS)                       840      3,560     1.240
GNI (Atlas methoo, US$ blblons)                      064       1,862    2.677
Average annual growth, 1995-01
Population (%)                                        0 5        1 5       1 0
Laborforce(%)                                          15        22        12      GNI                             Gross
per                            pnmary
Most recent estimate (fatest year available, 1995-01)                             capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% ofpopulation below national povertv line)
Urban populabon (% oftotalpopulation)                  38        76        46
Ufi expectancy at birth (years)                        63        70        69
Infant mortai ty (per 1,000 hve births)                54        29        33
Chid malnutrition (% of children under 5)              12         9        11           Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (X of populabon)    94        85        80
liiteracy (X of population age 15+)                     I        11        15
Gross pnmary enrollment (% ofschool-aqepopulatron)    102       130       107            Guya
Male                                                103       131       107           -Lower-rddle-mncome group
Female                                              101       128       107
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1s81     1991      2000      2001
Ecnoirrmc ratios
GDP (USS billions)                          0 57     0 34       0 71     0.70
Gross domestc investmentVGDP                31 4     42.2       22 6     219 T9de
Exports oi goods and servces/GDP            68 9    1165        961      94 9
Gross domestc savmngs/GDP                    8 0      17 9       8 0      5 6
Gross nabona savrrgs/GDP                              -5 3       7 3      31
Current account balance/GDP                 -32 4    -45 3     -15 3     -188      Domestic                    nsh      t
Interest paymentslGDP                        6 3      14 0       6 3       6 5  r   aings
Total debt/GDP                              159 5   589.2      205 8    2016 s6vings
Totai debt servce/exports                            26.5       15 9      Is 0
Present value of debtVGDP                               ..     118 3
Present value of debt/exports                   .              1156
Indebtedness
1981-91  199141      2000      2001   2001-05
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 -2 5     4 5      -1 4       15       2 7             Guyana
GDP per capita                     -2 0      4 1      -2 0       0 8       1 8             - Lower-nde-rnconre group
Exports of goods and seimce         -10       1 7     -19        0 2       13
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991      2000      2001      Growrh of investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                         40
Agriculture                                 222      384        31 1     313
Industby                                    30 5     32 0       29 0     283 3     n
Manufactunng                               14 9     12 9       82        82
SeMces                                      473      296        399       404      '
Pnvata consumpbon                           63 0     60 9       67 3     690      -20
General govemment consumpbon                291      21 2       24 7     25 4               -  GDI          0* GDP
Imports of goods and services               92 3    140 9      110 7     1113 3   -
1981-91  1991t41      2000      2001     Growth of exports rn impoft
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                 -0 5      3 9       -9 1       3 4
Industry                                    -5 2      6 6       -1 6      02      io
Manutactjnng                               46        74      -138        25      s
SeMces                                       -1 1     37         51        10      0
Pnvate consumpbon                            4 7      55         1 1      41              g
General govemment consumpbon                 4 1      6 8       28 2       4 4    -1S
Gross domestic investment                    -2 8     -2 3      -4 6      -19             -   E   xt     -O    invonis
imports of goods and servces                 -2 2      1 2       4 4       2 0
Note 2001 data are prelimmary estimates
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared vwth its Income-group average i data are missing, the diamond will
be incorpiete
- 94 -



Guyana
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981     1991      2000     2001     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer pnces                                      1015        6 1      2 7     to 
Implicit GDP deflator                        4 3    126 7       6 6      -0 8    s
Government finance                                                                   !I
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                              o             7     9r   99    oo    ;I
Current revenue                                      49 2      39 5     39 8     -s
Current budget balance                               143        47       4 0            -     GDP deflator  -*CPI
Overall surplus/defici                                0 6      -7 5      -8 6
TRADE
(USS millions)                             1981     1991      2000      2001     Export and import levels (US$ null.)
Total exports (fob)                          346     254       505       490     750
Rice                                                 18        52       50
Sugar                                                90       119      109
Manufactures                                         20        78       77         Vr   L
Total imports (cif)                          428     307        585      584         *
Food                                                 23        69       69 :                                  n    ot
Fuel and energy                                      67       121       132
Capitalgoods                                        139       132       115      a                            o
9 99 97   go   95    0   0
Export pnce index (1995=100)                          108       81        84
lmponrpnceindex(1995=100)                             83        100       95                aExports      UinTports
Termsof trade (1995=100)                              131        81       88
BALANCE ot PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                             1981     1991      2000      2001     Current account balance to GDP %)
Exports of goods and services                369     357        685      662 c
Imports of qoods and services                499     431       789       776
Resource balance                            -129      -75      -104     -114         LI
Net income                                   -55     -107       -52      -61
Net current transfers                                 29        47        44
Current account balance                     -185     -153      -109     -131
Financing items (net)                                193        171      147
Changes in net reserves                        .      -41       -62      -16
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)                123      297       285
Conversion rate (OEC, local/US$)             28     1118      1826      1876
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     1991      2000     2001
(USS millions)                                                                    Composition at 2001 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         910    1,984     1,465     1,406
IBRD                                       42       55         8         6                 G 1     92S
IDA                                        26      134        180      188 leaa
F 45
Total debt service                            97      102       116      105                    -         it      o
IBRD                                         3       11         4        4                                   C 101
IDA                                          0        1         2        3              -
Composition of net resource flows
Official qrants                              9      158        39                                   -     -
Offcialcrecritors                          111       67        23                   E s5s ;_-     -
Pnvate creditors                           -15      -13         0        0                        _89
Foreign direct investment                   -2       0         67                                          r 389
Portfolio equitV                             0       0          0
World Bank program
Commitments                                 23       18         0        0      A - tBRD                   E - lateal
Disbursements                               15      40          6       10      s - IDA  D - Other emul5ateral  F - Private
Pnncipal repayments                          1       6          4        5      C - IMF                    G - Shon-tarm
Netflows                                    14      34          2        5
Interest payments                            2       6          2        2
Net translers                               12      28          0        3
Development Economics                                                                                             9/16/02
- 95-



Jamaica at a glance                                                             9/18102
Larin   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         America   middle-
Jamaica   & Carih.  Income       Ovsiopamt diamond
2001
Population, mid-year(mifions)                        27        524     2,164                 Ufe expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                 2,740     3.560     1,240
GNI (Atls mehod, US$ boilions)                       73       1,862    2,677
Average annual growth, 1995-01
Population (%)                                       09         1 5      10
Laborforce(%)                                         15       2.2        12     GNI                             Gross
per                            pnmary
Most recent estimate atest yar available, 1995-01)                               capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% otfdioulabon below naional povety line)    17
Urban population (% of totelpoputafon)                57        76        48
Ufe expectancy atbirth (years)                        75        70        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 Nve biaths)               25        29        33
Chtld mainutrtion (% of chl7drin under 5)              4         9        11          Access to Improved water souroe
Access to an improved water source (% of popufabon)   84        85        80
lliteracy(V% ofppuoaronasge t5)                       13        11        15
Gross pnrnary enroitment (% adschool-age population)  98       130       107
Mate                                                97       131       107         --- Lowar-rnrddfe-income group
Female                                              98       128       107
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS end LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981     1991      2000      2001
Econonde relat
GDP (USS billon/s)                          30       40         76       80
Gross domestic investment/GDP              20 3     24 6      28 3      285
Exports of goods and seMces/GDP            47 2     51 0      46 7      420                      Trade
Gross domestc savings(GDP                   117     234        17 2      158
Gmss national savings/GDP                    9 8     17 7      22 7     21 1
Current asoount balance/GDP                -10.5     -6 3      -5 6       7 3    Domeastic                    nvestment
Interest payments/GDP                        3 7     4 8        2.6      32      savintgs
Totai deb/GDP                               77 6    1092       55 9     613       s
Total debt service/exports                  25 4     30 8      16 8      174
Present value of debttGDP                                      56 9
Present value of debt/exports                                 1132
indebtedtness
198141   1991-01    2000       2001   2001-05
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 2.7      1 1      1.1       11       2.4               Jrratca
GDP per capita                      16       0.5     0.5        0.5       17         --    Lower-nrddl-rcrnre group
Expots of goods and services        60       0 3      3 6      -4 3       3 0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991      2000      2001     Growth of invesment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                       20
Agdculture                                   7 5      7 3       6 4       6 5
Industry                                    35 6    424        27 2     302       ro
Manufacturing                             167      180       101       129
Servmces                                    57 0     50 4      66 4     63 3
Pnvate consumption                         67 7     64 8       671      67 3     -is
General govemment consumption              206       11 a      157       169               -G   DI      - 0  GDP
Imports of goods and servfces              55 8     52 2       57 7     54 6
1981-91  1991-01      2000      2001     Growth of expora s end npoprts (I%)
(average annual growth)
Agrlcutture                                  1.4      0 0      -7 3       30     I
Industry                                     3 2     4 3        0 8       1 0    10
Manufactudng                               2 6     -15        08        10 s
Services                                     2 4     52         21        10      o-/
Private consumption                          3 3     4 6        0 a       3 9    4      96    97        9s9   0    1
General govemment consumprion                5 8     4 8       -3 7       8 8    .10
Gross domestic investment                    23       31       107        30
Imports of goods and services                8 0     4 4        8 0       0 5
Note 2001 data are preiminary estimates
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with Its income-group average. i data are missing, te diamond vwD
be incomplete
-96-



Jamaica
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981     1991     2000      2001     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                     30_
Consumerpnces                              119      510        77       80     20;    >
Impicit GDP dettator                        8 4     49 2       9 9      9 3
Government finance
(% of GDP, ,ndudes currentgrants)                                               o 
Current revenue                            28 3     29 2      29 5     27 7            go    97    98    99    oo    Si
Current budget balance                     -4 0      7 4       1 3     -2 9                 GDP daltator  O  CPI
Overall surplus/deftict                    -16 0     4 3      -0 9      -5 7
TRADE
(USS millions)                             1981    1991      2000      2001     Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                         974    1,151     1,515    1,436    4000
Alumina                                   588      543       676      630
Bauxite                                   172      113        56       98     3000
Manufactures                               69       63        43       47
Total imports (c)ii                       1.471    1.829     3,451    2,949     z
Food                                      102       91       262
Fuel and energy                           489      325       618
Capital goods                             295      398       497      541       o
95   96   97   98   g3 o 00 
Exportpnceindex(1995100)                    58      90       118       116
Importpnceindex(1995.100)                    58      90       117       116                EsExports    Utrlponrts
Terms ot trade (1995,100)                   100      100       101      101
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1981     1991     2000      2001     Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ millbons) 
Exports of goods and services             1,406    2,183     3,562    3.360
Imports of goods and services             1,663    2Z07      4,406    4,368
Resource balance                           -257      -24      -844   -1   a
Net income                                 -179     -484      -414     -458
Net current transters                       124     253       831       879                                   .11
Current account balance                    -312     -256      -427     -587
Financing items (net)                       224     402      1,010      985
Changes in net reserves                      88     -146      -583     -398     4 
Memo:
Reserves includIng gold (USS millions)                       1,388    1,748
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)             1 8    12 1      44 1     46 5
EXTERNAL DEST and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     1991      2000     2001
(US$ millions)                                                                  ComposItIon of 2001 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      2,313    4,413     4,269    4,900
IBRD                                      212     664       415      443                          A 443
IDA                                         0       0         0         0              G s75            c 40
Total debt service                          382      692      643       645
IBRD                                       21      121       83        74                                  D 657
IDA                                         0       0         0         0 
Composibon of net resource flows
Offical grants                             11     282        39        42
Official creditors                        338     121        29      -112                                E   el1
Pdvate creditors                          -43      -63      442       773               \           -
Foreign direct Investment                 -12     133       529       448           F 1.WJ
Poitfolio equity                            0       0        -62     -54
World Bank program
Commitments                                45      42        75        75     A - IBRD                   E - BIDateral
Disbursements                              43      43        98        91     B - IDA  D - Other mdilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                        7      62        60       52      C - IMP                    G - Short-nam
Net flows                                  36      -19       37       39
Interest payments                          14      59        22       22
Net transfers                              22      -78       15        17
Development Economics                                                                                           9/18/02
- 97-



St. Kitts and Nevis at a glance                                                              9/19/02
St. Klts     Latin   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                   and   America   middle-
Nevis   a Carib.  Income      Davelopm3nat diamond
2001
Population, mid-year (mIllions)                     004        524       504                 fte expectancy
GNI per capita (Attas rethod, USS)                 7,270      3,560    4.460
GNI (Atlas rmetho  USS bilions)                     0 30      1.862    2,248
Average annual growth. 1995-01
Population (%)                                       00         15       13
Labor force (%)                                                2.2       1 a     GNI                             Grmss
per                           primary
MAost recentestimate (latest year available, 1995-01)                            capita                      enrolnment
Poverty (% of population below national poveitV line)
Urban populabon (%of total population)                34        76        77
tife expectancy at birth (veans)                      71        70        71
Infant mortality (per 1,000 hve births)               19        29        24
Child matnutnbton (% of chldren underS)                          9         9          Access to improved water source
Access to an impproved water source (% of populaton)  98        85        87
lHlteracy (% ofpopulation aqe 15+)                              11        10
Grosspnmaryenrollment (%ofschool-agepopulation)                130       127            St JOltsandNevrs
Male                                                         131       128         -    Upper-aiddle-income group
Female                                                       128       126
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981     1991      2800      2001
GDP (US$ billions)                          006     0.16      033       034       Ecnomicratios'
Gross domestc investment/GDP                302     42 9      48 3      460                      Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP           604     58 9      43 3      441
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   1.1    214        -0.3     172
Gross nationa savings/GDP                   20 9    219        9 9      131
Current account balance/GDP                 -81     -17 6     -17.7    -32 9     Domesic           .v\mn
Interest payments/GDP                       02       0 8       2 2       3 3     savgsvetmen
Total debt/GDP                              14 5     30 3      47 0     55.2 
Total debt semlce/expons                              3 3      12 5      132
Present value of debt/GDP                                      35 2
Present value of debtexports                                  71 7
Indebtedness
1981-91  1991-i     2000      2001   2001-05
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 67       4 6      53        17                   -S    t Krts andNewis
GDP per capita                      7 5      4 8     5 0        1 5                    -   Upper-middle-rcotne group
Expots of goods and services        7 4      1 4     -5 4       3.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991      2000      2001     Grorth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                 111       6 7       2 8      2 9
Industry                                   24 4     26 5      29 0      292      z0
Manufactunng                              144      120       105       102
Services                                    645      668      683       680       o
Pnvate consumpbon                          72 9     61 0      75.7      59 8     z20
General govemment consumpton                26 0     17 6     24 6      230               -GDI          GDP
tmports of goods and services              89 5     80 4      89 9      72 9     _
(average annual growth)                 198i-91  1991.0       2000      2001     Growthof exports andrimports(%)
Agnculture                                  -2 3     0 2       -6 5      6 9     40
Industry                                    5 9      7 0      24 0       2 0     20
Manufactuiing                              2 6      4 8      108       -15
Services                                     86      40        29        18       0
Pnvate consumpbon                           2 8      6 6      27 3      -19 7    z0
General govemment consumpbon                2 5      8 0      20 3       -4 7   -40
Gross domesic investment                    131      5 2      30 5       10     |Expons                -   imports
trnpots of goods and services               61       5 2      35 6      -17S
Note 2001 data are preliminary estmates
*The diamonds show four key indicators in he country (in bold) comparad Ath its mcome-group average I data are missing the diamond will
be incomplete
- 98-



St. Kitts and Nevis
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981    1991      2000     2001     tnflabrn
Domlesbc porices
(% change)                                                                    Is
Consumerppnces                            105       42        00       00
tmplrKt GDP deflator                      16 5      3 0       3 7      2 6     s   _      _       _    __
Government finance                                                            0
(% of GDP, incmudes current qrants)                                                  9S    97   98    90    00    01
Current revenue                                    231       292      285      s -
Current budget balance                              0 8       2 3      2 5                GDP deflator  e  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                            -2 8      -2 7     -1 9
TRADE
t1981  t1991      2000     2001      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
(USS mrllrons)
Total exports (fob)                                 34        52       47     200
Sugar                                              11         8        7
Beverages and tobacco                               2         1        1 2     ._
Manufactures                                       21       24        22
Total Imports (cd)                           .     110       149      152      o*                  *
Food                                               18        27       25     so
Fuel andenergy                                      9        123      13 3,
Capital goods                                      26        21       24      0
Export pnce index (1995--100)
Import pnce index (1995-100)                                                             GExports      Eirroirts
Terms of trade (1995=100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1981    1991      2000     2001      Current account balance to GOP (%)
(USS millions)
Exports of goods and services               39     103       156      151 o
Imports of goods and services               55     132       247      250
Resource balance                           -16     -30        -91     -99    r10
Net income                                   1       -7      -29       -34
Net current transfers                       10       8        63       20    -20
Current aocount balance                     -5     -29        -58    -113     40
Frnaing items (net)                          9      30        58      112
Changes in net reserves                     -5      *1         0        o     40
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)              23        52       48
Conversion rate (DEC, local/USS)           27       2 7       2 7      2 7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981    1991      2000     2001
(USS millions)                                                                Compntiton of 2001 debt (US$ dill.)
Total debt outstanding and dIsbursed         8      50       155      189
IBRD                                       0       0         5        7                      A.7  t               |
IDA                                        0       0         1        1                             C 2
Total debt service                           0       4        20       21 |
IBRD                                       0       0         0        1
IDA                                        0       0         0        0         F 75                    D  53
Composition of net resource flows                                                     i
Official grants                            2       2         2
Official creditors                         1       3         3        9              '     A
Pnvate creditors                           0        1       14       27
Foreign direct investment                  1      21        96
Portfolio equity                           0       0         0                                   E 50
World Bank program
Commitments                                0       3         0        0      A - IBRD                  E - Bdarate |
Disbursements                              0       0         1        2     B - IDA  0 - Other mLdblateral  F - Prrvait
Pnncipal repayments                        0       0         0        0     c - IMF                   G - Shorn-tem
Net flows                                  0       0         1        2
Interest payments                          0       0         0        0
Net transfers                              0       0         1        2
Development Economics                                                                                         9/19/02
- 99 -



St. Lucia at a glance                                                            9t16!02
Latin   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         AmerIa    middle-
St. Lucia  & Carib.  incomne     Davclopmant dlarnd
2001
Population. mid-year (millions)                      016       524       504                 Ufe expectancy
GN per capita (Atlas method, USS)                   3,910     3.560    4,460
GNI (Atas metort USS billIons)                       062      1.862    2.248
Average annual growth, 1995-01
Popuiation 1%                                         1.4       15       13      G
Labor force (%)                                                 2 2      1 8     GNI           gnGross
Most recent estimate (latest year availab, 199541)                               capita                      enrollmtent
Poverty (% of popultiabon below natlonal povr line)
Urban populadion (% oftotatlpopuation)                38        76        77
Ltfe expectancy at birlh tVears)                      71        70        71
Infant mortality (per 1,0  live bIrfts)               13        29        24
Child mainutribon (% of children under 5)                        9         9          Access to Improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)  98        85        87
liteacy (% ofpopulaton age 15+)                                 11        10
Gross pnrrary enrollment (%ofschool-ailepopulation)            130       127        -S        Lua
Mate                                                         131       128        ---Upper-mddle-income group
Female                                                       128       126
KEY ECONOMIC RATiOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
198      1991      2000      2001
Econoririe rateos'
GDP (US$ billions)                         015       043       069      066
Gross domestic mrvestmenttGDP               34.2     253       25 6     21 0
Exports of goods and servcestGDP            51 8     69 9      55 8     489                     Trade
Gross domeshc savingstGDP                    0 6     11 9       8 9      7 6
Gross natonal sanvngstGDP                    7 9      8 3       61       51
Current account balancetGDP                -32 3    -170       -8 9      -99     Domestc
Interest paymentstGDP                        0 3      0 9       2 4      1 3     Domesh            _         Investment
Totaldebt/GDP                               10.2     191       345      360         ngs
Total debt sMce/exports                      1.4      3 2       9 6      6 7
Present value of detGDP                                        32 2
Present value of debttexports                                  52.9
Indebtedness
1981-91  1991-01     200       2001   200r-05
(average annual groth)
GDP                                 a1       20       0 7      -37                        St. Lucia
GDP per capita                      65       04      -08       -50                     -   Upper-kdrle-rncorne group
Exportsofgoodsandservces           124      -10      -12      -156
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
198      1991      2000     200i      Growthof invsnent and GOPt%)
(% of GDP)                                 12
Agnculture                                  131      131        883       6
Industry                                   22 9      189       198      182 o
Manufactunng                               9 3      7 9       5 5       4-4
Services                                   640       679       719      752      21,
Pnvate consumpton                          82.4     735        74 6     74 6     40
General govemment consumphon                17 0     14 6      16 6     179                -  GN           GO   P
Imports of goods and services              85 4     834       72.6      624
o181-91  1991.01      2000     2001              as ot   anti end tmpa tti
(average annual growth                                                            rwho     xprsadJ-
Agnculture                                   7.1     -4 7       7 4     -192     20
Industry                                    9 7      21        -19       41      10 -
Manufactunng                              10 8     -1 4      -4 1     -178      0_
Services                                     7.0      30        07       -16
Pffvate consumpbion                         7 6      2 2       16 3     -61      o           
General govemment consumpbon                4 7      4 3       4 9       3 9    -20 
Gross domestc irivestment                   7 8      2 0       -6.2    -209                   Eorts          Inwm
Imports of goods and services               101      0 6        1.6    -172
Note 2001 data are preimrinary esfimates
The diamonds show four key indicators In the country (in bold) compared with its Income-group average 1t data are missing the diamond will
be incomplete
- 100 -



St. Lucia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981     1991      2000      2001      Inflation ()
Domeshic pnces
(% change)
Consumer pdces                               151       6 2       2 0       2 5
Implicil GDP defator                         10 2      5 8       10       0 0
Govenmment finanfce o
(% of GDP. includes current grants)                                                             97     Oa    99    oo    os
Current revenue                                       25 5      26 2      24 8     5
Current budget balance                                 6 4       4 7       1 7            -G    OP daflator   oCPI
Overall surplus/defcit                                 0 2      -1 5      -4 5
TRADE
1981     1991      2000      2001      Export and import levels (USS nill)
(IJS$ millions)
Totaiexports(tob)                             42       113        60       45      470
Bananas                                      15       56        33        33
Frurts and vegetables                         0        1         1         1     300
Manufactures                                 13       28        16         0
Total imports (Gil)                           129     295        362      311     200
Food                                         26       59        65        65     IOD
Fuel and energy                              13       21        18        15
Capital goods                                26       62        62        61       a
95   9e   v7   Os    as   05   o
Evaort price index (1995-100)                         116         97       95
Import pnce index (1995-100)                           95         87       84                 M Exports     * IrroortS
Termsottrade(1995=100)                                122        III      113
BALANCE ot PAYMENTS
(IJS$ millioK)                             1981     1991      2000      2001      Current account balance to GDP ()
Eiports of goods and seMrvs                   84      302        389      343
Imports of goods and services                 144     360        431      384          -         - .
Resource balance                             -60       -58      -42       -41       ,   '
Net income                                     -2     -33        -37       -46
Net current transfers                         14       17         18       21      -'4
Current account balance                       -49      -73       -61       -65
Financing items (net)                         44       78        76        75
Changes in net reserves                        5        -5       -15       -10     20
Reserves including gold (US$ mllions)          5       51         87       97
Conversion rate (DEC, localWS$)               2 7      2 7       2 7       2 7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     1991      2000      2001
(USS millions)                                                                     Composition of 2001 debt (USS mill)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           16      62        237      238
IBRD                                         0        0          6        5                        A S
IDA                                          0        1         12       12                             B 12
Total debt service                              1       10        40       25             G 70
IBRD                                         0        0          1        1
IDA                                          0        0          0        0
Composnion of net resource flows
Offiial grants                               6        7         10
Official creditors                           2        6          5        -4
Private credntors                            O        -1        24        -6
Foreign direct investment                   38       58         49
Portfoiso equity                             O        O          o                          F St        E 17
Worid Bank program
Commitments                                  0        0          0        3      A - IBRD                    E - Birlatral
Disbursements                                0        1          2        1      B - IDA   D- Ottr murllaterai  F - Private
Pnncipal repayments                          0        0          1        1      C- IMF                      G - Short-tarm
Netflows                                     0        1          1        0
Interest payments                            0        0          0        0
Net transfers                                0        1          1        0
Development Economics                                                                                               9/1 602
- 101 -



St. Vincent and the Grenadines at a glance
St Vincent     Lain   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                              and the  America   middle-
Grenadmes    & Carib.  Income     Davelopmant dlamond
2001
Popuiation, mid-year (millions)                   012        524     2,164               iJe expcacy
GNI per capita (Atias meth, USS)                  2,740    3,560     1,240
GNI (Alias mehM, US$ brions)                      0 32     1,862     2,677
Average annual growth, 1995-01
Popuabion(%)                                       07        15        I0
Labor fome (%)                                               2-2       12      GNI                           Gross
per                          prlmary
Most recent estimate (atet year available, 1995-01)                           capita              /      enrollment
Poverty (% ofpoplauon below natronal poverty fne)
Urban populabon (%of total populatfon)              56        76       46
Ufeexpectancyatbirth (years)                        73        70       69
Irfant mortality (per 1,000 byre bitrt)             20        29       33
Child malnutritonm 1% of children under 5)          27         9       11          Accees to Improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% ofpWoulabon)  93        85       80
Illiteracy (% ofpoputation age 15+)                           11       15
Grosspnmaryenrollment (%ofschool-aqepopufatlon)              130      107       -St VncenlandtheGrenadnes
Male                                                       131      107            Lower-mrrddeHncrcne grnup
Female                                                     128      107
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981    1991      2000      2001
Econondc rmtosa
GW (US$ bflons)                           007      021      034       035
Gross domestic investment(G3P             31 5     29 4     27 7      27 1
Exports of goods and servrces/GOP         57 4    52 8      52 8      460                    Trade
Grss domesbc savingstGDP                   0 4      2 4     20 5      108
Gross nabonal savings/GDP                 201       6 2     20 0       9 3
Current aosount baWInWGDP                 -8 1    -204       -9 6    -16 9     Domestic                  investrnnt
interest paymentstGDP                      0 5      0 8       1 5      1 5     savmgs
Total debttGDP                            251      31 9     57 9      54 7
Total debt sere/exports                    15       4 3      7 4       7 6
Present value of debttGDP                                   47 0
Present value of debttexponts                               87 7
tndebtedness
1981-91  1991-01    2000     2001   2001-05
(average annual growth)
GDP                                60      33       21       -0.6                     St Vincentand the Grknadrnes
GDP per capita                     51      2 6      1 3      -1 3                  -  Lower-rnddle-,ncome group
Exports ot goods and seMces       6 3      2 5      1 9     -13 3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991     2000      2001     Growth of Investmnt and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                    20
Agnculture                                158      186       108      103
industry                                  25 7     23 5     23 4      244      10
Manufactunng                             108      89        53       54
Sevices                                   58 5     57 9     65 8      653       |          97   go
Pnvate consumpbon                         76 5     771      53 1      620     -ro
General government consumption            232      20 5     26 4      272               -Gol        -0GDP
lmpots of goods and services              88 5     79 9     601       62 3
1 981-91  199141     2000     2001      Grorih of exports and impons t )s
(averarte annual growth)
Agnculture                                 5.9     -1 3      6 6      -50     30
Industry                                   6 0      2 3      -7 2      2 5
Manufactunng                              41      -12     -14 0       10O
SeMrces                                    6 0      4 6      4.7      -08 j
Pnvate consumpbon                          4 9      1 2     -14 4      7 9
General govemment consumpbon               3 4      61       4 3       2 5    -30
Gross domestc investment                   6 7      3 9      -0 8     -2 8                 Expons   -O impons
impoits of goods and services              4 9     2 1      -13 4      31
Note 2001 data are prermnnary estimates
The diamonds show four key indcators in the country (in bold) compared wlAl its income-group average f data are missing, fth diamond wDIl
be incomplete
- 102 -



St. Vincent and the Grenadines
PRICES and GOVERNMENT RNANCE
Ia91    1991      2000      2001     tnfladon (%)
Domestic prices
Consumer pdces                               12 7      5 6       1 4       1 4
Implicit GDP deflator                        169       66        01       53       2
Government finance                                                                       96     97 sa
(% of GDgP indudes cuffent grants)                                                 2                        _
Current revenue                                       27 4      23 8     23 5     .4
Current budget balance                                 4 6      -0 5      4 1                  GDP deflator  -OCPI
Overall surplus/deficit                               -6 6      -3 7      -0 5
TRADE
1981     1991      2000      2001      Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
(US$ mllllons)
Total exports (fob)                                    64         51       43        -
Bananas                                               35        19        13        T
Eddoes and dasheens                                    2         3         2     200 t
Manufactures                                          18        26       21      isO*
Total imports (cd)                                    123        180      186      oo-
Food                                                  26        45        48
Fuel and energy                                       11        16        17      o
Capital goods                                         27        60        62 
95   96    97   96   99   o0   01
Exportpnceindex(1995=100)                             107        108
Import pnce Index (1995--100)                         101         99                          6 Expons      Elrnports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                             106        109
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1981     1991      2000      2001      Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ mitllons)
Exports of goods and semces                   45      110        178      174 _
Imports of goods and services                 64      161        209      229
Resource balance                             -19       -51       -31       -54
Net income                                     -2     -11        -20       -23
Netcurrenttransters                           17       19         19       18
Current account balance                        -5     -43        -32      -60
Financng items (net)                           4       39         45       55
Changes in net reserves                        1        4        -12        5           440
Memo:
Reserves including gold CUSS milions)                  28                  61
Conversion rate (DEC, 1ocal4US$)              2 7      2 7       2 7       2 7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     1991      2000      2001
(USS millions)                                                                     ComposItion of 2001 debt (USS mill)
Total debt outstanrlng and disbursed           19      68        195      193
IBRD                                         0        0          0        0                          B 8
IDA                                          0        8          7        8                 G 31
Total debt service                              I s               13       14
IBRD                                         0        0          0        0/                           - - 
IDA                                          0        0          0        0
Compositon of net resource flows
Official grants                              4        3          4
Official creditors                           7        6          3        2           F
Pnvate creditors                             I        o          0        o
Foreign direct investment                    1        9         28
Portlolooequity                              0        0          0                                      E 34
World Bank program
Commitments                                  0        0          0        0      A - IBRD                    E - Blateral
Disbursements                                0        2          0        1      B - IDA  0 - Other multlater  F - Private
Pnncipal repayments                          0        0          0        0      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                    0        2          0        1
Interest payments                            0        0          0        0
Net transfers                                0        2          0        1
Development Economics                                                                                               9/16/02
- 103 -



Tririidad and Tobago at a glance                                                                9/2Y02
Trinktad     Latin   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                   and   Afmrica   middle-
Tobago    & Carib,  Inroma      Davalopraant dimtiond
Popuiation, nod-year (millions)                       13       524       504                 Ule epectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas melhoct, USS)                5,970      3,560    4,480
GNI (Abas netho, US$ bllions)                         78      1,862    2.248
Average anmual growth, 199541
Populaton (%)                                        0          1 2 5    1 3     GNI          Gtss
Labor force %)                                       2 0       2 2       1 8     per                             Gars
Most recant aetimate (atest yaar available. 1995-01)                             capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% o popuLatbon below natonal poverty line)
Urban populaton f% of tot apopulatbon)                74        76        77
Ufa expectancy at birlh (years)                       73        70        71
Infant mortality (per 1,000 ve birts)                 16        29        24
ChUd malnutribion (% of childmren Luder 5)                       9         9           Acoss to lItmproved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of populabon)   86        85        87
literacy (% of populabon ape 15.)                      6        1 t       10
Groas primary enrolment (%ofschool-aqepopulabon)     102       130       127             Tfnidad and Tobago
Maie                                               102       131       128         -    Upper-inm-cde-ncome gtDup
Female                                             101       128       126
KEY ECONOLSIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981     1991      2000      2001
Econondo mtioe
GDP (USS bflions)                           7.0     5 2        8 2      8 9
Gross domestic rnvestmentlGDP               27.8     16.6      18 2     208                      Trade
Expoxts o *goods and servcestGDP            43 8    41 8      58 9      54 0
Gros domestc savings/GDP                    362     24 5       31 8     31 9
Gross nabonal savmgs/GDP                    30.2     15 8      24 7     27 0
Current account balance/GDP                          -09        65       62       Domestic 
Interest paymentsfGDP                       1t2      3 2        1 4      1 3         esa                      nvestment
Total debt1GDP                              1S 0     48 1      30 0     273         4ns'
Total debt servicelexports                   4 1     192       10 2      4 0
Present value of debtVGDP                                      311
Present value of debt/exports                                  51 9
Indebtedness
198141   199141     2000      2001   20D145
(average annual growth)
GDP                                -1 3      40       69        50       5s0               Trnnida and Tobao
GDP per capita                     -23      3.3      6 2       4 3      41           - -- Upper-niddle-ncome goup
Exports of goods and servcas        7 7      5 5     2 8       -77       6 8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991      2000      2001    G0rth at investment and GDP (%)
(% of GOP)                                                                       1oo
Agncutture                                   23       25        1.6       1 6
Industry                                   584      42 7      44 0      44 9      sro 
Manufactunng                               6 7      9 4       7 5       7 7
Services                                    39.3     549       544      535       oI        ro o5
Pdvate consumption                          51 3    626        59 0     572
General govemment consumption               126      130       92       108               --GDI           O -GDP
imports o goods and services                35 5    33 9      45 3      42 8
198191   1991041      2000     2001      Grovath of axport and ihnponts (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                 -4 6      3 5      18 7      4 0
industry                                    4 6      4 8       8 9       6 7     40
Manutactudng                              -7 5      7 4      12 3       7 0              D0
Services                                     3.8     32        83        36
Pnvate consumpton                           -1 9      1 6      4 1       5.1 
General govemment consumption               -3 9      1 8      35 5       1     -20
Gross domesic investment                    -9 5     12 8      9 7       33             -    Ex port        por
Imports of goods and service                -02      8 0       -3.2      0 9
Note 2001 data are preliminary estimates
The diamonds show four key Indicators In the country (m bold) compared wrth ItS income-group average I1 data are missing, the diamond vmil
be incomplete
- 104 -



Trinidad and Tobago
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981     1991     2000      2001     tnflation (%)
f70mestic prices
(% change)
Consumer pnces                             14 3      3 8       3 5      51     1s..
ImplicIt GDP deflator                       79       00       146       33     ro-
Government finance                                                                                 _
(% of GOP, includes current grants)                                             o
Current revenue                                     30 5      272      25 0     -5                 g    9     O     GO
Current budget balance                               3 3       2 9      0 7                 GDP deiator r  t-CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                             -0 2       1 3     -3 9
TRADE
1981    1991      2000      2001      Export and Import levels (USS mill)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                1,753     4,213    4,159    sooo
Fuels                                              985     2,798    2,623
Chemicals                                          353       737      809
Manufactures                                        99       199      209     3000
Total imports (cd)                                 1,437     3,333 3,552
Food                                               145       187      213     ZO
Fuel and energy                                     5       137       935
Capital goods                                      472       973     1,234 o
95  9O   97    99  99   00   Or
Export price index (1995=100)                        95       140       143
Import pnce index (1995=100)                         94        83       80                  EiExports   *aImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                           101        169      178
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1981    1991      2000     2001     Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ mllllong)
Exports of goods and services             3,144    2,173     4.842    4,791     10 .
Imports of goods and services             2.478    1,766     3,721    3,799
Resource balance                            665     407      1,121     992
Net income                                 -198    -439       -621    -472
Net current transfers                       -69      -14       38       33       . 
Current account balance                             -46       538      553
Financing items (net)                               -251      -97       -84
Changes in net reserves                    -569     297      -441     -469      Is
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS n-irons)     3,350     340      1,386    1,859
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)            24       4 3       6 3      6 3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     1991      2000     2001
(US$ millons)                                                                   Composition of 2001 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      1,050    2,503     2,467    2,425
18RD                                       54      38        89       90                        A 90
IDA                                         0       0         0         0
Tota debt service                           142     428       500       196
[BRD                                       10       9        17       17          Ga                         2
IDA                                         0       0         0         0
Composibon of net resource flows                                                                              E 4
Official grants                             0       2          1
Official creditors                         84      25       -41       -14
Pnvate creditors                           16    -139        23 a5
Foreign direct investment                 258     169       650
Portfolio equitV                            0       0         0                                       F 950
World Bank program
Commitments                                 0      21         0         0     A - IBlD                  E - Blatersi
Drsbursements                               3       2        14        11     B-IDA    D-5rherwmiutlateral  F -Privato
Pdrncipal repayments                        6       6        10        10     C - IMF                   G- Short-term
Netflows                                   -3      -4         4         1
Interest payments                           5       3         7        7
Net transfers                              -7      -7        -3       -6
Development Economics                                                                                           9t23Y02
-105-



Additional Annex 11: STAP Roster Technical Review
CARIBBEAN: Mainstreaming Adaptation to Climate Change Project
STAP Reviewer: Bhawan Singh. Professor/Climatologist, University of Montreal
The project will attempt to mainstream adaptation to climate change among CARICOM member
countries. Water resources, agriculture and land use are the main targeted sectors. A component
involving modeling (downscaling GCM data) and monitoring is also included.
Special emphasis on water resources management is laudable. Statistical trends show declining rainfall,
especially in the Northern Caribbean. Inter-annual variability of rainfall, linked mainly to the ENSO
cycle, is also increasing. Furthermore, climate models (AOGCM's) project declining and more variable
rainfall in the region. This problem will very likely be exacerbated by higher ET rates and the increasing
competition for water among user sectors, including agriculture, industry and domestic use. Bringing
these issues to the fore, in terms of regional governments policy, as being proposed by MACC, is of
paramount importance.
All in all, the project is timely, of significant merit and responds to a number of pressing needs insofar as
capacity building in the area of adaptation to climate change is concerned.
However, the following are comments and suggestions that may help focus and strengthen the proposal:
1.    Based on experiences gleaned from working with a number of Caribbean countries through
research (Barbados and Trinidad and Tobago) and the preparation of National Communications (Antigua
and Barbuda, Guyana, St. Lucia, St. Kitts and Nevis, Dominica, Haiti) there is a pressing need for
capacity in the region for determining vulnerability to climate change and impacts assessments for
critical sectors such as agriculture (crop yield changes, irrigation requirements), water resources (rainfall
variability and extreme events-flooding/drought, ET losses) and coastal resources, including tourism.
Some significant capacity building took place under CPACC in the areas of climate and sea level
monitoring, including coral reef monitoring, coastal resource management and coastal vulnerability
assessment.
Mainstreaming adaptation to climate change in the above focal areas will contribute significantly
to building the required awareness, expertise and autonomy to fill whatever gaps in knowledge
and vulnerability assessments that might exist upon the completion of CPACC, and eventually
MACC.
2.     Given the crucial role of tourism for the economies of islands such as Antigua and Barbuda,
Barbados, the Bahamas and St. Lucia, it is important to lay emphasis on this sector.
By adopting a natural resource management approach, instead of the traditional sector approach,
focussing on water resources and land and biomass management, MACC provides an interesting
alternative that has the advantage of streamlining the diagnosis of the problem, namely
vulnerability and adaptation to GHG climate change.
By focusing on the natural resource base and how its sustainability might be affected by climate
change, MACC will provide a very useful mechanism for important sectors such as housing,
tourism, banking and trade to assess their vulnerability to climate change and provide guidance
on how they may adapt to ensure their sustainability.
- 106 -



3.     Elaborating on details relating to the mechanisms and methodologies for mainstreaming
adaptation   measures amongst Caribbean governments is crucial and necessary in light of the very
diverse economies of Caribbean countries ( e.g. heavy industrialization in Trinidad and Tobago, tourism
and off-shore banking in the Bahamas and Barbados, agriculture in Guyana). Vulnerabilities to climate
change and variability also vary in regard to geographical location ( e.g.. hurricanes in the Northern
Caribbean).
CPACC addressed this issue to some extent in its country-by-country workshops on climate
change vulnerabilities and adaptation.
4.     Our experience, even with developed countries, is that it is very difficult to mainstream
adaptation   policies by themselves. It is very often easier to link climate change with other
challenges to facilitate its acceptance. Caribbean countries often claim that there are more pressing
economic and environmental problems than climate change. In agriculture, for instance, linking climate
change with crop yield and farm profitability, as well as examining the influence of markets and other
factors on farm subsidies and unemployment, may be advisable.
By bringing climate change issues closer to the minds and agendas of policy makers in the
region, MACC can potentially play a significant role in addressing this issue.
5.     The component on monitoring and modeling will have to be more clearly defined. Given the fact
that MACC is being proposed as a stage It activity with a 4-year time frame, it would be advisable to
steer away from complicated modeling efforts (AOGCM, RCM) that have a long gestation time and
focus on statistical downscaling techniques ( 50x50 km ) to achieve the spatial scales of climate change
scenarios applicable to Caribbean SIDS.
It may also be highly advisable to involve tertiary institutions in the region ( UWI, CIMH ) in
these efforts. For example, UWI is about to embark on a program of graduate studies in
Environment with climate change as one of the core streams.
6.     Sensitization of Caribbean governments and peoples to climate change and variability, including
sea level rise and their potential impacts, is highly necessary to promote sustainable development in the
face of GHG climate change.
Some degree of sensitization, especially relating to adaptation issues, has already been achieved by
CPACC. The MACC project being proposed here will almost certainly continue to contribute in a
significant manner.
The budget amount, the allocation of funds and the Financial Plan seem appropriate and
adequate, given the broad, regional coverage.
Response from the Team
The STAP review is highly supportive of the project concept. STAP review suggestions have been
incorporated where applicable. Several of the comments relate to the need for additional details, which
will be secured during project preparation. Specifically:
Need for capacity in the region for determining vulnerability to climate change and impact assessments
for critical sectors. The project will support vulnerability assessments and has been restructured to
- 107 -



provide for a more direct linkage to critical sectors of the economy. The preparation work will identify
capacity building needs.
o      Need for an emphasis on the tourism sector Component (a) of the project includes now a direct
activity linked to the tourism sector.
o      Need to elaborate on details related to the mechanisms and methodologies for mainstreaming
adaptation measures.
This is part of the preparation agenda. Details will be discussed at the National and regional workshops
envisaged under the preparation activities being supported through the PDF-B. Need to define the
monitoring and modeling activity in more detail.
This will also be addressed as part of preparation activities. Particular attention will be provided
to available tools and there will be an effort to steer away from complicated modeling efforts.
Tertiary institutions in the region will be involved (UWI-CIMH)
- 108-



Additional Annex 12: Eligibility of Island Nations and Territories for Adaptation Funds under
the UNFCCC
CARIBBEAN: Mainstreaming Adaptation to Climate Change Project
Countrv-Territory   Non Annex I'   CPACC member       Completed Ist       MACC              SI DS'
Communkcadon'      Participation
Antiguia &              Yes       j      Yes              Yes               Yes              Yes
Barbuda                          -
D)ominica               Yes       j      Yes              N 64              Yes              Yes
B1ahamas                Yes       I      Yes              Yes               Yes              Yes
13arbados               Yes              Yes              Yes               Yes              Yes
Jainalica               Yes              Yes              Yes               Yes              Yes
St. Lucia               Yes       r      Yes              Yes               Yes              Yes
St, Vincent             Yes              Yes              Yes               Yes              Yes
St. Kitts and Nevis     Yes              Yes              Yes               Yes              Yes
13elize                 Yes              Yes              Yes               Yes              Yes
;uyana                  Yes       [      Yes              Yes               Yes              Yes
1'rii1idad and          Yes              Yes              Yes              Yes               Yes
[Iobago-                                  e  - --  - _  _ _ _ _ _,                         _  _,__
( irenadla             Ycs e             Yes              Yes              YCs              Yes
I'rench Island          No               No                No               No               NO
Territories                                                                                  N
Dutch Islatnd           No               No                No               No               Nv
r'erritories
I S Territorics        No        |      No                No               No               No
Eentral America         Yes              Yes              Yes               No               No
'uba                    Yes              No.              Yes               No               No
laiti                   Yes              No                No               No               No
lX'ninicani             Yes               No               No               No               No
Republic          _                                                                                  _
In order to be eliigible for (irF fndiss, A contlilry must be non-annex I as per provisio ns of the United Nations
Framework Convention on C'limate Change ( tNINF'('(') subscribed to by the community or nations in 1992.
2 In order to be eligible to reeieve staue 11 adaptatio n resources. a country mnust have completed and submitted to the
convention its Ist C(ommnunication. lhis must be donie prior to submission of tihe proposal to the GlEF, as per
instructions provided by the Conference of P'arties to the Convention to the GlF.
3In order to recieve priority for adaptation fiilnds, a coun1try must be a Small Island or I ow Lying area (5i1}5).
Dominica is in the process of oflcial]y submittinig its com11mu1nicationi.
-109-



Additional Annex 13: Caribbean: Planning for Adaptation to Global Climate Change Project
(CPACC)
CARIBBEAN: Mainstreaming Adaptation to Climate Change Project
Summary
The GEF-funded CPACC Project (1997-2001) was implemented by the Organization of American States
(OAS), in partnership with University of the West Indies Center for Environment and Development
(UWICED), with the World Bank acting as the GEF Implementing Agency. CPACC's overall objective
was to support Caribbean countries in preparing to cope with the adverse effects of global climate change
(GCC). As a Stage I Enabling Activity, the project focused on creating awareness; organizing training in
skills relevant to impact assessment and adaptation planning; collecting and disseminating sea-level and
climate data in each country; conducting impact and vulnerability studies; and identifying policy options
to address adaptation issues. The project has been rated successful, fully achieving its objectives.
Specific achievements of the CPACC project are:
a)     Establishment of a sea-level and climate monitoring system that contributes to global and
reeional assessment of the issues. The monitoring stations and related information network installed in
12 countries have improved the CC monitoring and evaluation capacity in the region. The primary utility
of the data is to document sea-level rise and changes in sea surface temperature (SST), thus assisting in
the global monitoring of the impacts of climate change. Additional applications in areas such as
shipping, tourism and monitoring of extreme events were promoted.
b)    Improved access to and availability of data. The project developed an extensive database for
coastal zone management and climate change monitoring, accessible to a wide range of environment and
development agencies in each country.
c)    Increased appreciation of climate change issues at the policy-making level and technical support
to better define the regional position at the Convention. CPACC introduced climate change concerns to
policy-makers, decision-makers and technical personnel. It also increased the appreciation for the
complexity and integrated nature of climate change issues. The project enabled a more unified and
better-documented regional position to be taken before the UNFCCC Convention and the Conference of
Parties.
d)     Meeting country needs for expanded vulnerability assessment: Pilot vulnerability studies
introduced basic vulnerability assessment tools and methods and increased awareness of the most
physically vulnerable sectors in the Caribbean sub-region
e)     Establishment of coral reef monitoring protocols. Coral reefs have proven to be key indicators of
climate change. As a result of ongoing efforts within CPACC, monitoring and early warning capabilities
were enhanced. The data has assisted in the documentation of the pace of coral bleaching and impacts on
coral reefs caused by changes in sea surface temperatures, SST. As with SST and sea-level change,
efforts were initiated to link the CPACC coral reef monitoring activities with the global networks.
f)     Creation of a network for regional harmonization. Through collaborative efforts with a number
of existing agencies (i.e. the Caribbean Tourism Organization (CTO), the Caribbean Alliance for
Sustainable Tourism (CAST), the Center for Resource Management and Environmental Studies
(CERMES) of the University of the West Indies, the Caribbean Energy Information System (CEIS), the
- 110 -



Caribbean Development Bank (CDB), the Caribbean Conservation Association (CCA), the Caribbean
Environmental Health Institute (CEHI), the Caribbean Disaster and Emergency Response Agency
(CDERA), private sector interests such as Petrotrin of Trinidad and Tobago as well as the insurance and
banking sector) CPACC created awareness of climate change as a factor to incorporate in these agencies'
agendas, and began establishing programmatic linkages between CC and other activities.
g)    Increased capacity and appreciation of economic decision-making tools. CPACC supported
capacity building at the regional and national level in economic tools (economic valuation of natural
resources and the formulation of economic instruments) for decision-making and opportunities to
strengthen policy design through pilot activities. Specifically the project developed basic methodologies,
provided training and supported the countries in designing and implementing pilot studies.
To date, there have been three comprehensive evaluations of the project:
(a)    World Bank Mid-Term Evaluation. The mid-term review of CPACC (September 1999)
concluded that implementation performance throughout the first half of the project was satisfactory and
constituted a sound basis on which to continue CPACC activities.
(b)    GEF Secretariat Review of GEF-Funded Climate Change Projects in the Caribbean. The GEF
Secretariat commissioned (first quarter 2000) an evaluation of the GEF-UNDP funding for National
Communications, the GEF-UNDP National Communications Support Program (a regional project), and
the CPACC (A Synthesis of Performances and Experiences of Caribbean States Participating in
GEF-Financed Climate Change Projects, Impact Consultancy Services, July 2000). The report states that
the GEF funded efforts are meeting the objectives of assisting CARICOM countries to: (a) develop the
capacity to assess and adapt to the possible adverse impacts of Climate Change, and (b) to meet their
respective obligations under the UNFCCC, with respect to Initial National Communications. The report
points out that prior to the start of CPACC, the Caribbean was characterized by a general weakness in
policy and institutional arrangements for environmental management and sustainable development,
constraining the effect of the capacity building activities of CPACC. The report credits the CPACC
project with an increase in awareness and technical capacity in the region.
(c)    World Bank Implementation Completion Report. The final evaluation of the implementation of
the CPACC project incorporated the Banks owns perception and analysis of the project, as well as the
regions assessment of main achievements and lessons learnt from the project. The overall outcome has
been rated satisfactory. The institutional development impact was rated substantial as a functional
institutional framework for climate change was established and capacity was built in the region. The
sustainability rating was likely. Actions initiated under the project facilitated the formulation and
implementation, currently under way, of the Adaptation to Climate Change in the Caribbean, ACCC,
project, and the approval by the GEF council of a follow on project, MACC. Overall borrower
performance was rated satisfactory, highlighting the highly satisfactory performance of the executing
agency, the OAS, and the collaboration of CARICOM and participating governments during project
preparation. The reports list 12 lessons learnt, including:
*      Given the nature of the issue, long-term sustainability is a major requirement for climate
change adaptation. It can be enhanced through building regional and national
commitment and institutional and technical capacity.
*      In situations where national capacity is weak in regional and global issues, a responsive,
flexible, regional coordinating mechanism is an effective means of engaging the
collective capacity of existing institutions and building capacity by acting as a
- 111 -



clearinghouse for information and resources.
o      Political buy-in is a major implementatiorf and sustainability issue in adaptation to
climate change and can be enhanced through a highly visible regional coordination
institution, multi-stakeholder committee, public awareness campaigns and involvement
of a variety of relevant national ministries. Equally, there is a need to change/develop
economic instruments and incentives to promote the climate change agenda.
o      Maximizing national participation while not overloading institutions is a major
implementation challenge in regions with limited capacity. This can be dealt with
through: careful assessment of capacity; ensuring government commitment; and
providing support that is responsive to the circumstances in the country through a
regional institution.
o      Establishment of new institutions as a part of a project necessitates a careful assessment
of its structure, functions and administrative processes and a schedule that realistically
accounts for potential delays in its establishment.
o      There is a strong need to ensure that the reality on the ground (institutional limitations,
limited technical skills) is properly linked to the process being used by activities in this
area. Because of the large anticipated impacts and the limited (yet growing) local
capacity, it is essential that methods and tools employed be based on what can
reasonably be expected to perform in the region. The limited capacity in the region is a
challenge.
o      The baseline for sustainable development is weak and therefore the additionalities linked
to the impacts of climate change represent a major challenge. The policies to be
developed and tools to be introduced need to have the dual purpose of advancing the
baseline and adding the concerns on climate change.
o      On the institutional front, the project illustrates the need for a flexible approach. The best
option for the region seems to be the development of core capacity that could bring
together the limited institutional assets for work on climate change issues.
o      The data collection networks need a much stronger support at the National level to
perform at the level that is expected. A major effort is required in this front to ensure that
the network is sustainable in the long-term.
o      Finally, there is a concern that the efforts promoted by GEF and the UNFCCC at large in
the area of climate change may be seen, by some, as an opportunity to capture financial
resources instead of as a mechanism by which adaptation needs are understood,
formulated, internalized and acted upon. To address this challenge, additional efforts
need to be invested in awareness -building among key policy makers and stakeholders.
- 112 -






Report No.:        25540   LAC
Type:     PAD



