ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                           A World Frec oPoverty g3
InfoShop
, d  I. *^rtj 1lk
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Preparecl/Updated: 09/26/2002                             24903
Section I - Basic Information                                September 26, 2002
A. Basic Project Data
Country: CARIBBEAN                              Project ID: P073389
Project: Mainstreamning Adaptation to Climate Change  Task Team Leader: Benoit Blarel
Project
Authorized to Appraise Date: October 18, 2002   IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: January 7, 2003                  IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: LCSES                            Sector: General public administration sector (30%);
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Other industry (20%); General water/sanitation/flood
Status: Preparation                             protection sector (20%); General agriculture; fishing
and forestry sector (1 5%); Housing construction
(15%)
Theme: Climate change (P); Natural disaster
management (P); Environmental policies and
institutions (S); Vulnerability assessment and
monitoring (S)
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The global objective of the project Mainstreaming Adaptation to Climate Change (MACC) is to
contribute to efforts by the vulnerable countries of CARICOM to build capacity and develop policy
options for adaptation to the anticipated impacts of climate change. Specifically, the Project
Development Objective is to build the capacity to facilitate the development of an enabling environmiiient
for climate change adaptation in the small island and low-lying developing states of CARICOM.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The project will build national and regional capacity and facilitate governments' efforts to incorporate
climate change considerations into planning and policy making. This will be accomplished by: (i)
strengthening the technical knowledge base and implementing a public education and outreach strategy
(ii) build capacity to mainstreaming adaptation to climate change in planning and policy making in key,
selected economic sectors; and (iii) developing national policies and fonnulating a long-term regional
strategy for adaptation. MACC will fund training, consultancies, technical assistance and climate
specific data collection, archiving, management and processing systems. Resources will also be available
for dissemination of results, awareness, training and policy dialogue on climate change impacts and
adaptation measures.
Component I: Knowledge base and public outreach. This component will concentrate on



2
ISDS
strengthening the knowledge base and public information and awareness on climate change and its
regional impacts as a sound platform for risk identification and decision making. Specific activities
include: (i) strengthiening climate change impact-monitoring networks; (ii) downscaling global climate
models; (iii) developing climate change impact scenarios; (iv) strengthening of vulnerability assessments
and approach for adaptation to climate change; and (v) supporting a program of public education, training
and outreach to facilitate the dissemination of the MACC findings within as well as outside the region.
Component II: Encouraging an enabling environment for mainstreaming of climate change
adaptation in national development planning, policy-making and sector strategiae overall
objective of this component is to build capacity at the national level for the establishment of an enabling
environment for adaptation to climate change in key sectors of the economy. Project activities will be
undertaken on a demand driven basis in the following sectors: (i) tourism; (ii) water; (iii) agriculture; (iv)
infrastructure; and (v) health.
Component III: Facilitating implementation strategies for National Adaptation Policies and
formulation of a long-term regional strategy for adaptation. Under this activity, the project will
support the formulation strategies for national and regional adaptation. Specifically, MACC will finance;
(i) the review of National Adaptation Policies prepared under the CPACC project, and the identification
and evaluation of appropriate adaptation implementation mechanisms; (ii) the formulation and analysis
of selected pilot projects designed to test new methods of intersectoral, coordinated adaptation planning;
and (iii) the formulation of the regional adaptation strategy and the unified position of the region to the
UNFCCC negotiation fora.
Component IV: Project Management This component will provide support to CARICOM and the
PIU for the efficient and timely execution of the project, including project administration as well as
planning, monitoring and evaluation of project activities during the duration of the project.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
CARICOM will be the recipient of the grant and executing agency for this project. The
beneficiary countries of the Grant include: Antigua & Barbuda, Bahamas, Barbados, Belize,
Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, St Kitts, St Lucia, St Vincent & the Grenadines, Trinidad
& Tobago.
B. Clheck Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments:
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                   * Yes C No       TBD
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                      C'Yes ONo     *TBD
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                Yes *No      .TBD
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                   Yes *No     _TBD
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    Yes    No   *TBD
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                       _ Yes .No    *TBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  Yes    No  *TBD



3
ISDS
Cultural Property (OP 4.1 1)                                   Yes * No    _TBD
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*             . Yes * No     TBD
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)            Yes 0 No      TBD
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties'claims
on the disputed areas
Section 11 - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
NA
II.D. I b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to rnultiple project component.
NA
II.D. lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
NA
HI.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
NA
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
NA
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
NA
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
[  SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
S ]2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[X] S3. -No safeguard issues
[  SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:            Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop



4
ISDS
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework.                           Expected      Actiual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:                Expected      Actutal
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan.                                         Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan.                                   Expected      Ac tual
Date of'receipt by the Bank
Date oft"in-country" disclosure
Date of'submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Si2ned and submitted by        Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:             Benoit Blarel                                9/25/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                         Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Juan D. Quintero                          9/25/2002
Sector Manager/Director:       John Redwood                                9/25/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
SEARCH         FEEPSACK       SIE MAP        SHOWCASE



