Page  1
October 29, 2001
The Honorable
Cesar Gaviria
Secretary General
Organization of American States
17 Street and Constitution Ave., N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20006
Re:
Grant for the Preparation of Mainstreaming Adaptation
to Climate Change Project - GEF-PPG No. TF050138
Dear Sir:
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) acting as an Implementing Agency of the GEF to indicate the 
Bank’s agreement to grant to the General Secretariat of the Organization of American 
States (the Recipient), for the benefit of Antigua and Barbuda, Bahamas, Barbados, 
Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint 
Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago (the Beneficiaries) an Grant in an 
amount not exceeding three hundred forty-five thousand U.S. Dollars (US$345,000) (the 
Grant) for the preparation of the Mainstreaming Adaptation to Climate Change Project 
(the proposed Project). The Grant is made in response to the Beneficiaries’ request 
for financial assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient represents, by confirming 
its agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the 
said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
The award of the Grant does not constitute or imply any commitment on the part 
of the Bank, either as a GEF Implementing Agency, or in its own capacity, or the 
International Development Association, to assist in financing any project which will 
result from the activities financed by the Grant.
The Beneficiaries, through letters dated September 3, 2001 (Antigua and 
Barbuda), October 26, 2001 (Bahamas), August 23, 2001 (Barbados), September 3, 2001 
(Belize), August 21, 2001 (Dominica), August 21, 2001 (Grenada), September 28, 2001 
(Guyana), September 27, 2001 (Jamaica), August 23, 2001 (Saint Kitts and Nevis), 
October 3, 2001 (Saint Lucia), August 27, 2001 (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines), and 
August 21, 2001, 2001 (Trinidad and Tobago), have agreed: (i) that the resources of 
the Grant be provided directly to the Recipient under the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement; (ii) to support the objectives of the 
proposed Project; and (iii) to take all action necessary or appropriate to enable the 
Recipient to carry out its obligations set forth in the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon 
receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this 
Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency
of the Global Environment Facility
By /s/ Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Director
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Page  2
AGREED:
GENERAL SECRETARIAT OF THE 
  ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES
By /s/ Richard Sims
Authorized Representative
Chief of Operations, USDE
Date:
October 29, 2001
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist in the preparation of the Mainstreaming 
Adaptation to Climate Change Project, which aims to: (a) build capacity in the 
territory of the Beneficiaries to develop climate change adaptation strategies and 
measures (as defined by the Conference of Parties VI to the United Nations Framework 
Convention on Climate Change dated July 14, 2001); and (b) incorporate said strategies 
into the sustainable development planning process of each of the Beneficiaries (the 
proposed Project).  The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are 
as follows:
(a)
carrying out of an assessment of the existing legal framework and 
identification of key economic sectors that would be affected by the impacts of 
climate change, to facilitate the planning process at national and regional level for 
the proposed Project’s implementation;
(b)
carrying out of workshops with representatives of Beneficiaries’ agencies 
to reach consensus amongst said representatives concerning mainstreaming needs to be 
addressed by the proposed Project; 
(c)
carrying out of technical studies for: (i) the identification of options 
to expand the geographical coverage of regional climate monitoring networks; and (ii) 
the identification of climate change modeling tools and methodologies required to 
downscale global climate change models and coastal vulnerability;
(d)
design and preparation of guidelines and evaluation criteria for the 
identification and assessment of pilot activities under the proposed Project; 
(e)
design of: (i) a capacity building strategy for future project 
implementation; and (ii) a communication and public awareness strategy;
(f)
design and implementation of a consultative process with key stakeholders 
(such as Beneficiaries’ agencies, private sector associations and civil society groups 
operating at the national and regional levels) to agree on the design of the proposed 
Project; and
(g)
design and preparation of a project document for the proposed Project.
2.
Implementation  Generally
2.1.
(a) The Recipient shall:  (i) carry out the Activities with due diligence and 
efficiency; (ii) furnish all information covering the Activities and the use of the 
proceeds of the Grant as the Bank shall reasonably request; (iii) from time to time 
exchange views with the Bank’s representatives on the progress and results of the 
Activities. Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if the Bank 
shall so request, prepare and furnish to the Bank promptly upon completion of the 
Activities a report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, on the results 
and impact of the Activities.
(b)
The Recipient shall cause the Beneficiaries to: (i) promptly provide the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required to enable the Recipient to 
carry out its obligations under paragraph 2.1 (a) (i) above; and (ii) take all 
necessary measures required to enable the Bank to visit the territory of the 
Beneficiaries for the purposes related to the Grant.
Page  3
3.
Procurement
3.1
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ 
services required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this 
Annex.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the Bank on 
its books in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn 
therefrom by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for 
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of services required for the Activities 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
Amount of
   % of
the Grant Allocated
Expenditures
Item
(in U.S. Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants’
225,000
100%
services
(2)
Workshops
120,000
100%
Total
345,000
For the purpose of this paragraph the term "workshops" means the non consultant 
expenditures incurred by the Recipient in connection with training activities 
including travel costs and per diem of trainers and trainees, rental of facilities and 
equipment, and training materials.
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: (a) no withdrawals shall 
be made: (i) for payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Letter 
Agreement; (ii) on account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of 
the Beneficiaries; (iii) on account of expenditures in the territories of any country 
which is not a member of the Bank or for services supplied from such territories; (iv) 
for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities if such payment, to the Bank’s 
knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; or (v) after December 31, 2002 
or such later date as the Bank shall establish by written notice to the Recipient (the 
Closing Date), except that withdrawals may be made for expenditures incurred prior to 
the Closing Date and received by the Bank within four months after the Closing Date, 
after which time any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account 
shall be canceled.
4.4
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to the Bank a written application for withdrawal of such amount in 
the form specified by the Bank.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on 
behalf of the Recipient by its Secretary General or such other person as he or she 
shall have authorized in writing; and (b) be accompanied by such evidence in support 
of the application as the Bank shall reasonably request.  Authenticated specimen 
signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided 
with the first application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application 
for an amount of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and 
substance to satisfy the Bank that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount 
from the Grant Account and that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the 
Activities.  The Bank shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant 
Account only to or on the order of the Recipient.
4.5
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:  (a) services of consulting firms 
costing less than US$100,000 equivalent; (b) services of individual consultants 
costing less than US$50,000 equivalent; and (c) workshops, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant.  The Bank, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, 
shall purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such 
Page  4
currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this 
Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
value shall be as reasonably determined by the Bank.
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and 
maintain in U.S. Dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of the Attachment II to this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures related to thein 
respect the Activities of the department or agencies of the Recipient responsible for 
carrying out Activitiesor any part thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, and accounts and financial 
statements referred to in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, principles and consistently applied, by independent 
auditors with qualifications, experience and terms of reference acceptable to the 
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
six months after the end of each such year:  (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; 
and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least after one year 
after the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the 
Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
The Bank may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following 
events has occurred and is continuing:  (a) the funds withdrawn shall not have been 
issued for the purposes agreed between the Recipient and the Bank; or (b) the 
Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations therein specified; or (c) 
the right of any of the Beneficiaries, or any other entity to which the Bank has made 
a loan with the guarantee of any of the Beneficiaries, to make withdrawals under any 
loan agreement with the[International] Bank[for Reconstruction and Development] or any 
development credit agreement with the [International Development Association] {IDA] 
shall have been suspended.
6.2.
The Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account:  (a) at any time after 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been 
suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient 
shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the Bank, within six, months after 
the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities; or (c) if the Bank has 
decided, at any time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw its support 
for the Project; or (d) if all the Beneficiaries have withdrawn their request for the 
Bank’s assistance in financing the Project.
Page  5
Attachment I 
Procurement
Consultants’ Services
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", published by IBRD in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), and the following 
provisions of this Attachment I.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services rendered by consulting firms for the Activities under paragraph 1.1 of 
the Annex to this Letter Agreement estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent 
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services rendered by individual consultants for the Activities under paragraph 
1.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement for tasks that meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Activities shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Attachment II
Page  6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible items" means the items set forth in the table in 
paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to US$70,000 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a 
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall 
have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Attachment for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Grant Account under the eligible item, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special 
Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Page  7
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
