Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF051853 
 
Global Environment Facility 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
 
(Caribbean: Mainstreaming Adaptation to Climate Change Project) 
 
between 
 
THE CARIBBEAN COMMUNITY 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
Dated April 29, 2003 
 
Page  2
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF051853 
 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated April 29, 2003, between THE CARIBBEAN 
COMMUNITY (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an implementing 
agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to 
the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as participants of the GEF. 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of 
the Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of the 
global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development; 
(B) 
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in 
place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank which, inter alia, established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed the 
Bank as trustee of the GEF Trust Fund (Resolution No. 94-2); 
(C) 
the second replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund was approved on the 
basis set forth in Resolution No. 98-2 of July 14, 1998, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank (Resolution No. 98-2); 
(D) 
the Recipient is a duly established international organization and 
represents that it has the necessary legal capacity and powers to enter into this Agreement 
and perform its obligations herein set forth; 
(E) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for funding the Project, and said 
request having been approved in accordance with the provisions of the Instrument for the 
Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility approved under 
Resolution 94-2, and to be funded from contributions to the GEF Trust Fund under 
Resolution No. 98-2, which may include funds carried over from the first replenishment 
of the GEF Trust Fund under Resolution No. 94-2; 
(F) 
the Recipient intends to contract from the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) an in-kind grant in an amount of $800,000 (the 
NOAA Grant) to assist in financing Parts A.1 (a), A.2 (a) (ii), A.2 (b) (iii), A.3 (a), A.5 
(b), A.6 (a) and B.4 of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement 
to be entered into between the Recipient and NOAA (the NOAA Grant Agreement); 
Page  3
-
2
-
(G) 
by a memorandum of understanding dated March 20, 2002 between the 
Recipient and Global Change Strategies International Inc. and De Romilly and De 
Romilly Ltd (on behalf of the Canadian International Development Agency 
–
CIDA), as 
amended on January 29, 2003, CIDA has agreed to make a grant to the Recipient in a 
principal amount of Cdn$3,140,450 equivalent (three million one hundred forty thousand 
four hundred fifty Canadian dollars) (the CIDA Grant) to assist in financing Parts A.1 (c), 
A.3 (a) and (b), B.2, C.2 (b), D and E of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth 
in such memorandum of understanding; and 
(H) 
the Participating Countries (as defined below), as ultimate beneficiaries 
of the Project have agreed to assist the Recipient in the carrying out of the Project, as is 
expected to be detailed in the corresponding Participation Agreement (as defined below); 
and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the grant set forth in Section 2.01 of this Agreement (the GEF Trust Fund Grant) 
to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01 (a)  The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans of the Bank, dated May 
30, 1995 (as amended through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth in 
paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(i) Article 
I; 
(ii) 
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (7), (8), (14), (15), (16), (18) 
and (21), 2.02 and 2.03; 
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
(iv) 
the first part of Section 4.01 (until the semicolon); Section 4.06; 
(v) 
Sections 5.01, 5.02, 5.03, 5.04, 5.05, 5.06, 5.07, 5.08 and 5.09; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (c), (e), (f), (g), (h), (i), (l), (m), (n), (o) and 
(p), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06; 
(vii) 
Section 8.01 (b); 
(viii) 
Sections 9.01 (a), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09; 
(ix) 
the second sentence of Section 10.01, and 10.03;  
(x) 
Article XI; and 
(xi) 
Sections 12.01, 12.02, 12.03 and 12.04. 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
(i) 
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 5.01 (a) and 6.02 (f) thereof, means the Bank 
acting as an implementing agency of the GEF; 
(ii) 
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient, except in Sections 6.02 (f) and 8.01 (b), 
where the term “Borrower” shall mean a Participating Country; 
(iii) 
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement; 
(iv) 
the term “Loan”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant; 
(v) 
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, the 
account opened by the Bank on its books in the name of the 
Recipient to which the amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant is 
credited;  
(vi) 
the phrase “in the territory of, the Borrower or the Guarantor” 
shall be replaced by the phrase “in the territory of, a Participating 
Country” in Section 5.08. For purposes of this subparagraph, the 
term “Participating Country” shall have the same meaning as in 
Section 1.02 (h) of this Agreement; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(vii) 
the words “and/or the Association, as the case may be,” shall be 
added after the term “Bank” in Section 6.02 (f) (i); and 
(viii) 
a new paragraph (q) is added to Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions, as follows: “(q) An extraordinary situation shall 
have arisen in which any further disbursement under the Grant 
would exceed the resources available for disbursement from the 
Global Environment Facility.” 
Section 1.02.  Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“CCCCC” means the Caribbean Community Climate Change Center 
established pursuant to an agreement dated February 4, 2002, provisionally applied by a 
protocol dated February 5, 2002, upon signature by the representatives of Barbados, 
Belize, Grenada, Co-operative Republic of Guyana, Jamaica, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. 
Vincent and the Grenadines, Suriname, and Trinidad and Tobago; 
(b) 
“Coordinating Agency” means an entity which may or may not have 
been vested with legal personality that has been selected by the Recipient to assist it in 
providing the necessary assistance in the carrying out of the Project; 
(c) 
“FMR” means each financial monitoring report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(d) 
“MOU” means any of the memoranda of understanding referred to in 
Section 3.06 (a) of this Agreement; 
(e) 
“NICU” means any of the national implementation coordination units 
referred to in paragraph (c) (i) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(f) 
“Participating Country” means any of the following countries: (i) 
Antigua and Barbuda; (ii) Commonwealth of the Bahamas; (iii) Barbados; (iv) Belize; (v) 
Commonwealth of Dominica; (vi) Grenada; (vii) Co-operative Republic of Guyana; (viii) 
Jamaica; (ix) St. Kitts and Nevis; (x) Saint Lucia; (xi) St. Vincent and the Grenadines; 
and (xii) Trinidad and Tobago, and the term “Participating Countries” means collectively 
all said countries; 
Page  6
-
5
-
(g) 
“Participation Agreement” means any of the agreements entered into 
between the Recipient and each of the Participating Countries for purposes of governing 
the assistance to be provided by said Participating Countries to the Recipient under the 
Project, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, including, 
inter alia
,
those set 
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(h) 
 “PIU” means the unit referred to in Section 3.08 (a) of this Agreement; 
(i) 
“Project Operational Manual” means the manual, acceptable to the Bank, 
dated March 6, 2003 and referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement; 
(j) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
(k) 
“Transitional PIU” means the unit referred to in Section 3.07 (a) of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in an 
amount equal to five million Dollars ($5,000,000). 
Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant. 
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2007 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date. 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01.  (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with the assistance of the Participating Countries (as provided in the 
corresponding Participation Agreement) and the designated Coordinating Agency (as 
provided in the corresponding MOU), with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, technical, financial and procurement 
practices and with due regard to ecological and environmental factors, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above, the 
Recipient shall cause the Participating Countries to provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project, as stipulated in the corresponding Participation Agreement. 
Section 3.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 
to this Agreement. 
Section 3.03.  The Recipient shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
sustainability of the Project activities; and 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan. 
Section 3.04.  (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project 
Operational Manual which includes, 
inter alia
:
(i) the names of all Coordinating 
Agencies; (ii) criteria for selecting the Participating Countries under Parts A.6 (a) and B.2 
(a) of the Project; (iii) criteria for selecting the fishing community under Part B.2 (c) of 
the Project; (iv) the Recipient’s operating procedures, internal controls and accounting 
and reporting functions; (v) the actions to be undertaken by the Recipient to improve its 
procurement and financial management capacity; (vi) the Project financial management, 
Page  8
-
7
-
disbursement and procurement procedures; (vii) the Transitional PIU and
 the PIU’s 
organizational structure, functions and responsibilities; and (viii) the indicators to be used 
in the monitoring and evaluation of the Project. 
(b) 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Project Operational 
Manual and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
Section 3.05. (a) (i)  The Recipient shall exercise its rights and carry out its 
obligations under each Participation Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests 
of the Recipient and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant; and (ii) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, 
amend, abrogate, repeal, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Participation Agreement 
or any provision thereof. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall ensure that each Participation Agreement be duly 
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered by, the relevant Participating Country 
and be legally binding upon such Participating Country in accordance with the relevant 
Participation Agreement’s terms. 
(c) 
The Recipient shall ensure that each of the Participation Agreements is 
fully consistent with this Agreement.  No provision of any of the Participation 
Agreements shall in any way limit the obligations of the Recipient set forth in this 
Agreement.  In case of discrepancy between the provisions of any Participation Agreement 
and those of this Agreement, the provisions set forth in this Agreement shall prevail 
 
Section 3.06. 
(a) For purposes of providing the necessary assistance to the 
Recipient under the Project, the Recipient shall, prior to carrying out a Project activity to 
be financed by the GEF Trust Fund Grant for which a Coordinating Agency’s assistance 
is required, enter into a separate memorandum of understanding (the MOU) with the 
pertinent Coordinating Agency on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. 
(b) (i)  The Recipient shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under 
each MOU in such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the GEF Trust Fund Grant; and (ii) except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate, repeal, terminate, waive 
or fail to enforce any MOU or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.07. 
(a) The Recipient shall operate and maintain in Barbados the 
transitional Project implementation unit (the Transitional PIU) while the PIU has not 
been established as provided in Section 3.08 (a) of this Agreement, with a structure, 
functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, including, 
inter alia
,
the 
Page  9
-
8
-
responsibility of the Transitional PIU to coordinate, administer, supervise and monitor 
the carrying out of the Project. 
(b) 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Transitional PIU is staffed by 
adequate professionals and administrative staff, all with qualifications and experience 
acceptable to the Bank. 
Section 3.08. 
(a) The Recipient shall, not later than June 30, 2003, dissolve the 
Transitional PIU and establish in Belize and thereafter operate and maintain at all times 
during Project implementation, a Project implementation unit (the PIU) with a structure, 
functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, including, 
inter alia
,
the 
responsibility of the PIU to coordinate, administer, supervise, monitor and evaluate the 
carrying out of the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall ensure that the PIU is, at all times during Project 
implementation, headed by a Project manager, and assisted by a technical coordinator and 
a
public education and outreach specialist, and, as required, an economist and other 
adequate professional and administrative staff, all with qualifications and experience 
acceptable to the Bank. 
 
Section 3.09.  Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall: (a) not later than November 30 of each year of Project 
implementation, starting in the year 2003, prepare and furnish to the Bank, an annual 
work program, acceptable to the Bank, containing the Project activities to be carried out 
during the calendar year following the date of presentation of said program to the Bank, 
and a timetable for the completion of said Project activities during the year in question; 
(b) thereafter carry out or cause to be carried out said program in accordance with its 
terms, and in a manner acceptable to the Bank, CIDA and NOAA in respect of the 
respective components of the Project financed by such entities; and (c) carry out or cause 
to be carried out the annual work program for the year 2003 as approved by the Bank 
prior to the date of this Agreement. 
Section 3.10. The Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain or cause to be maintained policies and procedures adequate to 
enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators 
set forth in the Project Operational Manual, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objective thereof; 
(b) 
prepare with the assistance of the PIU and the Participating Countries, 
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank each March 1 
and September 1 during Project implementation, starting with the report due on March 1, 
Page  10
-
9
-
2004, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation of the Project 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the six-month period preceding the date of 
presentation of each said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof during 
the following six-month period; and  
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, CIDA, NOAA and the Participating Countries 
each March 31 during Project implementation, or such later date as the Bank shall 
request, the pertinent reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take, and/or cause to be taken, all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of 
the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of 
said reports and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
 (b) 
The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(i) 
have its records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, and the records and accounts for 
the Special Account, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with generally accepted auditing standards and procedures 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four months after the end of such fiscal year: (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on 
such financial statements, records and accounts and a report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof, 
Page  11
-
10
-
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Recipient shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
Section 4.02. (a)  Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Article III of this Agreement, the Recipient shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report (the FMR), in form and substance 
acceptable to the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the GEF Trust Fund Grant, and 
explains variances between the planned and actual uses of  such 
funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
Page  12
-
11
-
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
 The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
 
Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:  
(a) 
Any Participating Country shall have failed to comply with any of its 
obligations under the corresponding Participation Agreement. 
(b) 
Any Coordinating Agency shall have failed to comply with any of its 
obligations under the corresponding MOU. 
(c) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that any Participating Country and/or any Coordinating Agency will be able to perform 
any of their obligations under the corresponding Participation Agreement and/or MOU, 
respectively. 
(d) 
The NOAA Grant Agreement shall have failed to become effective by 
June 30, 2003, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that the 
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Recipient establishes to the satisfaction 
of the Bank that adequate in-kind contribution or funds for Parts A.1 (a), A.2 (a) (ii), A.2 
(a) (iii), A.3 (a), A.5 (b), A.6 (a) and B.4 of the Project are available to the Recipient 
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Recipient under this Agreement. 
(e) 
(i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Recipient to withdraw the proceeds of the NOAA Grant and/or 
the CIDA Grant shall have been suspended, canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the 
corresponding agreement providing therefor. 
Page  13
-
12
-
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Recipient establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: 
 
(A) 
such suspension, cancellation or termination is not 
caused by the failure of the Recipient to perform any of 
its obligations under any of such agreements; and 
 
(B) 
adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Recipient from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Recipient under 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI 
Arbitration 
Section 6.01.  Any dispute arising out of or relating to this Agreement which is 
not settled by agreement of the parties shall be finally settled by arbitration in accordance 
with the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law (UNCITRAL) 
Arbitration Rules in force on the date of this Agreement.  The place of arbitration shall be 
Washington, D.C.  In the event of a conflict between such Arbitration Rules and the 
terms of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall govern. 
ARTICLE VII 
Effectiveness, Termination 
Section 7.01.  The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions, namely, that each Participating Country has established and staffed its NICU 
as provided in paragraph (c) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 7.02.  The date July 28, 2003 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Section 7.03.  This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their 
obligations hereunder. 
Page  14
-
13
-
ARTICLE VIII 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
 
Section 8.01.  The Secretary General of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 8.02  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Recipient: 
The Caribbean Community 
Bank of Guyana Building 
Georgetown, Guyana 
 
Facsimile: (592) 226-7816 
 
For the Bank: 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
 
INTBAFRAD 248423 
(MCI) 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  15
-
14
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Georgetown, Guyana, as of the day and year first above written. 
THE CARIBBEAN COMMUNITY 
By /s/Edwin Carrington 
 Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility 
By /s/Daniel Horatio Wallace 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars
)
to be Financed
(1) Goods 
480,000 
100% subject to 
 
paragraph 6 below 
 
(2) 
Consultants’ 
 services 
(including 
 
audit services) 
2,930,000 
100% subject to 
 
paragraph 6 below   
 
(3) Training 
1,100,000 
100% subject to 
 
paragraph 6 below 
 
(4)  Transitional PIU/PIU ‘s 
 
Operational Costs 
230,000 
100% subject to 
 
paragraph 6 below 
 
(5)  Recipient’s Operational Costs 
180,000 
100% subject to 
 
paragraph 6 below 
 
(6) Unallocated 
80,000
TOTAL 5,000,000 
 
======= 
 
Page  17
-
16
-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “Training” means expenditures (other than those for 
consultants’ services) incurred by the Recipient to finance reasonable transportation costs 
and per-diem of trainees and trainers (if applicable) and rental of training facilities and 
equipment under the Project;  
(b) 
the term “Transitional PIU/PIU’s Operational Costs” means reasonable 
recurrent expenditures that would not have been incurred by the Transitional PIU, the 
PIU and/or the Coordinating Agencies absent the Project, for transportation and per-diem 
costs of its staff, office rent and utilities, operation and maintenance of office equipment 
and vehicles assigned to the Project (including spare parts for said vehicles), and non-
durable goods, all needed for the supervision of the Project; and 
(c) 
the term “Recipient’s Operational Costs” means reasonable recurrent 
expenditures that would not have been incurred by the Recipient absent the Project, for 
remuneration of three professional staff (in the areas of accounting, financial 
management and procurement) and one administrative assistant of the Recipient who 
have been assigned by the Recipient to work full-time for the Project, including 
transportation and per-diem costs of said individuals. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding an amount equal to 
$500,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) of the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made of expenditures before that 
date but after January 1, 2003. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (a) under contracts 
for goods estimated to cost less than $75,000 equivalent each with the exception of: (i) 
the first two contracts for goods to be procured under Part C.1 of Section I of Schedule 3 
to this Agreement; and (ii) the contract for goods to be procured under Part C.2 of 
Section I of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; (b) under contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each with the exception 
of the first two contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent each; (c) under contracts for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each with the exception of the 
first two contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less 
than $50,000 equivalent each; and (d) under Training, Transitional PIU/PIU’s 
Operational Costs and Recipient’s Operational Costs as set forth in  Categories (3), (4) 
Page  18
-
17
-
and (5) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, respectively, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
5. 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal 
to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank. 
6. 
In case the Recipient loses its tax exempt status with respect to any of the 
Participating Countries in which procurement of goods and/or services will be carried 
out, the percentage financed shall be adjusted pursuant to Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  19
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
 
The objective of the Project is to facilitate the creation of an enabling 
environment for climate change adaptation in the Participating Countries. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective. 
Part A
:
Capacity Building to Identify Climate Change Vulnerabilities and Risks
1. 
Strengthening of the climate monitoring network in the Participating Countries, 
through, 
inter alia
:
(a) the upgrading of the existing stations (through the acquisition and 
installation of hardware and software equipment) and the provision of training to their 
operational staff on maintenance and operational aspects of said stations for purposes of  
improving their performance and data reliability; (b) the strengthening of the capacity of 
the national meteorological or other designated offices to manage the existing climate 
monitoring stations mentioned in (a) herein, and to expand the applications and use of the 
data collected through said stations; and (c) the strengthening of the pertinent 
Coordinating Agency’s capacity with respect to sea level monitoring data integrity and 
archiving, and provision of technical back-stopping. 
2. 
(a) Expansion of the coral reef monitoring network, through, 
inter alia
:
(i) the 
acquisition and installation of hardware and software equipment and the provision of 
training with respect to operation and maintenance of coral reef monitoring activities; and 
(ii) the upgrading of the platform (located in Jamaica) with additional sensors and 
equipment to monitor oceanographic parameters using the Coral Reef Early Warning 
system; and (b) strengthening of coral reef monitoring activities, through, 
inter alia
:
(i) 
the enhancement of the institutional capacity of the pertinent Coordinating Agency to 
improve its function as the regional archiving center for coastal ecosystem data, and to 
undertake reviews of coral reef conditions on climate change and disseminate thereafter 
the outcome of said reviews; (ii) the establishment of an Eastern Caribbean technical 
support node to coordinate the provision of training and capacity building related to the 
coral reef monitoring system expansion network mentioned in (a) herein; and (iii) the 
carrying out of analyses of the linkages between climate and coral reef monitoring 
activities. 
3. 
(a) Strengthening of the institutional capacity of the pertinent Coordinating 
Agency to carry out statistical and dynamic downscaling of existing global climate 
Page  20
-
19
-
change models, through, 
inter alia
,
the provision of technical assistance and training, and 
the acquisition and installation of hardware and software equipment required therefor; (b) 
carrying out of climate change projections using both, the statistical and dynamic 
regional climate models (mentioned in (a) herein), to estimate the expected key climate 
change related variables (including precipitation, sea-surface temperature, humidity, wind 
regimes and sea-level); (c) operation of climate models with hazard models to predict 
extreme events under different climate scenarios; and (d) carrying out of a capacity 
building and awareness program at the regional and national levels through, 
inter alia
,
the provision of training required therefor. 
4. 
(a) Selection, acquisition and adaptation of the most appropriate climate change 
impact models which will permit the simulation of the physical impacts of climate 
change on coastal and watershed ecosystems, and the inter-linkages amongst the key 
sectors of tourism, water and agriculture in the Participation Countries; (b) development 
of climate change impacts scenarios using the models mentioned in (a) herein; and (c) 
carrying out of a capacity building and awareness program at the regional and national 
levels through, 
inter alia
,
the provision of training required therefor.  
5. 
(a) Development of a regional guidebook to inform practitioners on the selection 
of appropriate tools and methods for an effective approach to vulnerability and adaptation 
analyses, including the further development of guidelines to gather and manage data  to 
carry out said analyses; and (b) carrying out of a capacity building and awareness 
program at the regional and national levels through, 
inter alia
,
the provision of training 
required therefor.  
6. 
(a) Carrying out of vulnerability and risk assessments of  the sectors of tourism, 
water and agriculture in selected Participating Countries, through the use of harmonized 
approaches and country- and sector-specific climate change projections; (b) 
dissemination of the reports produced as a result of the assessments referred to in (a) 
herein to all Participating Countries, including the carrying out of workshops to discuss 
the recommendations and lessons learned; (c) provision of technical assistance to those 
Participating Countries (which were not selected under (a) herein) to adapt the 
assessments’ findings to their country-sector specific setting and prepare initial 
vulnerability and risk assessment reports; and
 
(d) expansion or creation, as the case may 
require, of regional and/or national databases to support future vulnerability and risk 
assessments. 
Part B
:
Capacity Building to Reduce Vulnerability to Climate Change
1. 
Carrying out of identification and analyses of the “no-regrets” climate change 
adaptation measures to be implemented in
 
all Participating Countries. 
Page  21
-
20
-
2. 
(a) Carrying out of specific studies on climate change adaptation approaches in 
the health, water and food security sectors in selected Participating Countries; (b) 
development of guidelines for the incorporation of measures to address climate change 
concerns in environmental assessments to be carried out in Participating Countries; and 
(c) carrying out of a pilot program to test innovative approaches for climate change 
adaptation in a selected fishing community of a Participating Country. 
3. 
(a) Carrying out of a review of the regional disaster management strategy of 2001 
for purposes of incorporating climate change adaptation into said strategy; (b) promotion 
of collaboration amongst the National Disaster and
 
Meteorological offices in each 
Participating Country to improve their capacity to forecast and better respond to climate 
change related disasters; (c) carrying out of a regional program to promote the use of 
coastal hazards database in all coastal planning, development and construction projects; 
and (d) carrying out of a study to adapt infrastructure design standards to the impact of 
climate change, primarily on coastal zones. 
4. 
Provision of technical assistance to all
 
Participating Countries to further refine 
their national climate change adaptation strategies. 
Part C
:
Capacity Building to Access and Effectively Utilize Resources to Minimize the 
Costs of Climate Change
1. 
Support for the development of a regional agenda on climate change adaptation 
for purposes of addressing and negotiating issues related to said subject with regional, 
hemispheric and/or international organizations. 
2. 
(a)  Design of a regional strategy on climate change adaptation (which strategy 
shall include an action plan) for purposes of defining actions to be undertaken at a 
regional level; and (b) provision of assistance to the CCCCC in the development of its 
business plan. 
Part D
:
Public Education Outreach
1. 
(a) Design and implementation of a regional public education and outreach 
program which consists of, 
inter alia
:
(i) developing public awareness materials for 
purposes of disseminating said documents to stakeholders; (ii) assisting in the 
implementation of the graduate program in climate change at the University of the West 
Indies; (iii) promoting the introduction of climate change elements into the curricula of 
the education system of Participating Countries; and (iv) promoting the PIU’s function of 
being a clearinghouse of climate change information; and (b) design and implementation 
of national public education and outreach programs in the Participating Countries. 
Page  22
-
21
-
2. 
Evaluation of the effectiveness and success of the programs mentioned in Part 
D.1 above. 
Part E
:
Project Management
1. 
Strengthening of: (a) the implementation capacity of the Recipient for purposes 
of carrying out the Project; and (b) the capacity of the PIU for purposes of assisting the 
Recipient in monitoring, evaluating and supervising the carrying out of the Project. 
2. 
Provision of technical assistance to carry out the Project audits referred to in 
Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement.  
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2007. 
Page  23
-
22
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods 
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 above shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $75,000 equivalent or more each. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $75,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $91,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
2. Direct 
Contracting
Goods under Parts A.3 (a) and A.4 (a) of the Project which are of a proprietary 
nature and costing $50,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines. 
Page  24
-
23
-
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for goods to be awarded under Part B 
above, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to the first two contracts for goods to be procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in Part C.1 above: 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the Recipient shall provide to the Bank a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Recipient shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
(c) 
With respect to the contract for goods to be procured in accordance with 
the procedures referred to in Part C.2 above, the following procedures shall apply 
(i) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under said Part, 
the Recipient shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and 
(ii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  25
-
24
-
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Section. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Audit services under Part E.2 of the Project may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Consultants’ services for research activities under Part A of the Project estimated 
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
Page  26
-
25
-
3. Individual 
Consultants
Consultants’ services for specialized Project activities and tasks that meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines, and, if applicable, said consultants’ services may be 
selected on a sole-source basis in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.3 and 
5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, subject to prior approval of the Bank. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of 
any requests for proposals.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been 
approved by the Bank. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; and (ii) the first two contracts for 
the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of less than 
$100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; and (ii) the first two 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of 
less than $50,000, the report on the comparison of the qualifications and experience of 
candidates, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of 
the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The 
contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. The 
provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to 
such contracts. 
Page  27
-
26
-
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  28
-
27
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Account
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of  the Project; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $250,000 to be 
withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; provided, however, that unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of 
$100,000 until the Bank determines based on the amounts and frequencies of withdrawal 
applications that a higher amount is required for the operation of the Special Account, 
such amount not to exceed the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the  Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the  Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
Page  29
-
28
-
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall 
be withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
allocated to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation. 
Page  30
-
29
-
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to the eligible Categories  
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have 
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the  Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions. 
 
Page  31
-
30
-
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Terms and Conditions of Participation Agreements 
 
Each Participation Agreement shall include the obligation of the Participating 
Country to: 
(a) 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project, as stipulated in an annex 
to the Participation Agreement; 
(b) 
(i) take or cause to be taken all action to permit the Recipient to carry out 
the Project; and (ii) not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with the Recipient’s compliance with its obligations under this Agreement; 
(c) 
(i) establish, and thereafter operate and maintain, at all times during the 
implementation of the Project, a national implementation coordination unit (the NICU) 
with a structure, functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, which shall 
include, 
inter alia
,
the responsibility to assist the corresponding Participating Country in 
the carrying out of its obligations under the pertinent Participation Agreement; and (ii) 
ensure that the NICU is, at all times during Project implementation, headed by a qualified 
and experienced national focal point representative, and assisted by qualified and 
experienced professional and administrative staff; 
(d) 
afford all reasonable opportunity for representatives of the Bank and the 
Recipient to visit any part of its territory for purposes related to the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant; 
(e) 
provide to the Recipient the necessary information and/or 
documentation, as requested by the Recipient in writing, to enable the Recipient to 
comply with its obligations under this Agreement; 
(f) 
(i) assist the Recipient in the preparation of annual work plans and the 
progress reports referred to in Section 3.09 and 3.10 (b) of this Agreement, respectively; 
and (ii) participate in the mid-term review referred to in Section 3.10 (c) of this 
Agreement; and 
(g) 
not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to enforce 
the Participation Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Page  32
-
31
-
WB76939 
M:\REGIONAL\695-ClimateChange\695-GEF.doc 
May 9, 2003 12:31 PM
 
