                                Documentof
                              The World Bank

                          FOROFFICIALUSEONLY




                                                   48694



                             PROJECTPAPER


                          ONRESTRUCTURINGTHE


CARIBBEAN: MAINSTREAMINGADAPTION TO CLIMATE CHANGEPROJECT




                                April 3,2007




SustainableDevelopmentDepartment
LatinAmerica andthe CaribbeanRegion

         MainstreamingAdaptationto Climate Change Project"MACC"

                   STRUCTURE OF THE PROJECT PAPER


Data Sheet

1. IntroductoryStatement

2. Background andReasonsfor Restructuring

3. ProposedChanges

4. Analysis

5. Expected Outcomes

6. Benefits andRisks




                                       2


                        DATA SHEETFORPROJECT PAPER


Date: Washington April 03-, 2007               Task Team Leader: Walter Vergara
Country (Regional): Caribbean Community Sector ManagerDirector: Abel
(Caricom)                                      MejiaLaura Tuck
Project Name: Mainstreaming Adaptation         Country Director: Caroline Anstey
to Climate Change (MACC)                       Environmental Category: B
Project ID:PO73389




FY                FY2004         FY2005          FY2006        FY2007
Annual           577,031.15     625,579.82     1,211,082.12  259,787.60
Cumulative       577,03 1.15   1,202,610.97 2,413,693.09     2,673,480.69

Revisedclosing date [if applicable]: September 30, 2008

Does the restructured project requireany exceptions to Bank policies?        o No
Have thesebeen approved by Bank management?                                   NIA
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                 o No




                   Source                         Local        Foreign         Total
Recipient                                      3.15         0.00           3.15
Global Environmental Facility                  0.00         5.00           5.00
Canada, Government of                          0.00         2.00           2.00
US, Government of                              0.00         0.80           0.80
Total                                          3.15         7.80           10.95




                                             3

1.INTRODUCTORYSTATEMENT
This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Regional Vice President for Latin America
andthe Caribbean for a series of changes constituting a second-orderrestructuring of the
Caribbean Mainstreaming Adaptation to Climate Change Project (the "Project") basedon
the results of the Mid-term Review of the Project and the corresponding amendments to
the Grant Agreement for the Project in accordance with OPBP 13.05. As noted in the
Mid-term Review, the Project has suffered significant implementation delays, resulting in
a moderately unsatisfactory rating with respect to the development objectives. The
changes beingproposed are the following:

1.1 Change of Recipient and Project Implementing Agency from CARICOM to the
Caribbean Community Centre for Climate Change (The CCCCC) which i s strategically
located in Belize. Under the restructured Project, the new Implementing Agency, the
CCCCC, will be performing a restructured set of key activities for the Project which are
derived from the activities performed by the former implementing agency and
additionally will continue the execution of the existing Memoranda of Understanding
(MOU) with the following institutions: 1) University of West Indies at Mona, 2)
University of West Indies at St Augustine, 3) Caribbean Institute for Meteorology and
Hydrology (CIMH), 4) The Centre for Marine Sciences (CMS), and 5) Caribbean
Disaster Emergency Response Agency (CDERA). These institutions are currently
carrying out activities for the Project as it i s described inthe original Grant Agreement. It
i s not expected that the scope and number of activities to be carried out by these Parties
inthe new MOUs will change.

1.2 Emphasis on components description. Specifically, component B (Build capacity to
reduce vulnerability to Climate Change) should be slightly modified to emphasize
selected country sectors so as to better liaise with on-going projects. This will allow
stakeholdersto better concentratethe available resources on targetedhigh profile demand
driven sectoral strategies.



2. BACKGROUNDAND REASONSFORRESTRUCTURING

Project Design and scope: The original GEF Grant in the amount of US$5.0 million was
approved by the Board of Executive Directors on April 17, 2003. The Project became
effective on July 28, 2003 with a closing date of September 30, 2007. The Project
Development Objective is to facilitate the creation of an enabling environment in the
small islands and coastal developing states of CARICOM for climate change adaptation.
The original project Scope of work consists of five components: A) Build Capacity to
assess vulnerability and risks associated with Climate Change, B) Build Capacity to
Reduce Vulnerability to Climate Change, C) Build Capacity to effectively assess and
utilize resources to reduce vulnerability to Climate Change, D) Public education and
outreach, E) Project Management.



                                                 4

Pefomzance to date: During the last two years, the Project has suffered significant
implementation delays resultingmainly from:

    a. Slow disbursement.This had been slower than planned mainly for two reasons: 1)
        CARICOM internal processes and complex communication procedures have
        resulted in systemic delays in responses and actions. This i s compounded by the
        fact that CARICOM has no technical staff conversant on climate issues. 2) Some
        of the services earlier planned for financing by the grant are now being offered by
        the Hadley Center and NOAA pro-bono. Likewise, some equipment i s also being
        provided by NOAA which was intended to be financed by the Grant. This was not
        part of the original NOAA-CARICOM co-financing agreement but of a general
        cooperation informal agreement between NOAA and the World Bank. While
        these are welcome developments that strengthen the financial support to the
        Project, the result i s a slower disbursement of GEFproceeds.
    b. Delay in filling the vacancy of Technical Coordinator. Up to the date of the
        Midterm Review (August 2006) MACC did not have a Technical Coordinator.
        This delay had repercussions on Project implementation. The CARICOM
        Secretariathas been slow inmeeting this commitment.

The Project has been rated moderately unsatisfactory with respect to the development
objectives in the June 2006 Implementation Status Report (ISR). Many of the output
targets (especially Component 1- Build Capacity to assess vulnerability and risks
associated with Climate Change are lagging behind. While measures to address the
problem of slow disbursementlimplementation, contracting and management are being
taken, the PDO and output targets will not be achieved in the remaining 6 months of the
Project. As of March, 2007, disbursement reached only about US$ 2.673 million (53
percent of the total Grant amount), with a balance of USS$ 2.327 million undisbursed.
The CARICOM Secretariat and the Bank are faced with two alternatives: (i)to
significantly reduce the scope of the Project within the current time frame or (ii) change
the implementing the agency


Duringthe most recent Mid-termreview (August 7-11, 2006), the CARICOM Secretariat
and the Bank reached an agreement, summarized below, which would allow the Project
to overcome the difficulties encountered in terms of slow disbursement and operational
modalities, and to continue to support climate change mainstreaming in the Caribbean
region. The action plan (see Annex 5 of the Mid-termreview minutes) agreed during this
supervision mission provides a solid framework for achieving the PDO and emphasized
output targets.

3. PROPOSEDCHANGES

3.1 Project design and scope: The Project design, scope and development objectives will
not be changed. The scope of work under Component B will be explicitly focused on a
group of selectedparticipating countries and sectors.




                                               5

The modifications being proposed on Component B, are action oriented, that is,
emphasizing Project Component B by allocating Project funds, including counterpart
resources in the implementation of this component. For this purpose there will be a
components' reallocation of resourcesthat will reflect the actual needs of the Project.

The new emphasis given to Project's component B can be summarized as follows,

Comvonent B: Build Cavacitv to Reduce Vulnerabilitv to Climate Change

Inthis Projectcomponent, basicallythree actions were agreedto beemphasized,
     1. Better liaise with the Special Program on Adaptation in the Caribbean Project
        (SPACC) to share information on the developing of climate scenarios with the
        help of available simulation techniques. For this aim it is foreseen that meetings
        between scientists and modelers with key potential users will be necessary to
        define climate data needs which will be required from the modeling exercise for
        usein the sectoral impact studies.
     2. Concentration of the available resources on targeted high profile demand driven
        sectoral strategies. The goal i s to work closely with the specific sectors
        (development of a scope of work) in order to suit their needs, produce the
        required vulnerability assessments and consequently adaptation measures for the
        respective sectors. The key-action in this particular point i s to concentrate efforts
        inafew selectedProject participating countries andinparticular sectors where the
        proposed goals could be successfully accomplished based on information
        availability, institutional support, timeframe and budget. The following specific
        countries have been proposed based on past Project experiences: Tourism in
        Barbados, agriculture inGuyana, water inJamaica andBelize;
     3. Reiterate the importance of active participation by all participating countries and
        other stakeholders. An idea would be a participation strategy through the Project
        that will allow other stakeholders, countries' focal points and public officials from
        participating countries to take part in the work teams. This is considered a key-
        action since it will contribute to the dissemination of information and lessons
        learned from the implementation of the component throughout the region.

Introduction to Cornmnent B: Following points mentioned above,-the objectives and
activities originally designed under this component will not be changed but limited to a
specific number of sectors (tourism, water, and agriculture) and participating countries.
Contrary to what was originally envisioned under this component, the concentration of
efforts and resources to effectively develop pilot and replicable adaptation measures on
all participating countries will not have the expected impact in the Caribbean region.
Some of the participating countries are not yet' ready to implement such measures and by
extending the activity to all these countries, the most likely scenario i s the non-
achievement of the component goals. Inorder to achieve the desired regional impacts, it
i s then necessary, to work with participating countries that have developed previous
studies, in the specific sectors in which the pilot adaptation measures could be more
effectively implemented. Moreover, the original sectors in which the adaptation measures

`Pleasesee
     ~~




           point 2 inthe previous page


                                               6

were to be implemented have been better focused after mutual agreement among
participating countries and following specific countries' vulnerabilities, regional
economic circumstances and needs. It i s expected that these actions will allow the
effective development of the planned adaptation approaches in the specified sectors and
in the selectedparticipating countries, providing the region with a solid, replicable tool.
The slightly modifiedcomponent B i s presentedbelow.
On Sub-component C, incentives for risk reduction measures through insurance are not
going to be considered. In spite of its importance and to avoid unnecessary duplication,
this particular point is left for consideration to an on-going Project that i s being
implemented by CARICOMwith the support of the World Bank

Summarv
ComDonent B:       The objective of this component is to build in-country capacity to
formulate and analyze adaptation policy options, and develop the multi-sectoral
adaptation strategies, and implementation action plans in a group of selected regional
countries and only in specific key-sectors. The countries and sectors selected to carry out
this component are: Barbados (Tourism), Guyana (Agriculture), Jamaica and Belize
(Water). This selection has been informed by the consideration of thefollowing criteria:
1)key sectorsfor countries, 2) highpriority as expressedby government and reported by
Focal Point, 3) Demand driven and 4) Complements on-going country activities. In
order tofacilitate the implementation of this component, national champions are going to
be identified in each of the selected countries. Given their national importance in terms
of capacity, institutional afliliations and expertise in theparticular sector they represent,
a scope of work will be developed together with their collaboration in order to suit their
needs, produce the required vulnerability assessments and consequently adaptation
measuresfor a specific country in a particular sector as outlined above.

Proposed modification
Under Component B, the new Sub-component 2 should read: Development of climate
change adaptation approaches in the following sectors and Participating Countries: (i)
tourism in Barbados; (ii)    agriculture in Guyana; and (iii) in Jamaica and Belize
                                                              water
based on the activities described in Part A.6(a) of the Project; (b) provision of technical
assistance to the governments of Barbados, Belize, Jamaica, and Guyana in developing
sector-specific adaptation strategies identified in the foregoing clause (a) and based on
the results of the activities under Part A.6(a) of the Project; and (c) dissemination of the
results, through meetings and publications to all Participating Countries, national focal
points (climate change and GEF), and key stakeholders.

Inaddition, the Project objectives continue to be achievable. The budget and action Plan
for the remainder of the Project are consistent with the original Project Design Objectives
(PDO) and output indicators. (ANNEX 3).

3.2 Implementation arrangements: With regard to the implementation arrangements, the
Caribbean Community Center for Climate Change (CCCCC) has been proposed upon
mutual agreement between the Bank and the CARICOM Secretariat as the new MACC
Project ImplementingAgency and Recipient of the Grant funds. The role that the Center


                                              7

plays in the field of Climate Change in the region makes it the ideal candidate to
implement this Project. The CCCCC could be conceived as an independent daughter-
institution createdby the CARICOM to concentrate efforts exclusively related to Climate
Change in the Caribbean Region. Moreover, the CCCCC has the technical staff
conversant on climate issues and has successfully implemented the PDF-B for the GEF
project "Implementation of adaptation measures in coastal zones", approved by the
World Bank Board of Directors on September 07, 2006. It i s foreseen that among its
main activities, the CCCCC will co-ordinate and initiate the development of regional
research programmes including adaptation to global climate and impacts modeling
efforts.

At the same time, actions to ensure improvedeffectiveness of the current operational and
implementation arrangements have been taken, including: a) Participation of the
CARZCOM Secretariat, guiding the project, chair its Project Advisory Committee and
lending necessary support; to this effect the CARICOM Secretariat has signed a M O U
with the CCCCC; b) Project Advisory committee (PAC), will be re-structured and will
continue to be chaired by the CARICOM Secretariat; it will provide policy guidance,
review progress inthe implementation of the work program and evaluate Project results;
c) StafJing, a revised Project staffing has been endorsed; the new structure i s designed to
fit and to take advantage of synergies with other tasks being managedby the CCCCC. It
was re-emphasized that the Project should keep a lean Management structure to ensure
that most resources are deployed to field activities. The CARICOM Secretariat and the
CCCCC will regularize the contracts of existing staff (This new structure i s described on
Annex 1of the August 06 Mid-term review report); d)Regional strategy, the World Bank
representatives and the CARICOM Secretariat have provided all necessary support for
the completion of the strategy and presentation before COTED. This does not necessarily
imply changes to the Subsidiary agreements.

Financial Management: The Financial Management rating (Mid-term review, August,
2006) for this Project i s satisfactory. It i s expected that the legal, institutional, and
administrative requirements will be completed before the transfer. In the audit report for
2006, the auditors prepared a separate report on the handing over of fixed assets of the
project. The auditors reviewed and verified the fixed assets as part of the audit a list of
which was included as part of the audit report. The Secretariatwould endeavor to transfer
to the Center, within 30 days of the completion of the Project audit, all relevant financial
records related to the Project. The records would be transferred in a format that would be
readily incorporated and usable by the financial systems at CCCCC. Furthermore,
Schedule 1to the GEF Trust FundGrant Agreement (Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the
GEF Trust FundGrant) has been amendedto take in account the modifications that have
been made to the Components of the Project as a result of the Mid Term Review. The
available free (i.e. un-committed) project funds have been reallocated to the project
activities to be implemented between now and the end of the Project. (Please see
ANNEX 1& 2 of the August 2006 Midtermminutes)

Procurement: It is recommended that Schedule 3 (Procurement) of the Grant Agreement
be amended to include the Bank's May 2004 procurement guidelines so as to allow for



                                              8

flexibility in the use of additional procurement methods, and to eliminate the aggregate
amount in the Shopping method for Goods. The amendment would also bring the
procurement schedule in line with the one included in the Grant Agreement for the
Special Program in Adaptation on the Caribbean (SPACC) project, which is currently
being implemented by the CCCCC. Upon transfer of the MACC project to the CCCCC,
the procurement staff hired to implement the SPACC project should be available to
assume the additional procurement responsibilities Amendment to the Procurement
section of the GA can be processed only if it is supported by an approved Procurement
Plan. When switching to the 2004 Procurement and Consultant Guidelines, the signed
planbecomes aprerequisite for any amendmentto the procurement arrangements.

NOAAAgreement: Since the assignment of CARICOM's rights under its agreement with
NOAA could not be accomplished without further delaying the transfer of the Project to
CCCCC, it was decided that CARICOM would undertake to act on behalf of CCCCC
while at the same time continuing its efforts to have its rights assigned to CCCCC. The
following provisions summarize the aforementioned understanding regarding the tasks
currently implemented by NOAA. The provisions are summarized as following:

(i)     CARICOM will use its best efforts to cause NOAA to enter into an agreement
        with CCCCC assigning all of CARICOM's rights and obligations under the
        NOAA Grant Agreement and the NOAA Grant to CCCCC (the "Assignment of
        the NOAA Grant Agreement");

(ii)    Until such time as the Assignment of the NOAA Grant Agreement becomes
        effective, (A) to use its best efforts to ensure that NOAA does not fail in the
        opinion of CCCCC and the Bank, to perform any of its obligations under the
        NOAA Grant Agreement, including, inter alia, the obligation to complete and
        deliver the Coral Reef Early Warning Station ("CREWS"); (B) to exercise all of
        its rights under the NOAA Grant Agreement in consultation with CCCCC and in
        such manner as to ensure that the interests of CCCCC are protected and that the
        purposes of the Project are accomplished; (C) to transfer to CCCCC possession
        and title to the CREWS and any other goods and equipment provided to
        CARICOMby NOAA pursuant to the terms of the NOAA Grant Agreement; and
        (D) to provide CCCCC with copies of all communications to or from NOAA in
       relationto the NOAA Grant Agreement;

(iii)   Until such time as the Assignment of the NOAA Grant Agreement becomes
        effective, CCCCC hereby agrees to provide CARICOM, upon its written request,
        any technical information regarding the CREWS that CCCCC may have in its
       possessionand that CARICOMmay require inconnection with its performance of
       the obligations set forth inparagraph4(a).

(iv)   Except for the Assignment of the NOAA Grant Agreement and as CCCCC and
       the Bank shall otherwise agree, CARICOM shall not, and shall not cause or allow,
        any assignment, amendment, abrogation or waiver of the NOAA Grant
       Agreement or any of its provisions.



                                             9

The performance of the new implementing agency i s satisfactory. The new proposed
Project's Implementing Agency, the CCCCC, has performed satisfactorily in the current
PHRD Grant that it has been managing since last year. Additionally a Bank's financial
management and procurement assessment has been carried out last year with satisfactory
results. All recommendations made in these two assessments have been followed by the
ccccc.

4. ANALYSIS
The proposed changes would not have any effect on the original economic, financial,
technical, institutional, environmental, or social aspects of the project as appraised,
becausethe design of the operation would essentially be maintained.
Similarly the environmental category of the project would be unchanged (Category "B")
and no new safeguardpolicies would be triggered. The Project area would remain within
the original Project area. There i s no need for exceptions to Bank policies.

5. EXPECTEDOUTCOMES
The proposedchanges: (i) emphasis incomponent B scope, and (ii) change inthe
                            the                                            the
Project Implementing Agency are expected to greatly contribute. to substantial
improvements in project performance and thus facilitate achievement of the Project
Development Objectives. The reallocation of funds per component would be mirrored by
the so-far outcomes completion of each Project component. The proposed scope
narrowing on Component B will allow concentrating efforts on targeted high profile
demand driven sectoral strategies.
Outcome indicators for Component B have been revised and updated to better indicate
the new defined emphasis. In particular the revised indicators are: 1) Country-level
Sector Adaptation Strategies prepared only for four countries and in specific sectors,
namely, Barbados (Tourism), Guyana (Agriculture), Jamaica and Belize (Water), 2)
Institutional analysis for implementation of the adaptation strategies in the countries and
sectors specified above, (3) Action Plan to support implementation of the Country level
sector adaptation strategy in selected countries and sectors as presented above, (4)
Training programs conducted to buildcapacity for adaptation planpreparation process in
Barbados, Guyana, Jamaica and Belize.

6. BENEFITSAND RISKS
The risk that couldjeopardize the achievements of the remaining Project activities would
arise mainly from a potential failure in the new ImplementingAgency in managing the
Project. This i s very unlikely to happen and measures to facilitate CCCCC operations are
being carried out, among them: (1) Solid Management unit accompanied by a strong
technical staff and well trained operations and logistics staff, supported by the Financial
Management and procurement World Bank's assessment, (2) Close collaboration with
other regional institutions such as CARICOM Secretariat. There are no additional
foreseen environmental or social risks deriving from the new emphasized Project
components other thanthe ones expressedinthe PAD inthe Risk section.




                                              10

        Table l a RestructuredProjectCosts,by Categories(US$2.427million)
                  -
                    I             I  Spent      I ReallocationI

                                    31'' 2006)     2007-2008
                          1          0.242           0.205.
                          2          1.061           0.916




        Table lb RestructuredProjectCosts, by Components(US$2.427million)
                   -




    costs
6. Unallocated    48,000      0.00        0.00        0.00          0.00     0.00      48,000
   TOTAL        2,427,109    911,000     470,000     135,000       100,000  763,109    48,000
      r-Table2-New Disbursementtable (Schedule1intheamendment)(US$million)

                                     Amount of the GEF
               CATEGORY                  Trust Fund Grant
                                     allocated (Expressedin           Expenditures to be
                                                                          Financed
                                               447.791            1          100
      P           (1)Goods
          (2) Consultant'sservices
              includin Audits)                1,977,200                      100
                (3) Trainin                   1,412,359                      100
                                          ~




      I     (4)TransitionalPIU                                               100
      I       oDerationa1costs                 245,922
               (5) Recipient's
              Onerationalcosts                 868,728                       100

               (6) Unallocated                  48,000                       100
                   TOTAL                      5,000,000                      100



                                                 11

Table 3 Project DesignSummary
        -

The following table shows the list of all Project output indicators by component. The first
three bolded indicators under Component B, correspond to the new specified output
indicators. The other indicators have not been changed and are presentedfor information
purposes only.

Output from each                                                                 @om Outputs to
Component:               OutputIndicators             Project Reports                Obiective
                       Climate     and    sea-level
                       monitoring infrastructure
                       upgraded with additional       PIU Progressreports
                       hardwareand software.                                     Climate andcoral reef
                                                        BanWdonorreview          monitoring network is
                                                                                 efficiently maintained
                                                                                 throughcounterpart

                       manage use of collected        consultant assessment    funding, andcontinues to

                       A"+"                                   report           contributeto expanding the
                                                                                    information base




I.Build Capacityto
assess vulnerability
and risks associated
with Climate           Experts       trained     in  Reportson Country-level
Change.                utilization    of   climate
                       projection    and    impact   sector specificadaptation

                       models.                               strategies

                       Workshops conducted for
                       V&A approaches, and a        Self-assessmentby trainees
                       refined and harmonized          on the quality of the
                       approach     for   assessing   training, relevanceand
                       Climate             Change    usefulness "on-the-job"
                       vulnerability           and
                       adaptationpolicy.
                       Country-level       sectoral
                       vulnerability     and   risk     Mid-term andfinal
                       assessment           studies         evaluations
                       completed.
                       Stakeholders trained in
                       applying harmonized V&A
                       approaches in country and         Workshopreports

                       sector settings.




                                                   12

gutput from      each                                                             @om Outputs to
Comuonent:              Output Indicators             Project Reports                  Objective)
                      Barbados tourism
                      adaptation strategy             PIUprogressreports
                      prepared                                                   Sectoraldepartmentsdo

                      Guyana agriculture                                           not appreciatecross

                      adaptationstrategy                                        sectoralnature of climate

                      prepared                                                  change impacts, anddo not

                      Belizeand Jamaicawater                                        work readilyina

                      adaptationstrategy                                          coordinatedmannerto

                      prepared                                                  identify andformulatethe

(I.BuildCapacity to   Institutional analysis for                                 leadSectoralAdaptation

                                                                                  implementation
                                                                                      strategies and
reduce vulnerability  implementation     of    the                                                action
                      adaptation         strategies  Reports on Country-level
to Climate Change     completed      in   selected   sector specific adaptation            Plans

                      countries                              strategies
                      Action Plan to support
                      implementation     of    the     Independentexpert
                      Country      level    Sector    consultant assessment
                      adaptation strategydefined              report

                      Training           programs
                      conductedto build capacity     ImplementationPlanfor
                      for      adaptation     plan     adaptation strategies
                      preparationprocess.
                      A unified regional position
                      paper (base;    on national
                      and      regional   position    PIUprogressreports,
                      papers) and a regional         RegionalAgenda to the
                      operational         strategy          UNFCCC
III.Build Capacity    developed for UNFCCC
to effectively access discussions.
                      A     regional    long-term
& utilize resources   strategy for adaptation to       Bank/donorreview
to reduce             climate change prepared,       Mission aides Memoire,
vulnerability to      showing      regional    and   Reports on Country-level
                      national      actions    for   sector specific adaptation
Climate Change        Implementation             of          strategies
                      NationalAdaptationPlans.
                      Resource        mobilization   Annual policy reports and
                      strategy     prepared    and   backgrounddocuments,
                      donors meetingheld            including SecondNational
                                                         communications
IV. Public
Education and
Outreach
                        PIUestablished,staffed
                             andfunctional             PIUprogressreport

V. Project             Monitoring andevaluation        Bank/donor review,

Management                systems inplaceand          Mission aides Memoire

                         assistinginimproving          Annual work Plans,
                                                       Disbursementunder
                          projectmanagement                   Project




                                                   13


