Doin     MiLURO'ICHE COPY
TheW          Report No.  9b33 -RW  Type: (PCF})
(YUt3LOT, C/ XSi17!59 / T90LJO / 0EILD)D
FOR OFFlC
Repwt No. 9836
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1263-RW)
AUGUST 26, 1991
Population and Human Resources Division
South Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Regional Office
Tbis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authorization.



RWANDA: SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB                       African Development Bank
CTC                       Commerce Training College
DFCS                      Direction de Financement et des Construction Scolaires
(School Financing and Construction Department) formerly a
service (SFCS)
DPES                      Direction P6dagogique de l'Enseignement Secondaire
(Secondary Education Curriculum Development
Department)
ETO                       Ecole Technique Officielle (Public Technical College)
FRW (or RF)               Rwandese Francs
GS                        Groupe Scolaire (School Complex)
IDA                       International Development Association
ILO                       International Labor Organization
IMPRISCO                  Imprimerie Scolaire (Academic Printing Office)
MEPS                      Teaching Aids for Health Personnel
MINEPRISEC                Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education
NTS                       Nursing Training School
NUR                       National University of Rwanda
PIU                       Project Implementation Unit
PMIS                      Project Implementation Monitoring System
SFCS                      Service de Financement et des Constructions Scolaires
(School Financing and Construction Service) (see DFCS)
TTC                       Teacher Training College



THE WORLD BANK                FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Washington. DC 20433
U.S A
Olkte i Dwectnemral
Opgqatmn EvehMiMam
August 26, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Cxmpletion Report - Republic of Rwanda
Second Eeucation Project (Credit 1263-RW)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report - Republic of Rwanda Second Education
Project (Credit 1263-RW)", prepared by the Africa Regional Office,
with Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of
this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at
this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dtaties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETIOW REPCRT
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT) 1263-RW)
TABLE OF COENTS
Pace No.
Preface      ±.......................................................           i
Evaluation Suimary ..         ............................................    iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   PROJECT IDENTITY ...... ............... ..................            1
II.   BACKGROUND ............  #   ................................         1
ITI.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION ......... .. ..........            1
1.3  Project Objectives   .        ..........................        1
1.4  Project Components .......      ..................              2
IV. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION                  ....    3
V.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .......        ..........................      3
1.7  Project Duration and Effectiveness ................             3
1.8  Achievement of Project Objectives .       . .................   4
1.10 Critical Variations during Project Implementation..             4
1.11 Project Risks                     . . .    4
VI.   PROJECT COSTS .      .      .........................................  5
1.12 The Total Project Cost                . ....   5
1.13 Credit Allocation                   ....    5
1.14 Disbursements                    ..          ...   5
VII. PROJECT RESULTS                        .....                            6
1.15 Background                      ....    6
1.16 Results Relating to Enrollments             .     .    .        6
1.19 Results Relating to Technical Assistance, Training,
Fellowships and Studies                . . .                    7
1.21 Impact of the Project                 .        ....   7
1.23 Project Sustainability                 . ...    7
VIII.   PARTICIPANT PERFORMANCE ......        .........................       8
1.24 IDA Performance .        ...................................    8
1.26 Borrower Performance                  . . .                     9
1.28 Project Relationships ...... ................                   9
1.29 Consulting Services ......      ....................            9
1.30 Project Documentation and Data              .       .          10
IX.  CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED                 ....    10
1.33 Lessons Learned                    . . .    10
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE (Translation)
2.1   INTRODUCTION                 .       ................                12
2.2   IMPLEMENTATION .         .........................................   13
2.3 ACHIEVEMENTS                     . . . ..........  13
2.3.1 Internships and Seminars                . . .                 14
2.3.2 Studies ...........................................           15
2.3.3 Technical Assistance                  . . .                   16
2.3.4 Missions ..........................................           16
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contjnts (cont.Ad) .0... ............*....      ,           Pame No.
2.3.5 Project Expenditures by Component & Subcomponent..        is
2.3.6 Financing (in RF).,.* ... .. .    **...... ... ...  . o-   19
2.3.7 Procurement ... .. . ..... .. .......... ......0.. . ........ .  20
2.3.8 Balance on Credit No. 1263-RW .......... I...........     21
2.4   CONCLUSIONS ................  ..... eo.... ......    .... .      22
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1  IDA Credits Relevant to the Project .....................        24
Table 2  Planned and Actual Dates of Project Timetable ..........         25
Table 3  Cumulative Estimate and Actual Disbursements............         26
Table 4  Planned and Actual Completion Dates of Components....*...        27
Table 5  Estimated and Actual Project Costs .....................         28
Table 6  Summary Accounts Cost Summary.... .......................        29
Table 7  Financing Plan by Disbursement Category.................         30
Table 8  Financing Plan by Foreign Exchange/Local/Taxes ..........        31
Table 9  Planned, Revised, and Actual Allocation of Credit Proceeds   32
Figure 1 Allocation of Credits Proceeds. ......e.................. .      33
Table 10 Comparison of Appraisal Estimates........... ............        34
Table 11 Comparison of Estimated Total Number of Students ........        34
Table 12 Evolution in Enrollments in Project Institutes ..........        35
Table 13 Number of Graduates from Project Institutes#.............        36
Table 14 Project Studies* ..........*es........... ........ ....          37
Table 15 Compliance with Credit Covenants ........................        38
Table 16 Use of IDA Resources ....*..e* ...............*..........        42
Table 17 IDA Mission Data by Stages of Project ...................        43
Figure 2 Actual Staff Inputs (staff-weeks) .....................          44
Annex I Annual and Cumulative Disbursements (in SDRs) ...........         45
Annex II Exchange Rate Fluctuations .......I......... ,  .. ..........    46
Annex III Teaching Staff in Project Institutes (1980/1991) .......        47
Annex IV Cumulative Estimates and Actual Disbursements ....*......        48
Annex V  Save School Complex - Enrollment in Teacher Training ....        49
Annex VI Zaza School Complex - Enrollment in Teacher Training ....        50
IBRD Map No. 16060



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1263-RW)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second
Education Project in Rwanda, for which Credit 1263-RW in the sum of
US$10 million (SDR 9 million) was approved by the Exicutive Directors
on June 15, 1982. The Credit Closing Date, originally September 30,
1987, was postponed twice (first to September 30, 1988 and then to
June 30, 1989) at the Government's request.  The Credit Account was
kept open a further six months to honour withdrawal applications
arising from commitments made before the final revised Closing Date.
The Credit Account was closed January 3, 1990 and an undisbursed
balance of SDR 1,194,845.05 was cancelled.
This PCR was prepared jointly by the Population and Human
Resources Division of the South-Central and Indian Ocean Department,
Africa Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary and Parts I and
III) and the Borrower (Part II)
Preparation of this report was based inter alia on the
following sources:   the President's Report, the Loan Agreement,
supervision reports, correspondence between the Association and the
Borrower, the Project Implementation Monitoring System (PMIS), and
discussions with representatives of the Borrower in the field.
Comments were also obtained from the IDA task managers/project staff
who identified, prepared, appraised and supervised the project.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RE2UBLIC OF RWANDA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1263-RW)
Evaluation Summsy
Project Background and Objectives:
1.          The Rwanda Second Education Project was conceived, prepared and
appraised in the context of the Government's sector objectives as contained in its
education reform that was introduced in 1979. The main objective of the project was to
assist the government in meeting acute shortages of qualified personnel through expansion
of secondary schools for training in commerce, nursing and primary teaching. More
specifically, the project aimed at:
(a)   improving training standards in the areas of commerce, nursing and teacher
education;
(b)   implementing reforms to render curricula more relevant to the country's
needs;
(c)   supporting the development of basic education through primary teacher
training;
(d)   increasing educational opportunities for girls;
(e)   improving the quality and increasing the number of entrants to higher
education; and
(t)   developing local pedagogical and administrative expertise.
2.          The project included five main components: (i) a 290 place extension,
furnishing and equipping of the Commercial Training College in Muramba; (ii) the
construction, furnishing and equipping of a new 100 place nursing training school in
Gisenyi; (iii) a 660 place extension, furnishing and equipping of the two teacher training
colleges at Save and Zaza; (iv) the extension (by 480 places) of the teaching
demonstration schools attached to the teacher training colleges in Save and Zaza; and (v)
technical assistance for project management and implementation and to conduct studies as
well as fellowships for pedagogical training at home and abroad in various fields.
Implementation Experience:
3.          The project was completed with a time overrun of about two years. The
delays occurred mainly in: (a) the slow recruitment by UNESCO of Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) experts; b) the design and preparation of bid documents and
in bid evaluation and c) the implementation of the training/studies program.
Consequently, disbursements lagged behind schedule. As of June 30, 1985, three years
after credit approval, only about US$ 0.5 million had been disbursed as against USS 2.1
million targeted at appraisal. The pace of disbursements picked up later and the last
disbursement was made in January 1990. An undisbursed amount '.orresponding to about
13% of the total Credit was cancelled.



- i.v -
4.           Despite the delays, tha project was successfully implemented. This success
can be attributed to thc simple design of the project, close supervision and the dedication
and commitment of the Borrower at all stages of the project cycle.
Project Results:
5.           The project was successful in meeting all its quantitative targets: (i) 290
additional student places in the Muramba Commercial Training College; (ii) over 100
student places in the new Gisenyi Nursing Training School; (iii) 660 additional student
places in the Save and Zaza Teacher Training Colleges; and (iv) 480 additional student
places in the Save and Zaza teaching demonstration schools. Overall, the quality of
construction was vcry good. In 1989/190, 326 students were enrolled in the Muramba
Commerce Training College (176 more than just before the project) and 38 graduates
were produced that year (18 more than just before the project). Meanwhile 237 students
were enrolled in the newly created Nursing Training School (137 more than the number
of student places estimated at appraisal). On the basis of 100 student places, the appraisal
mission estimated a yearly output of 20 nurses. With actual enrollment in 1989/90 at 237,
it is very likely that the annual output of nurses sill more than double that estimate as
soon as the school starts producing graduates. However, in 1990/91, only about 85% of the
660 additional student places created in the Save and Zaza Teacher Training Colleges
were filled and most of these were filled by students in fields other than teacher training;
both institutions have failed to attract enough students in the teacher training sections,
and the Rwandese authorities have responded by creating other options in these schools,
thereby transforming the schools into "groupes scolaires". In 1990/91, only about 28% of
students in these schools were enrolled in the teacher training sections. The rest were
enrolled in the sections offering biology/chemistry, mathematics/physics, economics, literary
studies, and commerce & accounting. Similarly, enrollments in the Save and Zaza
Teaching Demonstration Schools have not increased as much as expected despite the
creation of 480 additional student places. In Zaza, enrollments rose from only 1123 in
1981/82 to 1237 in 1989/90. In Save, enrollments actually fell from 407 in 1981/82 to 374
in 1989/90.
6.           From a qualitatiVe point of view, some immediate and readily observable
results of the project are evident, especially in the area of training of local officials.
Either through technical assistance expert services, fellowships abroad or local seminars, a
large amount of training was provided in the administrative, technical and teaching fields
for local staff in the PIU and the project institutions. Nearly all staff at the project unit
today are Rwandese who have benefitted from expert transfer of knowledge or training at
home and/or abroad.
Project Sustainabilitv:
7.           All those project components that included thie training of local staff for
positions of administrative, technical and teaching responsibilities have had sustainable
effects. This training has allowed activities to continue. The training given, and the
transfer of knowledge by the technical assistance specialists involved in the PIU, have
contributed in enhancing the management and technical capacity of the PIU. This was
very helpful in the preparation and implementation of the Third Education Project and in



the preparation of the First Education Sector Project. For primary and secondary
education and technical education in particular, the project schools have unquestionably
provided access to education and training for a growing number of students in areas wherc
such opportunities were previously quite limited.
Conclusions and Lessons Learnt:
8.           Despite implementation delays, the Rwanda Second Education Project was
a success in that it did effectively contribute to the provision of skilled manpower in
critical areas - commerce and nursing. However, project support for secondary level
training institutions avoided (an, may have had the result of postponing) urgently needed
reconsideration of the structure and reform of education and training at this level. The
Bank Group now plans to undertake a major investment to help the Government to
reform the secondary level education and training.
10.          The main lessons to be learned from this project can be summarized as
follows:
(a)   that attention should be paid to structural reform and the policy framework
before expansion investments are undertaken (para. 1.25);
(b)   that a simple project that is closely supervised has good chances of
successful implementation and achievement of immediate project objectives which,
in turn, may influence the attainment of long-term development objectives (para.
1.24);
(c)   that conditions of Credit Effectiveness should be very carefully analysed in
order to avoid those that may lead to unnecessary initial delays which may then be
carried over and amplified throughout project implementation (para. 1.7);
(d)   that supervision missions should be fielded at appropriate and flexible
intervals to address emerging problems (para. 1.24);
(e)   that supervision missions and PIUs should ensure reasonable continuity in
staff and comprise the necessary specialists competent in the fields covered by the
project (para. 1.24);
(f)   that improvement of school construction programs can be effected through
a system of pre-qualifQying registered contractors and the provision of trained site
inspectors for quality control of civil works construction (para. 1.27);
(g)   that simply creating additional student places may not be enough to
increase enrollments in primary teacher training institutions; it may also be
necessary to provide adequate incentives to attract students into the teaching field
( including the improvement of the working conditions of teachers in service), and
to consider alternative approaches to teacher training such as in-service courses
and shorter programs (para. 1.27).



a1-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1263.RW)
PART L PR l REVIEW ER1i MA PER
L PEROJECI IDENTITY
Project name    : Second Education Project
Loan/Credit No. : 1263-RW
RVP Unit        : Africa Region, Country Department III
Country         : RWANDA
Sector          : Education.
IL BACKGROUND
1.1. At the time of independence in 1962, the education and training system in Rwanda
was a traditional elitist type and was generally ill-adapted to the needs of economic and
social development of the country. In the years following independenice, tile government
undertook serious efforts to remedy this situation. These efforts culminated in a major
reform that was implemented under the Second Development Plan, 1977-81. The major
objectives of the reform, introduced in 1979, were t: reefold: (a) to reform primary and
post-primary curricula to improve their relevance to rural/agricultural needs; (b) to make
secondary education more vocational and comprehensive and supply much needed middle-
level technicians; and (c) to orient higher education towards major developmental
priorities, especially agriculture and applied research. The govermment's efforts were
assisted by IDA through two credits.
12.            IDA involvement in the education sector started with a credit of US$8
million (Credit 567-RW) for the First Education Project, approved in June 1975 to help
finance a printshop for textbook production and workshops, furniture and equipment at
selected primary schools and to facilitate the introduction of practical subjects at this level
and the associated teacher training. The project also initiated some institutional
development activities, including the creation of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
within the School Financing and Construction Service (SFCS) and re!uted technical
assistance. It is against this background that the Second Education F;oject was developed.
[IL PROJECr OBECIVES AND DESCRIPTION
13.            Project Objcives. In furtherance of the government's sector
nbjectives as contained in its reform that was introduced in 1979, the main objectives of



- 2 -
the Second Education Project were to assist the government in meeting acute shortages of
qualified personnel through expansion of secondary level schools for training in commerce,
nursing and primary teaching. More specificaliy, the project aimed at:
(a)      improving training standards in the areas of commerce, nursing and
teacher education;
(b)      implementing reforms to render curricula more relevant to the
country's needs;
(c)      supporting the development of basic education through primary teacher
training;
(d)      increasing educational opportunities for girls;
(e)      improving the quality and increasing the number of entrants to higher
education; and
(f)      developing local pedagogical and administrative expertise.
1.4.            Project Components. The project included the following major
components:
1)       CTMmerce Training College,  Muramba: Extension, furnishing and
equipping of the Commerce Training College in Muramba in order to
raise enrollment from 150 to 440 students and yearly output from 20 to
70 graduates. Construction and furnishing of student hostels and staff
houses for the college were also included ilk the project.
2)       Nursing Training School, Gisenyi: Construction, furnishing and
equipping of a new nursing training school in Gisenyi in order to
provide 100 student places and reach an annual output of about 20
junior nurses (A-3 level). Construction and furnishing of student
hostels and staff houses for the school were also included in the
project.
3)       Teacher Training Colleges, at Save and Zazi: Extension, furnishing and
equipping of the two teacher training colleges at Save and Zaza in
order to prov;.de an annual output of about 190 primary school
teachers by increasing student places in both institutions from 420 to
1080. Construction and furnishing of student hostels and staff houses
for the two colleges were also included in the project.
4)       Teaching Demonstration Schools, at Save and Zaza: Extension of the
teaching demonstration schools attached to the teacher training
colleges in Save and Zaza with 480 additional student places.
5)       Project Management. Technical Assistanr .,. Pedagogical Training and
Studies: Tetnnical Assistance experts for project management and



* 3 -
implementation as well as to conduct studies on medical textbooks and
teaching methodology, teacher tiaining needs assessment and
evaluation/pre-investment studies. The evaluation/pre-investment
studies included: (i) a study on the economic optimum for primary
education; (ii) a study on the cause of dropout at the Xicykiro Public
Technical College (Ecole Techniqu.- Officielle - ETO); (iii) a study and
action plan for the reorganization of IMPRISCO; (iv) a study on the
reorganization and management of the School Financing and
Construction Service (SFCS); (v) a study on the formulation and
adaptation of programs for the maintenance of physical plant and
heavy machinery; and (vi) a needs assessment and feasibility study for
the school equipment distribution network. Fellowships were also
provided for pedagogical training at home and abroad in various fHlds.
These included: (a) training in the National University of Rwanda of
nursing and teacher trainers; (b) study abroad of teaching methods for
Directors and some teachers of the Commerce Training College in
Muramba and the Teacher Training Colleges in Save and Zaza; and (c)
training in Rwanda for physical education teachers and librarians
working in the secondary education subsector.
IV. PRQJEHC DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
1.5.            The Second Education Project was designed mainly to deal with the
problem of acute shortages of qualified middle-level personnel in key areas of commerce,
nursing and primary teacher training. The project responded adequately to the
Government's education development requirements and strategies as outlined in its second
five-year de-velopment plan (1977-81) and its education reform program. The projection
of execution over rive years was reasonable although delays in Credit Effectiveness and
the redesign of some components caused a time overrun of two years.
1.6.            A new Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was created under the
School Financing and Construction Service, SFCS, (which was itself established under the
First iducation Project) to be responsible for the implementation of the second Project.
V. PROJECI IMPLEMENTATION
1.7.            Project Duration and Effectiveness: It was planned that the project
would be implemcnted over a period of about five years, including six months for
completion of payments and withdrawal of Credit proceeds. As a condition of Credit
Effectiveness, it was required that an architect and an accountant, financed under the
project and satisfactory to the Bank Group, be appointed in the Project Implementation
Unit. There were some delays in meeting this condition so the Credit became effective
only on April 13, 1983, about seven months later than planned. The initial architectural
design for the School of Commerce in Muramba was inadequate and had to be redone;
this generated delays; so did the procurement of furniture and equipment. Two other
factors were responsible for slowness in project implementation: a) delays in the design



- 4 -
and preparation of bid documents and in bid evaluation; and b) delays in implementation
of the training/studies program. Consequently, disbursements also lagged behind schedule.
1.8.           Achievement of Project Oiectives: The project was successful in
achieving its immediate physical and quantitative targets: (i) 290 additional student places
were created in the Muramba Commerce Training College; (ii) over 100 additional student
places were created in the new Gisenyi Nursing Training School; (iii) 660 student places
were added to the 420 that existed in the Save and Zaza Teacher Training Colleges; and
(iv) 480 additional student places were created in the Save and Zaza teaching
demonstration schools. All these project objectives were achieved although there were
delays in achieving almost all of them. Construction of the Gisenyi Nursing School, which
started in January 1985 and planned to be completed by June 1986 was completed only in
January 1988. Site work at the Save Teacher Training College extension began in May
1985 and construction was completed in September 1987, about 14 months later than
planned. The extension of the Zaza Teacher Training College experienced longer delays
(completed 34 months later than planned). Meanwhile, the extension of the Muramba
Commerce Training College also experienced long delays because it had to be redesigned.
Instead of the planned completion date of June 1986, actual completion took place in
March 1989. Overall, however, the quality of all construction was very good.
Corresponding to the delays in construction, the purchase and installation of equipment
and furniture for the project institutions also experienced substantial delays ranging
between 18 to 38 months.
1.9.           The training, fellowships and studies components were also all
successfully implemented except for some minor problems and delays in a few cases.
Training of 11 nursing trainers at the Faculty of Medicine in Butare between October
1984 and June 1985 was undertaken successfully. Educational seminars were also
conducted as planned at regional centers. However, fellowship training abroad posed
some minor problems in that it was not undertaken as scheduled. The July 1985
supervision mission suggested that student placement be expedited through direct contacts
with bilateral agencies. This proved to be quite helpful. All the studies were completed
by June 1987 as planned except for that on the causes of dropout in the Kicykiro Public
Technical College (undertaken by the 'Direction des Programr.es de !'Enseignement
Secondaire") which was completed 12 months later. Meanwhile, the study on the
reorganization of the School Financing and Construction Service (SFCS) had to be redone
because the initial report concentrated on architectural aspects and neglected
organizational and management aspects which were more important and posed more
problems.
1.10.          Critical Variations during Project Implementation: There were a few
changes in the project made during implementation. Among the most important of these
were the following: (i) the modification in the architectutal design of the Muramba School
of Commerce, since the initial design was deemed inadequate; (ii) an increase in the
number of student places created in the new Nursing School in Gisenyi (though only 100
new student places were estimated at appraisal, some cost-savings during project
implementation led to a decision to double this number.
1.11.          Project Risks: The potential risks identified by the appraisal mission
induded the variety of political, managerial and technical reasons that had made
implementation of the First Education Project prove difficult. Lack of experience with



, 5 -
Bank Group procedures and sudden changes in education policy were highlighted as
potential abstacles to smooth implementation. However, experience gained by the
Borrower staff, and the fact that the project was simple and closely supervised, helped
minimize these risks. In fact, none of the potential risks identified by the appraisal
mission proved to be of significant consequence in terms of project implementation.
VL PROJEICT COSTS
1.12.          The Total Project Cost, including contingencies and taxes, was about
US$11.6 million, ot which US$7.58 million were foreign costs and US$4.02 million were
local costs. The IDA Credit amount was SDR 9 million (US$10 million), about 86% of
the total estimated project costs. Of this amount, a total of SDR 7.8 million was actually
disbursed during project implementation. Of the total undisbursed portion of the Credit
proceeds (SDR 1.19 million), a large part was related to imported equipment, furniture
and construction materials. Part of the reason for the lower actual disbursement amount
for this category in relation to appraisal estimates is the rapid appreciation of the US
dollar vis-&-vis the major currencies, including the Rwandese franc, during execution of the
project. Cost-savings were also obtained from the redesign of the Muramba Commerce
Training College component.
1.13.           Credit Allocation: The appraisal and revised estimates of the
allocation of Credit proceeds are shown in Table 9, Part IIL Original allocations were
revised in September 1987. These can be compared with actual allocations which are also
presented on the same table. The table indicates that in relation to the revised estimate
of Credit Allocation, the only category for which there was a substantial cost overrun (of
SDR 627,844.22) was civil works. This was due to an increase in the number of student
places created in the Gisenyi Nursing Training School. Meanwhile for imported
equipment, furniture and imported materials, there was an unused balance of about SDR
1 million. There was also a positive balance of SDR 503,927.87 for technical assistance,
training, fellowships, studies and seminars; a positive balance of SDR 228,148.04 for
project management and SDR 90,351.89 for locally procured furniture, teaching
equipment and vehicles.
1.14.           Disbursements: Estimated and actual disbursements (cumulative) of
the Credit are given in Table 3 in Part III. Initial disbursements were delayed because of
the late recruitment by UNESCO of project implementation specialists. Delays occurred
as well (i) because of the need to redesign the Muramba Commerce Training College, and
(ii) in the implementation of portions of the overseas fellowships and training program.
Consequently, disbursements lagged behind schedule. As of June 30, 1985, only about
US$ 0.5 million had been disbursed as against US$ 2.1 million targeted at appraisal. The
pace of disbursements later increased; however, there was need to extend the Closing
Date of the Credit. Total actual disbursements amounted to about US$ 9.6 million (SDR
7.81 million) at the time the Credit Account was closed. Hence, of the original Credit of
US$ 10 million (SDR 9 million), US$ 1.3 millionj/ (SDR 1.19 million) was canceled
1/    The discrepancy between the original credit amount of US$10 million and the sum
of the actual disbursed amount of US$9.6 million and the canceled amount of
US$1.3 million was due to changes in the exchange rate between the US$ and the



- 6 -
after the final disbursement on January 3, 1990. Retroactive financing amounted to about
US$ 880,000 (SDR 800,000).
VIL PROJECIT RESULTS
1.15.       Background: The immediate objectives of the project were achieved in
terms of the physical infrastructure provided and additional student places created. Most
of the physical facilities were provided more or less as planned. Most of the more specific
objectives outlined at appraisal (para. 1.3 above) were implicit in the objectives of physical
expansion and technical assistance included in the project. For example, increased
educational opportunities for girls was implicit in the expansion of the College of
Commerce and the establishment of the Nursing School since girls comprised the majority
of the enrollmcnt in these programs.
1.16.       Results Relating to Enrollments: Enrollments in most of the project
institutions have incrcased appreciably. In 1989/90, a total of 326 students were enrolled
in the Muramba Commerce Training College (176 more than just before the project) and
38 graduates were produced that year (18 more than just before the project). A total of
237 students were enrolled in the newly created Nursing Training School (137 more than
the number of student places estimated at appraisal). Based on the appraisal estimate of
100 additional student places, an additional yearly output of 20 nurses was estimated.
With actual enrollment in 1989/90 at 237, it is very likely that the additional annual output
of nurses will exceed 40.
1.17.       Most of the additional student places created in the Save and Zaza
Teacher Training Colleges were occupied by students taking options other than teacher
training. Both institutions have become "school complexes" (groupes scolaires) offering
options among more than one field of study. In fact, enrollments in the teacher training
sections have declined rather than increased over the last decade - in Zaza, from 190
students in 1981/82 to 157 students in 1990/91 and in Save from 136 to 122 students
during the same period. Meanwhile in Zaza, the biology/chemistry and
mathematics/physics sections which were non-existent in 1981/82 had enrollments of 88
and 159 students respectively in 1990/91. In Save, the economics and commerce &
accounting sections which were similarly nor.-existent in 1981/82 had enrollments in
1990/91 of 116 and 121 students respectively. The literary studies (!ettres) option in Save
which enrolled only 40 students in 1981/82 now enrolls 220 students. Full details on
enrollments in project schools appear on table 12 of Part III.
1.18.       It is clear that the supply of 660 additional student places for teacher
training has not generated a corresponding demand by students for those places. The
Rwandese authorities have done little to provide the right incentives to attract students
into the teaching field. Faced with low demand and unfilled vacancies in these
institutions, the authorities have been forced to create and admit more students into the
other more popular fields of study. At present, about 91% of the total number of 1080
student places in the Save and Zaza School Complexes are occupied and less than 30% of
SDR during project implementation.



*7-
these are occupied by teacher trainees. Similarly, enrollments in the Save and Zaza
Teaching Demonstration Schools have not increased as much as expected; despite the
creation of 480 additional student places, the net increase in enrollment between 1981/82
and 1989/90 has been only 81. In Zaza, enrollments rose from 1123 in 1981/82 to 1237 in
1989/90. In Save, enrollments actually fell from 407 in 1981/82 to 374 in 1989/90.
1.19.        Results Relating to Technical Assistance. Training. Fellowships and
Studies: The project contained a substantial technical assistance program including 23
staff/years of specialist services (including one staff/year under the Project Preparation
Facility for preliminary architectural planning and preparation of equipment lists, 13
staff/years for an architect, an accountant and an equipment specialist in the Project
Implementation Unit, 3 staff/years of specialist services for the Nursing Training School
and Teacher Training Colleges and 6 staff/years for studies) and 11 staff/years of
fellowships abroad (for the directors and some specialist teachers of the project
institutions). One major weakness in the fellowship program was the lack of fellowships in
the fields where experts were needed. No fellowships were included to train project
managers, architects, accountants and equipment procurement specialists.
1.20.        In general, the quality of the technical specialists and of the training
received by Rwandese at nome and abroad were deemed to be of good quality and greatly
contnrbuted to improving the qualitative results of the project and the sustainability of
project benefits. In fact, a deliberate effort was undertaken to have the specialists train
local counterparts. This alleviated the shortcoming in the : ilowship program which did
not include fellowships for training project managers, architects, accountants and
equipment procurement specialists (para. 1.19).
1.21.        Impact of the Project: It is too early to assess the full impact of the
project since it is only now that the first batch of graduates from the project schools are
coming out and making their contributions to national development. Some of these
schools (like the Nursing Training School in Gisenyi) have not yet started producing
graduates. Table 13 in Part III shows the number of graduates from project schools.
Meanwhile, teacher morale in the project schools is reported to be high because of better
facities to work in.
1.22.        From a qualitative point of view, the project impact is even more difficult
to assess since much of this impact is diffused and spread over a long period. However
some results are evident, especially in the area of training of local officials. Either
through technical assistance expert transfer of expertise, fellowships abroad or local
seminars, a large amount of training was provided in the administrative, technical and
teaching fields for local staff in the project institutions and the Project Implementation
Unit (PIU). Nearly all staff at the project unit today are Rwandese most of whom have
benefitted from a transfer of expertise by working with technical assistance experts.
1.23.        Proiect Sustainabilitv: All the project components that included the
training of local staff for positions of administrative, technical and teaching responsibilities
have had sustainable effects. This training has allowed activities to continue. Because of
the training and transfer of knowledge by the technical assistance specialists involved in
the PIU, the management and technical capacity of the PIU has been greatly enhanced
and this helped in the preparation and execution of the Third Education Project as well as
the preparation of the First Education Sector Project. For primary and secondary



-8-
education and technical education in particular, the project schools have provided access
to education and training for a growing number of students in areas where such
opportunities were previously quite limited. Though the effort to increase the number of
teacher trainees and to upgrade the skills of primary teachers has not obtained the desired
results (see paras. 1.17 and 1.18), it did direct attention to the need to consider alternative
mechanisms for upgrading the skills of existing teachers, especially through in-service
teacher training. In fact, the recently approved First Education Sector Project contains a
large primary teacher training component with a focus this time on in-service teacher
training. These efforts would go a long way in improving the qualification of teachers
(presently about half of the teaching force is unqualified) and ameliorating the presently
low levels of the quality of education. The multiplier effect involved in these efforts go
even beyond primary education and certainly affects education at all levels.
VmL PARTICIPANTPERFORMANCE
1.24.       IDA Performance: IDA staff contributed positively to the success of the
project through supportive working relationships and professional advice. The project
design was simple and the project benefitted from the fact that a large proportion of its
supervision missions (which were fielded at appropriate and flexible intervals - see Table
17 in Part III for full datails on supervision missions) included an architect and an
educator. This made it possible to address emerging problems quickly and to continue a
fruitful dialogue with national educational authorities which, although it may not have led
to a resolution of all problems, at least enabled them to be raised and taken into account
in the formulation of subsequent operations (the Third Education Project and the First
Education Sector Project). Meanwhile, IDA showed great flexibility in making
adjustments to the project, including a modification of the architectural plans for the
extension of the Muramba Commerce Training College, the reallocation of the proceeds
of the Credit to the various project categories and the extension of the Closing Date.
1.25.       Nevertheless, a few shc.tcomings were evident in the performance of IDA.
Firstly, the time taken to identify and prepare the project was very long indeed (from FY
1974 to FY 1982). This was due to problems encountered during implementation of the
First Education Project. Secondly, project support for secondary level training institutions
avoided (and may have had the result of postponing) urgently needed reconsideration of
the structure and reform of education and training at this level. Secondary level education
and training was fraught with certain problems, including: (i) the ineffectiveness of the
vocational component of secondary education; (ii) the existence of a large number of
streams in an economy with only a limited range of employment opportunities; (iii) the
secondary education cycle of six years into which primary school graduates are assigned to
specific training programs at the age of 14 or 15 with few possibilities for reassignment if
ill-placed, which is often the case with the weak school guidance system; and (iv) unequal
distribution of time devoted to general education (French, mathematics and science)
among the streams, so that the academic achievement of secondary graduates is uneven.
IDA and the Government are in the process of undertaking a major sector study (to be
followed by a major investment operation) on secondary and higher education in Rwanda
to address these structural problems and other policy issues. Finally, IDA needed to have
foDlowed-up immediately after negotiations to ensure timely Govemment action on civil



-9-
works contracting as well as on the recruitment of Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
experts. Overall, however, IDA performance was good.
1.26.       Borrower Pterformance: The Government complied adequately with Credit
conditions. Except for delays (first in Credit Effectiveness and during project
implementation which led to the postponement of the Closing Date twice), all covenants
and obligations were met. Table 15 in Part III provides details. The PIU performed well.
The maintenance of the same Project Director over much of the implementation period
and the accumulated experience of PIU staff greatly enhanced performance towards the
end of the project implementation period. Stable staffing at the Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) resulted in continuity beneficial to the project, and most of the financial audits
recognized that the project had been well managed.
1.27.       However, there are areas in which the Borrower's performance was less
than adequate. Firstly, local management capacity in the School Financing and
Construction Service was very slow in developing. One major problem that was
highlighted in many supervision reports was the difficulty in recruiting a local accountant.
This problem was overcome in the latter years of the project but not before causing some
implementation delays. Secondly, adequate incentives were not put in place to attract
students into the teaching field. Consequently, the 660 additional student places created
in Zaza and Save to train primary teachers are now filled by students in other fields.
Thirdly, there was insufficient innovation in the design of the teacher training component.
A training system should have been proposed which, unlike the traditional residential
teacher training course, was (i) better rooted in the pedagogical needs at the classroom
level, and (ii) organized in such a way that a large number of teachers in service (of which
over 50% were unqualified) could benefit from short duration training and thereby
contribute significantly to improving the entire education system. Fourthly, much of the
delays in civil works could have been reduced and the school construction programs
improved if a system of pre-qualifying registered contractors had been put in place and
trained site inspectors located in the project institutions for quality control of civil works
construction. Instead, one or two architects from Kigali had to travel long distances after
long intervals to perform inspections. Finally, the choice of the Muramba Commerce
Training College for expansion was not ideal since the school is located in a remote rural
area, far from urban areas which are the major outlet for its graduates and provide an
environment more relevant to commerce.
1.28.       Project Relationships: The relative success of this project, notwithstanding
the initial delays, is a result of the amiable working relationships between IDA and the
Borrower, and among the various participating groups themselves. An additional
contributing factor was the high level of professicnalism among all concerned. Dialogue
between the Government and IDA was regular, frank and direct despite the slow rate at
which the Borrower responded to specific issues. This dialogue has continued in
subsequent operations and has, in recent years, led to major positive education policy
decisions by the Government (like the reduction of the duration of primary education
from eight to six years).
1.29.       Consulting Services: The technical assistance program contributed greatly
to the implementation of various aspects of the project. The technical assistance
specialists recruited through the Project Implementation Unit for project management,
construction and to perform the studies envisaged under the project all performed



- 10-
satisfactorily. Though the impact of the studies was not assessed, it is generally agreed
that the reports were of excellent quality.
1.30.       Project Documentation and Data: The project documents - working
papers, staff appraisal report, Credit Agreement, President's report, bid documents and bid
evaluation reports - were adequate. During project implementation, an education sector
memorandum, which gave a detailed analysis of the sector and made recommendations for
its future development was prepared (in 1984) by the Bank Group. This was followed by
a specialized training study in 1985 (FY 86) and a cost and financing study in 1988 (FY
89). All of these studies benefitted from the information and data generated by the
project and its studies component.
1.31.       The information that has been used to prepare this PCR was obtained
from project documents and project files of the Association and of the Ministry of Primary
and Secondary Education (especially the DFCS). The supervision reports in the IDA
project files are clear and they include numerous annexes and technical documents.
IX CONCLUSIONS AND LESSON$ LEARNED
1.32.       Preparation of the Rwanda Second Education Project was lengthy and
desultory. Delays occurred as IDA was awaiting the resolution of problems encountered
in managing the First Education Project. Preparatory work actually began in FY74. A
total of 64.5 IDA staff-weeks were used between FY74 and FY81 to assist in project
generation. A needs assessment was undertaken and the project objectives accurately
reflected real requirements at that time. However, project support for secondary level
training institutions avoided (and may have had the result of postponing) urgently needed
reconsideration of the structure and reform of education and training at this leveL The
Bank Group now plans to undertake sector work and a major investment to help the
Government undertake some adjustments to its reform of secondary level education and
training.
1.33.       Lessons learned: The main lessons to be learned from this project can be
summarized as follows:
(a)   that attention should be paid to structural reform and the policy framework
before expansion investments are undertaken (para. 1.25);
(b)   that a simple project that is closely supervised has good chances of
successful implementation and achievement of immediate project objectives which,
in turn, may influence the attainment of long-term development objectives (para.
1.24);
(c)   that conditions of Credit Effectiveness should be very carefully analysed in
order to aivoid those that may lead to unnecessary initial delays which may then be
carried over and amplified throughout project implementation (para. 1.7);



(d)   that supervision missions should be fielded at appropriate and flexible
intervals to address emerging problems (para 1.24);
(e)   that supervision missions and PIUs should ensure reasonable continuity in
staff and comprise the necessary specialists competent in the fields covered by the
project (para. 1.24);
(f)   that improvement of school construction programs can be effected through
a system of pre-qualifying registered coni.-ctors and the provision of trained site
inspectors for quality control of civil works construction (para. 1.27);
(g)   that simply creating additional student places may not be enough to
increase enrollments in primary teacher training institutions; it may also be
necessary to provide adequate incentives to attract students into the teaching field
( including the improvement of the working conditions of teachers in service), and
to consider alternative approaches to teacher training such as in-service causes and
shorter programs.



- 12 -
PART II
PROJECT REVIE_ J FROM BORROER'S-PERSPECTIVE
(Translation)
2.1         INRODUCrION
A densely populated country, Rwanda faces major problems in the
comprehensive development of its population.
The country's development is severely constrained by the scarcity of land
and its landlocked location.
The Government is nevertheless doing its utmost to seek virtually
miraculous solutions to ensure the survival of its people.
The last three development plans targeted the following objectives:
(1)   meet the food needs of the population through an intensification and
diversification of agriculture;
(2)   increase employment and improve the utilization of human resources;
(3)   improve living conditions;
(4)   improve the balance of payments position.
The World Bank2/ has provided financing in conjunction with (2) and (3)
above.
The main objectives of the Second Education Project (Credit 1263-RW)
were to assist the Government in meeting increasingly acute shortages of qualified
personnel in commerce, health and primary teaching.
Bank assistance thus helped:
(A)   Increase employment and improve the utilization of human resources:
Statistics show that 90% of the country's population is engaged in
agriculture and that the scarcity of land is causing manpower to remain idle. It was
therefore imperative to train the active population in nonagricultural activities.
The country's location, its need for food diversity and a shortage of natural
resources to attract foreigners have obliged the government authorities to do more to turn
the active population towards the world of business.
In this section (Part II), the terms "Bank" and "World Bank" refer to the
International Development Association or IDA.



- 13 -
The interest in the services sector is in this vein [and] has resulted in the
establishment of the Commerce Training College in Muramba.
The Save and Zaza teacher training colleges produce qualiried teachers for
the primary schools, which have long lacked qualified personnel despite their providing the
indispensable foundations for the full actualization of the human potential. The project
helped expand the supply of teachers.
(B)   Improve living conditions:
Overall development in general and economic development in particular
are contingent upon the good health of the productive members of society.
The opening of the Gisenyi Nursing Training College stemmed from a
desire on the part of the Government to ensure the country has the necessary skills for
the its unimpeded development.
2.2          IMPLEMENTATION
The project sites under the Second Education Project were consistent with
the regional equilibrium principle advocated by the Government. The Gisenyi Nursing
Training College and the Muramba Commerce Training College serve the northwest of
the country, while the Zaza and Save teacher training colleges draw from the southeast.
'bis distribution of schools is also in line with the desire to diversify the development
poles in the various regions of the country.
2.3           ACHIEVEMENT
The results of the Second Education Project (Credit 1263-RW) are shown
by the increase in capacity at project schools.
Average enroltments
.________________ . CTC Murambe    NTC G senyl         TTC Save           TTC Zaza
Pre-    Post-     Pre-    Post-      Pre-    Post-     Pre-    Post-
proJect  proJect  proJect   project   project   project   project  project
Students             165      275        0       166      270      400       200      800
Teachers             12        15        0       17        16       24       14       20
uSpport personnet     4         5        0        5         5        5        8        6



- 14 -
The following activities were carried out under the projects
2.3.1            Inte  o=hips  and Seminars
Title                              Provider                       Cost             No. of
beneficiaries
Nursfng training                   NUR (Rwanda)                              RF 2,542,382                20
Tranifng fn natural                NUR (Rwanda)                              RF 6,684,480                20
scfences/agronomics                       .
Training in economics               Internaiotfnal Center for                RF 4,030,800                 4
_  Pedagogical Studies (France)
Training In graphic arts           School for Advanced Studies In the        RF 2,157,154                 2
Graphic Industrfes and Arts
_________________  _    ____________    (France)  _,______
Study trip for the directors of    CRETEIL Academy, continuoui               RF 1,497,684                 3
schools financed by the project,   training
excepting the Gisenyl NTC          GRETA 7 (France)
Trafnfng In home economics          Institut de la Provfdence (Celgiun)      RF 2,063.796                 2
Inventory of textbooks available   Plannin  Department at NINEPRISEC           RF 185,600
in the primary schools and CERAI  (Rwanda)
Primary education manuals and      Directorate General of Studies and        RF 3,015,175               200
curricula evaluation and           Pedagogical Research tMINEPRISEC)
revision seminars                  (RWianda)
Sector and district inspector      DFCS/NINEPRISEC (Rwanda)                  RF 2,732,750               114
refresher seminar         ________                ________
Physfcal education seminar         DFCS/DPES (Rwanda)                        RF 5.562.500               140
Determination of sites for the     Planning Deportment (MINEPRISEC)             Rf 53,290
school warehouse distrfbution      (Rwanda)
network                                       ._._._.
DFCS computer training and         DFCS (NINEPRISEC) (Rwanda)                RF 1,013,000                 6
assistance
Mission by the Director of DFCS    DFCS/IINEPRISEC (Rwanda)                    RF 449,738                 1
* to ADS                           DFCS/NINEPRISEC (Rwanda                      RF 91,791
* to France and Belgiun_
Trafnfng at ILEP by the Director   International Institute for               RF 1,819,999                 1
of studies and evaluation          Education Planning (France)
Acquisition of computer systems    DFCSININEPRISEC tRwanda)                  RF 2,418,737
and thefr implementatfon
Continuous training of secondary   Pan-African Development Institute            RF 524,974                2
science teachers                    (Cameroon)
Mission by the directors of        DFCS/MlNEPRISEC (Rwanda)                  RF 1,765,115                 3
DFCS_ Planning and I.PRISCO
Advanced training for secondary    DFCS/DPES/MINEPRISEC (Rwanda)              PF 4,605,955               19
teachers of agricultural
sLubJects



-15-
2.3.2       Studies
All studies were completed as planned by June 1987 except for that on the
causes of student dropout at the Kicykiro Public Technical College which was completed
twelve months later. The following are some details on the studies that were undertaken:
(a)   Study and implementation of the reorganization of IMPRISCO (Academic
Printing Office)
-     Cost:        RF 7,348,497
-     Awardee:    Foreign Consulting Firm
-     Researchers: Three international experts
(b)   Study on paramedical training (manuals)
-     Cost:        RF 6,301,037
-     Awardee:    MEPS/Rwanda
-     Researchers: One international expert attached to the project
MEPS/Rwanda
(c)   Study on the economic optimum for primary education
-     Cost:        RF 2,760,441
-     Awardee:    Planning Department, MINEPRISEC
-     tResearchers: One intemational expert in education planning and one
local expert
(d)   Study on the cause of student dropout at the Kicykiro ETO
-     Cost:        RF 302,000
-     Awardee:    Secondary Education Curriculum Development Department
-     Researchers: One local specialist in psychopedagogy, DPES and one
international expert of the DPES Technical Education
Office
(e)   Study on the adaptation (or formulation) of programs for the maintenance
of the physical plant and heavy machinery.
(f)    Needs assessment and feasibility study for the school equipment
distribution network.
(g)   The study on the reorganization of the School Construction and Financing
Department was taken on by UNDP.
(h)   The study on teacher training needs assessment.



- 16 -
2.3.3          Iehnical Assistance
Costs for technical assistance incurred in the implemcntation of the Second
Education Project are shown in the following table.
Provider                    Position                          Perfod                  Cost
UNESCO        Architect PS                              s/25/83  5/25/85              USS453,043,26
_________  Accountmnt + Manaogr                    5/29/U3 - 10/29/86
UNOP          Architecture expertise                    1985 - 1986                      US$142,815
Mnagement advisor P4 (Cccounttnt)
Management advisor P4 and architecture   6/1/87 - 12/3/86                 USS190,815
expertise                                1987-1988
ILO           Procurement specielist P4                 Nov. - Dec. 84                    US54,651
Equlpment specialist PS                  1986 - 1988                      US$109,928
(mission)
Heavy machinery speeialtit PS            5/17/87 - 1/15/86                US$164,738
TOTAL            .                                                                  USS1,115,W90,26
2.3.4          Missions
2.3.4.1 Supervision missions by World Bank staf
(1)    June 7-26, 1983 by two Bank staff members, i senior education planner
and an architect.
(2)    February 21-March 13, 1985 by one Bank staff member (an education
planner) and a Bank consultant.
(3)    November 6-23, 1984 by two Bank staff members, a senior education
planner and an architect.
(4)    June 4-14, 1985 by a Bank consultant.
(5)    October 27-November 5, 1985 by a Bank staff member (senior education
planner).
(6)    November 28-December 10, 1985 by a Bank staff member (an architec.).
(7)    June 8-13, 1986 by three Bank staff members, an education specialist, a
senior education planner and an economist.
(8)    November 10-19, 1986 by two Bank staff members, a general educator and
an architect.
(9)    November 3-14, 1987 by a Bank staff member (education specialist).



- 17 -
November 3-10, 1987 by one Bank staff member (an architect) and a Bank
consultant (specialist in the publishing, printing and distribution of
textbooks).
(10)  March 11-18, 1988 by a Bank staff member (education specialist)
(11)  June, 1988 oy two Bank staff members, a general educator and an
education economist.
(12)  October 28-November 8, 1988 by a Bank staff member (education
specialist) and a Bank consultant.
(13)  January 27-February 10, 1989 by a Bank staff member, an architect, under
the joint UNESCO/World Bank Program.
23.4.2 Missions to Washington by Rwandese officials
(1)   June 16-19, 1987 by three directors of MINEPRISEC
(2)   September 1-9, 1988 by two directors of MINEPRISEC and one director
of MINESUPRES.



*18 -
2.3.3           Prolet Ect  andttuaee bv Cinoena  *nd 3ab-cinane t
1983                      1984                        1985                         1986
Prolected     Actult      Proected       Actual   _Proected          Actual        ProJected       Actuat
1. " dsb                                -                                  ,4797,000                  98,69,000    18,769,367
2. Cilr ny                 .            .     2,ffT.000                  23.658.000    33,329,086      18,08,000    19,838,891
3. Savn                                                                  44,559,000    49,458,555     92,379,000    94,122,962
4. zoas                    .            .                                31,037,000    27,676.351     66.927,000    57,663,345
S. Deoonstratfon           .            .                                15,K42,000             .      13,599,000     6,948,644
Schools
6.  technical      9,131,000   24.272,250    24,845,000   21,275,066    32,239,000    23,691,723      33,948,000    21,505,032
Assistance
7. TrainingW                            .                                               7,470,423     78,267,000    23,459,779
sttdies
8. Project ad-       250,000   (5,354,920)   11,124,000    2,464,122    11,124,000   (31,987,853)    11,124,000    44,978,572
cInistration  I         _I                            I            I_            I              I              II
Total              9,381.000 118,91'.,330    38,926,000 123.739,188 1207.256,000 1111,638,285    413,029,000    289.286.612
1967                       1988            |           1989                        Total
_  Projected      ActualT   Projected        Actual      ProJected      Actual        Projected        Actual
1. Nurate          03,900,000    41,401,559          _      59,958,210                  69,216,818     231,394,000   189,345,954
2. Gisenyl         25,447,000    24,885,962                    75,448            .       2,374,620      70,150.000    83,164,007
3. Save            81,878,000    16,207,397.                 4,218,34                   13,123,790     218,816,000   177,131,102
4. Zan            d63.05,000    23,367,283             .     9,761,528           .      14,127.941     161,016,000   ¶32,596,448
5. Oinnstra-       15,892,000    85,610,549                 84,554,175                  21,301,071      45,333,000   200,620,439
tfan Schools
6. TechnIclt       36,341.000     6,714,742   11,821,000     6,032,815           .              .      148,325,000   103,325.000
Assftatanc
36,496,258
7. TrafninW        78,268,000     2,393,013                  3,173,043           .              .      156,535,000
27,797,803
8. ProJect ad-     11,125,000     4,850,587      250,M00    29,148,823                (16,301,528)      44,997,000
I afni5tiatfin   I _ __ _    I_    I__ __ _ _   I__ __ _               I           I  _ __ __I
Totalt             95,903,000   205,631,092   12,071,000   197,582,420  _              103,848,712   1,076,566,000   950,643,639
Nots:
The toble does not roflect project operating costs owing to PPF advenes made during the ectuat periods to
eowr all project expenditures. In other words, the sourees of finwacfng siring the periods do not cover
the costs related to proJect ccmitnsnts.
operatino costs cover the ectusl periods as well n preceding onne mrked by an asterisk for the refunding
of PPF advanes.



2.3.6          Finamncin (in RF)
1983          1984          1985          1985          1986          1987          1988         Total
Wortd Bank              18.917,330    21,758,269    87,566,964    251.102.786    175,977,249    153,742,779    81,213,387   790,278.764
Goverrment of Rwanda         -         1,980.919    24,071.321    38,183,826    29,653,843    43,839,641    22,635,325   160,364,875
Total                   18,917,330    23,739.188    111,638,285    289,286,612    205,631,092    197,582,40    103,848,712   950,643,639
Notes: (): Ca) World Bank:             69,065,990 (FiscaL 1989)
* 12.147.387 (Payments mede in Jawuary 1990)
81,231,387
(b) Goverwuent of Rwada:   14,340,512 (Fiscal 1989)
* 9.29h.813 (Fiscal 1990)
22,635.325



- 20-
2.3.7            esu.~
Descrfption of works             Si.t lIer          Effective date          Cost           Means of Procurement
ZAZA Constructfon
* Demonstration school        Local firm              July 1987            65,304,348 RF   Award of public
*  School complex             Local firm              Septesber 1988       93,809,225 RF   contracts end non
* Water nd                    Local firm              Decesber 1988        21,144,711 RF   objection of the World
electricity                                                                              Bank
SAVE Construction
*  School complex             Local fIrm              September 1987      133,671,768 RF
* Demonstration school        Local firm              september 198       86,007,480 RF
* Water and                   Local frm               Deceaber 1988        12,884,810 RF
electrfcity
EEC Construction
NURAMA                        Local firm              Karch 1989           147,479,537 RF               U
* Water and                   Local firm              June 1989            19,396,102 RF
electrfcity
NTS Construction
GISENYI                       Foreign fIrm            January 1988         62,775,398 RF
* Water and                   Local fIrm              June 1988             2,634,596 RF
olectricity
WOOD FURNITURE                Local firm              October 1988           7,175,600 RF
SAVE WOOD FURNITURE           Local firm              June 1990            12,094,850 RF
ZAZA WOD FURNITURE            Local ffIm              June 1990            21,004,520 RF
GISENTI WOWO FURNITURE        Local firm              October 1989          3,293,525 RF
SAVE NETAL FURNITURE          Local firm              December 1988         5,572,000 RF
ZAZA NETAL FURNITURE          Local firm              December 1988         6,401,375 RF                U
URAMBA METAL FURNITURE        Local firm              December 1988         3,850.000 RF
GISENTI METAL FURNITURE       Local firm              December 1988          1,738,250 RF
SAVE EQUIPMENT                Foreign firm            August 1989          17,377.398 RF
ZAZA EQUIPMENT                Foreign fIrm            August 1989          21,614,172 RF   DIrect shopping EQUIPRO
NURAMBA EQUIPMENT             Foreign fIrm            June 1990            22,612,407 RF   (ILO) and non-objection
GISENYI EQUIPMENT             Foreign firm            August 1989          15,015,878 RF   of the World Bank
TOTAL                         ____________________    _______________     782,857,950   RF



- 21 -
23.8        Balance on Credit No. 1263 RW
(a)   In SDR (share of the World Bank)
Credit         Credit
Category                             allocated       utilized          Balance
1.  Civil works                       4,500,000      5,127,844.22      -627,844.22
2.  Furniture, teaching equipment       600,000        509,648.11        90,351.89
and vehicles (locally procured)
3.  Equipment, furniture and           1,620,000       619,738.10     1,000,261.90
construction materials
(imported)
4.  Technical assistance, training,    1,850,000     1,346,072.13       503,927,87
fellowships, studies and seminars
5.  Project administration              346,234        118,085.96       228,148.04
6.  PPF funding                          83,766         83,766.45           -0.45
7.  Unallocated                              0                0                0
Total                                 9,000,000      7,805,154.97     1,194,845.03
(b)   In RF
*     Project cost (projected)        1,076,566.000 RF
o     Project cost (actual)            950,643,639 RF
Balance                                125,922,361 RF
*     Balance (World Bank share)        94,392,759 RF
(1,194,845.03 SDR * 79 FRS/SDR)
*     Balance (Government share)        31,529,602 RF
(c)   Reasons for balance
The financial documentation on the project shows that expenditures for training,
studies and seminars represent a significant share of the balance. That part was executed at 23%
of projections.



-22-
2.4.        CONCLUSION-S
Delays in project implementation were experienced in particular with the contracts
for furniture and equipment. The delays were caused by
modifications proposed by the supplier of the wood furniture;
a lack of follow-up on the part of the supplier of the equipment to respond to the
reservations indicated at the time of provisional acceptance.
In this regard, the payment means under the disbursement procedures do not
encourage the suppliers to finalize their documentation.
A lack of local representatives of the foreign supply contractors was a significant
factor in the delays in project implementation.
In point of fact, the technicians who were agents of the company awarded the
contract traveled to Rwanda to install and assemble the equipment. The anomalies they found
sometimes forced them to return to make adjustments.
Unfortunately, our suppliers tried to avoid the travel costs of their technicians for
correcting the objections to acceptance. They put in claims without vouchers to the World Bank
for payment stating that the items were accepted without reservation.
Supply contractors should therefore include in their paperwork all costs associated
w:th adjustments or have a local representative who can do the adjustment works in their stead.
The procurement procedures must be revised because unforeseen events that
occur during the execution of construction works disrupt the timetable for supply procurement.
In practice, as the orders for supplies were based on the projected construction
timetable the procedure needs to be revised. Procurement would be more realistic if based on
the progress of construction.
Civil works were properly carried out within the contractual deadlines, with the
exception of the Zaza school complex -- lot one -- which experienced difficulties owing to the size
and poor organization of the firm that won the contract.
Unquestionably, the Second Education Project met with considerable success
because the delays were not significant and the balance does not constitute a considerable loss to
the financial management of the School Financing and Construction Department.



- 23 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUIBUC OF RWANDA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDfT 1263-RW)
I  I   P~ArART M
SIATIMCAL INFORMATO



PART III
A.  Related Bank/IDA Loans/Credits
Table Is IDA CREDITS RELEVANT TO THE PROJECT
F.~~~~~~ I ......., 
Loan/Credit Til     (USS million)                Purpose                Approval       S;sCommenats
~~.              _  __            ._  _._._._.._
Fi?st Education            8.0       Project supported the improvement of the  1975   Closed in    Initial delays were attrlutable to
(Credit 567-RW)                      quality of primary education and its             Dec. 1983    project complexity, poor
relevance to the job market, as well as                       accounting and Borrower's lack of
institution building for project                              familiarity with Bank Group
implementation.                                               procedures.
Third Education           15.6       Project supports the Government's       1986     Closing      Implementation is progressing
(Credit 1683-RW)                     program to improve the quality of                Date: Dec    satisfactorily despite some delays
primary and post primary education by            31, 1991     due to procurement problems.
providing funds for the supply and
distribution of textbooks and the
establishment of a self-sustaining
textbook replenishment scheme. 'Me
project also provides financing for a
technical secondary school and a national
vocational training center.
Fitst Education Sector    23.3       Project to support the                  1991     Appwroved in
Prr)ject                             consolidationlexpansion of primary               April 1991
education, improve the quality of
education and strengthen the sector's
management capacity. An emphasis is
placed on the reduction of primary
education from eight to six years and on
a better allocation and utlization of
resources.



B. Prject rimetable
Table 2: PLANNED AND ACTUAL DATES OF PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                         Date Planned                       Date Actual
Identification (Executive  Project       September 1980                    September 1980
Summry)
Preparation                              December 1980                December 1980 (UNESCO)
Appraisal Mission                          June 1981                   May 30 to June 23, 1981
Credit Negotiations                        April 1982                    April 19 - 22, 1982
Board Approval                            July 6, 1982                     June 15, 1982
Credit Signature      _     _June 30, 1982                                                                          I
Credit Effectiveness                   September 29, 1982                  April 13, 1983
Project Completion                     September 30, 1987                  June 30, 1989
Last Disbursement                        March 31, 1988                   January 03, 1990



C. Credit Disbugsements
Table 3: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACrUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(n USS '000)
Appraisal Estimate           150     540    4,290   8,640   9,890   10,000  (10,000) (10,880)
Acual Disbursements          117     379     1396    4131    6079      7786      8588    9580
Actual as % of AppaiW       78%     70%      33%      48%     61%      78%       86%      88%                       a4
Estimafte
Date of Finl Dis        January 3, 1990
* The disa y beween the original credit amount of USSIO million and the sum of the actual disbursed amount of US$9.6
million and the caneded amount of US$1.3 million was due to changes in the exchange rate between the USS and the SDR during
project imlementatio.



_ 27 -
D.   '
&ble 4: PLANNED AND ACTUAL COMPLEION DATES OF COMPONENTS
zmim QMW=                      M~~~~~odmet   A"o          Month
1) Commercial Trainin College,
Muramba
- Exteonsion                           06/86         03/89          34
- Furniture                            03/87         10/88          18
- Equipment                            06/87         04/89          23
2) Nursing Training School,
Gisenyi
- Construction                         06/86         01/88         20
- Furniture                            03/87         10/89          30
- Equipment                            06/87         07/89         24
3) Teacher Training Colleges
- Construction
Save                                 06/86         09/87          14
*     Zaza (rdfection extension)            12/85         09/88          34
- Funiture                             03/87         06/90         38
- Equipment                            06/87         06/90         36
4) Demonstraon Schools, Save
and Zaza
- Constuction                          09/85         07/87         23
- Furniture                            03/87         06/90         38
- Equipment                            06/87         06/90         36
5) Projet Management, Training,
Technical Assistance and Studies
- Technical Assistance                 06/87         12/88          17
- Pedagogical Training                 06187         06/88          12
- Fellowships                          06/87         06/88          12
- Studies                              06187         11/8          16



RUMADA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECT COIPLETION REPORT
Table 5: ESTINATED AND ACTUAL PROJECT COSTS (US$m)
APPRAISAL ESTIMATE                                         ACTUAL COSTS
CATEGORT/COMPONENT                  Locat Costs       Forelgn Costs    Total Costs        Local Costs       Foreign Costs     Total Costs
1) CIVIL MURKS. FURNITURE 9
EWJIPNENT
a) C1C umwambo                       0.92              1.57              2.49              0.85              1.45                 2.30
b) ITS Gisenii                       0.28              0.48              0.76              0.37              0.64                 1.01
c) TTC Sav & Zaza                    1.51              2.56              4.09              1.39              2.37                 3.75
d) Demonstration Schools             0.18              0.31              0.49              0.90              1.53                 2.43
Saw & Zaza
2) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                 0.32              1.28              1.60              0.25              1.00                 1.2S
3) TRAINING, FELLOUSNIPS S              0.51              1.18              1.69              0.13              0.31                 0.44
STUDIES
4) PROJECT MANAGEIENT                   0.29              0.19              0.48              0.20              0.13                 0.34
TOTAL                                   4.02              7.58             11.60              4.10              7.42                11.2



E. Project Cost and Financing
Table 6:          SECOND EDUCATION PROCT
MJECT COWLETION *WET
Suary Aeeoate Coo" Summry
Million FRO                      Million US$                           S ToteI
____________________-- --_                                                     _______-_____-------------------3 Foroig.  s,
Local  Foreign    Total        Locol Foreign   Total    ERchewo         Costa
I. IESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                     166.3    260.2    411.0           I.6      2.1     4.6         30.0      5U.I
0. .FtITURE                          0.0      22.6      81.0         0.1      0.2     0.8         10.0       4.2
C. EQUtIPlNT                        12.0      46.1      60.1         0.1     0.5      0.6         60.0       7.9
0. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE             11.7      SS.9    106.1          0.2     0.9       1.2        90.0      14.4
E. TR. FELLOWS"IPS * STUDIES        81.9      14.6    106.6          0.3     0.3       1.1        10.0      14.1
F. PROJFCI ADIINISI3ATION           19.6      18.2      33.0         0.2     0.1      0.4         40.0       4.4
lotel BASELINE COSIS               201.6 .  496.8    161.1          2.R      6.3      6.2         66.4     100.0
Physical Contingencies           21.4      37.3      66.1         0.2      0.4     0.0         03.6       7.o
Price Cont.ag.cies               90.6    163.0    256.6           1.0      1.3     2.3         0.0       84.2
-      --------    --------------- ---------
Total PROJECTS COSTS               878.6    100.6   1014.4          4.0       7.6    11.6         06.2    141.9
_u m           m u m                      -   -0
____  -- -- --  -_   ------------__ ___ __ __ __-__ _-___ __ __ ___ __--__ ___ __ _-___ __ __--___ __ _ ----_-___-- _-- 



E. Project Cost and Financing
RMANSF
Table 7:      SECED EDUCATIN OJECT
POECT COWL.TETS AEPORT
Flfeecle'MPeibny lInbauosmust Ctoegory
Million USIR
SPA          Ovwomt    1         t                  1. Local
- _______________ -___________---_--   Fot.   (Encl.  lhais
A*t    3    Amuset    S    Amusat    X           Each.  toxs )  & rT.
A. CIVIL WOIIS                    6.0   06.0      1.0   15.0      0.6   5.6        4.1     2.8      0.4
S. FUWNITUE                       0.4   $6.0      0.1  12.0        0.5    4.8      0.8     0.1      0.0
C. EqSiPMENT                      0.6   90.0      0.1   10.0      0.9    6.1       0.?     0.1      0.1
0. IWCO.l(At MMSIJiAE             1.8   50.0      0.1   10.0       1.4   12.4      1.2     0.1      0.0
E. la. Iett4l<."IPS a             1.8   90.0      0.1   10.0       1.4   12.1      1.0     0.4      0.0
f PROJttI AUMIMIASIRON            0.4   71.0      0.1   ".0        0.5    4.4      0.2     0.1      0.0
Total Disbursemot                10.0   65.0.     0 0    14.0    11.0  300.0       7.      3.5      0.6                      0
-- -- -- -- -_-- -    -    --- - - --- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - 



SECO EDUCATIOK PROJECT
POJECT COPETIOU tEPORT
Tabte 8: ESTINATED AND ACTUAL PROCET FIAISCIUG
APPiANSA EVIVATE                     ACTIAL MUIIT
IDA    GM      TAL                 IDA    GMT   TOTAL
FOREIGN COSTS         7.6     0.0      7.6               7.4     0.0      7.4
LOCAL COSTS           2.4      1.6     4.0            - 2.2       1.9     4.1
TOTAL                10.0      1.6    11.6               9.6      1.9    11.5
t



- 32 -
Table 9: PLANNED, REVISED AND ACTUAL ALLOCATION OF CREDIT
PROCEEDS
(in SDRs)
Category                      Appraisal       Revised        Actual
Estimate      Estimate
(Sept. 1987)
(SDR)         (SDR)          (SDR)
1) Civil works                    2,310,000      4,500,000     5,127,844.22
2) Fumiture, equipment and
vehicles (locally procured)      310,000        600,000       509,648.11
3) Equipment, furniture and
construction materials
(imported)                      1,620,000     1,620,000       619,738.10
4) Technical assistance,
training, fellowships and
studies                         1,690,000      1,850,000    1,346,072.13
5) Project administration           230,000       346,234       118,085.96
6) Refunding of project
preparation advance              200,000         83,766         3,766.45
7) Unallocated                    2,640,000           -               -
TOTAL                           9,000,000     9,000,000     7,805,154.97



Fisure 1
RWANDA SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ALLOCATION OF CREDIT PROCEEDS
CIVIL woN*$ to a
PPF Stre# US lS
_ ..               c*,u amiums ...           _    sjc
rfi~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ATA ALLOCATIO
REVISE D ESTIMATE I(SEP T. 1987)       ( Total 7.81 million SDRs)
L * Locally procured furn.. equip. & veh
1-* Imported furniture, equipment & veh.
T * TA, training, fellowships & studies
. . ..... ....... . . _= .. . _-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 34 - 
F.  Proieet Rsu1tog                                                                                              J
Table 10        CONPARISON OF APPRAlSAL ESTXMATES AND ACTUAL NUIWER OF NEW
STUDENT PLACES, COSTS AND CONSTRUCTION ARIAS FOR PROJECT
INSTITUTES
INSTYIWION        Eukinsd  AMu         CoXw   m,                   Cot C tCostr ,
No. of    Em-asrn    (i OF)            (in0 V     FRW)   (aOs0W)
I  Mud        EWL  AMd         EiL  MAst
1) crc Mumhb    290        176(99190    302  3.901,0    11191  160.9       39    41
2) NUS Gienyi     100      237 (90       959  1.836,3    35967  65.538     38    35,7
3) TIC Save A Zs 660       3U 8(0/91)   5110  6.783,6   19223     0 2279   35    33,9
4) Demuuo._
Schools in Sae
ad Zm           240      678 09Wl)    826  3.850,2    26376 191.489       32    49,7
-4khdlag newly CoUote ams for admsoad comumuad advkl  bostdig nd staff hosn.
COMPARISON OF ESTIMATED TOTAL NVMEER OF STUDENT PLACES AND
ACTUAL TOTAL ENROLLMSNTS AND GRADUATES FOR THE PROJECT
INSTITUTES IN 1989/90
INS7TrU7ON   Pbam Povd   Maui SIml s   S Dlbfos               Eiumed No. of  AMud     s Duiae
(1989I90)                  Yoady Gaub e   O ss
19W9190
t)CTCMuMmmba      440           326              .26            70           38         -46
2) NUSOiCnyi       100           237            +137            20             -          -
3)TWC: i)za        540           404(1990/9l)     25           190            57         .70
ii) se      540
4) Denoomat
Schools in Save
and Z7A          480           67 (1990/91)    +41



Table 12: EVOLUION OF ENROLLMENTS IN PROJECT INSTITUTIONS, IN 1980181 TO 1990/91
NAME OF INSTr1tMlON             SECTION                      80/     Si/     82j      83     84/     85/     86/      87/    g8/      89/      90/
_________________________                                     Bl___________________  81  82  83  84  85  86    87       88      89      90      91
CO.                         24                        -               -        -           -        -
GS,.za                          TcacerTraining               182     190     165      189  I189       156     139      138     141     181      157
(Kibuno)                        BiOIngyICIICUILIEy                                                              .36                    100      88
Maths/Pysics                                 35      61      93       82      79      108     113     152      159
CO.                         42    _                            -              _
CMX, Muramba (Gienyl)           Economi                      110     161     163      163     169     209     219      227     275     221     229
Comm & Accounting                       _                                      -       -       -      105    i2
CO.                         75  -  -  -                             _   _                             ==
TeacheraTining              136     191      191     148     141     134      159     165     IS0     ISI      122
(Baum)                          I.Ltres                       -      40       79      117     149     153     186      198     190     218     220                tn
Ec mi----_                                                                                     -       78      116
ComIL&Acmwanting             .          .       .        .    .        .                      46       81      121
N ing                                                                                 95      119     146
E.S.L Gseyfi (Geny)- 
Laboraoiy Sc                 .          .                             .        -       -      47       91
EPA Zm                                                      1124    1123    1085    963              12      1041       0     1206    1237    1203
EPA Sa                                                      426      40                                   T 7  _    361  359  36       374       -
CO.       Cydle d'Orintation (Orientation Cycle)
G.S.   - Goupe Scolaire (Sdool Comple)
CMt   - Commerce Training School
ESI   - Ecol des Sdecs Infinmi  (Nuring Tang School - NTS)
EPA   = Ecole Prlmaire dlApplcstion (Demomtratio School)



Table 1: NUMBE.P ?'F GRADUATES FROM PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
NAMEOF                                                    NUMBER OF GRADUATES
|    INSTITUFION           SECTION       ~85f6 |18687 |87/88  88189   89/90   TOTAL                 REMARKS
Maths-Physics|   -         -   |  -   j  29   j N/A          N/A
Zaza School Complex    Primary
(Groupe Scolaire)     Teacher          36        19      24      25        28       132
*                        Training
Commerce
Commerce Training      and                                                                   No graduates yet
College, Muramba       Accounting
Economics                 31       36      37       38      11I
Primary
Save School Complex    Teacher            -       31      44       22       29       110
(Groupe Scolaire)     Training              j
Letters                   30       30   -29         29        118 _.__           .
Laboratory        -        - |              - |           r          No graduates yet
Nursing Training       Studies
chool, Gisenyi         Nursing           -         -       -       -         -        -      No graduates yet



Table 14: PROJECT STUDIES
Studies             Piurpose as Defined at Appraisal              Status                  Imoact of Study
1) Teacher Training Needs   To assess the needs for teacher                                    Helped in the
Assessment                training up to the year 2000                                      development of the
and explore efficient means for   Completed                       teacher training
their supply.                                                     components of
subsequent education
operations.
2) Medical Texts and         Analyze medical teaching
Teaching Nethodology      methodology and adapt              Completed                      Not evaluated
paramedical training texts to
Rwandese requirements.
3) Evaluation/Pre-           Evaluation/Pre-investment           Evaluation/Pre-investment     Helped in the
investment Studies *      studies related to project         studies related to project    development of the two
components and development of      components and development    subsequent education
the education sector.              of the education sector.       projects.
The Evaluation/Pre-investment studies included:
Study and implementation of the reorganization of IMPRISCO (Academic Printing Office).
Study on the economic optimum for primary education.
Study on the cause of student dropout at the Kicykiro ETO.
Study on the adaptation (or formulation) of programs for the maintenance of the physical plant and heavy
machinery.
Needs assessment and feasibility study for the school equipment distribution network.



0. Status of Credit Covenants
Table 151 COMPLIANCE WITH CREDIT COVENANTS
SECTION            Cov3AwNT/osL@Arlo To                  DATE DUO             ''    TUS OF COoMLIANCS
- NET By THE BORROER
3.01    The Borrower shall carry out the project   At all times.  Full compliance.
in conformlty with approprLate practlces.
3.02 (a)  MaLntaLn the PIU wLth well qualified         At all tlmes.  The PrU got *taffed wLth sufflcient local
staff ln sufficient number.                                 personnel and also received technical
assistance from a U1DP/UISCO, project,
which ineluded two architects and three
archltectural technicians, the latter UN
volunteers. The PIU was also staffed
with a local architect and four local
archLtectural technicians.
3.02 (b)  The staff of the PlU shall include an        Dec. 31, 1982  The accountant recruited under UNESCO
architect and an accountant on a full                       contract assumed duty in June 1983.
time basis and one or more materials and                                                                  0
equlpment procurement specialLts on a
part time basis, for an aggregate period
of three years. The first such equLpment
procurement speclallt shall be employed
not later than December 31, 1982.
3.03    The Borrower shall employ speclalists,       When needed.   Full compliance. 
consultants and teachers whose selectLon,
qualifications, experience and terms and                                                                  o
conditlons of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association.



0. Status of Credit Covenants
Table 15: COMPLIANCE WITH CREDIT COVENANTS
SECTC              COVEV  UT3/OBLIAT103 TO               DM_ DUB                  ST&     OF CO_PLXAE _
a3 NET BY TE BORROSE 
3.04     The 8orrower shall provide the              June 30, 1983   Third-year curricula for the project
Assoclatlon the syllabi for the third                       Lnstitutes had been recelved by 1984.
and subsequent year. of teaching                            Completion for subsequent year. in
programs carried out in each of the                         expected by October 1984.
instLtutions included in Part A of the
Project.
3.05     For five school years, starting with        Every year      Full compliance
school year 1982183, MINKPRISEC and the
Borrower's Ministry of Health shall
jointly make an annual analysis of the
need for and the availability of
personnel and training facliltles ln
health related matters ln Rwanda. The
Borrower shall transmit such analyses to                                                                  O
the Association for its review by the                                                                     X
end of each such school year.
3.06     The Borrower shall provide suitable         Dec. 31, 1983   Full compliance
accommodation at the National Un.versity
of Rwanda for natural science and
nursing teachers who will follow ad hoc
training courses to be conducted by
MINEPRISEC, and shall lnform the
AssocLation, not later than December 31,                                                                10
1983, which arrangements have been made                                                                 i
to provl.de such accommodation.
0s
,    , .                    .                                                      --  1°~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4



.  Statue of Credit Covenants
Table 15: COMPLIANCE WITH CREDIT COVENANTS
SECTION            COVSIATS/OULIGARTON3 TO                DATE DUO                 STATUS OF C    TaLIECe
an NET By   , DT ORRONER
3.07 (a)   The Borrower shall place the teaching       Sept. 30,        Full compliance
demonstration schools at Save and Zaza      1984
under the authority of the respective
directors of the Save and Zaza teacher
training colleges.
3.07 (b)   The Borrower shall employ qualified         Sept. 30,        Full compliance
teaching staff in adequate numbers at       1984
the teaching demonstration schools at
Save and Zaza.
3.07 (c)   The Borrower shall complete all repair      Sept. 30,        Full compliance
works at the teaching demonstration         1984
schools at Save and Zaza.
3.08     Terms of reference for the studies to be   April 30,         Achieved with some delay in the               0
carried out under Part B of the project    1983              completion of the studies.
shall be presented by the Borrower to       June 30, 1986
the Association for its approval not
later than April 30, 1983; the completed
studies shall be presented by the
Borrower to the Association not later
than June 30, 1986.
3.10     The Borrower shall furnish progress         Each year        Full compliance, barring delays.              0
(b.iii)   reports to IDA in June and December each                                                                    m
year.
Full compliance
3.11     The Borrower will acquire all such land    When needed.
as shall by required in the Project.



G. Status of Credit Covenants
Table ISs COMPLIANCE WITH CREDIT COVENANTS
SECTION            /CVENIUTUIOBLIGATIONS TO               DATU DUN                ITAUt OF COUPLIANC3
_________OR MMT BY 1T1 DORROWER
4.01 (b)   The Borrower shalls (i) maintaln or         At all times.   Full compliance.
cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account
of which withdrawals are requested from
the Credit Account on the basie of
statements of expenditures; (ii) retain,
until one year after the Closing Date,
all records; and (ii) enable the
Association's representatives to examine
such records.
4.01 (c)   Accounts for each flical year to be         June 30, each   Full compliance except for some delays.
(i)     audited by lndependent auditors             year.
acceptable to the Asociation. The
Borrower shall furnish not later than
s4x months after the end of each such
year, a cortified copy of the report of
such audit by such auditors, of such
scope and in such detall as the
Association shall have reasonably
requested.
4.03     The Borrower shall furnish to IDA for       July 31, each   Full compLiance except for some delays.
comment, not later than July each year,    year.
information on the updated targets set
in the Borrower's educational reform
review, made each year in order to
adjust actions to be undertaken under
the Third Development Plan.



Table 16: STAFF INPUTS BY STAGE OF PROJECT CYCLE IN STAFF WEEKS
Flrcal Tears
Project Cycle Phases    FY 74-80  81    82    83    84   85    86    87    88    89    90   Total
1) Preparation and
Pro-appraisal          30.6   33.2   0.7   -      -     -     -     -     -      -     -    64.5
2) Appraisal                -     22.0  17.6   -      -     -     -     -      -           -    39.6
3) Negotiations             -      -      5.4   -     -     -     -     -      _-          -      5.4
4) Supervision              -      -      -     6.4  10.8   9.4  14.9  12.3   9.1   9.8   0.1  72.8               >



- 43
H.  Uge of IDA Resoures:
Tkble 17s IDA MISSION DATA BY STAGES OF PROJECT
Project Cycle    note      No. of   Days In   Persons and       Performance    Types of
Stage                      Persons   Field     Speciallsationa Rating           Problems
Represented
Throueh AOVraial^
Identification   09/80
Preparation       12/B0
Appraisal         05/81
Supervision
Supervision 1 Jan. 83        1        7        EP                 -         Effectiveness delay
Supervision 2 Jun. 83        2       19        EP, A              I         No major problems
Supervision 3 Feb/Mar.84    3        20        SP, C, RR          2         Delays (caused by
belated recruitment
of TA specialist)
Supervision 4 Nov.84         3       17        EP, A, R           I         No major problems
Supervision 5 Jun.85         3       10        BP, C, RR          I         None
Supervision 6 Oct/Nov.85    2         9        SP, RR           8TO         No major problems
Supervision 7 Nov/Dec.85    1        12        A                BTO         No major problems
Supervision 8 June 86        3        5        EP, GE, BE         2         Managerial (weak
management of PIU)
Supervision 9 Nov. 86        2        9        GE, A              I         No major problems
Supervision 10 Nov.87        3       11        GE, A, BS          I         No major problems
Supervision 11 Her.88        1        7        GE                 I         No major problems
Supervision 12 Jun. 88       2        7        GE.EE            BTO         Delays (Muramba)
Supervision 13 Oct/Nov.88   2        11        GE, BS           BTO         Ftnancial
Supervision 14 Jan/Feb.89   1        14        A                BTO         No major problems
EP sEducation Planner
A  i Architect
C  s Consultant
RR s Resident Mission
GE s General Educator
E s Education Economist
BS s Book Publishing Specialist



j                                         Figure 2
RWANDA SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ACTUAL STAFF INPUTS l(talt- weeks)
PREfPAl iA[ IO)N
64.5
APPRAISAL
39.6
NEGOTIATIONS
5.4
SUPE RVISI ON
72.8



- 45 -
AnMg I
RWANDA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
ANNUAL & CIMULATIVE DISWURSENENTS in SOMs)
YEAR             ANNUAL             CUWULATIVE           X OF TOTAL         X OF TOTAL
DI0SURSENENT         DISWRSEENT            DISSURSED           CREDIT
82 CPPF)       83766.45              83766.45               1.07              0.93
83            103837.85             187604.30               2.40              2.08
84            231334.14             418938.46               5.3r              4.65
85            900911.81            1319850.25              16.91             14.67
86           2420971.19            3740821.46             47.93              41.56
87           1 m  994.94           5446816.38             70.02              60.72
88           1511046.86            6975863.24             89.38              77.51
89            709824.31            7665687.55             98.47              85.40
90            119467.40            7805154.95             100.00             86.n
TOTAL DISBURSED             7805154.95            7805154.95             100.00             86.72
UNDISBURSED                 1194845.05            1194845.05              15.31              13.28
TOTAL CREDIT                9000000.00            9000000.00             115.31             100.00



.nnex II
- 46 -
RWANDA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
EXCHANGE RATE FLUCTUATIONS
Currency unit:    Countrys            Rwandese Franc (FRW or RI)
Currency unit:    Credit:             Special Drawing Rights (SDR)
Year of appraisal:May 1982            SDR 1    USS 1.129674
Year*
1982          1 SDR   -    1.13 USS           1 USS  -       92.840 FRW
1983          1 SDR   -    1.13 USS           1 US$  -       98.104 FRW
1984          1 SDR   -    1.12 US$           1 US$  -      103.505 FRW
1985          1 SDR   -    1.10 US$           1 USS  a       94.460 FRW
1986          1 SDR   -    1.23 USS           1 USS  -       84.140 FRW
1987          1 SDR   -    1.42 USS           1 USS  -       74.540 FRW
1988          1 SDR   -    1.35 USS           1 USS  -       75.580 FRW
1989          1 SDR   -    1.32 USS           1 USS  -       77.522 FRW
1990          1 SDR   -    1.41 USS           1 USS  -      120.125 FRW **
1991          1 SDR   -    1.44 US$           1 US$  -      120.125 FRW
* - End of year estimate (monthly average) except for 1991 where January estimate
is used.
** * Devaluation towards end of the year moved exchange rate from 79.58 to 120.125.



