Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3770-RW
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
IN THE
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
May 24, 1982
Education Projects Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
US$1.00       =        RWF 92.84
RwF 100       =        US$1.08
US$1.00        =       SDR 0.885211
(April 31, 1982)
MEASURES
1 meter                     =           3.28 feet
1 kilometer                 -           0.62 mile
1 square kilometer          =           0.39 square mile
1 hectare                   =           2.47 acres
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
School Year
September to July



(ii)              FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
GLOSSARY
I.  ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCES ..................            1
Geographic and Socio-economic Setting .....................            1
Human Resources Development ...............................            2
II.  THE EDUCATION SECTOR AND ISSUES IN EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT..             6
Background and Educational Reforms ........................            6
Administration and Development Features ...................            7
Primary and Post-primary Education .....................           8
Secondary Education ....................................           8
Higher Education .......................................    10
Non-formal Education ....................                         10
Financial Aspects ......................................    11
Main Issues ...............................................    11
Bank Group Strategy and Lending for Education .............    12
III.  THE PROJECT ...............................................    14
Objectives ................................................    14
Project Components ........................................    15
Commerce Training College ..............................    15
Nursing Training School ................................    16
Teacher Training Colleges ..............................    17
Studies ................................................    19
Technical Assistance Summary ...........................    19
Female Participation in the Education System ...........    20
Participation of Donor Agencies in Education Sector ....    20
This report is based on the findings of first- and second-phase appraisal
missions which visited Rwanda in February and June 1981 and comprised
Messrs. J. McCabe (senior education planner/mission leader), M. Giuseppi
(architect) and I. Auerhan (economist/consultant, first-phase) joined by
health training consultants Ms. S. Furst (first-phase) and Dr. C. Dubois
(second-phase). Prior to appraisal, a Unesco mission assisted the
Government with project preparation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



tiii)
Page
IV.  PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL PLAN ..............................    21
Project Cost ...........                                           21
Financial Plan .23
V.  IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENTS AND AUDITING            24
Implementation...                                                  24
Procurement            ..............                              25
Disbursements                .............O..  26
Auditing .....................................................    26
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS ............................    26
Benefits            ......................   26
Risks-.. -      ....................----..    27
VII.  AGREEMENT REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ........................    27
ANNEXES
Annex 1 - Charts, Tables and Schedules
Chart 1 - Education System, 1981
Chart 2 - MINEPRISEC Organization Chart, 1981
Chart 3 - Education Pyramid
Table 1 - Comparative Education Indicators
Table 2 - Enrollment Growth in Formal Education 1975-1980
Table 3 - Increased Output Junior Nurses (A3) Required
Table 4 - Primary Teacher Training Requirements 1980-1990
Table 5 - Government Expenditures on Education 1974-1980
Table 6 - Summary of Estimated Project Costs
Schedule 1 - Technical Assistance
Schedule 2 - Implementation
Schedule 3 - Disbursements
Annex 2 - Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP - IBRD No. 16060



(iv)
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
BASIC DATA 1979/1980
General
Area                                            26,340 km2
Population                                     5.2 million
Population Growth Rate p.a.                    3.6%
Population Density per km2                     207 persons
GNP per Capita                                 US$220
Literacy Rate                                  23%
Rural Population                               95%
Education
Gross
%     Enrollment
Enrollments      Girls     Ratio
Primary (grades 1-8)                 607,000         48         57%
Post-primary (grades 9-11)            12,000         70)
Secondary (grades 9-14)               12,000         33)         4%
University: Rwanda                     1,000         11)       0.4%
Abroad                      450           )
Education Expenditures
Government Expenditures on Education as             21.3%
Percentage of Total Government Expenditures
Total Recurrent Expenditures of MOE                 RWF 2,514 million
Total Capital Expenditures of MOE                   RWF   533 million
Total Educational Expenditures as % of GDP          3.2%






(v)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BPES          Bureau Pedagogique de l'Enseignement Secondaire:
Curriculum Development Unit of MINEPRISEC
CERAI          Centre d'Enseignement Rural et Artisanal Int6gre:
Post-primary Rural Centers of MINEPRISEC
CERAR         Centres Ruraux et Artisanaux du Rwanda
Pre-reform Post-primary Rural Centers
CTC           Commerce Training College
EPD            IBRD Economic Analysis and Projection Department
ESSI           Higher Education for Medical Technicians
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
ILO           International Labor Organization
IPN           Institut Pedagogique National:
National Pedagogical Institute
MINEPRISEC    Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education
MINESUP       Ministry of Higher Education
MINISANTE     Ministry of Health
MPW           Ministry of Public Works
NTS           Nursing Training School
NUR           National University of Rwanda
PIU           Project Implementation Unit in SFCS for the Second
Education Project
SDP           Second Development Plan, 1977-81
SF            Sections Familiales - Pre-reform Post-primary Centers (Girls)
SFCS          Service de Financement et des Constructions Scolaires:
Building and Project Unit of tNINEPRISEC
TDP           Third Development Plan, 1982-86
TTC           Teacher Training College
WHO           World Health Organization






I. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCES
Geographic and Socio-Economic Setting
1.01.   Rwanda with an estimated population of over five million in 1980
(of which 47 percent under the age of 15) increasing at over 3 percent
yearly, having a density of over 200 persons per square kilometer and a per
capita income of $220 (1980) is one of the world's poorest countries.
About 95 percent of the population live in rural areas engaged mainly in
subsistence agriculture on family farms of an average size of one hectare.
Agriculture plays a predominant role in the economy, contributing over half
of gross domestic product (GDP) and three-quarters of export earnings (of
which coffee some 60 percent), though manufacturing output has increased
significantly during the 1970s and accounts for about 18 percent of GDP.
However, foodcrop production hardly meets the needs of the rapidly
increasing population, and the solution of this major problem together with
others such as land shortage, unemployment, under-employment, malnutrition
and increased energy costs, is rendered more difficult through lack of
natural resources and transport problems related to the great distance to
sea ports in this landlocked country (1,700 km. by road to Mombasa, Kenya).
1.02.   Following independence in 1962 and especially since the change of
Government in 1973, Rwanda has achieved considerable political stability,
made possible by the unity and relative homogeneity of the population and
the absence of serious inequalities. In the Second Development Plan,
1977-81 (SDP) the main priority was assigned to agricultural development,
in marked contrast to the development strategy of previous Governments
which emphasized the import substituting development of a manufacturing
sector. The SDP established four priority objectives for economic and
social development: (a) satisfying the population's food needs by
intensification and diversification of agriculture; (b) increasing
employment and better utilization of human resources, with educational
reform and technical training; (c) improving living standards through more
widespread access to better health care and basic social services; and (d)
improving Rwanda's trade balance through development of exports and import
substitution, and more effective and increased use of external financial
and technical assistance. These objectives would be achieved through an
economic growth rate of 5.9 percent yearly (constant prices) implying
growth of 5.0 percent, 7.1 percent and 7.2 percent respectively, in the
agriculture, industry and services sectors, and requiring FRw 52 billion in
investment including about 72 percent external aid.
1.03.   However, implementation of the SDP remains weak with only limited
achievement of objectives and targets. With regard to the first objective
of satisfying food needs, overall growth in agriculture has hardly reached
3 percent yearly. While some improved cultivation is reported, yields in
general, have declined and neither calorie nor protein targets for food
production were met. Concerning the second objective, industry has not
expanded or diversified sufficiently though employment increases are being



-2-
achieved in public administratior, and in the construction ½dustry.  Yet
there are marked shortages of traiued middle-level technlci-.<-,.s and trained
managers, especially in agriculture, commerce, health, manLfacturing and
education.  The educational reform introduced in 1979, fol'lo,ing proposals
in thie SDP, is considered to be inappropriate and unrealist.lc and targets
are not being met (paras. 2.01, 2.13 and 2.14).  Regarding C.he third
objective of improved living standards, overall progress i! sFlow and the
food supply situation remains precarious. While there is a gradual
increase in the number of heal th/nutritional centers and hospital beds,
health provision in rural areas remai.ns very Inadequate and.e  rural water
supply has tended to deteriorate in some regions.  Illiteracy remains very
high at about 77 percent.  This bleak picture is worsened 1by a possible
doubling of population by the year 2000 initial steps towards population
planning are insufficient and implementation of a systematic program is
required. Achieving the fourth major objective of improvi.-- the country's
trade balance is made difficult by the increasingly adverse terms of trade;
large price decreases are projected for coffee and tea while the increasing
cost of energy and global inflation. continute.
1.04.   A major weakness in the SDP was lack of assessment o4r' the economic
and financial viability of the 408 investment projects included.  It is
expected that required technical improvements will be reflec- ed in the
Third Development Plan, 1982-1986 (TDP) and especially that proposed
investment projects will be based on more thorough analyses,, The
Government, aware that more systematic coordination of economic planning,
monitoring and management are  required, reorganized in 1979 the Ministry
of Economics, Trade and Commerce.  However, more detailed i'nter-ministerial
consultation is required to improve planning and prepare realistic
implementation programs.  While some progress has been made with the SDP
objective of decentralising authority to the commune level, implications of
its implementation had not been thoroughly analyzed and more Government
support will be required to implement this reform.
Human Resources Development
1.05.   Reliable, up-to-date information on human resources is not
available and statistics on the labor force and employment are not
regularly collected. However, data was collected in 1981 by an
International Labour Organization (ILO) mission in Rwanda ;ld the results
of their in-depth study on human resources are expected to be available in
1982. Estimates of the sectorial distribution of the labof force during
1950-80 are given in the following table:



-3-
Labor Force: Sectorial Distribution, 1950-80
(thousands)
1950               1960               1970               1980
Agriculture    1,277.6             1,574.7             1,947.6           2,406.0
(97.0%)            (95.4%)            (93.2%)            (91.0%)
Industry           13.2               18.2                33.4              52.9
(1.0%)             (1.1%)             (1.6%)             (2.0%)
Services           26.3               57.8               108.7             185.1
(2.0%)             (3.5%)             (5.2%)             (7.0%)
Total           1,317.1            1,650.7             2,089.7           2,644.0
(100.0%)           (100.0%)           (100.0%)           (100.0%)
Source: IBRD, Economic Analysis and Projections Department (EPD).
Over this 30-year period, the percentage of the labor force in the
agriculture sector decreased from 97 percent to 91 percent while the
percentages in the industry and services sectors increased from 1 percent
to 2 percent and 2 percent to 7 percent, respectively. In absolute terms,
the labor force doubled overall to about 2.6 million; it doubled to about
2.4 million in agriculture, quadrupled to almost 53,000 in industry and
increased seven-fold to over 185,000 in the services sector.
1.06.   The above figures reflect the rapid increase in population.  The
labor force in agriculture increased during the decade 1970-80 at a yearly
average of about 2 percent, but the figure hides a high proportion of
underemployment and unemployment. Very serious problems of unemployment
and underemployment loom ahead because the yearly employment increases
during 1979-80 of 4.7 percent and 5.4 percent in industry and services,
respectively, are totally insufficient to absorb the very large numbers who
cannot find productive employment in agriculture. Despite this surplus,
economic and social development is hampered not only by lack of qualified
personnel but also by the high illiteracy rate and poor health (para.
1.03). With population projected to double by the year 2000, very limited
availability of land (in a country already very densely populated) and
emigration not possible as a viable solution, the Government expects to
develop and expedite its policy on population control presently based on
family planning by natural methods. In addition, development of basic
education and skills training to improve agricultural productivity,
training of technicians to meet shortages in commerce, health,
manufacturing and education and overall strengthening of technical/
management capacity are required for human resources development.



-4-
1.07.   Given the general weakness and vulnerability of the economy in
Rwanda and the lack of reliable, up-to-date information on human resources,
precise forecasting of the training needs for human resources development
is difficult. An estimate for the industry and services sectors made in
the following table is based on:  (a) a possible sectorial shift in the
agriculture/other sectors proportion from 91:9 in 1980 to 88:12 in 1990,
and (b) a slightly improved distribution of the labor force in the non-
agricultural sectors by level of qualifications.
Estimated Skills Distribution Required in the Industry
and Services Sectors 1980-1990
Average
Yearly
(Increase
Estm.         (Excldng.
Stock 1980       Stock 1990    attrition)
(a)  Professionals and Higher  12,000   (5%)    26,000   (6%)          1,400
Technicians (Al, A2)
(b)  Middle Level                17,000   (7%)    34,000   (8%)        1,700
Technicians (A2)
(c)  Skilled Craftsmen (A3)    40,000  (17%)    86,000  (20%)          4,600
(d)  Unskilled Workers (A4)   169,000  (71%)   284,000  (66%)    11,500
Total Non-Agricultural          238,000 (100%)   430,000 (100%)    19,200
Sectors
Source: IBRD, EPD forecast and mission estimates.
1.08.   For lack of information, estimates of requirements of trained
personnel in the agriculture sector can only be by order of magnitude
magnitude.l/ While there are important shortages in all categories
from the lowest to the highest level of qualification, shortages of
skilled craftsmen (A3, lower secondary training) appear to be the most
acute. Requirements of professionals and higher technicians (AO, Al,
1/ Estimates in the most recent analysis - IBRD, Agricultural Sector
Review: Rwanda, 1977 - are also very approximate. An Agricultural
Sector Memorandum under preparation is expected to update
information on training needs for development of the sector.



-5-
higher education) may continue to be provided by Rwandese graduates trained
abroad, gradually increasing output from the National University of Rwanda
(NUR) Faculty of Agriculture (established in 1974) and by expatriates. For
the immediate future, requirements of middle-level technicians (A2, upper
secondary training) could be met by expanding existing institutes. The
acute shortages of skilled craftsmen could be alleviated by effective
introduction of reformed curricula in both primary and secondary education
and on-the-job training.
1.09.   The Government's decision to give priority attention to meeting
acute shortages of qualified personnel through expansion of secondary
schools for training in commerce, nursing and primary teaching, is
justified. Shortages in the latter two are moving toward crisis
proportions and in commerce are causing disruptive bottlenecks (Annex 1,
T-3 and T-4). One of the major constraints on Rwanda's development is the
shortage of technical/managerial capacity. An analysis of the Ministry of
Civil Service and Employment shows yearly needs of 240 secondary graduates
from commerce colleges for the public sector alone, and Chamber of Commerce
representatives estimate an additional 50 for private sector needs.
Present output of 70 from six colleges, even if doubled as expected to 140
by 1985, would still fall well short of these needs and expansion is
clearly necessary to improve absorptive capacity.
1.10.   Measured by the minimum norms of the World Health Organization
(WHO), provision of health facilities and qualified personnel in Rwanda is
sub-standard overall and inequitable across the country. Because of rapid
population growth, the gap may widen. With modest expansion, however,
outputs of doctors from the NUR and of medical assistant-nurses (Al, A2)
from existing training schools would come sufficiently close to meeting
minimum norms. Shortages are most critical in the junior nurse category
(A3) where the existing stock of about 300, (of which 180 qualified)
represents only half the current needs (Annex 1, T-3). As present, yearly
output of 25 junior nurses from two small training schools hardly offsets
attrition. Taking account of this shortfall and population increase, early
expansion clearly deserves priority attention.
1.11.   Shortages of primary teachers will soon reach crisis proportions
(Annex 1, T-4). In 1980, about 3,600 of the 10,000 teacher stock were
unqualified, causing serious deterioration of quality. To meet a modest
enrollment growth of 5.5 percent yearly, present output of 500 would need
to be tripled to 1,500 by 1990 and re-training of unqualified teachers
should be undertaken. Meeting these shortages deserves priority because of
the particularly important impact of basic education on:  (a) reduction of
population growth, improvement of health and attitudinal change conducive
to economic development, and (b) increased productivity in all sectors.



-6-
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR AND ISSUES IN EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT
Background and Educational Reforms
2.01.   At independence, the education and training system in Rwanda was of
the traditional elitist type and generally ill-adapted to meet the needs
for the economic and social development of the masses. Various efforts
were made over the years to remedy this situation culminating in a major
reform proposed for implementation under the SDP.l/ The major objectives of
the SDP educational reform introduced in 1979, are three-fold:
(a)  to reform primary and post-primary curricula towards
emphasis on rural/agricultural needs;
(b)  to make secondary education more vocational and
comprehensive and supply much needed middle-level
technicians; and
(c)  to orient students in higher education towards major
developmental priorities, especially agriculture and
applied research.
To achieve these objectives, structural change would be undertaken during
the plan period to: (i) prolong compulsory primary education from six to
eight years for the 7-14 age-group with progressive introduction in grades
7 and 8 of pre-vocational courses (50 percent practical work) to be taught
in workshop extensions to be established at primary schools; (ii) provide
three-year post-primary grade 9-11 vocational education with emphasis on
agriculture, handicrafts and home economics, for up to 90 percent of
primary leavers in the rural handicrafts education centers (Centres
d'enseignement rural et artisanal integre - CERAI) and similar centers to
be established, and (iii) orient 10 percent of primary leavers to
secondary education reformed to include a comprehensive range of streams of
four, five, or six years' duration and provide additional accommodation
required (see reformed structure, Annex 1, C-1). Double shift for grades
1/  The Government's previous major reform of 1974, announced without
sufficient public consultation, was never implemented because of strong
public opposition. In essence, it consisted of six years' compulsory
primary education with entry age raised to nine years and automatic
promotion. It was intended to introduce practical subjects gradually in
grades 1-4 and provide 50 percent of time on those subjects in grades
5-6 for 90 percent of students incorporating also the existing grades
7-9 vocational courses; 10 percent of grades 5-6 students would be
selected to prepare for secondary education with intensive instruction
in French.



-7-
1-3 would gradually be terminated and automatic promotion in grades 1-8
introduced;the three year secondary common core (tronc commun) course would
be discontinued. Required retraining of primary teachers together with
training of teachers of practical subjects would also be undertaken. To
lower costs, boarding facilities would be reduced, commuting and
coeducation would be emphasized, and small secondary schools would be
consolidated to a minimum economic-size of 240 students. While the
educational objectives listed above are sound, the Bank Group considers the
means proposed to achieve them inappropriate and targets are not being met
(para. 2.14).
Administration and Development Features
2.02.   The system is now in full transition with various reforms being
introduced. Since March 1981, a Ministry of Higher Education (MINESUP) has
been established with responsibility for the NUR and the IPN (Institut
Pedagogique National) together with other third-level institutes. The
Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education (MINEPRISEC) has responsibility
for first- and second-level education but is delegating much authority to
the 75 school districts (secteurs) and their 143 communes. It is expected
that private education (mainly missionary), which accounts for over 95
percent of second-level enrollments, will gradually come under greater
control from central and local authorities, as well as the wide range of
non-formal programs of mixed quality which have considerable enrollments.
The primary inspection system controlled from the MINEPRISEC is also
decentralized; zonal inspectors report to the school district authorities
who in turn report to their respective provincial inspectors in the ten
prefectures.   Secondary inspectors operate nationally.  Planning,
administration and inspection display serious shortcomings at central,
regional and local levels.
2.03.   Rapid expansion has occurred especially in primary and post-primary
education (Annex 1, T-2); primary enrollments increased by an average of 9
percent yearly during 1975-80 to 607,500 or 57 percent of the age-group
7-14 years; post-primary vocational during the same period at 12 percent
yearly to almost 12,000 and secondary at 2 percent yearly to over 12,000 or
almost 4 percent for the 15-20 age group. Higher education enrollments in
the NUR and the IPN expanded at 3 percent during 1975-80 to about 1,000.1/
Repetition and drop-out rates are very high in primary education, averaging
8 percent and 6 percent, respectively, during 1979-80; the average
repetition rate was about 6 percent in secondary education.
1/ NUR, 809 and IPN, 228; in 1980 other higher education students were
also enrolled: 146 in the Nyakibanda Seminary for priests and 83 in the
Military College. In addition, about 450 students were studying abroad
mainly in Belgium (30 percent) and the USSR (28 percent).



-8-
Primary and Post-Primary Education
2.04.   The general level of participation for the primary age-group varies
fairly widely among the ten prefectures (Kibuye leading with 70 percent and
Butare trailing with 47 percent) though not significantly between boys and
girls - who comprise 48 percent of enrollments. Inter- and intra-regional
participation levels and those for boys and girls vary more widely in
post-primary and secondary education, which were established through and
depend more upon private external resources. A double-shift
(morning/afternoon) system continues to operate for primary grades 1-3,
effectively making 6.5 years of primary education. Though not ideal
pedagogically, it is acceptable as the approach reduces costs (so necessary
in Rwandese circumstances) through doubling the numbers of students taught
by the same number of teachers and avoiding otherwise necessary classroom
expansion. Implementation of curricula reform has only just started and is
greatly hindered by the lack of trained teachers as well as inadequate
facilities and equipment. Overall, the primary-school situation has not
significantly changed since 1978; over half of all 1,573 schools have less
than six classrooms, and about half are poorly-lit mud huts with earth
floors, having neither desks nor adequate seating and frequently neither
blackboard nor writing material. Post-primary courses prepare students for
rural living and the post-primary rural centers (CERAI) are meant to
combine the boys (CERAR) and girls (Sections Familiales, S.F.) schools
which had developed separately. Some enrollments in the S.F. have shifted
to primary grades 7-8 since introduction of the reform lengthening the
primary course to eight years, causing the proportion of girls in post-
primary schools to decrease from 79 percent in 1977 to 70 percent in 1980.
Secondary Education
2.05.   Overview.  Participation in secondary education is Inequitable
among regions with Gitarama prefecture leading and Byumba trailing. Close
to one-third of secondary enrollments in each prefecture are girls. The
quality and standard of buildings in the 67 schools (which are all
boarding) is good, though 57 have enrollments below 240. The common core
course (tronc commun) for grades 9-11 is being phased out and from
school-year 1981-82, selected primary leavers will enter streams allocated
by the MINEPRISEC. Upper secondary students in 1980 followed programs in
humanities, technical and teacher training in the proportion 27 percent, 27
percent, and 46 percent, respectively. Planned curricula reform are very
necessary to render them more vocational and comprehensive, but imple-
tation is proving difficult for lack of qualified teachers and new syllabi
are just now being finalized.  This situation exacerbates the problem of
shortages of qualified personnel in the traditional and modern sectors
(para. 1.03), and especially in commerce, health and teacher training.
2.06.   Commerce Training.  In 1980, over 500 students (282 girls and 222
boys) followed commerce courses at upper secondary level in six schools in
Butare, Gisenyi, Kigali, Muramba, Nyundo and Rwaza. Two main courses are
provided: (a) commercial training for employment in secretarial,
administrative and middle-management jobs and (b) preparation for entry to
humanities programs in higher education. The former course has a more



-9-
practical bias and the latter puts more emphasis on languages and
economics. Both courses have a good reputation though shortages of
specialist teachers and suitable equipment are drawbacks. Reformed
curricula adopted by the Government in May 1981 are more appropriate but
consideration should also be given to providing shorter vocational courses
specifically for typists and junior secretaries. The yearly output of 70
even if doubled by 1985 as expected, falls far short of the estimated
demand of about 300 (para. 1.09).
2.07.   Health Training.  In 1980, 150 medical students were enrolled in
the medical school of the NUR and 20 abroad. About 150 doctors were
practising (50 expatriates) and receiving high-level support from 86
medical technicians (ESSI, higher education level Al - now no longer
trained). The MINEPRISEC provides polyvalent training in full secondary
courses (A2 level) for medical assistants and senior nurses with emphasis
on diagnosis and midwifery, respectively. Medical assistants are trained
in Kigali and Butare centers having an output of about 40 yearly and senior
nurses in Rwamagama and Kabgayi centers with an output of about 30. Junior
nurses (A3) follow courses to lower secondary level in Kilinda and Mugonero
centers having a combined yearly output of about 25 which falls far short
of needs (para. 1.10). To help the doctors and medical technicians
mentioned above, about 650 medical assistants and senior nurses, 300 junior
nurses, 400 midwifery assistants and 240 other paramedics, including
pharmacists and laboratory, administrative, social and sanitary assistants,
were employed in 1980. Effective planning to meet overall training needs
is hampered by insufficient consultation between the supplier, MINEPRISEC
and the user, the Ministry of Health (MINISANTE). Reformed curricula have
not yet been introduced and texts require adaptation to Rwandese
circumstances. The standard of teaching is also weakened by lack of
pedagogical training among staff. In addition, a thorough analysis of the
most effective approach to health training to suit national needs is
necessary.
2.08.   Teacher Training.  In recent times two categories of primary
teachers (lower, D4 and upper D6 - with four and six years of secondary
education, respectively) have been trained in 31 secondary schools having
teacher-training streams with 2,880 enrollments in 1980 and an output of
about 500.   From school-year 1981/82, one category of teacher (D5) will be
trained in a five-year secondary course under reformed curricula adopted by
the Government in May 1981. Greatly increased outputs will be required to
meet future needs (Annex 1, T-4). In the reformed system, teachers having
taken a special practical course at the Gitamara re-training center teach
pre-vocational subjects to grade 7-8 students. Many teachers trained for
primary schools teach in secondary education and a significant number
proceed to higher education and do not enter the teaching profession.
Among teachers in primary schools there are 13 categories, whose basic



-10-
salaries vary widely (about five to one) in relation to their level of
education, causing variable teaching standards which are lower in remote
schools. Of the 10,000 primary teachers in 1980, (all nationals and 35
percent women) about 3,600 were considered not qualified, having less than
four years secondary education. Student/teacher ratios averaged about 40
allowing for double shift in grades 1-3. An in-depth study of teacher
training needs and of consolidation/standardization requirements is
necessary.
2.09.   Post-primary teachers are trained in four secondary/technical
schools. About three-quarters of the 560 teachers in 1980 were considered
qualified. Graduates of the NUR and the IPN qualify as secondary
teachers. Of 900 secondary teachers in 1980, about one-quarter were women,
three-quarters nationals and two-thirds were qualified. Student/teacher
ratios averaged 21 for post-primary and 13 for secondary schools, both over
generous but especially the latter causing much increased costs.
Higher Education
2.10.   The NUR, established in Butare in 1963 and developed with strong
support from the Canadian Government, now has faculties of Economics and
Social Science, Medicine, Arts, Science, Law, Agriculture, and Civil
Engineering, with percentage enrollments of 26, 19, 18, 15, 12, 8, and 2,
respectively (1980). Given the critical role agriculture must play in
economic and social development, it is noteworthy that the Agriculture
faculty was established only in 1974 and that its enrollments account for 8
percent of students. Only about 11 percent of all students are women, and
overall drop-out rates are extremely high--more than 50 percent on
average. The IPN, established in Butare with French support, provides
courses in Science, Arts, and Humanities, Pedagogy and Modern Technics; it
starts moving to new premises in Ruhengeri in 1981-82, leaving existing
accommodation to the NUR. Tackling the alarming attrition in the NUR and
IPN requires urgent attention.  There were 111 and 55 teaching staff at the
NUR and IPN in 1980, giving student/teacher ratios of seven and four
respectively, which are also too luxurious. About 52 percent and 62
percent, respectively, of NUR and IPN staff were nationals.
Non-formal Education
2.11.   Data on non-formal education is sparse but there are many other
ministries besides the MINEPRISEC and MINESUP which provide significant
training, especially the Ministries of Social Affairs (literacy, home
economics), Agriculture (extension work), Health (health training), Civil
Service and Employment (agriculture, roads, postal and secretarial
services), Defense and Youth (cooperative agricultural and artisanal
projects). The churches, radio and press are also important agencies which
support the literacy and training drive. However, the work of these other
ministries and agencies lacks coordination. As the industrial sector
remains rather small, no significant training within enterprises exists.



Financial Aspects
2.12.   Total Government expenditure on education increased steadily at an
average rate of over 20 percent yearly during 1975-80 to FRw 3,046.4
million, (or at 10 percent, constant prices) representing 3.2 percent of
GDP (Annex 1, T-5). Recurrent expenditure on education increased at an
average rate of 16 percent during 1975-80 to FRw 2,513.7 million,
equivalent to 21.3 percent of the national budget (27.3 percent in 1975).
The 1980 budget allocation percentages were: primary 62, post-primary 3.5,
secondary 17.1, higher education 10.9 and administration etc., 6.5.
Salaries accounted for 96 percent and 62 percent, respectively, for
primary/post-primary and secondary education. Scholarship/boarding
expenditure is very high in secondary and higher education. The unit
recurrent costs per student in 1980 varied very widely among levels:
primary FRw 2,570 ($28), post-primary FRw 7,361 ($80), secondary FRw 35,272
($380) and higher education FRw 285,092 ($3,100); these costs are below the
East African average for primary and higher education, but well above
average for secondary education. Government capital expenditures, non-
existing in the seventies, reached FRw 532.7 million in 1980, or 18.2 per-
cent of public capital expenditures. It must also be noted that external
aid remains important, accounting for about 8 percent of public recurrent
expenditures and one-fifth more than public capital expenditures in 1979.
Main Issues
2.13.   The main weaknesses of the education system are now summarized as
follows: (a) low participation rates for students, especially in primary
education and inequity among regions, particularly in second- and
third-level education; (b) high repetition and dropout rates, very
disturbing at the third-level where women's participation is also very low;
(c) curricula insufficiently relevant to community needs as reforms are not
yet generally effective; (d) shortages of middle-level technicians and
trained managers, especially in commerce, health, manufacturing, education
and agriculture; (e) teacher training faces severe shortages, lacks
coordination and is of mixed quality; there is a high proportion of
unqualified staff; teaching standards are poor, especially in primary
schools; and student/teacher ratios are too low in second- and third-level
education causing increased costs; (f) half of primary school buildings are
sub-standard with very little teaching materials; secondary schools are
inequitably located in many instances, and costly because of high
boarding/scholarship costs and small size; (g) adult illiteracy is
extremely high at about 77 percent; (h) dependence on external aid for
education development is very heavy; and (i) planning and administration of
the system have serious shortcomings at central, regional and institutional
levels.
2.14.   The SDP reform proposals have three main, inter-related
shortcomings: (a) they are inappropriate with regard to structure (length
of courses); (b) unfeasible financially; and (c) practically impossible to
implement in the time planned. This is a major issue encompassing a series
of other issues related to the above weaknesses. With Rwanda's rapidly
growing population and financial constraints, prolongation of compulsory



-12-
primary education from six to eight years would prevent improvement in (if
not decrease) participation rates in education, increase inequities and
postpone achievement of universal primary education. The proposed
provision of pre-vocational courses to all primary grade 7-8 students and
to post-primary grade 9-11 students is not well justified pedagogically
because it is duplicative. In addition, the recurrent expenditure required
to implement the reform implies a regular increase of the proportion of the
national budget allocated to education from about 22 percent in 1980 to
over 40 percent in 1986 - leaving aside real increases in teachers'
salaries. A doubling of primary classrooms by 1986, as implied by the
reform proposals, is likewise unfeasible with regard to both financing and
construction capacity. Finally, because of limitations of accommodations,
teacher trainers and time required to develop reformed syllabi and train
the necessary specialist teachers, it would prove extremely difficult to
service the enrollments targeted in the SDP for 1986. However, the Govern-
ment is now fully aware of shortcomings in the reform proposals, which are
being re-casted in analyses of the education section for the proposed TDP.
Among other changes, it is expected that double shift would be continued
for at least the medium-term for grades 1-3 (continuing an equivalent 6.5
year primary course with greater utilization of accommodations and
teachers) overall expansion would be planned more strictly in accordance
with financial constraints and the time horizon for implementa-tion would
be postponed. This indicates an important advance in the Government's
willingness to engage in serious dialogue with the Bank Group on the educa-
tion sector. In ongoing dialogue, the Bank Group will continue to impress
upon the Government the need to shorten the eight-year primary cycle.
2.15.   The Government will need to give priority attention to other
related problems especially development of primary and secondary teacher
training, reform and expansion of secondary education to provide the
required qualified personnel, improved internal efficiency of the system,
cost reduction and improved planning/administration. A rigorous pursuit of
unit cost reduction is particularly necessary in a country of such limited
resources. Possibilities for improvement exist through adopting a more
appropriate educational structure, improved school location planning,
increased student/teacher ratios in secondary and higher education and
developing an alternative to costly boarding schools (para. 2.19).
Bank Group Strategy and Lending for Education
2.16.   The Bank Group's First Education Project (Credit 567-RW) approved
in June 1975 in the amount of US$8.0 million, was designed to support the
Government's 1974 education reform (which laid emphasis on introducing
practical subjects in primary schools) through providing: (a) 150
workshops (increased later to 250 with a simpler design) at selected
primary schools, (b) a printshop for textbook production, (C) office
accommodation for a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and School
Construction Services (SFCS), (d) furniture and equipment for the Gitarama
Center for training primary teachers in practical subjects, and (e) related
technical assistance. For a variety of political, managerial and technical
reasons, implementation has proved difficult. Firstly, imsortant aspects
of the 1974 reform met strong public opposition and were abandoned.



-13-
Secondly, there were serious administrative shortcomings in the SFCS
project unit, lncluding poor accounting and two misprocurements leading to
cancellations and a reduction in the Credit proceeds from US$8.0 to 6.4
million. Thirdly, Government involvement in school construction was made
very difficult by the monitoring necessary for a rather complex project
having a large number of schools scattered throughout the remote and
difficult terrain of rural areas.  However, this was the country's first
experience in the education sector with the Bank Group's procedures and
despite the above problems, the project is now about 80 percent physically
completed. The SFCS and printshop are in full operation and a considerable
community effort was mustered to implement the workshops which are about 88
percent completed. A schedule of actions to overcome outstanding
implementation problems has been agreed with the Government and
improvements are being made. Because achieving full completion and
disbursement by the original Closing Date of June 30, 1982 would prove
difficult the Bank Group has recently agreed to a Government request to
postpone the Closing Date by six months.
2.17.   Lessons Learned.  It is now clear that initial projects in
developing countries such as Rwanda should be less complex and focussed
more specifically on a smaller number of components so as to facilitate
implementation. Particular attention should be paid to ensuring that
project implementation units have adequate administration capacity,
especially with regard to project accounts and the Bank Group should insist
on the recruitment of key professional staff required. In this regard,
allowance should be made for countries' lack of familiarity with Bank Group
implementation procedures and extra monitoring should accordingly be
provided. Finally, projects should be designed to the extent possible to
take account of political realities which imply continuous change in
educational policies. Accordingly, the second project is simple and highly
focussed on a few items, a new appropriate accounting system has been
established in the project unit and key staff will be required to be
appointed and in post in the project unit, as a condition of Credit
effectiveness.
2.18.   Lending Strategy.  Bank Group support should be geared to meeting
the priority problems summarized in para. 2.13, while complementing the
assistance given by multilateral and bilateral agencies. Dialogue is
continuing with the Government on modifying the education reform to take
account of financial constraints and provide basic education for the
maximum number of children, skill training in second level education for
specific human resource needs and improving management capacity within the
education system. Teacher training is the most critical area for
intervention to support the development of basic education; such
intervention has the greatest potential for effective impact and is
probably the most cost-effective. This is particularly true in Rwanda
because of severe shortages of teachers and accommodations, training
weaknesses, high proportion of unqualified teachers and needs for curricula
reform to meet community requirements. Supporting teacher training (which
is essential in any event) would not imply supporting the costly structural
reform introduced in 1979, which is still considered inappropriate.
Additional school classrooms are also required but local communities appear
sufficiently motivated to assist with voluntary effort the provision of



-14-
buildings which might be considered adequate at this stage. Support for
health training, where the greatest need is for output of junior nurses
(shorter secondary courses - A3 level), also deserves a high priority.
Appropriate agricultural training is, of course, absolutely essential.
Basic education per se, and curricula reform emphasizing the needs for
rural/agricultural development will play important roles in this regard.
Bilateral agencies are active in supporting required secondary and higher
education for agricultural development. Subject to more precise analysis
of human resource requirements, support for priority skill training in the
commercial and industrial sectors is likely to be justified. With an
illiteracy rate of about 77 percent, support in this area is obviously
necessary, but because of limited financial resources, appropriate
functional literacy projects in rural/agricultural development should
receive priority. Inter-sectoral discussions required in this regard will
be undertaken. It is also opportune to identify population education
elements for possible financing in future projects and missions from the
Population, Health and Nutrition Departement have visited Rwanda during
1981 in this regard. Support for the items mentioned above entails support
for related institution building, either from the Bank Group or other
agencies.
2.19.   The proposed second education project, in the light of
complementary support being provided by other agencies, would address some
problems among the above which are considered to require priority attention
by the Government and the Bank Group. It would focus on development of
secondary education geared to supply skills training badly needed for
socio-economic development in commerce, health and basic education. It
would also continue the assistance provided for institution building in the
First Education Project and in ongoing programs of UNDP/Unesco (which
provide significant support in educational planning and administration) and
various bilateral agencies. Dialogue on the development problems of the
education sector will be continued with the Government and future projects
are likely to focus on areas among the range of problems described earlier
which are deemed to deserve priority support by both parties in this
ongoing dialogue.
III. THE PROJECT
Objectives
3.01.   The main objectives of the proposed project are to assist the
Government in meeting increasingly acute shortages of qualified personnel
in commerce, nursing and primary teaching; shortages in the latter two are
moving toward crisis proportions and in commerce are causing disruptive
bottlenecks in country economic development. More specific pedagogical
objectives include: (a) improvement of training standards in these
disciplines, (b) implementation of curricula reform to render them more
relevant to the country's needs, (c) support for the development of basic
education through teacher training, (d) increase of educational opportunity
for girls, (e) reduction of shortages of required entrants to higher
education, and (f) development of local pedagogical and administrative



-15-
expertise. More specific physical objectives include: planning of
institutes for economies of scale and efficient utilization, implementation
of civil works, equipment procurement, technical assistance and disburse-
ment in accordance with schedules agreed with the Bank Group thereby
helping to set suitable guidelines for replication; and institution
building in project implementation through local experience with the
project.
Project Components
3.02.   The proposed project would comprise the following MINEPRISEC
secondary institutes:
Additional under
Existing 1981          Education II
Student  Yearly       Student   Yearly
Places   Output       Places    Output
(a)  1 Commerce Training College    150          20           290       50
(b)  1 New Nursing Training School    0           0           100       20
(c)  2 Teacher Training Colleges    420          60           660      130
(d)  2 Demonstration Schools                                  480**
** 240 additional places for grades 1-6 at the demonstration schools
adjacent to the two TTCs for teaching practice.
Technical assistance would also be provided for project implementation,
teacher training and studies on teacher training needs, paramedical
training texts and evaluation/preinvestment. Additional student hostels to
provide 90 percent boarding for trainees and six staff houses would be
built at each institute in (a), (b) and (c) above. This level of boarding
is required at this stage in Rwanda because of the very hilly terrain
causing commuting problems and very difficult home study environment due to
lack of space and lighting in conditions of large, poor families; the
proportion of commuters would be increased as soon as possible. The
institutes would be located in regional growth centers, taking account of
the Government's policy of decentralization and of future consolidation of
TTCs (See map).
Commerce Training College (CTC)
3.03.   The existing CTC at Muramba, about 100 km. northwest of Kigali
provides an economics stream for selected primary leavers and has a yearly
output of 20. Following extension under this project, it would offer two
streams - adding a new five-year terminal commercial training stream for
200 students, in addition to the present six-year economics stream for 240
students, which qualifies successful graduates for access to higher



-16-
education. The CTC would increase its yearly output to about 70 (35
commerce and 35 economics) of which 40, including all from the commerce
stream and about five from the economics stream, would be absorbed in the
labor force. The remaining 30 would proceed to higher education to
undertake humanities courses (including commerce) for which there is a
shortage of suitable candidates. The yearly national output
of 70 from the six existing commerce schools is expected to double (with
pipeline effect) by 1985, and would then be increased to about 170 with the
Muramba extension. This output, of which 120 would enter the labor force,
would help alleviate acute shortages, but falls well short of estimated
needs of 300 (para. 2.06).
3.04.   Both training courses would have two semesters yearly with 40 hours
weekly. Reformed curricula, prepared by the BPES (Bureau PEdagogique de
l'Enseignement Secondaire) and adopted by the Government in May 1981, are
appropriate. Satisfactory syllabi for first-year and second-year programs
were reviewed by Bank Group staff. The Government gave assurances during
negotiations that the remaining syllabi would be available for Bank Group
review and comment not later than June 30, 1983 (para. 7.01a). Total time
allocation for the commercial training curricula is 41 percent and 59
percent for professional (including practical work) and general subjects,
respectively, and 18 percent and 82 percent, respectively, under these
headings for the economics curricula. Visits to banks, commercial and
industrial enterprises are included in training. The MINEPRISEC would
award diplomas to commercial training graduates and certificates to those
from the six-year course. This is a girls' college well administered by
the native order of nuns (La Congregation des Benebikira) who also run two
primary schools and a teacher training college on the same campus. The CTC
would become coeducational in the medium-term in accordance with Government
policy.
3.05.   When in full operation, the expanded CTC would require 20 full-time
equivalent teachers. This implies an increase of seven with a more
efficient use of staff through raising the student/teacher ratio from 12 to
22. Of the seven additional teachers to be recruited from NUR graduates,
five should be specialized in economics and commercial subjects.
Fellowship training (six staff/years) is included in the proposed project
for the five economic and commercial subject teachers and the one
specialist teacher from the existing staff for a one-year pedagogical
training course abroad for each prior to the opening of the extension.
Nursing Training School (NTS)
3.06. A new NTS of 100 student places to train junior nurses (level A3)
would be established adjacent to a Government hospital in Gisenyi which has
over 150 beds and is located about 200 km. northwest of Kigali. The
hospital, built in 1938 and expanded in 1962 and 1967, is in good physical
condition and is well administered with Belgian technical assistance. A
four-year course would be provided in the NTS for selected primary leavers
and yearly output would be about 20. The existing stock of 300 junior
nurses in 1980 (of which 180 are qualified) represents half of minimum
needs and present output of 25. from Kilinda (17) and Mugonero (8) NTS,



-17-
barely offsets the yearly attrition of 9 percent.  With a yearly population
increase of 3 percent, shortages would almost double to about 600 in 1990
unless additional training facilities are provided. Increased output to
over 100 yearly will be required to meet the existing deficit and
increasing needs. Effective planning of the required training is hampered
by shortcomings in consultation between the user (MINISANTE) and the
supplier (MINEPRISEC) ministries. During negotiations, the Government gave
an assurance that from school year 1982/83, a yearly analysis of needs and
supply of health training personnel and facilities would be made in
consultation between these ministries and transmitted for Bank Group review
by the end of each year for five school years (para. 7.01b).
3.07.   The training course in Gisenyi would have two semesters yearly with
38 hours weekly in accordance with draft reformed curricula prepared by the
Curriculum Development Unit of the NINEPRISEC (BPES) which have been
adopted by the Government and reviewed by Bank Group staff. Satisfactory
syllabi for the first-year and second-year programs were reviewed by Bank
Group staff. The Government gave assurances during negotiations that the
remaining syllabi would be available for Bank Group review by not later
than June 30, 1983 (para. 7.01a). The draft curricula are considered
appropriate and training in the adjacent hospital would be undertaken for
11, 15 and 21 hours weekly during the second, third and fourth years,
respectively. Time allocation for general subjects would be reduced from
68 percent in the first year to 8 percent in the fourth year, for science
subjects from 21 percent to 5 percent, while nursing training would be
increased from 11 percent to 87 percent. Upon successful completion of
training, graduates would be awarded a MINEPRISEC diploma and proceed to
posts in hospitals and health centers. When in full operation, the new NTS
would require six full-time equivalent teachers. To improve teaching
methods in the nursing schools, a technical assistant specialist (one
staff/year) would be recruited to conduct an ad hoc one-year course during
1984/85 for about 20 nursing trainers (including four for the project NTS)
in the NUR whose accommodation is suitable and would be available.
Teacher Training Colleges (TTC)
3.08.   Two extensions of 330 student places each would be provided under
the proposed project to make TTCs of enrollment size 540 at Save and Zaza,
about 130 and 100 km. southeast of Kigali, respectively. A five-year
course would be offered to selected primary leavers to train as teachers of
grades 1-6. Teacher shortage problems, already very critical, are
exacerbated by increasing demand due to a rapidly increasing population and
by the high proportion of unqualified staff (36 percent or 3,600 by minimum
standards). Total existing output capacity of 500 would need to be tripled
by 1990 to supply teachers for just a modest enrollment growth of 5.5
percent yearly. By increasing output from the two project TTCs from 60 to
190, this component would play a small but significant guidance role in
assisting the Government's effort in meeting these shortages. For lack of
sufficient qualified secondary students, a five-year course including
general secondary and teacher training subjects is necessary, but is it
envisaged that eventually junior secondary trainees may be selected to
undertake a two-year program, thus increasing the output capacity of the
TTCs and enabling some of them under a policy of consolidation, to revert
to their initial role of secondary schools.



-18-
3.09.   The training course, shortened in 1981 from six to five years,
would have two semesters yearly with 38 hours weekly. Under the present
reform, a trained primary teacher would thus have 13 years of education
which roughly equals that for other countries in the region, though this
could well be shortened by shortening the primary cycle. Reformed
curricula prepared by the BPES to reflect the development needs of the
community were adopted by the Government in May 1981, and are appropriate.
Satisfactory syllabi for first-year and second-year programs were reviewed
by Bank Group staff.   The Government gave assurances during negotiations
that the remaining syllabi would be available for Bank Group review by not
later than June 30, 1983 (para. 7.01a). From the first to the fifth
school-year, time allocation for general subjects would be reduced from 76
percent to 45 percent, for science and practical subjects from 21 percent
to 16 percent, while pedagogy and teaching practice would be increased from
2 percent to 39 percent. The language of instruction would be Kinyarwanda,
the national language. Adjacent demonstration schools would be available
for teaching practice which would start with two hours weekly in the third
year, increasing to four hours in the fifth year.
3.10.   The existing Save and Zaza TTCs are well administered by orders of
Christian Brothers and have 18 full-time equivalent staff each, who are
almost exclusively nationals having good qualifications. When in full
operation following extension and with improved utilization, 20 additional
teacher trainers would be required for the two TTCs - ten pedagogy, six
natural science and two each for arts and home economics. Because of the
importance of natural science for rural development, a technical assistance
specialist (two staff/years) in this discipline would be recruited to
conduct an ad hoc one- year course during 1984/85 for about 20 selected
Rwandese in the NUR. The graduates from this course would be appointed to
the two project TTCs and other training colleges to upgrade training
expertise in this subject. Four staff/years of fellowship training is
included in the project for selected arts and home economics trainers for
one-year fellowship training abroad while pedagogy specialists having
trained at the NUR would be recruited locally. During negotiations, the
Government provided assurances that the Bank Group would be informed by not
later than December 31, 1983, that suitable NUR accommodation would be made
available to the MINEPRISEC for school year 1984/85 to conduct this ad hoc
course and that for trainers mentioned in paras. 3.07 and 7.01(c).
3.11.   The demonstration schools attached to the two project TTCs are in
poor physical condition. Teaching standards in them are also inadequate
and they have no organizational link with the TTCs. Extension of 240
student places each would be provided under the project at the
demonstration schools where a strong effort would be made to upgrade
standards as required to fulfill their important role in training new
teachers. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that by not
later than September 30, 1984: (a) these two demonstration schools would
be brought under the control of the TTC Directors, (b) their teaching staff
would be qualified, and (c) required maintenance at the schools would be
completed (para. 7.01(d).



-19-
3.12.   Bank Group staff have discussed in detail with the Government the
implications of Rwanda's financial constraints on the development of
primary education (and on training of the required teachers) and the
inappropriateness in this regard of the education reform introduced in
1979. The Government has provided information that more realistic planning
is now being undertaken in drafts for the education section of the TDP.
During negotiations, the Government agreed to pay particular attention to
budgetary constraints while maintaining educational quality. It would
undertake a yearly review of and update reform targets, with a view to
modifying programmed activities for the TDP, and would provide information
thereon each July for Bank Group comment (para. 701e).
Studies
3.13.   The project includes six staff/years of technical assistance for
the following studies: (a) assessment of teacher training needs to the year
2000 and efficient means for their supply, (b) medical teaching methodology
and adaptation of paramedical training texts to Rwandese requirements and
(c) evaluation/pre-investment studies related to the project components and
development of the education sector. During negotiations, the Government
gave assurances that terms of references for these studies would be
received for Bank Group review and comment by not later than April 30, 1983
and that the studies would be completed by not later than June 30, 1986
(para. 7.Ole).
Technical Assistance Summary
3.14.   The technical assistance program (Annex 1, S-l) includes 23
staff/years of specialists' and 11 staff/years of fellowships. The program
includes one staff/year (under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF)) for
preliminary architectural planning, and preparation of equipment lists and
13 staff/years for an architect, accountant and equipment specialist in the
PIU (para. 5.02). It also includes three staff/years of specialists'
services for teacher training for NTS and TTC staff (paras. 3.07 and 3.10)
together with 11 staff/years of fellowship training for directors and some
specialist teachers for the project institutes (paras. 305, 3.10), and six
staff/years for studies (para. 3.13).
3.15.   As a condition of Credit effectiveness, the PIU architect and
accountant would be recruited and in post in the PIU (paras. 5.02 and
7.02).
3.16.   Technical assistance services shall be in accordance with the Bank
Group "Guidelines for Use of Consultants" of August 1981. The qualifica-
tions, experience and terms of employment of the specialists would be
satisfactory to the Bank Group. Fellowship candidates, courses of study
and institutions would be selected in consultation with the Bank Group.



-20-
Female Participation in the Education System
3.17.   For the formal education system in 1980, percentage enrollment of
girls was as follows: primary (grades 1-8) 48 percent, post-primary
vocational (grade 9-11) 70 percent, secondary (grades 9-14) 33 percent, and
university 11 percent. The proposed project would provide increased
educational opportunity for girls in secondary education, especially in
commerce and teacher training, and thereby increased opportunity also for
entry to higher education courses for graduates from the commerce school.
Participation of Donor Agencies in the Education Sector
3.18.   The project has been designed to complement support given to
educational development in Rwanda by numerous bilateral and multilateral
agencies. Belgium remains the most important bilateral donor, strongly
supporting curriculum development in secondary education and general
development in higher education. Canada also provides important assistance
to university development. Many other bilateral agencies assist education
and training, including France, the Federal Republic of Germany, the
Netherlands, Switzerland and the USA, while the USSR provides much
fellowship training. In addition to the Bank Group, such international
agencies as Unesco, UNDP, and UNICEF provide considerable assistance to
educational development, especially through financing specialists to assist
the MINEPRISEC with educational planning and administration, and training
nationals in these fields. Coordination of external aid and ensuring its
most productive use is difficult although improvement is noticeable
following the conference for aid agencies held in Kigali in 1977. A
similar conference was held in Paris in April 1982.



-21-
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL PLAN
Project Cost
4.01.   The total cost of the project is estimated at US$11.6 million equivalent,
including customs duties and taxes estimated at US$0.4 million equivalent. The
estimated costs and foreign-exchange components are given in Annex 1, T-6(a) and
T-6(b) respectively, and are summarized below:
Rw Francs (Million)         US$ (Million)          % of
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total Base Cost
1. Civil works, furniture,
equipment and vehicles
(a) Commerce Training    60.67  101.37        162.04   0.66    1.09    1.75   22%
College
(b) Nursing Training       18.37   30.75       49.12   0.20    0.33    0.53    7%
School
(c) Teacher Training       97.27  168.82      266.09    1.05   1.82    2.87   35%
Colleges
(d) Demonstration          12.07   19.67       31.74    0.13   0.21    0.34    4%
Schools
2. Technical Assistance,    21.73   86.93         108.66    0.23   0.94    1.17   14%
Professional Services
3. Pedagogical Training,    30.95   75.54         106.49    0.35   0.80    1.15   14%
Fellowship, Studies
4. Project Administration   19.78   13.19          32.97    0.21   0.14    0.35    4%
Base Cost (1-4)           260.84  496.27      757.11    2.83   5.33    8.16  100%
(March 1982)
5. Contingencies
(a) Physical (8%)          21.44   37.27       58.71    0.23   0.40    0.63
(b) Price Increase         89.47  171.28      260.75    0.96   1.85    2.81
(32%)
Sub-total (5)             110.91  208.55      319.46    1.19   2.25    3.44
Total Project Cost (1-5)   371.75  704.82   1,076.57    4.02   7.58   11.60
Of which taxes              (37.14)   -          (37.14)  (0.40)    -    (0.40)



-22-
4.02.   Cost estimates for civil works, furniture, equipment and vehicles
were derived from a review by Bank Group staff of data provided by: (a)
the Ministry of Public Works (MPW), from its activities in the building
sector, (b) religious organizations, which are particularly active in the
construction of secondary schools, (c) the private sector including mainly
contracting firms and architectural-engineering firms connected with them,
and (d) the SFCS project unit based on its experience in implementing the
first education project and on different school construction activities
financed from other sources. The schedules of accommodations on which the
cost estimates are based are austere and functional. The furniture and
equipment are of a type adequate to the country for achieving the proposed
educational objectives of the project.
4.03.   The average unit base cost of construction for the secondary educa-
tion and teacher training institutes in the project is US$404/m2 equivalent
(or US$323/m2 at an exchange rate which reflects the scarcity of foreign
exchange) at March 1982 prices. This cost reflects: the global economic
situation which has caused high import rates, inflation and energy cost,
the transport difficulties associated with a landlocked country and a
country highly dependent on the external supply of construction materials,
inter alia. Although a direct comparison of unit cost of construction is
difficult, the unit cost (IJS$323/m2) in this project compares with other
Eastern Africa countries as follows:  Malawi US$390 (1981)9 Comoros US$350
(1981), and Lesotho US$331 (1981).  The designs of the facilities financed
under the project are simple and would make maximum use of local materials
and building techniques. Again a direct comparison of costs is difficult,
since all academic and communal facilities provided would be extensions to
existing schools. The cost per student place of US$1,915 equivalent
compares with USS1,886 equivalent in Botswana (1981), US$2,990 equivalent
in Comoros (1981) and US$1,866 in Swaziland (1979). The cost estimates
also take account of the wide dispersion of the facilities in the interior
of the country.
4.04.   The PIU's specialists' services which comprise 156 staff/months of
the total technical assistance program (paras. 3.14, 3.16 and Annex 1, S-1)
are estimated at an average cost of US$7,500 per staff/month including
salary, housing, travel and allowances.
4.05.   Customs Duties and Taxes.  All items specifically imported for the
proposed project would be exempt from direct customs duties and taxes, in
line with the practice of the Government to grant customs duties and tax
exemption to imports for educational purposes. Some of the materials to be
used in the construction of the proposed institutions would be acquired on
the open market and would be subject to customs duties and/3r taxes. Of
the estimated cost for civil works, about US$0.40 million equivalent would
represent customs duties and taxes.
4.06.   Contingency Allowances.  For physical contingencies, 10 percent has
been added to the base costs of civil works, and 5 percent to the base
costs of all other components. Price increases, from the base cost date
(March 1982), have been applied in accordance with the implementation
schedule (Annex I, S-2) at the following yearly rates:



-23-
1982     1983      1984      1985     1986 - 1987
Foreign           8.5%       7.5%    7.5%       7.5%          6.0%
Local            10.5%      10.0%    9.5%       9.0%          8.0%
These price increases derived on annual averages of consumer price index
for Kigali, inter alia, have been reviewed by Bank Group staff and found
appropriate.
4.07.   Foreign Exchange Component.  The foreign exchange component has
been calculated as follows: (a) civil works, 60 percent; (b) furniture,
teacher training fellowships and studies, 70 percent; (c) equipment,
vehicles, and technical assistance, 80 percent; and (d) project
administration, 40 percent. Including contingencies, the foreign exchange
component is estimated at US$7.6 million equivalent or 68 percent of the
total cost net of taxes.
Financial Plan
4.08.   The total project cost of US$11.6 million equivalent would be
financed with an IDA Credit of SDR 9.0 million (US$10.0 million equivalent)
representing about 89 percent of the total project cost net of taxes. The
Credit would cover all foreign exchange costs (US$7.6 million) and 66
percent of local currency costs, excluding customs duties and taxes, as
follows:
US$ Million Equivalent
Government       IDA         Total
1.  Civil Works                     0.67          3.82         4.49
2.  Furniture                       0.05          0.30         0.35
3.  Equipment                       0.06          0.59         0.65
4.  Technical Assistance and        0.12          1.05         1.17
Professional Services
5.  Pedagogical Training            0.11          1.04         1.15
Fellowships, Studies
6.  Project Administration          0.10          0.25         0.35
7. Unallocated                      0.49          2.95         3.44
Total                           1.60         10.00        11.60
Of which Taxes                 (0.40)                     (0.40)
4.09.   The maximum Government capital contribution to the project in any
single year is not expected to exceed US$0.6 million equivalent (FRw 50.7
million) and this would occur in FY1985. Based on a conservative
projection of the funds likely to be available to the MINEPRISEC for
capital expenditures in that year, the expenditure on the proposed project
would represent about 1.8 percent of the MINEPRISEC capital budget. The
recurrent expenditures generated by the project are estimated to amount to
about FRw 17.5 million (US$0.2 million equivalent) by FY1990 when the
project would be in full operation; this amount represents about 0.4
percent of the MINEPRISEC estimated recurrent budget in that year.



-24-
V. IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING
Implementation
5.01.   The project would be implemented over a period of about five years,
including six months for completion of payments and withdrawals (Annex 1,
S-2). The project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1987, with a
Closing Date of September 30, 1987. The implementation schedule is based
on, inter alia, experience derived from the First IDA Assisted Education
Project in Rwanda (para. 2.16).
5.02.   Administration.  The SFCS established under the First Education
Project to provide accommodations and equipment for improved planning and
construction of school buildings, has responsibility for administrative and
financial control of the first project. Because of implementation
difficulties experienced with that project and the greatly increased volume
of work required of the SFCS by the MINEPRISEC, a project implementation
unit (PIU) established within the SFCS would have sole responsibility for
implementation of the second education project. The PIU would be staffed,
on a full-time basis, by an architect (five staff/years), an accountant
(five staff/years) and an equipment procurement specialist (three
staff/years) financed under the technical assistance component of the
project (para. 3.14 - 3.16). A new Rwandese Director of the SFCS was
appointed in August 1981. This Director would have responsibility for
coordinating the work of the unit's experts and that of the required
support staff and a Deputy Director in the PIU would be appointed to assist
him. Support staff including architectural technicians, sDecialist
counterparts and secretarial personnel would be provided by the
Government. A small extension to the SFCS office facilities, expected to
be completed by October 1982, would be adequate to house the PIU. A
condition of Credit effectiveness would be the appointment and posting of
the architect, and the accountant in the PIU (para. 7.02). The equipment
specialist would be appointed for a three-year period (intermittent) by not
later than December 31, 1982 (para. 7.01g). Incremental operational
expenses excluding Government-financed salaries would also be financed
under the project. There would be close cooperation between the staff of
the PIU and the SFCS which also benefits from UNDP/Unesco-financed
expatriate experts.
5.03.   PPF Fund and Professional Services.  Architectural and engineering
services including the supervision of construction would 'e carried out by
the existing UNDP/Unesco architectural team located in the SFCS. To
supplement the team, the project includes an advance (US$215,000) under the
project preparation facility (PPF) to finance preliminary architectural
planning and preparation of preliminary equipment lists. Funds are also
provided for specialized professional services - civil and mechanical
engineering and land surveying (about one staff/year of specialists
services). It is expected that preliminary architectural plans and
preliminary equipment lists will be ready by October 1, 1982.



-25-
5.04.   Sites.  All the project institutes consist of extensions to be
built on satisfactory sites adjacent to existing institutes which have been
allocated for this purpose. During negotiations the Government provided
for Bank Group review, a legal opinion of the Chef de Service des Affaires
Juridiques a la Presidence, defining the ownership of these sites and the
buildings to be built thereon and it was found acceptable.
5.05.   Reporting and Evaluation.  The Director of the PIU would be
responsible for implementation of all components financed under this
project and disbursements in accordance with schedules agreed with the Bank
Group as outlined in Annex 1. Biannual progress reports under these
headings (highlighting any implementation problems and proposals for their
resolution) would be transmitted for Bank Group review each December and
June following Credit effectiveness; and a project completion report (PCR)
would be prepared by the project unit staff (in cooperation with other
relevant agencies) and transmitted to the Bank Group for review within five
months following the Credit Closing Date. The PCR would constitute an
analysis of the implementation and initial operations of the project - its
costs and benefits derived, the performance of the Government and the Bank
Group in accordance with the Credit Agreement and significant lessons
learned.
Procurement
5.06.   Contracts for civil works, furniture, equipment and vehicles would
be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB), in
accordance with the Bank Group's guidelines for procurement, except as
follows: (a) civil work contracts costing less than US$250,000 equivalent
each (estimated at US$1.4 million including contingencies); and (b)
furniture, equipment and vehicles contracts, costing less than US$50,000
equivalent each (estimated at US$0.7 million including contingencies).
These contracts would be awarded by competitive bidding advertised locally
and in accordance with local procedures satisfactory to the Bank Group.
The aggregate value of contracts to be awarded by ICB is estimated at
US$5.6 million equivalent including contingencies.
5.07.   Architectural sketch designs, draft tender documents, and master
lists of furniture, equipment and vehicles indicating proposed grouping
would be reviewed by the Bank Group. Items would be grouped to the extent
practicable to permit bulk procurement. Review of tender-evaluation
documents by the Bank Group prior to award would not be required for
contracts for civil-works costing less than US$250,000 each and for
contracts for furniture, equipment and vehicles each costing less than
US$50,000 equivalent.
5.08.   Where ICB procedures are used:  (a) domestic manufacturers would be
allowed a preference of 15 percent or the existing applicable rate of
import duties, whichever is lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing
foreign supplies; and (b) qualified domestic civil-works contractors would
be allowed a preferential margin of 7k percent over the bid prices of
competing foreign contractors.



-26-
Disbursements
5.09.   Disbursements (Annex 1, S-3) would be on the basis of:  (a) 80
percent of expenditures for civil works; (b) 80 percent of expenditures for
locally procured furniture, teaching equipment and vehicles; (c) 100
percent of foreign expenditures for directly imported construction
materials, furniture, equipment, vehicles, technical assistance and
fellowships, professional services, evaluation and pre-investment studies;
and (d) 70 percent of local expenditures for technical assistance and
fellowships, professional services and pre-investment studies and project
administration. Disbursements for project administration would be made
against certificates of expenditures, documentation for which would not be
submitted for review but which would be retained by the Borrower and would
be available for inspection by the Bank Group during the course of project
supervision. The cumulative disbursements of 100 percent at the September
30, 1987 Credit Closing Date compares with the country wide profile of 96
percent.
Auditing
5.10.   Annual auditing would be required for all expenditures financed
under this project, with particular attention to those expenditures
reimbursed under certificates of expenditures. Auditing would be performed
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank Group, and applying
satisfactory auditing procedures. Audit reports would be submitted yearly
to the Bank Group within six months following the end of the Borrower's
fiscal year. To strengthen the accounting capacity of the SFCS and the
PIU, five staff/years of technical assistance for an accounting specialist
is included in the project (paras. 3.14, 5.02 and 7.02). This specialist
would assist in improving the accounting methods and would train local
counterparts.
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
6.01.   By providing additional student places to enable increased output
from secondary schools of 50 commerce, 20 junior nursing and 130 primary
teacher graduates, the project would assist the Government in alleviating
acute shortages of these qualified personnel (paras. 1.08 - 1.10) which are
reaching almost crisis proportions and causing disruptive developmental
bottlenecks. Simultaneously, the project would provide guidelines for
improved training standards on both pedagogical and physical aspects. Such
standards would be set by well-planned, appropriate, modern, economical
institutes and better qualified staff following fellowship training under
the technical assistance program. Experience gained by Rwandese personnel
in implementing the project should help improve local administrative and
pedagogical skills. The increased opportunity offered for girls'
participation in secondary education, especially in the commerce and
nursing schools, would also represent an important benefit. In supporting



-27-
teacher training, the project ultimately supports the development of basic
education and this has a very important potential for effective impact
through reduction of population growth, improved health and behavioral
changes conducive to economic development. 1/ Finally, it is worth
mentioning that Bank Group support necessitates a dialogue with the
Government which positively influences decisions on appropriate, realistic
directions for development of the education system, and also has a
catalytic effect in attracting additional support from many donor agencies.
Risks
6.02.   For a variety of political, managerial and technical reasons,
implementation of the first education project proved difficult. Although
the situation is now improving, there is reason to believe that close
monitoring will be necessary to minimize risks in this regard in the second
project. However, execution should be less complicated in this project,
not only because of the experience now gained with Bank Group procedures by
the Rwandese, but also because the project is less complex and preparation
will have been more advanced through the use of PPF. Nevertheless, from
past experience, it is evident that sudden changes in education policy
could again occur to disrupt smooth implementation, though this risk is
less serious in this project.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01.   During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(a)   the syllabi for the third-, fourth-, fifth- and sixth-year
programs for the project institutes would be provided for
Bank Group review by not later than June 30, 1983 (paras.
3.04, 3.07, 3.09);
(b)   from school year 1982/83, a yearly analysis of needs and
supply of health training personnel and facilities would be
made in consultation between the MINEPRISEC and the MINISANTE
and transmitted for Bank Group review by the end of each year
for five school-years (para. 3.06);
(c)   the Bank Group would be informed by not later than December
31, 1983 that suitable accommodation at the NUR would be made
available to the MINEPRISEC for school year 1984/85 to
conduct ad hoc training courses for natural science and
nursing trainers (para. 3.10);
1/ See World Bank Working Paper No. 399.



-28-
(d)   by not later than September 30, 1984: (i) the demonstration
schools at Save and ZAza TTCs would be brought under the
control of the TTC Directors, (ii) their teaching staff would
be qualified, and (iii) required maintenance at the schools
would be completed (para. 3.11);
(e)   a yearly review and updating of education reform targets made
with a view to modifying programmed activities for the TDP,
would be provided for Bank Group comment by not later than
July 31 each year;
(f)   the terms of reference for the studies to be undertaken in
the project would be received for Bank Group review and
comment by not later than April 30, 1983 and be completed by
not later than June 30, 1986 (para. 3.13); and
(g)   a qualified equipment procurement officer would be appointed
to the PIU for a three-year period (intermittent) by not
later than December 31, 1982 (5.02);
7.02.   As a condition of Credit effectiveness, an architect and
accountant, financed under the project and satisfactory to the Bank Group,
would be appointed and in the PIU (paras. 3.15 and 5.02).
7.03.   Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the project
constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of SDR 9.0 million (US$10.0
million equivalent) to the Rwandese Republic.



RWANDA
STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
PR E-1979 STR UCTUR E
4 National Universityg 
L-FNtional Pedagogical Institue|
PRIMARY                                                                        (a) 2- year artisanal education
1       24{ 3           4        5                   1        2       3       (b) 3-year artisanal training for boys and domestic arts for girls
(c) Technical education
(d) 3-year common course followed by two, three and four year courses
including modern humanities, technical education and teacher training
Ce) Classical humanities
REFORMED STRUCTURE                                                                                                                                                            s
d  Secondary Educationy fo.                   1
- Economics/Social Science
- Medicine
- Lawi
-Agriculture
-Engineering
-Pedagogy
Science
Humanities and TeacherTraining.
PRIMARY                                                                                                                              -Modern Technics
Age   7        8       9       t0      tt      12      13       14           15      16      17       t8     19       20
a/   Post-Primary Vocational in CERAI (Centres D'enseignement rural et artisanal integre)
(b-d) Secondary Education for. (b) Skilled Craftsman Level (A3) Nursing, Agro-veterinary (c) Middle-level Technician                                         
(A2) Agro-veterinary, Forestry, Commerce, Nursing, Nutrition and (d) Middle-level Technician (A2), Science,                                                                 p 
Humanities and Teacher Training.                                                                                                                                            r 
a/   Selected Graduates from Secondary (d) Iy enter Higher Education Institutes or from Secondary (c) follovingI
appropriate work experience and success at an extrance examination.
World Bank - 22688



RWANDA
MINISTRY OF PRIMiARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION
ORGANIZATION CHART (1981)
MINISTER
SECRETARY
GENERAL
GENERA   DIRECTORATE
Administration                                      Pedagogy                                        Primary andSeodr
CERA,                                                                                  o eodr
DIRECTORATES
Finance                  SSProrasPlanning                                                          Primary                  CERAI                   Secondary                Evaluation
DIVISIONS
Control                Printshop             Primary/CERAI |             Statistics               Personnel                Personnel                Personnel               Orientation
Equipment              Architecture              Secondary                School Map               Inspection               Inspection               Inspection
Social Security            Accounts                                                                                                                   Scholarships
World Bank - 23469



RWANDA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
GRADE AGE                               EDUCATIONAL PYRAMID  1980                                         TOTAL
18 24_ ENROLLMENT                                                                                        242
>.                      X AGE-GROUP                  221 16
17 23_    1466                                                                                            066
H    10       i~ z2_Gcx xIRLS)  9.4   MALE           139 ze             FEMALE                                214
10 22-                                                                                                    1
k                                                    186  20
I1S 2t1                                                                                                      410
373 43
14 20_                                                                                                   409
224  186
716  240
'4    2 18-   24C                                                                                          1793
1141  1562
Z       17  CSIX GIRLS)      3.9                                                                             657
0    it 16                                         197   70
ZZB2--U 1672Z090                                                                                              4
1e 16_                                         482 0
8 14- ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ 14                 6
91 1367                                              243                                               4426
>_    0 12-                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4624
000 1Z_  YO7460         24 30 r21 zOs70                                                       48162
8 14960
7 5 1t_ C46M GXRLS>    67.1 13sos8                                                                   48189
2 8 -                                                                                                 422741
1 7 _  036031                                                         16S241436  2138
419~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
39 73912 71397                                                                                       1-150
100       0006                                                                               906
Ij   rroedfigresinicae ecodar ad ohes idictepos-pimay  47416ets
28~~~~~6                                                                                          122978aysudnsdu orfomtaniin



-32-
ANNEX 1
Table 1
COPRTV    DUCAIION INDPICATORSPae 1 o                                                   2
I       I                  :  CENTRAL:                        I                  2 I    I           I                            I
I   2       1 ~       ~~~~~~~ IOUT.:                              2          2      222                             2        2
2   1 649/  2    ~     ~~~ ~ EOP.O:,            I         2                  2991. 2REEURRENT:             I        25C.2
I       ICA1PITA:           E DU. AS: EDUCATION    :LITER- 2P.:COMPLE- :STU- :U6IT COSTOY ltG:F'RGKS-  SEt.  : SIj- IHIGNEP
I          PI   T  2        1TTL.  :  EURNT    EA11            LNRI. ;:1104      2DENTS2R'¶   011:1N RATE ?CK)iI' :rT. TS:INVUE
I       INA6RKETI K GNP  :CHKLE.  ALLOcATEDI   SATE, RATO:51FRPE                          S S  ONP/:FPIIM 1RI.:PA)IIU  :F1'  :RhAII 
2IPOP.  :PRICES: DEVOTEDI: GOUT. 2         To:        aO        E    :PRI.s'CN. TEACN:  CAPITA  270 SEC.  2 NIl   :TE4C9H  GROSS:
1929ILL;.2  lUSt): TO EDU.: EXPF.   :PRI. SEC. NI.IADULTS52  IX)  :CTCLEIZIEKR    I                        !         t     19    I 10)
I2(1)  2I(2)2 1 3)    2   41   I           (5)       I  (6)      :171   2  (9)   I2(91:   (10)-:   I)   1(121  2013)204)
ADVYANCED
AUSTRIA         74   7.59 7.5209    5.3D    9.9K   241  511  151   99              99        931      26      10.7C       991       "LE    1951   26.95!
CANADEA         76  23.5  8,670        9.1G     4.3K   25.  39.  23.   99         10o       100       21.    17.6        1000      92       10    22.00O
GERMANY F.REP'.78  6C       I 0,300    4.8      941.              .     . 9       ...       10                           10        94    -20       12. 00'
JAAN          71  5499  .7004    4.3D.                4001 P;UT  11:11J   9 99   90        99       2                    9         51     28 2.9
NETH4ERLAND     79  13.99,200         93      13.81    20   35   24    99          96       93        19      3.          9        9 17:          12.8200
NEW ZEALAND   73       .915309    5.2          13.8K    39   24   29  9        99       99            26      194         99       6        II     24.00
90561           76 4.05 9.56          7. 22    930    54   24 15          9        99       99        16A     15.9       99E       62      I       20
SWEDEN          79   8.3 10.4         9.9FW  10).11L   37   11    1        99      99      100        1SF    2I 2.?1     IoO       79       1'I   30.009,
:.K.           79 6045967 56                   2.4K   26.  39     L2   99         99       100       2,4     £2.        10        65       17     0.
U.SA.           79 219.5  9.770        7.1      2.95    ...  5799 19       99      99        99       22      ..          99       97       2Vs   42.00
EUROPE
GREECE          76   9.49 4:350H   2.66    ID.6N    37Y  26Y  21Y   96A            99       921      32        6.2'     700        '              15.00
IRELAND         74   3.2of 3.60       1.1H IW           431  4)1  141    9        191       9A        3        .         95A       ASK     1      1547)
PORTUGAL        77   9e.69 1,409    3.66    10.7E   41   21    15         71       92       60       t9o        .9      75*        35      12      60
ROMANIA         75  21.99 1.6509    4.01        1.9K   36   19       I3    99     101        ..       21      ...        96        4'       72     I10.00
SPAIN           74  37.19 3.9609H 2.4A           S.0    49Y  221  151   908    11591Y         .       35A      .          ,.       50       3$;    1 '. 2f
AFRICA
ALGERIA         79 19.      1.4504    7.IW      ..      34K  26K  215K  359   94XK           405K!    37K     119        52K'?     345'    3')     5.00K.;
lENIN           79   3.4   250        6.       31       43   21       1 11    42            30       46       24.0      30         !II     4
BOTSUANA        79   0.8   720        6.57      19.3   48   29       15   35    9M           74       32      22.0       33        nI       F       15
IURUNDI         7      .     20       29        2.0 41   3    2            25    25K        34        35       11.       1          2.55  1I         0.
CAMEKOON        76 9.19 909           3.7W     13,6K  33   43   20         .     6          45       52       11.       2           90     2       0 .90 1'
C.A.K.          74 1.992709            3OCW     .       566I :8          .        79 11 K    25       691     71.59      1s         F:9  Y :1126    u.21 
CHAD            75   4.39  :509       3.06      13.5F  798     2    .      15    29K6XT      DO       4591    ...         8         256)   20       a.019',
coMOROS         910 0.4   2601K        6.0      25.4L  40   29   14    20E          991     65        45      16.0       59         )       3       1.4
CONSOIII        74 1.59580             6.09     ...    40   32   21    50!     1330         63        6        14. 38    49        :431    22       3.40
DJIBOUTI        91I0.4   440          5.4       10.9   60   40    -         10      32       ...      41       a.        6                  2'       0.50
EGYPT           29  39.7   400        5.5       11.39  30   35   26         440     73        90       30'     ..          2        49       I      1' 2. 00
(191091A        79  31.0    130       2.2       1.0.                       15      39        ...      59       ...       ..         9      4
BAPO            74   0.6 H3.37H   5.0W                  25t011                     oO       251       46C      4.71'   198         391     2       .9
GAM byA         76   0.69H1801        3.3W       6.94'2D 0                          7       9         33      44.X9                1
GHANA           74  11.0H  380911      ...      15.5   43121   2010601                      69         0 ...             246       3530    lc.2   1.091
GUINEA          76     .1   2609       4.A0     ..      30   31  .3D       ...     30X      64        45      31.1'     96         130     26       40
IVOR Y COAST   91   9.11175    10.0              5.     33   46   13    30         60       96        43      26:.0     47         1/01    2       1.'6'41
KENYA           79P  15.3    380      5.9W      17.9K  71   25   14    45          92        74       40      15.        41        (9      29a      1.0
LESON           7     I.      340      41       21.70  41   29 20          52      69       32        49       9.0       65        151     23       0.9
LI E"'IA:.      77   1.74   4o0H   3.11    11.91L   23   23   26           30       1         .       54      279         6        240      I
MIAI'N..AS2     7?   9.39   2509   4.06    15.3         53   28a 19    50.    90            33        44        .        38        11      23       1.20
9AL16W1         79   5.9      20      2.29W   9.7K   40   23   23    25!           5        179       629     10.09      SO E        0     2:
MALI            75 6.39H 1309   4.2MW  25.77    4SF  37E18E   10KE    221                     .        9        .        0           0     J
MUITANIA      79    .5       7      5.5     16.9      33   41   25       17      32       60       45      1520.0     30          9      2
MAUR ITIUS      76   0.99   9209   4.7W   17.51p.  50   26    6    B08             94       99        24      190!        90       45      32       1.50
MOROCCO         a 0  19.5    2,40     6.36    17:5K   36   44   20         29      720      35        391     19.7       40)       250     12       4.50
-NIGER  -        77   5.1H   240H   2.90    23.30   52    43         5      8        7       50       39C    39.7        3t          2      2'
NIGERIA         74  90.69M   600      4.1CY   9.60    231  161  421    ...    49XY           ...      341      ..         ..       502     21)     0.9
R8AN91A         80 50         200     3.2      20.      62   17   it    23         66       62'       40D     1.0         6         2      1       0.4
SENEAL          77,   5.4H   3609    1.0       "I19.9K    46   34   20     101    32         ..       49      21.6      20         10      21      1.
SIERR A LEONE  73   3.39   2309    3.4    16.0          31   36 30         15      344       5        3       13.1      6          10       2      03
SOMALIA         79   3.79    1954    2.06       9.19    15   10   21    50         44        ..       32       20.4     40          5      15         .0
SUDAN      ~~~~~~~~~~76  27.48    3409'  4.56  5.29    491  36   16    20      34       74        3       462       33         1       24       .4
S6AZLAND        79    .59    590      6.1G6  21.41    37   33    3    65            20X     4         37       7.7b    66          32P     2       2.000'
TNANIA         79  17.1      230     6.9NW  11.1K   43   19   10    .66           96       97       53       117.IF     9        . 4      2'IC    0.3
T000            77 2.49    3209   5.56    13.78    30 2    2$              19      741      40        59      13.3      52          -      '4      ,20
TUNISIA         79   6.4  1.120       9.9      16.9     41   36   28       62      I00      90        39      12.9      30         30      3',     600
UOANEIA    0, 75  12.49    2909?  3:4CY   ...           3401 4001 2201  258        5301      ..       341)1    ..        149        606    218     0.56
UPER VOLTA    77   5.69    1609    3.46    16.4K   31   16 32              SE    13        23         t      53.51!   19 K2or.
ZAIRE,          76  26.99H   2409!  6.86        ...     49   26 25         15      98X      44        40      20.08      41        130     2'      100
Z891         -90  5.7         540.    5 .6     11.11    49   23   22    44         965      90        43      12.9       19        to,     22       1050
P99BA16K        9I 7.         700     6.6      19.5     62   32    6    74         9-0      55        39      20.0       95        15      23    0.5
CENTRAL AMERICA AND TIlE CArIPABEAN
BAHAMAS         79 0.  2.2970         6.54   23.1K   36   36   it    93            99t      97        24       ..         97       75      1
CARB-ADOs       716  0.2  2.090M   8.W   21.7K   43   31   16    99               1060      99        21       99         99        40     1
COSTA RICA     80   2.2  1.91D    9.4         38.1     40   27   33    90         93        77       33        0.5       7V7      40       2      I(400
CUBA        79   ~~~~~9.7  1.00   9.0           .     .     .     .961    919           99,      22        ...        39       65      25    iS.0
DOMINICAN REP 72   5.1 H 9009    3.0           110S2 2    2                 1      3         17       54       4.59       63       14      24      7.00
EL SALVADOR    72   4.3H   6409    4.0         19.31    64     3 27    62          390      32        3        ..         41       23      2        7.00
BIUATEMALA      73   6.69      30      1.      12.6K   S5   23   14    47          64       26        35       ..         69,       3      2       4.091,
98101      90   ~~~~~~5.0  2600    3.4V           65      9    6     2        50       20       41       190         2F        4      2'      0.3
HOND-URAS       79   3.4      40      4.29    17.9'K   652F  I5F  1SF   60E    79           30        35      1.'          3       I        2       40
JAMAIICA        90o    2.21.40K    6.          19.0      7   43   20       909V9D0                              .         95       3       22       30
MEICO           80   67.4 1.910    5.0        29.70    46   39 15    92             9       5        44        9.        a9        56      27     103
NICARAGUA       79   2.5      660     3.OW   16.9F   6101  (101  1530   901        61       24        44       7.301      93        41     37       7.000
P  AnAA         29 1.9  1.2260.   5.4          12.7K   420  136  13    798.    97           920       329     11.6        1 950    :   4934    2Q.00         -
TRI NIDAD   T . 77 I1.1  3.1019    4.5         11.7r   49   32   20    95          93       91        30      10.5!       49       62      24       ..
SOUTH AMERICA
ARGENIINA       79  26.7  190          44        .3K   436  3SF  190   93           99       52c      17       0. 7.               31        3C   23.00
ODLIVIA.        76   5.3H   510H   5.06    30.5K            .     .        42L     98        29        4       ..                   4       19
BRAZIL          75 119.59 1.1109    2.9:GW   6:2K   42)       ,0 220    641-1    9S 1F       ..       21ST      ...Y                267y   2531    6.;00
CHILE          7510.79 14709    3.91130                 231H 101501    ..          11       ..        5T       3.!                 430     ..        551
COL OMP11IA     74  25.491   9009    :3.31              441Y 22C1 Ily   79C   19511         20       331      11.08      9         3689    148     6.671
ECUAD1.OR       90    .4 I1369P   6.9 DP                45   3 1 16        91     105X       49       36      121.6       96       47        o      29.7
GUYANA          74   0.9    5609   5.9N   I349    47   35   14             938     92X       39       33'      93  9               60      24       1.00
PARAGUAY        79   3.0      929      14      12.6     42    1      0     9        2        3        2         .k                  2       1        .00
PERU            75  16.99   6900W   4.2C1   11.2        401  22    5        2     111        391      39      110         70       4991    21 14.421Y
UKUKUAT    75   ~~~~~2.99 1. 790ON   2.5  9.4K   46   34 20    94             93       ..       24       113.3EK    83a] 
VENEZUELA       73  14.09 2.9509    4.66    1.9y.K   300  2911  350   778%   31l              .       33       ...       ...       33       ...   12.63C'



.33  -ANNEX I
CDK!'ARATIVE ?DIJCATION INDICATORS (CONTEI)                                     Pagle 26
FEBRUARY 16. 1992
a  I                 I~~~~CENTRAL:                                                                            
a   a       a~~t       bOVT.?                     I         a                   a      a                       a-       a      a
I GNP/ I               IEXP. ON? Z DF PUBLIC                I                    FPRI. :RECURRENT:             I         SEC  I
I CAPITA:              :EDU. AS: EDUCATION    ILITER-I PRI. ICOMPLE- ISTU- :UNIT COST?PROGRESS-I  SEC. :STU- :INTNER:
I   AT   I             IX TTL. I RECURRENT    IRCY          :ENROLL:TION        IDENTSIPRIM. ED. lION RATE IENkOLLIDENTSIENROLL:
I MARKETI K GNP   ICENTRALIEXP ALLOCATED:  RATE :RATID :RATE FORIPER   :AS Z GNP/:FROM PRI.IRAlIO  :PER   :RATITO
:POP. :P9ICESI  DEVOTED: GOVT. 1            TO:       :1% OF   I NET   IPRI.SCH.ITEACH: CAPITA. ITO SEC.   INET   ITEACH- GROSS:
YRIMILLS.?  (US$)1  TO EDU.: EKP.   IPRI. SEC. HI.IAEJULTS)I  (K)  ICYCLE(t)IEk                               (K)        CZ()  IER    I(K)
a                            I                          .       .a                  
I(1)  1  (2)     (3)          (4)  I        (5)      I(6)  I(7)  I(9)    1(9) 1(10)    1  (1)                        (12) :(13) :t14)
ASIA AND OCEANIA
AFGHANISTAN    77  14.6H  16OH          1.9               47    19    15      12     29X        69        37      13.8       62           eK     17       1.00
BANGLADESH       79  92.9M   910        1.1LP   14.9C    51    17   20        226   71K         ...       53        6.2P      ...       14K      23       1.43
CHINA            79 971.0    256        3.3       6.6     34    36   30       66     93         64        27       9.0       93         511      19       2.90
INDIA            75 643.9H  I80K        2.6Y      1.9K....... 293    65XY                       ...       43A     ...        ...        29Kv    2OAY    2.34Ev
INDONESIA        78 136.OH  340         2.4W    ..        260  32G  156   62         92         49        32      ...        70         19       17      2.00
IRAN             73  J5.8H       12.2H 3.3W  12.2H        5OB  198  129    50        77         74A       32      ...        OOA        24       32      4.32CY
IRAQ             75  12.2H 1.BSOH    6.7CW    .                               26C    93XY       ..        22       ..        ..         35Kv    26C      R.47Y
JORDAN           79   2.2  1.180H    6.8         10.9 184F1                   70     97X        9         32       7.2       9465                21     14.00
KOREA            79  36.6  1.310        2.9W    16.5K    35   29    36        93     102X       94        49       9.6C      91         60       45     18.00
LEBANON          72   3.OH    ...       3.5W     ..       39    40    10      69     86         65        19      23.29      63         26U      25     23.00
MALAYSIA         80  14.2  1.460K    5.2         15.0     39    32    13      60B   96          94        28       6.60      84         65       25      4.20
NEPAL            80  14.3      140      1.1WF    9.9      29F  207  41F    19F   59F            29F       317     ...        647        147F    24F      o.SF
OMAN             72     .8H 2,790H    1.7NW    5.1K    96    -         -      20     24X        99        277     25.0?      ...        0.4K      9     ..
PAKISTAN         79  79.0    270        2.0       2.5K    39    26   27       24     56X        50E       48       6.5       ...        20K      17      6.0OOF
PAPUA N.G.       75   2.9N  620H        5.4LW   17.0K    39    16   24        32     57?        73P       31      29.0?      90         12X?    24       0.90?1
PHiILIPPINES    79  46.8    600         2.8W    15.7K    64   369*1           75      94        65        31       7.0       99         55       36     21.00
SINGAPORE        74   2.3H 3.260H    2.7YW  14.9K    39Y  39Y  17Y    72A    109Kv              72A       31Y      7,4A      99A        44XY   24        7.68v
SOLOMON ISL.  80   0.23   460           5.4      11.0K    41   34   20                60        70        36      ...        35         1s
SYRIA            78    7.9    960H      4.4       6.3H   39    25   26        58      99K       90        35       7.7E      68         45X       1     176
THAILAND         77   44.5  530         4.OVW    19.9K  555   30    15        94F   93          30        35      10.OC      70         29       25      3.00(
TURKEY           73  43.1H 1.250H    5.6CYW   18.6K .....5.. ..                        v        ...       3AY      7.2A      ...        24Y      270Y    S.B3Y
YEMEN            73   5.6H  410K        0.5W      10.8K  45P  21P  23P    10         15X        18        36      19.3       75          2K      19      0.0591
YEMEN P.D.R.  80    1.9    424          6.0       10.5    63    14      9     407   70          53        24      22.4       81         31       16      2.50
SUMMARY FOR DEVELOPING COUNTRIES:
NUMBER OF COIINTPIES:                  102      92       99    90   90      94      101        81        101     71         a5        lx.'     99      B?
RANGE?                                (0.5-  (1.9-    (20  (9-  (3-    (5-    (13-          (13-       (26-    (3.1        (9-        (.4-    la-    (.01-
9.9 230.5)    96 )73)  50)   99)    133X)    99 1                 9     52.5 1       99?)       95  145)  41.01
IQUARTILESIUPPER I5.6                         17.5     49    35   22       86     99         91        42      9          91         49       25     11.0
MEDIAN?                 4.2      13.0     42    26    19      60     82         65        34      13         68         24       22      3.4
LOWER I                 3.0       9.9     34    21    13      25     56         33        29      20         41         11       lB      1.0
SYMBOLS: ... DATUM UNAVAILABLE                  A=1971 OR BEFORE              N-CURRENT PRICES                          SOURCES:
-  MAGNITUDE NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE 8=1972-  P-GDP----
?  QUESTIONABLE                      C=1973        -                -INCLUDING FOREIGN AID                    COLUMNSU1 AND 2 WORLD BANK ATLAS
*  INCLUDES PART-TIME STUDENTS 0=1974                              R-CENTRAL GOVT. ONLY                                           OR IBRO MISSIONS
*3COMBINED WaIrN PRIMARY            E=1975                        s=MINISTRY OF EDUCATION (HOE) ONLY                   3 TO 14 IBRO MISSIONS
33COMBINED WITH NIGHER               F=1976                       T=MDE AND STATE GOVT. ONLY                                     AND/OR UNESCO
G-1977                       U-EKCLUIiING CENTRAL GOVT.                                     STATISTICAL
H-197B                       V-INCLUDtING PRIVATE EXPENDITURE                               YEARBOOK
K=1979                       W=PUBLIC EXP'ENDI TUNE ONLY
L-1990                       X=INCLUI'ING OVERAGED) STUDENTS
M1991l                       Y-UNESCO SOURCES
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION DATA ARE USEFUL IN THE EVALUATION OF VARIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS OF RELATIVE STAGES OF EDUCATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT BETWEEN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. HOWCVER.ON THE BASIS OF TKE PRESENT I'ATA.CROSS-NATIDNAL COMPARISON SHOULD BE APPROACHED WITH
GREAT CAUTION, DATA PRESENTED IN THE ABODVE TABLE HAVE BEEN COLLECTED LARGELY BtY TKE B'ANK MISSIONS FROM GOVERNMENT SOURCES; THE
REMAINDER ARE STAFF ESTIMATES OR DATA FROM UNESCO, EFFORTS HAVE BEEN MADE TO STANDARDIlZE DEFINIIIONS AND WITHIN LIMITS, TO CHECK THE
ACCURACY OF THE DtATA. NEVERTHELESS.SUCH DiATA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPECTS AND THE BANK IS MORNING T0 IMPROVE THEM
PROGRESSIVELY ON THE OCCASION OF ITS OPERATIONAL WORK.. IN THE USE OF THESE DATA. THE FOLLOWING QUALIFICATION4S SHOULD NE BORNE IN
MIND?
(1)'EDUCATIDN' AS DEFINEDI IN THE TABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATION AND TRAINING. FORMAL AND NON-FORMAL;
(2)'PRIMARY EDUCATION REFERS TO EDUCATION AT THE FIrST LEVEL AND 'SFCDNOARY' EDUCATION REFERS TO ALL EDUCATION AT THE SECONDARY
LEVEL REGARDLESS OF TYP'E (E.G. GENERAL. TECHNICAL. AGRICULTURAL) 
(3)'LITERACY RATES'(COL.6) ARE OFTEN OBTAINED FROM COUINTRY CENSUJSES. IN MANY COUNTRIES THEY ARE ONLY APPROKIMATIONS AND IT IS
DOUBTFUL THAT ANY UNIFORM DEFINITION OP 'LITERATE' HAS BEEN FOLLOWED, CONSISTENTLY;
(4)'PUBLIC EXPENDlITURE IN EDUCATION' (COLS 4 AND 5) REFERS TO ALL CAP'ITAL AND RECURRENT EXPENDJITURES DEVOTED TO EDUCATION BY
PUBLIC AND OUASI-F'UELIC AGENCIES;
(S)'ENROLLMENT RATIOS'(COLS 7. 12 AND 14) REFER TO SCHOOL YEAR AND MEAN rHE PERCENTAGE OF ELIGIBLE CHILDREN ENROLLED FULL-rIME
IN THE APPROP'RIATE SCHOOL. PUBLIC ANII PRIVATE BY LEVEL. THEY ARE OFTEN SUBJECT TO A WIDE MARGIN OF ERROR IN THE DEVELOPING
COUJNTRIES OWING TO VARIATION IN THE ACCURACT OF BASIC DATA(I.E. AGE-SP'ECIFIC POPUELATION AND ENROLLMENTS), ENROLLMENT FIGURES
FREQUENTLY ARE HIGHER THAN THE NUMBER OF STUDiENTS ACTUIALLY IN  SCHOOL. OVERAGED STUDiENTS WHOSE INCLUSION IS INDIICATED BY
FOOTNOTES ALSO CAN INFLATE THE RATIOS.



RWANDA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
ENROLLMENT GROWTH IN FORMAL EDUCATION 1975-1980
Post-Primary I/ and Secondary                        Higher Education -/
Primary      Post                                Teacher                                 4/              Grand Total
Gl-8      Primary    General    Technical    Training          Total      Univ.    IPN-       Total    Enrollments
(a)        (b)          (c)          (d)
1974/75     386,719       6,764                   11,227                    17,991      619       256        875      405,585
Girls %       45          82                        33                        52       13        18         15
S/T 3/            49         19                     ..                                    9
1975/76     401,521       7,890                   12,046                    19,936      672       218        890       422,347
Girls %       46          82                        33                        52        10       19         12
S/T              50          21                     ..                          ..         8
1976/77     434,150       9,320                   12,570                    21,890      657       196        853       456,893  1
Girls %       47          79                        33                        53          9      17         11                  w
S/T             53           20                     15                          17         6       ..         ..
1977/78     463,442      10,695      9,126         1,691       2,391        23,903      677       205        882       488,227
Girls %        47         75          -             33 3                      51       10        13          9
S/T               57         21       -             15 5                        17         6
1978/79     515,712      11,805      9,451         2,442       1,906        25,604      760       216        976       542,292
Girls %        48         71           33           24           49           50        10       13          9
S/T               61         21      ( -----                      )             17         6        4          6
1979/80     607,480      11,859      7,112         2,177       2,879        24,027      809       228      1,037       632,544
Girls %        48         70           30           29           44           51        11       13         11
S/T               61         21      (-13                         i             16         7        4          6
Source: MOE Statistiques de l'Enseignment: Annee Scolaire 1979/80.
1/  Post-primary rural handcrafts courses grades 9-11..
2/  Excluding students studying abroad.
31  Student:teacher ratio including double shift for grades 1-3 equal to about 40 using full-time equivalent (1979/80).
4/ Institut Pedagogique National. In 1980 the MilitaryrCollege enrolled 83 students including 2 women while the
Nyakibanda Seminary forpriests had 146 students. In addition 448 students pursued higher education courses abroad.



3 35-
RWANDA                          ANNEX 1
Table 3
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
INCREASED OUTPUT JUNIOR NURSES (A3) REQUIRED
Additional
Minimum 1/                                  A3  Nurses                2/
A3 Nurses                   Attrition        Required          Yearly
Required        Stock          9%           Next  Year         Output
1980        640            300           27              342              25
1981         659           298           27              363              35
1982        679            306           28              356              45
1983        699            323           29              350              55
1984         720           359           32              328              65
1985         742           392           35              312              75
1986         764           432           39              286              85
1987         787           478           43              247              95
1988         811           540           49              215             105
1989        835            596           54              178             115
1990         860           657           59              137             125
1991        886            723           65               93             135
1992        912            793           71               50             140
1993        940            862           78               62             140
1994        968            924           83               57             140
1995        997            981           88               52             140
1/ Allowing for yearly population growth of 3 percent and WHO norms.
2/  A modest proposal taking development constraints into account.



_ 36 _                       ANNEX 1
Table 4
RWANDA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
1/
PRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING REQUIREMENTS, 1980/1990
Additional
Teachers                          Teachers
Enrollments        Required         Attrition        Required
(gth. 5.5%)        (S/T 61)            4%            Next Year
1980            607,480           10,007            400                 899
1981            640,891           10,506            420                 998
1982            676,140           11,084            443              1,053
1983            713,328           11,694            468              1,111
1984            752,561           12,337            493              1,172
1985            793,952           13,016            521              1,236
1986            837,619           13,731            549              1,305
1987            883,688           14,487            579              1,375
1988            932,291           15,283            611              1,452
1989            983,567           16,124            645              1,531
1990          1,037,664           17,010            680
1/ Retaining double shift for grades 1-3; i.e., student/teacher ratio
61 or 40 full time equivalent per teacher.
2/ Annual growth 5.5% to reach enrollments capable of being handled by
financially feasible 17,000 teachers.



RWANDA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
GOVERNMENT EXPENDITURES ON EDUCATION, 1974-1980
(Rw F Million)
1974        1975         1976          1977         1978         1979         1980 -
1. Government recurrent
expenditures, total             3533.6       4388.5       5122.7       6437.9       7859.0       9162.2       11796.1
2.  out of which education          1078.4       1197.2       1239.5       1420.7       1651.2       2186.7         2513.7
3.  education as % of total            30.5         27.3         24.2         22.1         21.0         23.9          21.3
4.  Government capital
expenditures, total              245.0        432.7        775.5       1011.9       1032.2       1473.8        2923.5
5.  out of which education            -            -             15.2         31.6        125.7        172.0         532.7
6.  education as % of total           -            -              2.0          3.1         12.2         11.7          18.2
7.  Total expenditure on
education                       1078.4       1197.2       1254.7       1452.3       1776.9       2358.7        3846.4
8. GDP                                ..        52687.0      61853.0      71601.0      76413.0      88983.0         ...
9. Total education expenditures
(recurrent + capital)
as % of GDP                      ...            2.3          2.0          2.0          2.3          2.7            3.2
1/ Budget revised.
2/ Figure not yet recalculated according to new methodology and thus not comparable with other years.
3/  Preliminary.
Source:  Ministere des Finances
Ministere du Plan, Comptes economiques nationaux



RWANDA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
MOE RECURRENT BUDGET BY LEVEL  1975, 1979 AND 1980
1980 at Constan;
1975                  1979                   1980              1975 priees -
Rw F mil.      %      Rw F mil.       %      Rw F mil.       %        Rw F mil.
General administration
and research                    42.3       3.5        219.0      11.1       162.7        6.5          102.1
Primary education      )                                1104.3      56.3       1559.6      62.0          974.2
)          818.7      68.4
Post-primary education)                                   74.3       3.8         87.3       3.5           55.0
(ERAI)
Secondary Education               207.4      17.3        335.4      17.1        429.2      1711          26817
Higher education                  128.8      10.8        229.1      11.7        274.9      10.9          171.3
TOTAL                 1197.2      100.0      1962.1      100.0      2513.7      100.0        1571.3
1/ Using as a deflator the consumer price index for Kigali.
Source: MINEPRISEC
Li



RWANDA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
RECURRENT EXPENDITURES BY LEVEL AND TYPE 1980
(FRw million, current prices)
Post                           Higher
Primary        Primary        Secondary        Education        Other          Total
Administration                                                               -            162.7           162.7
Personnel:
- Teaching             1,460.3          81.7             212.9 )
- Other                   40.8           2.3              51.4 )         154.7         . . .         2,086.6
)I
Materials                    49.0           2.8              30.7 )                       . .
Subventions:
- Scholarship                            -                -              116.7         . . .           116.7
- Contribution to       -                -               131.4            -            . . .           131.4
boarders
Other:                        9.5           0.5               2.8             3.5         . . .            16.3
Total                     1,559.6          87.3             429.2           274.9         162.7         2,513.7
Percentage                   62.0           3.5              17.1            10.9           6.5           100.0
Source: MINEPRISEC
n



- 40 -                             ANNEX 1
RWANDA                              Table 5(d)
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
ACTUAL AND PROJECTED GOVERNMENT EXPENDITURES ON EDUCATION. 1980-1990
(Rw F Million, Constant 1980 prices)
1980         1986         1990
1. -Government recurrent
expenditures, total                     11796.1      16085.0      18735.0
2.  out of which education                   2513.7       3515.0       4205.0
3.  education as % of total                     21.3        21.9          22.4
4.  Government capital
expenditures, total                      2923.5       3217.0       3747.0
5.  out of which education                    532.7        585.5        682.0
6.  education as % of total                     18.2        18.2         18.2
7.  Total government expenditure
on education                             3046.4       4100.5       4887.0
8.  as % of GDP                                 3.2          3.1          2.8
Source: 1980 - Ministry of Finance
Notes:
1986 and 1990 recurrent expenditures - Ministry of Finance, Prevision de
depenses du budget ordinaire
1986 and 1990 capital expenditures   - mission's estimate based on following
assumptions:
(a) Government capital expenditures should stabilize at about 20%
of recurrent expenditures; they were 16% in 1979 and 25% in 1980.
(b)  Government capital expenditures on education should continue at
about 18.2% of total government capital expenditures as in 1980.
GDP - mission estimate based on past trends.



RWANDA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED PROJECT COST BY CATEGORY
(In Rw. Francs (Million)             (In US Dollars (Million)             %  of
Category                      Local      Foreign      Total         Local     Foreign       Total        Base Cost
1. Civil Works
a.  Academic/Communal            72.06    108.09       180.15         0.78         1.16        1.94           24%
b.  Boarding                     70.69    106.05       176.74         0.76         1.14        1.90           23%
c.  Staff Housing                24.05      36.07       60.12         0.26         0.39        0.65            8%
Sub-Total  (1)              166.80    250.21      417.01          1.80         2.69       4.49            55%
2.  Furniture                         9.56      22.31       31.87         0.11         0.24        0.35            5%
3.  Equipment                        12.02      48.09       60.11         0.13         0.52        0.65            8%            1
4.  Technical Assistance &           21.73      86.93      108.66         0.23         0.94        1.17           14%
Professional Services               *         *           *
5.  Pedagogical Training,            30.95      75.54      106.49         0.35         0.80        1.15           14%
Fellowships, Studies
6.  Project Administration           19.78      13.19       32.97         0.21         0.14        0.35            4%
Total Base Cost (1-6)           260.84    496.27       757.11         2.83         5.33        8.16          100%
(March 1982)
7. Contingencies
a.  Physical (8%)                21.44      37.27       58.71         0.23         0.40        0.63
b.  Price Increase (34%)         89.47    171.28       260.75         0.96         1.85        2.81
a .
Sub-Total (7)               110.91    208.55      319.46          1.19         2.25        3.44
8.  Total Project Cost (1-7)        371.75    704.82   1,076.57           4.02         7.58       11.60
Of which Taxes                 (37.14)      -         (37.14)       (0.40)         -         (0.40)



I



739A
SECON =277155501P4323CT
SIENESSI OF SESSI,T2OTs Ar7s ESETEAEIN POJF0ECE C04T
(i. Soandes basso SON',, ZaRed or Marsh 5900 SSEsSE - 0F1I  574 92.84)
EA ssilsast  e        sad dlog    Iooai       tc ademi                                     EllailnR  Working  Asaosols/                          SouSa.                            PSysIsaS     DooTo,, B  ,  F o L w   hir-   P-j et              I3                  D81
EsA_ee NN1sSninA
1. Vrb.                                    9D        440     260       4oS       6           1,773        1,342     417    3,052   15       17,8o4    50,086    52,659    15, 946   118, -.  136,495        9.637    15,9f         162,037                                                         162.037              5,76%,
2. Gi-e                                   1 I      10         90        90       2            397           3rh      184      95,   15       5,395    15,322     14,054     6, 54     35,937   41, 32       2,5       4,950         49, 24                                                           49, 24               529
3.   se                                   330      540      255        4w        1           1.22S        1,334      437   2,994   17       11,331  45,824       51,844    15.42   [13,314   1,645         10,116      If s.       153.2                                                            53,2V                1
4. Z:a                                    330      540       245       4 0       6             611        1, 01s     437    2,114   19       7,893    23,b43     39,440    l1,6b2    18,925   86,8d8        7.497    l8,511        112,82b                                                           53,268             1,215
5         Z-                              480      480         0         27 0                                                 8326    5      1,319    26,376            o       0    26,336   27,6ff5    l,64         2,a22         31,737                                                          31,737
_Tibte                             71.,530    2,100     850      1,470      20          4.332         4.120    1,495    9,947
6.   NtENIacN      t- ACN5C'7
& PrE. I*...SS lEio-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         108.66               1, 17
?.  JSGWIN,,1 Tra.., NS1OESESEE,                                                                                                                                                                                                                      106, 41.                               106,487              1,14T
t   a98E-  ~la.ENt-E0-
M ost (Sn-sE t19S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            32,965            39,9                  35
ID 1  Dolers                                                                                                                         43,741   ]G11206    1593107    93.91.   373.263  417,-11        31,848    60,112       501, 92   10d866,       11164d7               32.965             757 107
In U.S. DOll ys                                                                                                                                                                          4,492           3113     647         5,482     1,171         1.147                  355                                8d155
ID  %                                                                                                                                  68        21%       218          l%        4gi      558           48       86          65%         148          1218                  58                105
SE  FMasdeca FrADso                                                                                                                                                                     11.701         1,593    3,096                   3,473         5,324                1.1443 58,705                           632
In-.t.1 5  9                                                                                                                                                                               10% lo1      5%       9%                        5%          5%                    f%
U.  -4oNal (9 + 101                                                                                                                                                                    85B,782      33,462    63,118                  114.796      111,811                i4.(13                                         5
ID MElON ese OC5NN,1                                                                                                                                                                   137,614      11.712    20,091                   34,229       411,72,               50, 9321          26 ,754              2,8&39
U.  -S                                                                                                                                                                                   304           351 33     %                       303        440                    3
.*,  NoD      - CaE                                                                                                                                                                      596 326      45,174    85,209       726,709   140,325       156,535               44,997           1,076,566
-ID     : U.S. LollArf.423                                                                                                                                                                       48r       918                    1,598        1,686                   484                                1l,5g6
13.  PaEEa  -Mla-E
ID r1.0, lollAss                                                                                                                                                                         3,584         341       534                    1,2(0        1.138                   194                                 7.581
SInT                                                                                                      8                                                                               -            75%        0%                     87%          71%                   40t                                   695






43 _
ANNEX 1
Schedule 1
RWANDA II
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROCRAM
A. Project Implementation
(a)  Project Preparation Facility (PPF)
Base Cost
No.   Specialists                  Staff/Years    Planned Period         Us$000
1     Architect                       0.5
2     Archit. Technicians             0.2
1     Equipment Specialist            0.3        10/1981.. .9/1982
1.0
(b) Project Unit Specialists
1     Architect                       5.0         5/1982 - 8/1987
1     Accountant                      5.0         9/1982 - 8/1987
1     Equipment Specialist            3.0         9/1982.. .8/1986
13.0               .... 14171
B. Educational
(a) Pedagogical Training for NTS and TTC Staff
1     Natural Science/Agriculture   2.0           9/1983 - 8/1985
1     Nursing Training                1.0         9/1984 - 8/1985
3.0                                 270
(b)  Seminars in Rwanda
Physical Education Trainers
Librarians
Other                                                                      30
(c)  Fellowships Abroad
6     Commerce/Economies              6.0         9/1984   8/1985
2     Arts                            2.0         9/1984 - 8/1985
2     Home Economics                  2.0         9/1984 - 8/1985
3     Directors (CTC, 2TTC)           1.0         6/1983 ... 12/1984
(study visits)                 11.0                                307
C. Studies
(a)  Teacher Training Needs                2.0
(b)  Medical Texts & Teachg. Methdgy.Z!  2-0
(c)  Evaluation/Preinvestment              2.0
6.0                                540
1/  Costing basis: (i) experts about US$90,000 per staff year (including fees and per diem
allowances) and fellowships US$27,000 per year including travel cost.
2/ Included in PPF.



RWANDA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Estimated
Effective Date                                                                    Project Completion Date                 Credit Closing Date
(Sept& 30, 1982) .                                                                         (March 31, 1987)                   (Segt  30, 1987)
Year of Implementation                   I                    II                   III                   IV                    V
Calendar Year                    1982         1983                1984                 1985                  1986                 1987
Quarter                           1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9   10   11   12   13   14   15   16   17   18   19   20
Commerce Training:
1.  Muramba                     000   000  000  PPP  PPP  +++  XXX XXX  XXX XXX  XXX  XXX   XXX  XXX  -    _    -    _
Nursing Training:
2.  Gisenyi                                 000  000  000  PPP  PPP ++4-  XXX XXX  XXX  XXX   XXX  XXX  _     -     -     -
Teachers Training:
3.  Save                               000  000  000  PPP  PPP  ++f XXX  XXX XXX  XXX  XXX   XXX  XXX             ___  -
4.  Zaza                        000   000  PPP  PPP  ++4- XXX  XXX XXX  XXX XXX  XXX  XXX   _                      _
Demonstration School:
5.  Save, Zaza                                   000  000  PPP  +++ XXX  XXX XXX  XXX
6.  Furniture                                                     PPP PPP  ++t XXX  XXX  XXX   DDD  DDD  DDD  DDD  DDD
7.  Equipment                                                     PPP PPP  PPP +++  +++  XXX   DDD  DDD  DDD  DDD  DDD  DDD
8.  Technical Assistance &    AAA   AAA  AAA  AAA  AAA  AAA  AAA AAA  AAA AAA  AAA  AAA   AAA  AAA  AAA  AAA  AAA  AAA
Professional Services                                                                                                                            m
9.  Pedagogical Training,                                                            AAA  AAA   AAA  AAA  AAA  AAA  AAA  AAA
'ellowships, Studies
Legend:  +  -  Tender                                              -     Maintenance
A  -  Activity                                           P  -  Tender Documentation Preparation
D  -  Distribution and Installation                      X  =  Construction and Manufacturing
0 - Design



-45-
ANNEX 1
Schedule 3
RWANDA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT
(in US$000')
ACCUMULATED         UNDISBURSED
FY       QUARTER        DISBURSEMENT        DISBURSEMENT          BALANCE
10,000
1983        1 1/             100  2/              100                 9,900
2                  0                 100                 9,900
3                 50                 150                 9,850
1984        4                 60                  210                 9,790
5                 70                 280                 9,720
6                 80                 360                 9,640
7                180                 540                 9,460
1985        8                700               1,240                  8,760
9               900                2,140                 7,860
10                950               3,090                 6,910
11              1,200               4,290                 5,710
1986       12              1,000               5,290                  4,710
13             1,700                6,990                 3,010
14             1,000                7,990                 2,010
15                650               8,640                 1,360
1987       16                300               8,940                  1,060
17                250               9,190                   810
18                200               9,390                   610
19                500               9,890                   110
1988       20                110              10,000  3/                  0
1/ From Date of Credit Effectiveness.
2/ Disbursed from Project Preparation Facility (PPF) funds.
3/ The above accumulated disbursements of 100% at the 20th quarter (9/30/87)
compares with the country wide profile of 96%. A somewhat slower disburse-
ment than in the SAR for Rwanda Education I was assumed.



-46 -
ANNEX 2
RWANDA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available
in the Project File
A. Reports and Studies Related to Education
1. Minist'ere du Plan. Deuxieme plan quinguennal du developpement
economigue, social et culturel 1977-1981, Vol I, II
2.  Ministere de l'education nationale.  Deuxieme plan quinguennal
1977-1981: Rapport du secteur enseignement
3.  Unesco.  Education et reforme, juin 1977
4.  Ministere du 1'education nationale.
(a) Mesures generales dapplication de la reforme de 1'enseignement,
mars 1978;
(b) Constructions et equipement des etablissements, decembre 1978
(2 vols.);
(c) Re'forme de enseignement au Rwanda, mars 1979 (2 vols.);
(d) Mise en oeuvre de la reforme de 1'enseignement. Evaluation
des co&ts et previsions des dtpenses, mars 1980
(e) Statistiques de l'enseignement; Annee Scolaire 1979/1980
B. Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
1. Project Preparation Documents Submitted by the Government, January 1981
2. University Research Corporation (URC). Le developpement des services
de sante' au Rwanda: Une e'tude sectorielle de pre-investissement,
fevrier 1981 (original English)
3. Ministere de 1'enseignement primaire et secondaire. Situation
de la reforme de l'enseignement, mai 1981
C. Selected Working Papers
Architectural and Education Working Papers.



_ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _IB R D                                          16 06 0
219-  ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                               sMborsac & K-EWrpr                                                N OV EEW BE H I-01-aI
RWANDA(
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                                                                                                             EUGcAiND A  bs
COIMMERCE TAI NI NG COLLEGE. (CTCC, MUJRAMU 'A
NURSING TIIAIN1IAS SCHOOL. (NTS), GADENT]
*  PRIMARY TEACHER TEA NINE, COD LFUJEU~ UTTC) SAVE scc ZHEA
COMMIUNE BOUNDANI ES                                                                                                                                                                               ,o-c
BR-EIIR   OUNUARIES                              RVUBOV_.UVUMA/JT                                                                                                                                           \      
RIVERSZA R
- - INITERNATIONAL BOUNUARIES                                                                  ,    P b.> 1f 
4t,~~~~~~~~~~ ''LHqE   ~' c~U                                                      'YE",                                                     (3"  E       I A' W
Y,   GO                  I                                            N A T  0 N A I  !UAHAL
U4ATCj'rE  L  P""~      C'       D)                                                        AGRK-
AU,                  (           '~~~~~~~~~~KK/  -      Gorcc
31  SPA//N  A    Us         INAnG!                                                                 0  000 U>' 
uA     -A'     I KAA'   ''OTSE,                   -,
,7Gise,nyi'         ~oeT1            -,.        -                     60                     IVOHA2
F   R   j   C   A                                                                                                                                                                                   j~~~~~~ (UtON/
V4Y'                                                                                                 4 *M.                          KASO5nA 
bAT   I                           /R000A$ A
-                                                             c(IarOaUA-.-1- - -<---BN U;  qAMMA                                                                             /
1, 'A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~S                                                 a-II
liv,"oo              MBV/cl                                                                TTC.~~~I    ('
/  -       U//AU'    (                                                        /         )>;  I AEAfiEA~jJ~Z~ Ti -         niU'AAN',
TSeAhn,c,,r- Eos cd scIlhs
Ws,cnsBnskclcs -on taz'nscfspRA                                                                                                                                                                AC        "E
Us sst ccccpce 5cc cUe pa5 sIrEs ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~ ~       UY1ANG'l
W,RAd 8ank -d Al cc fhfi-ecacA                                                                                                                                               J                  ERc)crnr
'g, ~ ~ ~ ~       ~         ~         ~         ~         ~         ~        ~        ~        ~        A 
we,                                                                 T ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUN Z A UIf A
AnTTAST,c.      B  Li R  LUN   D                      *              Uc»
INcA 'Aca    n   ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~               U        20 ~~~   3 0      RU       0 0      6RU      AU1       a
OtILEUI 
REPUJBLIC    OF                                                                                                                                                       U"a                          20            3D0           AU             ND
ZAIRE                                             '               B LJ RU ND I
AN                                                                         00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '



