Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repor No. P-3335-RW
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
FOR A
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
May 26, 1982
This docunent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00     5    Rwandese Franc (Rf) 92.84
Rf 100      5    US$1.08
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BPES       -      Bureau Pedagogique de lVEnseignement Secondaire:
Curriculum Development Unit of MINEPRISEC
CERAI      -      Centre d'Enseignement Rural et Artisanal Integre:
1W               Post-primary Rural Centers of MINEPRISEC
CERAR      -      Centres Ruraux et Art-isanaux du Rwanda
(Pre-reform Post-Primary Rural Centers)
CTC        -      Commerce Training College
ESSI       -      Higher Education for Medical Technicians
GDP        -      Gross Domestic Product
ILO        -      International Labor Organization
MINEPRISEC -      Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education
MINESUP    -      Ministry of Higher Education
MINISANTE  -      Ministry of Health
MPW        -      Ministry of Public Works
NTS        -      Nursing Training School
NUR        -      National University of Rwanda
PIU        -      Project Implementation Unit in SFCS for the
Second Education Project
SDP        -      Second Development Plan, 1977-81
SF         -      Sections Familiales (Post-primary
Centers (Girls))
SFCS       -      Service de Financement et des Constructions Scolaires:
Building and Project Unit of MINEPRISEC
TDP        -      Third Development Plan, 1982-86
TTC        -      Teacher Training College
WHO        -      World Health Organization
MEASURES
1 meter (m)                                3.3 feet
1 kilometer (km)                           0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)         =         0.39 square mile
1 hectare (ha)                             2.47 acre
1 are (100 m2)                             0.02 acres



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RWANDA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:        Rwandese Republic
Amount:           SDRs 9.0 million (US$10.0 million equivalent)
Terms:            Standard
Project
Description:    ti)  Objectives:  To assist the Government in meeting
increasingly acute shortages of qualified personnel
through expansion of secondary school facilities for
training in commerce, nursing and primary teaching.
(ii)  Components:  The project would consist of:
(a)  increasing student capacity and output at the
following Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education
(MINEPRISEC) schools:
(i) 1 commerce training college and
(ii) 2 teacher training colleges and attached
demonstration schools;
(b)  creating a new nursing training school; and
(c)  providing technical assistance for project
implementation, teacher training and studies on
teacher training needs, paramedical training texts
and evaluation/preinvestment.
(iii)  Benefits:  The project would (a) assist in providing
qualified personnel urgently needed in commerce, nursing
and primary teaching; (b) strengthen project
administration; (c) increase opportunities for girls to
participate in secondary education; and (d) provide
guidelines for improved standards in both pedagogical
methods and physical facilities.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
(iv)  Risks:  For a variety of political, managerial and technical
reasons, implementation of the first education project proved
difficult. Two misprocurements occurred, resulting in two
cancellations, and project implementation has been slow. The
situation has markedly improved under new leadership at
MINEPRISEC, but close monitoring will nonetheless be necessary to
facilitate implementation of the second project. It is expected
that the proposed project will not encounter the difficulties of
the first, not only because of a new managerial climate at
MINEPRISEC, but also given the familiarity with Bank Group
procedures gained by the Rwandese; further, the project is less
complex and preparation will have been more advanced through the
use of the PPF.
Estimated project costs
Local       Foreign      Total
(US$ millions equivalent)
Civil works, furniture
equipment & vehicles             2.0         3.5          5.5
Technical assistance,
professional services           0.2          0.9          1.1
Pedagogical training,
fellowships, studies            0.4          0.8          1.2
Project administration            0.2         0.2          0.4
Contingencies
Physical                       0.2         0.4          0.6
Price                         1.0          1.8          2.8
Total                             4.0         7.6         11.6
of which taxes                   (0.4)         -          (0.4)
Financing Plan
Local         Foreign      Total
(US$ millions equivalent)
IDA                                       2.4          7.6          10.0
Government                                1.6           -            1.6
TOTAL                                     4.0          7.6          11.6



(iii)
Estimated disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year
(US$ thousands equivalent)
1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
Annual:                       50     490   3,750   4,350   1,250        110
Cumulative:                   50     540   4,290   8,640   9,890  10,000
Appraisal Report:   No. 3770-RW of May 12, 1982.
Rate of Return: N.A.
Map: IBRD No. 16060






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE RWANDESE REPUBLIC
FOR A
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed credit to
the Rwandese Republic for the equivalent of SDRs 9.0 million (US$10.0 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms, to finance a Second Education Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.      A report, "Memorandum on the Economy of Rwanda" (No. 1108-RW), was
distributed to the Executive Directors on July 27, 1976. Rwanda was visited by
an economic mission in February 1979 and again in November/December 1981. The
major findings of this recent mission are reflected below. Country data are
provided in Annex I.
3.      Rwanda is a small landlocked country in sub-Saharan Africa, surrounded
by Uganda, Tanzania, Burundi and Zaire. It has the third highest population
density of low income countries, at 188 persons/km2 (following Bangladesh and
Sri Lanka), and its GNP per capita is among the lowest in the world, at US$200
in 1980. Rwanda's population of nearly 5.2 million in 1980 is predominantly
rural (with only 4.5 percent in urban areas), and lives in small individual
farms scattered over hilly terrain. The balance between food production and
population is precarious, as potentially arable land is scarce, foodcrop yields
are declining, and population is expanding at an estimated 3.6 percent
annually. Twice recently (1974 and 1980), Rwanda had to resort to emergency
food imports. Agriculture (coffee, tea, pyrethrum, cinchona) provides most of
the country's foreign exchange earnings. Coffee is, by far, the most important
source (62 percent) followed by mining products (20 percent), mainly cassiterite
and wolfram. Rwanda's manufacturing base is narrow, and its growth is limited
*             by the small size of the market, and the lack of raw materials, marketing
facilities, entrepreneurial skills and skilled manpower. The country,
consequently, imports petroleum products, capital goods, cement, steel,
construction materials, and virtually every other modern manufactured product.
Its merchandise trade is hampered by high transportation costs and dependence on
neighboring countries for access to the sea ports at Mombasa and Dar es
Salaam.
4.      A quantitative assessment of Rwanda's economic performance can only be
tentative because of deficiencies in the statistical data base. Available
estimates indicate that during the period 1977-79 the rate of growth of real GDP
averaged 5 percent, but declined to about 4 percent in 1980. The average



- 2 -
contribution of the agricultural sector to GDP, from 1977 to 1980, was
45 percent, and the sector's performance reflected mainly variations in foodcrop
production, which during this period accounted for 79 percent of the value added
by the sector. Foodcrop production oscillated with weather conditions, but is
estimated to have been, on average, slightly above the rate of population
growth. The remaining 21 percent of the value added by the agricultural sector
is shared by livestock, fishing, and export crops. As a consequence of the
pressure of population on land, the cattle herd has been reduced, and thus the
contribution of livestock to the growth of the primary sector; fish production
remains very low, as there is no tradition of fish consumption.  Export crops,
involving only 6 percent of Rwanda's arable land and contributing an average of
11 percent to the value added by the agricultural sector, are of crucial
importance to the economy. Coffee is not only the principal source of foreign
exchange but also a major source of cash income to a large proportion of the
population and has accounted for a significant proportion of the Government's
budgetary revenue.
5.      The contribution of mining production to GDP averaged only 2 percent in
1977-80, and has declined in recent years. Output of cassiterite and wolfram
has stagnated, owing to low international prices aggravated recently by the
appreciation of the Rwandese franc, which is linked to the United States
dollar. Furthermore, supply of necessary fuels has at times been irregular (as
in 1979, with the closing of the Uganda border), and access to additional
deeper seams by small-scale independent miners has become increasingly
difficult.
6.      The contribution of the manufacturing sector to GDP averaged 15 percent
from 1977 to 1980. There are indications that manufacturing has experienced
some significant real growth in recent years, principally in traditional
production (mainly of banana and sorghum beer), which is estimated at nearly
three-quarters of the value added in industry. Important also are the
agro-industries (coffee, tea, pyrethrum), sugar refining, and beer and fruit
juice production (lemon, passion-fruit etc.). Rwanda's modern manufacturing
base has grown slowly, often in response to foreign aid. Examples include a
cement plant under construction in the south, financed by China and a match
factory financed by Japan. The construction sector contributed, on average, 4
percent to GDP in the period 1977-80. Its recent growth has been limited to the
construction of dwellings, mainly in Kigali (Rwanda's capital), and public
buildings.
7.      The assessment of performance of the tertiary sector is particularly
tentative, partly because of the difficulties associated with evaluating
commercial activities in the rural areas (traditional trade in coffee and
foodcrops), but also because of probable tax evasion. The data available
indicate that commerce and transportation contributed nearly 18 percent to GDP,
on average, during 1977-80. Other tertiary activities seem to have expanded in
real terms, especially public administration, whose contribution to GDP averaged
8 percent in that period.
8.      Traditionally, Rwanda's fiscal policies  have been prudent, and have
taken into account the variations of revenue from export taxes, notably on



-3-
coffee. As a result, current budgetary surpluses averaged 3 percent of GDP in
1977-80. The budget structure reflects the narrow revenue base, high recurrent
expenditures, and development expenditures which are contingent upon external
assistance.  In 1977-80, more than 50 percent of central government revenues
came from import and export taxes, with coffee exports alone contributing 25
percent; taxes on beverages (17 percent), and on income and profits (18
percent), accounted for most of the remainder. Recurrent expenditures were
distributed mainly among Government's administrative services (25 percent),
education (24 percent) and defense (20 percent), but expenditures on agriculture
and public works have expanded faster in recent years. Budgeted development
expenditures have been particularly important in agriculture (18 percent in
1977-80), transport and communications (13 percent), education (13 percent) and
other social services (16 percent).
9.        The fiscal situation, however, is being affected by a number of
unfavorable trends. Preliminary estimates indicate that in 1981, contrary to
the preceding years, increases in revenue fell short of increases in
expenditures. Coffee prices declined, and in spite of higher export volume,
budgetary receipts from this source fell. At the same time, there was a sharp
expansion in government expenditures reflecting, inter alia, the impact of the
general wage awards granted in September 1980 and the costs associated with the
addition of a new Ministry of Higher Education and the establishment of a new
legislative assembly. In an effort to expand the revenue base and increase
revenue, the Government introduced a new business tax which, however, has not
yet yielded sufficient resources to compensate for the fall in revenue from
coffee. The overall treasury position thus shifted from a surplus of RwF 1.4
billion (US$15.1 million equivalent) in 1980 (equivalent to 1.3 percent of GDP)
to an estimated deficit of Rwf 2.1 billion (US$23.1 million equivalent) in 1981
(equivalent to about 2 percent of GDP). Even if growth in government
expenditures is slowed, continued deficits are likely in the medium-term, as
revenue from coffee is expected to remain depressed, and the possibility of
recourse to other taxes (or to increase tax rates) is limited.
10.       Conservative monetary and credit policies were followed during the
1977-80 period. Inflationary pressures have arisen mainly from supply shortages
caused by frequent disruptions of supply routes through neighboring countries,
increased international transport costs, and increased prices of imports and
domestic foodstuffs. Inflation averaged 12.5 percent per annum during 1977-80;
it peaked at 16 percent in 1979, primarily as a result of the closing of the
Uganda border, but also reflecting higher transport costs following the 1979-80
oil price rises. The inflation rate declined to 7.2 percent in 1980 and
remained at this level in 1981 as trade through Uganda was back to normal, the
prices of domestic foodstuffs did not increase, and there was a significant
slowdown in the rate of increase of import prices.
11.       Rwanda's balance of payments generally reflects coffee market
conditions, and has benefitted in recent years from significant net capital
inflows. During the period 1977 to 1980, the current account deficit averaged
U$105 million. Nevertheless, it was substantially lower in 1977 and 1979, and
higher in 1978 and 1980, in line with fluctuations in coffee export receipts.
Sustained net capital inflows led to overall balance of payments surpluses each
year, and Rwanda's gross official foreign reserves, at end-1980, were equivalent



-4-
to seven months of projected 1981 imports of goods and non-factor services.
The decline in coffee export receipts observed in 1980 continued in 1981.
Preliminary estimates indicate that in spite of a significant net inflow of
capital, Rwanda suffered its first reserve loss in many years, bringing gross
official foreign reserves down to the equivalent of five months of projected
1982 imports of goods and non-factor services. Medium-term prospects are not
encouraging, as the terms of trade are expected to deteriorate. Because there
are no viable alternatives, in the medium-term, to the products currently
exported, export receipts are likely to increase only slightly (on the strength
of increased volumes of coffee and tea), while import payments will probably
remain at a high level, as Rwanda's import needs will increase if growth is to
be sustained.
12.       Rwanda's development plan for the period 1977-81 included as its main
priorities to increase food production, improve living standards through more
widespread access to better health care and basic social services, increase
employment and improve utilization of human resources, and strengthen the
country's external position (through reducing its dependence on coffee as the
principal source of foreign exchange earnings and its vulnerability to external
factors, such as transportation). The Government has made serious efforts
to pursue these objectives, but structural, financial, and institutional
constraints have limited the success of its policies. Particularly,
institutional weaknesses stemming from lack of skilled personnel, fragmentation
of institutional responsibilities, and poor coordination among concerned
agencies have hindered project preparation and implementation and public sector
management, and have thus contributed to the sluggishness of plan
implementation. The Government's efforts to increase agricultural production,
especially of foodcrops, have had modest results, and food supply remains
inadequate. This situation is likely to be aggravated in the medium-term, as
population is increasing rapidly. The work of the National Population Office,
recently created and still being organized, will take time to produce results.
While there has 'been a gradual increase in the number of health/nutrition
centers and hospital beds, health services in rural areas are still sparse and
water supply has tended to deteriorate in some rural areas. The implementation
of the 1979 education reform has been hampered by financial and administrative
constraints and by the limited number of teachers. The only significant
increases in employment have occurred in the public administration and
construction sectors. While Rwanda succeeded in diversifying somewhat its
export crops by increasing the production of tea, this did not reduce
significantly its vulnerability to volatile world market conditions.
13.       One of the 1977-81 Plan's main objectives was to reduce the country's
vulnerability to bottlenecks affecting transportation through neighboring
countries; however, improvement of internal transportation is also needed to
stimulate agricultural productivity. Rwanda's rudimentary road network has
hampered agricultural specialization and monetization, and thus the
modernization of the agricultural sector. External donors finance most of
Rwanda's infrastructure projects, and investment in roads and road maintenance
has increased in recent years. However, a large proportion of the road network
is still not passable during the rainy seasons, which sometimes seriously



- 5 -
disrupts trade. The northern transportation corridor through Uganda and Kenya
to the port of Mombasa carries most of Rwanda's external trade.  Interruptions
of this trade have had negative impacts on the economy, as during the
Uganda/Tanzania war in 1978/79. when the Government was forced to resort to
expensive air transport. Air Rwanda, the state-owned airline, purchased a used
Boeing 707 cargo plane which has been used since July 1979 to transport all
kinds of merchandise. Kigali's airport has been equipped for all-weather
operation and, since its recent expansion, can accommodate wide body jets. It
appears likely that air transport will continue to grow in importance, given the
risks of political disruptions in the region and the prohibitively high cost of
shipment over alternative routes.
14.       External agencies have financed the largest proportion of development
expenditures in Rwanda. The principal sources of foreign assistance and their
average share during 1977-80 were Belgium (26 percent), the European Development
Fund (13 percent), the Federal Republic of Germany (9 percent), the United
Nations System (14 percent), and France (8 percent). IDA contributed over half
of the United Nations System share. Japan, Switzerland, non-governmental
organizations, Canada, and the United States account for the remainder.
External aid has been mainly in the form of technical assistance and financing
infrastructure development. Most technical assistance (58 percent) has
benefitted agriculture, education, and health care. Investment in transport and
communications accounted for about two-thirds of infrastructure financing in -
1980. Together, these four sectors received nearly 62 percent of the aid
extended to Rwanda in 1980, an emphasis in line with the country's avowed
objectives and priorities.
15.       Rwanda's need for external assistance will increase in the next few
years, as its fiscal and balance of payments prospects are less favorable than
in the past, principally as a result of depressed world prices for its major
exports (coffee, tea, cassiterite and wolfram). Agricultural production,
particularly of.foodcrops, is not expected to increase significantly in the
short run, as it will take time to raise yields. Significant increases in
mining production will only be possible if the financing for currently planned
investments materializes. The performance of the other sectors, which depend
heavily on imported goods, can only be maintained with further reserve losses
and/or increased net inflow of capital, and these sectors will probably compete
with food items for scarce foreign exchange. Thus, the medium-term outlook for
Rwanda is not encouraging, especially at a time when the external agencies also
have financial constraints. The country's external debt is still low. At
end-1980, the public- and publicly-guaranteed external debt amounted to US$170
million, or 14 percent of GDP, and the debt service ratio was equivalent to only
3.2 percent of exports of goods and non-factor services. Hence, there remains
considerable scope for further borrowing. Nevertheless, given the poverty of
the country, the vulnerability of its economy and its poor medium-term
prospects, external funds should continue to be provided mostly in the form of
grants or loans at highly concessionary terms.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN RWANDA
16.     Bank Group assistance started in 1970 and initially focused on the
improvement of the road network and the strengthening of agriculture
production. Rwanda has received sixteen IDA credits totalling US$161.4 million,
of which five (totalling US$69.0 million) were for roads, six (US$64.3 million)
for agriculture, two (US$9.2 million) for DFC projects, one (US$8.0 million
reduced to US$6.4 millior) for education, one (US$7.5 million) for
telecommunications and one (US$5.0 mtllion) for technical assistance. There
have been no Bank loans.  An IFC loana of US$535,000 for a tea factory was signed
in 1976; a second IFC loan of US$226,000 and contingent equity commitment of up
to US$60,000 to expand the tea factory were signed in September 1980. Annex II
contains a summary statement of IDA credits, IFC investments and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
17.     The first three highway projects are completed and totally disbursed.  A
fourth credit for a highway maintenance project (Credit 769-RW), which became
effective in August 1978, is three-quarters completed and is progressing
satisfactorily.
18.     The first agricultural development (Mutara) pro ect was completed in
July 1979 and funds have now been completely disbursed._/ A second credit of
US$8.8 million, which supports the second phase of a long-term development for
the Mutara region, was declared effective on May 30, 1980, but has experienced
start-up problems due to difficulties in recruiting technical assistance. The
cinchona project (US$1.8 million) is nearing completion and has progressed
satisfactorily; the Bugesera/GisakalMingongo mixed farming and rural development
project (BGM I) is expected to be completed by December 31, 1982. Construction,
procurement and budgeting are proceeding satisfactorily under the BGM project,
though the results of foodcrop and plant improvement components are below
appraisal estimates due to a lack of appropriate technical packages for the
relatively dry project area. A project to support reforestation programs in
Kigali, Butare and Gisenyi Prefectures (IDA Credit 1039-RW for US$21.0 million)
was signed July 2, 1980; the project, which is proceeding satisfactorily, also
includes a study of renewable energy sources for Rwanda. A US$15.0 million
credit for a coffee improvement/foodcrops project in the Lake Kivu region was
1/ A Project Completion Report (August 1980) concluded that even though the
increases in agricultural production were less than originally expected,
substantial achievements had been realized under the project in the areas of
infrastructure development and in experience acquired by Rwandese staff in
project management. In addition, the project had served as a positive
instrument for IDA and the Government in developing a sectoral dialogue for
the Mutara area.



- 7 -
signed April 29, 1981; all staff have been recruited, the first year extension
program has been completed successfully, and research activities have
commenced.   A credit for an education project (US$8.0 million) became effective
in 1975; physical implementation has been complicated by procurement problems
(paras. 19 and 26 below). The first credit of US$4.0 million to the Rwandese
Development Bank (BRD) has now been fully committed. BRD's performance under
the credit has been highly satisfactory. A second credit of US$5.2 million to
BRD was signed on July 13, 1979, and became effective on January 4, 1980. A
credit for a telecommunications project (US$7.5 million) which aims at reducing
Rwanda's geographic isolation from other countries and at improving internal
telecommunications facilities, became effective July 7, 1981, and is proceeding
satisfactorily.
19.     In fiscal years 1979-81, disbursements for Rwanda totalled US$28.9
million compared to new commitments of US$42.4 million. In the same period, the
average annual disbursement rate (ratio of change in disbursements to
undisbursed balance) was 20 percent; this is about average for countries of the
East Africa Region. While disbursement performance in general is satisfactory,
notable difficulties have arisen in the case of the first education project
(para. 26 below). The lack of acceptable record keeping has impeded the
processing of disbursement requests. However, following a UNESCO assisted final
inspection and evaluation mission for the workshops financed under the project,
disbursements have resumed. Implementation of a second education project should
be less affected by similar weaknesses given the familiarity with Bank Group
procedures now acquired in the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education
(MINEPRISEC), where in addition, a new and more positive managerial climate now
prevails since MINEPRISEC's reorganization about a year ago.
20.     One of the major constraints on Rwanda's development is the shortage of
technical/managerial capacity. This affects all sectors and inhibits project
preparation and implementation. Intensive technical assistance and on-the-job
training of Rwandese staff are therefore a salient feature of the Bank Group's
program for Rwanda, either under individual projects in the various sectors or
through the recently approved Technical Assistance Project.
21.     For the future, the primary emphasis of Bank operations will remain on
rural development, the main objective being to increase food production as well
as export crops, while maintaining soil fertility. A major emphasis will also
be placed on the development of human resources, focusing on population control
and support to basic education and skills training to improve agricultural
productivity, provide skilled manpower, and influence attitudes on the
population issue. Further investment is also justified for infrastructure and,
in particular, transportation to reduce the country's isolation and provide
incentives to further intensification of agriculture as well as increased
specialization and diversification through better marketing. Another area
requiring special attention is renewable energy to lessen the demand for fuel
imports and mitigate their impact on the balance of payments. A study of



-8-
renewable energy sources is being financed under IDA credit 1039-RW (para. 18).
Processing of a second Bugesera rural development project is underway and
includes a population/nutrition component, the Association's first operational
effort in the critical area of population education and control. In highways,
the Bank Group recently approved a credit to participate in the financing of the
Butare-Cyangugu road. This project is designed to open up the southern region
of Rwanda towards Zaire and Burundi and support both the forestry (Ff80) and the
coffee improvement/foodcrops (FY81) projects.  It is expected that the Bank
Group will continue to support industrial development through the BRD.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Background: Primary and Secondary Education
22.     Primary education in Rwanda is provided to about 64 percent of the total
school-age population and is of eight years duration, starting from age seven.
It is followed by either three year post-primary vocational training or six
years of secondary education for a very small number of students (about 2
percent of the school-age population). A larger portion of primary school
leavers go to post-primary rural centers (CERAR for boys and Sections Familiales
for girls) which provide courses to prepare students for rural living.
Government's objective is to combine the courses for boys and girls into single
post-primary rural centers (CERAI). The general level of participation for the
primary age-group varies fairly widely among Rwanda's ten prefectures (Kibuye
leading with 70 percent and Butare trailing with 47 percent), though not
significantly between boys and girls (the latter comprising 48 percent of total
enrollments). Inter- and intra-regional variations in participation levels (and
those for boys and girls) are more significant at the post-primary and secondary
levels (which have been developed through and depend more upon private external
resources). While primary education generally takes place in inadequate
facilities where basic materials, such as textbooks and furniture, are also
inadequate, facilities for secondary schools (largely because of the interest
shown by missionaries and external aid agencies) are of a reasonable standard.
Because of double shift operation for grades 1-3, there is a high utilization of
teachers and accommodations at the primary level, but quality of education is
rather poor as about one-third of primary teachers are not qualified. The
student/teacher ratio in secondary schools at 13 is too generous and therefore
unnecessarily expensive, and the lack of specialized teachers makes it difficult
to reform curricula to make them more vocationally oriented and comprehensive.
This situation in turn exacerbates the problem of shortages of qualified
personnel, especially in commerce, health and teacher training.
23.     In 1980, over 500 students (282 girls and 222 boys) followed commerce
courses in six schools to train for employment in secretarial, administrative
and middle-management jobs as well as for entry to humanities programs,
including economics in higher education. The yearly output of these
schools (70), even if doubled by 1985 as expected, falls short of the estimated
annual demand of about 300. The MINEPRISEC also provides health training at the
secondary level for medical assistants and "senior" nurses with emphasis on



-9-
diagnosis and midwifery, respectively, and for junior nurses (lower secondary
level). The two centers training medical assistants have an output of about 40
yearly, while another two centers training senior nurses graduate about 30
yearly and two other centers train about 25 junior nurses yearly. Output of
junior nurses is particularly low as requirements are conservatively estimated
at 100 per annum. Furthermore, the standard of teaching is weakened by the lack
of pedagogical training among staff. Similarly, quantity and quality of output
are increasingly problematic in teacher training. Thirty-one secondary schools,
having teacher-training streams with 2,880 enrollments in 1980 and a combined
output of about 500 yearly, train primary teachers. About a three-fold increase
in outputs will be required to meet estimated needs in 1990 and increase the
proportion of qualified teachers (3,600 unqualified out of 10,000 in 1980).
Post-primary teachers are trained in four secondary/technical schools. About
three-quarters of the 560 teachers in 1980 were considered qualified. Of 900
secondary teachers in 1980, about one-quarter were women, three-quarters
nationals and two-thirds were qualified.
Educational Reforms
24.     At independence, the education and training system in Rwanda was a
traditional elitist type and was generally ill-adapted to meet the needs for the
economic and social development of the masses. Various efforts were therefore
made over the years to remedy this situation, culminating in a major reform
proposed for implementation under the Second Development Plan, 1977-81. The
major objectives of this reform, introduced in 1979, are threefold: (i) to
reform primary and post-primary curricula to improve their relevance for
rural/agricultural needs; (ii) to make secondary education more vocational and
comprehensive and supply much needed middle-level technicians; and (iii) to
orient higher education towards major develomental priorities, especially
agriculture and applied research. While these objectives are basically sound,
the reform has three major shortcomings: (i) inappropriate structure of primary
education; (ii) financial unfeasibility given limited budgetary resources; and
(iii) an unrealistic time-frame proposed for achieving student enrollment and
teacher training targets. With Rwanda's rapidly growing population and limited
financial capabilities, prolongation of compulsory primary education from 6 to 8
years, as introduced with the reform, is bound to slow down or decrease
participation rates, thereby exacerbating inequities and postponing achievement
of universal primary education. In addition, the reform would require a steady
increase of the proportion of the national budget allocated to education from
about 22 percent in 1980 to over 40 percent in 1986--even assuming that there
were no real increases in teachers' salaries. A doubling of primary classrooms
by 1986, as implied by the reform proposals, is likewise unfeasible with regard
to both financing and construction capacity. Finally, given the shortage of
teacher trainers and the time required to develop reformed syllabi and train
the teachers, it is virtually impossible to meet the enrollment targets for
1986.
25.     The shortcomings of the educational reform have been a major theme
of the Bank Groupts dialogue with Rwandese officials. An outcome of this



- 10 -
dialogue has been Government's acknowledgement of the need to recast portions of
the reform considered inappropriate (especially those relating to the timing,
targets and educational structure) given limited financial and administrative
resources. Government's intent to make these modifications is reflected in the
analyses of the education sector undertaken for the Third Development Plan,
1982-1987. Among other departures from the reform, it is expected that the
double shift system would be continued for at least the medium-term for primary
grades 1-3; expansion of grades 7-8 would be phased in accordance with financial
constraints and the time horizon for achieving the objectives of the reform
would be extended. This flexibility suggests Government's responsiveness and
preparedness to approach critical issues in the education sector more
realistically. We intend to continue to impress upon the Government the need to
shorten the eight-year primary cycle.
Bank Group Experience in the Education Sector
26.     The Bank Group's First Education Project (Credit 567-RW), approved in
June 1975 in the amount of US$8.0 million, was designed to support the
Government's 1974 education reform (which laid emphasis on introducing practical
subjects in primary schools) through providing: (i) 150 workshops (increased
later to 250 with a simpler design) at selected primary schools; (ii) a
printshop for textbook production; (iii) office accommodations for a Project
Implementatios Unit (PIU) and School Construction Services (SFCS); (iv)
furniture and equipment for the Gitarama center for training primary teachers in
practical subjects; and (v) related technical assistance. For a variety of
political, managerial and technical reasons, implementation has proved
difficult. First, important aspects of the 1974 reform met strong public
opposition and were abandoned. Secondly, there were serious managerial
shortcomings in the SFCS project unit, including poor accounting and two
misprocurements, which lead to cancellations and a reduction in the Credit
proceeds from US$8.0 to 6.4 million. Third, monitoring of school construction
was very difficult as a large number of schools were widely scattered throughout
the remote and difficult terrain of rural areas. Moreover, this was the
country's first experience in the education sector with the Bank Group's
procedures. Despite problems, the project is now about 80 percent physically
completed. The SFCS and printshop are in full operation and a considerable
community effort was mustered to construct the workshops which are about 88
percent completed. A schedule of actions to overcome outstanding implementation
problems has been agreed with the Government and improvements are being made.
The Bank Group has recently agreed to a government request to postpone the
original Closing Date of June 30, 1982 by six months.
27.     The proposed Second Education Project would focus on development of
skills training badly needed in the areas of commerce, health and basic
education. It would also continue the assistance provided for institution
building in the First Education Project and in ongoing programs of UNDP/UNESCO
and various bilateral agencies.



- 11 -
IV - THE PROJECT
28.     The proposed project was appraised in June 1981.  Negotiations were held
in Washington during April 19-22, 1982. The Government delegation was led by
Mr. Romuald Mugema, Secretary General, Ministry of Primary and Secondary
Education. A detailed description of the project components can be found in the
Staff Appraisal Report No. 3770-RW, dated May 12, 1982, which has been
distributed separately to the Executive Directors. The main features of the
project are highlighted in the Credit and Project Summary at the beginning of
this report. Special conditions of the Credit are summarized in Annex III.
Objectives and Description of the Project
29.     The project's main objective is to assist the Government in meeting
acute shortages of qualified personnel through expansion of secondary schools
for training in commerce, nursing and primary teaching; shortages in the latter
two are moving toward crisis proportions and in commerce are causing disruptive
bottlenecks.  More specific objectives include: (i) improvement of training
standards in these disciplines, (ii) implementation of curricula reform to
render them more relevant to the country's needs, (iii) support for the
development of basic education through teacher training, (iv) increased
educational opportunities for girls, (v) improvement of the quality of entrants
to higher education, and (vi) development of local pedagogical and /
administrative expertise.
30.       The project would consist of:  (i) increasing student capacity and
output at the following MINEPRISEC secondary schools: (a) a commerce training
college and (b) two teacher training colleges; (ii) creating (a) a new nursing
training school and (b) two demonstration schools; (iii) providing technical
assistance for project implementation, teacher training and studies on teacher
training needs, paramedical training texts and evaluation/preinvestment;
constructing additional student hostels to provide boarding for trainees and six
staff houses at each institute in (i) and (ii)(a) above.
Detailed features
31.     Commerce Training College (CTC).  The existing CTC at Mhramba, about 100
km. northwest of Rigali, provides an economics stream for selected primary
leavers and has a yearly output of 20. Following extension under this project,
it would offer two streams, adding a new five-year commerce training program for
200 students, in addition to the present economics program for 240 students,
which qualifies successful graduates for access to higher education. The CTC
would increase its yearly output to about 70 (35 commerce, 35 economics) of
which 40, including all from the commerce stream and about 5 from the economics
stream, would be absorbed in the labor force. The remaining 30 would proceed to
higher education to undertake humanities courses (including advanced commerce)
for which there is a shortage of suitable candidates. The yearly national
output of 70 from the six existing commerce schools is expected to double by



- 12 -
1985, and would then be increased to about 170 with the Muramba extension. This
output, of which 120 would enter the labor force, would help alleviate acute
manpower shortages (but nonetheless fall short of estimated annual needs: 300).
32.     When in full operation, the expanded CTC would require 20 full-time
teachers. This implies a faculty increase of seven and a more efficient use of
staff by raising the student/teacher ratio from 12 to 22. Of the seven
additional teachers to be recruited from National University of Rwanda (NUR)
graduates, five would be specialized in economics and commercial subjects.
Fellowship training (six staff years) is included in the proposed project for
(i) the five economic and commercial subject teachers and (ii) the one
specialist-teacher from the existing staff; this would provide for a one-year
pedagogical training course abroad for each prior to opening CTC's extension.
Syllabi for the first- and second-year CTC programs were reviewed by Bank group
staff and found satisfactory. The Government provided assurances during
negotiations that the remaining syllabi would be available for Bank Group review
not later than June 30, 1983 (Section 3.04 of the Development Credit Agreement).
33.     Nursing Training School (NTS).  A new NTS of 100 student places to train
junior nurses would be established adjacent to a government hospital in Gisenyi
which has over 150 beds. The hospital is in good physical condition and is well
administered with Belgian technical assistance. A four-year course would be
provided in the NTS for selected primary school leavers; yearly output would be
about 20. The existing stock of 300 junior nurses in 1980 (of which 180 are
qualified) can only meet half of the country's estimated needs. With a yearly
population increase of 3.6 percent, shortages would almost double to about 600
in 1990 unless additional training facilities are provided. Increased output to
over 100 yearly will.be required to meet the existing deficit and increasing
needs. Effective planning of nurse training is hampered by inadequate
consultation between the user (MINISANTE) and the supplier (MINEPRISEC).
During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that from school year
1982/83, a yearly analysis of needs and supply of health training personnel
facilities would be made in consultation between these ministries and
transmitted for Bank Group review by the end of each year for five school years
(Section 3.05 of the Development Credit Agreement).
34.     The training course in Gisenyi would have two semesters yearly with 38
weekly hours in accordance with reformed curricula prepared by the Curriculum
Development Unit of the MINEPRISEC (BPES). Satisfactory syllabi for the first-
and second-year programs were reviewed by Bank Group staff. The Government gave
assurances during negotiations that the remaining syllabi would be available for
Bank Group review by not later than June 30, 1983 (Section 3.04 of the
Development Credit Agreement). Upon successful completion of training,
graduates would be awarded a MINEPRISEC diploma and be employed in hospitals and
health centers.  When in full operation, the new NTS would require six full-time
teachers.  To improve teaching methods in nursing  schools, a technical
assistant specialist (one staff year) would be recruited to conduct a one-year
course during 1984/85 for about 20 nursing trainers (para. 37).



- 13 -
35.     Teacher Training Colleges (TTCs).  Two extensions of 330 student places
each would be provided under the proposed project to increase TTCs enrollment to
540 at Save and Zaza, about 130 and 100 km. south and southeast of Kigali,
respectively. A five-year course would be offered to selected primary school
leavers to train as teachers of grades 1-6. Teacher shortage problems, already
very critical, are exacerbated by increasing demand due to a rapidly increasing
population and by the high proportion of unqualified staff (36 percent or
3,600).  Total existing output capacity of 500 would need to be tripled by 1990
to supply the teachers required for a modest enrollment growth of 5.5 percent
yearly. By increasing output from the two project TTCs from 60 to 190, this
component would play a small but significant role in assisting the Government's
efforts in meeting these shortages. For lack of sufficient qualified secondary
students, a five-year course--including general secondary and teacher training
subjects--is necessary, but it is envisaged that eventually junior secondary
trainees may be selected to undertake a two-year program, thus increasing the
output capacity of the TTCs and enabling some of them to revert to their initial
role of secondary schools.
36.     The training course, shortened in 1981 from six to five years, would
have two semesters yearly with 38 hours weekly. Reformed curricula were
prepared by the BPES and were adopted by the Government in May 1981. Syllabi
for first- and second-year programs were reviewed by Bank Group staff and found
satisfactory. The Government gave assurances during negotiations that the
remaining syllabi would be available for Bank Group review by not later than
June 30, 1983 (Section 3.04 of the Development Credit Agreement). From the
first to the fifth school-year, time allocation for general subjects would be
reduced from 76 percent to 45 percent, for science and practical subjects from
21 to 16 percent, while pedagogy and teaching practice would be increased from 2
to 39 percent. Instruction would be in Kinyarwanda, the national language.
Adjacent demonstration schools would be available for teaching practice which
would start with two hours weekly in the third year, increasing to four hours in
the fifth year.
37.     The existing Save and Zaza TTCs are well administered by the Order of
Christian Brothers and have 18 full-time equivalent staff each (who are almost
exclusively nationals having good qualifications). When in full operation
(following extension and with improved utilization), 20 additional teacher
trainers would be required for the two TTCs - 10 for pedagogy, 6 for natural
science and 2 each for arts and home economics. Because of the importance of
natural science for rural development, a technical assistance specialist (two
staff-years) would be recruited to first undertake curriculum development and
course preparation and subsequently to conduct an ad hoc one-year course during
1984/85 for about 20 selected Rwandese in the National University of Rwanda
(NUR). The graduates.from this course would be appointed to the two project
TTCs and other training colleges to upgrade training expertise in this subject.
Provision for four staff-years of fellowships is included in the project for
selected arts and home economics trainers for one-year training abroad while
NUR-trained pedagogy specialists would be recruited locally. During
negotiations, the Government provided assurances that the Bank Group would



- 14 -
be informed, by not later than December 31, 1983, that suitable NUR
accommodation would be made available to the MINEPRISEC for school year 1984/85
to conduct this ad hoc course as well as that for trainers mentioned in para. 34
(Section 3.06 of the Development Credit Agreement).
38.     The demonstration schools attached to the two project TTCs are in poor
physical condition. Teaching quality is also inadequate and they have no
organizational link with the TTCs. Extension of 240 student places each would
be provided under the project at the demonstration schools and a strong effort
would be made to improve quality as required to fulfill their important role in
training new teachers. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that
by not later than September 30, 1984: (i) these two demonstration schools would
be brought under the control of the TTC Directors, (ii) their teaching staff
would be at full strength and qualified, and (iii) required maintenance at the
schools would be completed (Section 3.07 of the Development Credit Agreement).
Bank Group staff have discussed in detail with the Government the implications
of Rwanda's financial constraints on the development of primary education (and
on training of the required teachers) and the inappropriateness in this regard
of the education reform introduced in 1979. The Government has provided
information that more realistic planning is now being undertaken in drafts for
the education section of the Third Development Plan. During negotiations, the
Government agreed to undertake a yearly review of and update reform targets,
with a view to modifying programmed activities for the Third Development Plan
and would provide information thereon each July for Bank Group comment (para.
4.03 of the Development Credit Agreement.
39.     Studies.  The project includes six staff years of technical assistance
for the following studies: (i) assessment of teacher training needs to the year
2000 and efficient means to meet them (ii) paramedical teaching methods and
adaptation of paramedical training texts to Rwandese requirements and (iii)
evaluation/pre-investment studies related to project components and development
of the eduational sector.   During negotiations, the Government gave assurances
that terms of references for these studies would be received for Bank Group
review and comment by not later than April 30, 1983 and that the studies would
be completed by not later than June 30, 1986 (Section 3.08 of the Development
Credit Agreement).
40.     Technical Assistance.  The technical assistance program includes 23
staff/years of specialists and 11 staff/years of fellowhips. The program
includes one staff-year (under the Project Preparation Facility) for preliminary
architectural planning and preparation of equipment lists and 13 staff/years for
an architect, accountant and equipment specialist in the PIU. It also includes
three staff/years of specialists' services for teacher training for NTS and TTC
staff together with 11 staff/years of fellowship training fo-r Directors and some
specialist teachers for the project institutes, and six staff-years for
studies. Technical assistants would be selected in accordance with the Bank
Group "Guidelines for Use of Consultants" of August 1981. Fellowship
candidates, courses of study and institutions would be selected in consultation
with the Bank Group (Section 3.03 of the Development Credit Agreement).



- 15 -
Project Cost
41.     The total cost of the project is estimated at US$11.6 million
equivalent, including customs duties and taxes estimated at US$0.4 million
equivalent.  Cost estimates for civil works, furniture, equipment and vehicles
were derived by staff from a review of data provided by: (i) the Ministry of
Public Works on its activities in the building sector, (ii) religious
organizations, (iii) the private sector including mainly contracting firms and
architectural-engineering firms connected with them, and (iv) the SFCS project
unit based on its experience in implementing the First Education Project and on
different school construction activities financed from other sources. The
schedules of accommodations on which the cost estimates are based are austere
and functional. Furniture and equipment are of a type adequate to the country
for achieving the proposed educational objectives of the project.
42.     The average unit base cost of construction for the secondary education
and teacher training institutes in the project is US$404/m2 equivalent at March
1982 prices. This cost reflects the transport difficulties faced by a
landlocked country highly dependent on the external supply of construction
materials. Although a direct comparison of unit cost of construction is
difficult, the unit cost in this project compares with other Eastern Africa
countries as follows: Malawi US$390 (1981), Comoros US$350 (1981) and Lesotho
US$331 (1981). The designs of the facilities financed under the project are
simple and would make maximum use of local materials and building techniques.
The project unit's specialists' services, which comprise about 156 staff-months
of the total technical assistance program, are estimated at an average cost of
US$7,500 per staff-month including salary, housing and travel.
43.     For physical contingencies, 10 percent has been added to the base costs
of civil works, and 5 percent to the base costs of all other components. Price
increases, from the base cost date (March 1982), have been applied in accordance
with the implementation schedule at the following projected yearly inflation
rates, foreign and local, respectively:
1982      1983      1984      1985     1986-87
(percent)
Foreign      8.5       7.5       7.5       7.5      6.0
Local       10.5      10.0       9.5       9.0      8.0
Including contingencies, the foreign exchange component is estimated at US$7.6
million equivalent or 68 percent of the total project cost net of taxes.



- 16 -
Financing Plan
44.     The total project cost is estimated at US$11.6 million equivalent.  IDA
financing of SDR 9.0 million (US$10.0 million equivalent) would represent about
86 percent of total cost. The Credit would cover all foreign exchange costs
(US$7.6 million) and 66 percent of local currency cost, excluding customs duties
and taxes. The maximum Government capital contribution to the project in any
single year is not expected to exceed US$0.6 million equivalent and this would
occur in FY 1985. Based on a conservative projection of the funds likely to be
available to the MINEPRISEC for capital expenditures in that year, the
expenditure on the proposed project would represent about 1.8 percent of the
MINEPRISEC capital budget. The recurrrent expenditures generated by the project
are estimated to amount to about US$0.2 million equivalent by FY 1990 when the
project would be in full operation; this amount represents about 0.4 percent of
the MINEPRISEC projected recurrent budget in that year.
Implementation
45.     The project would be implemented over a period of about five years,
including six months for completion of payments and withdrawals. The project is
expected to be completed by March 31, 1987, with a Closing Date of September 30,
1987. The implementation schedule is based, inter alia, on experience derived
from the first IDA-assisted education project in Rwanda.
46.     A Building and Project Unit (SFCS) was established under the First
Education Project to provide for improved planning and construction of school
buildings. Because of implementation difficulties experienced under the first
project and the greatly increased volume of work required of the SFCS by the
MINEPRISEC, a Project Implementation Unit (PIU), to be established within the
SFCS, would have sole responsibility for implementation of the proposed Second
Education Project. The PIU would be staffed, on a full-time basis, by an
architect (five staff-years), an accountant (five staff-years) and an equipment
procurement specialist (3 staff-years), all financed under the technical
assistance component of the project. A new Rwandese Director of the SFCS was
appointed in August 1981. This Director would have responsibility for
coordinating the work of the unit's experts and that of the required support
staff; a Deputy Director in the PIU would be appointed to assist him. Support
staff, including architectural technicians, specialist counterparts and
secretarial personnel, would be provided by the Government. Conditions of
Credit effectiveness would be the establishment of the PIU and the employment
of the architect and the accountant in the PIU (Section 6.01 of the Development
Credit Agreement). The equipment specialist would be appointed for a 3-year
period (intermittent) by not later than December 31, 1982 (Section 3.02 of the
Development Credit Agreement). Incremental operational expenses, excluding
government-financed salaries, would be financed under the project.
47.     PPF Fund and Professional Services.  Architectural and engineering
services, including the supervision of construction, would be carried out by the
existing UNDP/UNESCO architectural team located in the SFCS. To supplement the
team, the project includes an advance (US$215,000) under the Project Preparation



- 17 -
Facility (PPF) to finance preliminary architectural planning and preparation of
preliminary equipment lists. Funds under the PPF are also provided for
specialized professional services--civil and mechanical engineering and land
surveying (about one staff-year of specialist services). It is expected that
preliminary architectural plans and preliminary equipment lists will be ready by
October 1, 1982. The proposed PPF would be refinanced by proceeds of the
Credit.
48.     Sites.  Extension of project institutes would be built on satisfactory
sites adjacent to the existing facilities. During negotiations, the Government
submitted for Bank Group review, an acceptable legal opinion of the Chief Legal
Counsel in the Presidency defining the ownership of these sites and the
buildings to be built thereon.
49.     Reporting and Evaluation.  The Director of the PIU would be responsible
for implementation of all components financed under the proposed project as well
as for disbursements in accordance with schedules agreed with the Bank Group.
Biannual progress reports (highlighting any implementation problems and
proposals for their resolution) would be transmitted for Bank Group review each
December and June following Credit effectiveness, and a Project Completion
Report (PCR) would be prepared by the project unit staff (in cooperation with
other relevant agencies) and transmitted to the Bank Group for review within
five months following the Credit Closing Date (Section 3.10 of the Development
Credit Agreement).
Procurement
50.     Contracts for civil works, furniture, equipment and vehicles would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank Group's guidelines for procurement, except: (i) civil works contracts
costing less than US$250,000 equivalent each (estimated at US$1.4 million
including contingencies); and (ii) furniture, equipment and vehicles contracts,
costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each (estimated at US$0.7 million
including contingencies). These contracts would be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures
satisfactory to the Bank Group. The aggregate value of contracts to be awarded
by ICB is estimated at US$5.6 million equivalent including contingencies.
51.     Architectural sketch designs, draft tender documents, and master lists
of furniture, equipment and vehicles indicating proposed grouping would be
reviewed by the Bank Group. Items would be grouped to the extent practicable to
permit bulk procurement. Review of tender evaluation documents by the Bank
Group prior to award would not be required for individual civil works contracts
amounting to less than US$250,000, and for individual contracts for furniture,
equipment and vehicles amounting to less than US$50,000 equivalent.  Where ICB
procedures are used: (i) domestic manufacturers would be allocated a preference
of 15 percent or the existing applicable rate of import duties, whichever is
lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing foreign supplies; and (ii) qualified
domestic civil works contractors would be allowed a preferential margin of 7-1/2
percent over the bid prices of competing foreign contractors.



- 18 -
Disbursements
52.     Disbursements would be on the basis of:  (i) 80 percent of expenditures
for civil works; (ii) 80 percent of local expenditures for locally procured
furniture, teaching equipment and vehicles for project administration; (iii) 100
percent of foreign expenditures for directly imported construction materials,
furniture, equipment, vehicles, technical assistance and fellowships,
professional services, evaluation and preinvestment studies; and (iv) 70 percent
of local expenditures for technical assistance and fellowships, professional
services and preinvestment studies and project administration. Disbursements
for project administration would be made against certificates of expenditure,
documentation for which would not be submitted for review but which would be
retained by the borrower and would be available for inspection by the Bank Group
during project supervision.
Auditing
53.     Annual auditing would be required for all expenditures financed under
the proposed project, with particular attention to those expenditure reimbursed
under certificates of expenditure. Auditing would be performed by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank Group. Audit reports would be submitted yearly
to the Bank Group within six months following the end of the Borrower's fiscal
year (Section 4.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). To strengthen
the accounting capacity of the SFCS and the PIU, five staff-years of technical
assistance for an accounting specialist is included in the project. This
specialist would assist in improving the accounting methods and would train
local counterparts.
Benefits and Risks
54.     By providing additional student places in one commerce training college
and two teacher training colleges with demonstration schools, and creating a new
nursing training school, the project would assist the Government in alleviating
acute shortages of qualified personnel in the areas of commerce, nursing and
primary teacher training. Simultaneously, the project would provide a model
to improve pedagogical methods and physical facilities. Experience gained by
Rwandese personnel in implementing the project would serve to improve local
administrative and pedagogical skills. Increased opportunity for girls'
participation in secondary education (especially in the commerce and nursing
schools) would represent an additional important benefit. In supporting teacher
training, the project would also support the development of basic education
which has important potential for affecting behavior and attitudes in such areas
as population growth and family health. Finally, Bank Group support of
education in Rwanda would ensure continuity in the dialogue with Government and
the ability of the Bank Group to influence decisions affecting development of
the education system.
55.     For a variety of political, managerial and technical reasons,
implementation of the First Education Project proved difficult. Two
misprocurements and cancellations occurred. Although the situation is now



- 19 -
improving under new leadership, close mDnitoring will nonetheless be necessary
to facilitate implementation of the second project.   However, it is expected
that the proposed project will not encounter the difficulties of the first, not
only because of the familiarity gained by the Rwandese with Bank Group
procedures but also because the proposed project is less complex and its
preparation will have been more advanced through the use of the PPY.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Rwandese Republic and
the Association, and the Recommendations of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
57.     Special Conditions of the Project are listed in Section IV of Annex III
of the Report.
58.     1 am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
59.     1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments                                             By
Washington, D.C.                                        Moeen A. Qureshi
Miy 26, 1982



ANEX I
- 20 -                                               Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
RWANDT-I!AL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
RWANDA                           RCFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE7AGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                         - MDST RECENT ESTIMATIE
TOTAL             26.33                                   MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      14.6                1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
CNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     70.0       100.0    200.0                 238.3                  794.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)          ..         15.8      29.5                 70.5                  707.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    2916.0    .3847.0   5169.0
URbN  POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)    2.4          3.2                           17.5                   27.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         9.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           29.0
YEAR STATIONABY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                         110.9       146.3    188.1                  27.7                   55.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       193.1      253.1      328.8                 73.7                  130.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           44.3         45.7      46.6                 44.8                   46.0
15-64 YRS.                           53.0        51.6      50.7                 52.4                   51.2
65 YRS. AND ASOVE                     2.7         2.7       2.7                  2.9                    2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 2.8         2.8       3.6/A                2.6                    2.8
URBAN                                5.6         5.6        5.8                  6.5                    5.1
CRUDE bIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        51.1        49.8      49.6                46.9                   46.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THUSAND)        26.9         22.1      18.7                 19.3                   15.8
GROSS REPtODUCTION RATE                 3.4/c       3.4      3.4                   3.1                   3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..           ;.
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)       ..         ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            81.0        102.0    107.0                 89.5                   89.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     80.0         96.0      98.0                90.2                   92.3
PROTEINS (GRCMS PER DAY)            49.0        61.0       51.3                52.7                   52.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          25.0        34.0       ..                  17.8                  16.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       41.0        32.2       25.4                 27.3                  20.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)      37.2        42.4      46.7                 45.8                   50.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                ..       127.0
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OP
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..      35.0                 23.9                   27.4
URBAN                                 ..          ..      41.0            .    55.0                   74.3
RURAL                                  ..         ..       35.0                18.5                -  12.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                            53.0     57.0                 26.2
URBAN                                  *-       83.0      87.0                 63.5
RURAL                                 ..         52.0      56.0                20.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          138095.0/c  62048.4  38916.7                31911.8                13844.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       11197.07r    9181.4  10494.4               3674.9                  2898.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                  *-      822.9     652.1                1238.8                 1028.4
URBAN                                 ..        47.8      45.4                 272.8                 423.0
AURAL                                  *-      3224.4   1604.8                1745.2                 3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..         21.2      21.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..          ..
URBAN                                 ..          ..
RURAL                                 *-          *-       4.5
AVERAGE NUMLER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..          ..
URBAN                                 ..          ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..
URb.hN                                ..          ..
RURAL                                  ..         ..



ANNEX I
-21-                                                        Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
RWANDA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
RWANDA                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTII OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSfTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 49.0         73.0      64.0                  56.4                    73.7
MALE                  68.0        83.0       68.0                  70.7                    96.8
FEMALE                30.0        64.0       59.0                  50.1                    79.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  2.0          2.0       2.0                  10.0                    16.2
MALE                   2.0         3.0        3.0                  13.6                    25.3
FEMALE                 1.0         1.0        1.0                   6.6                    14.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY) 40.0           12.0      17.0                   8.0                      5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            39.0         60.0      53.0                  46.5                    36.2
SECONDARY                          14.0         13.0      15.0                  25.5                    23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        16.4/c       23.0/e    23.0                  25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.4         0.9        1.6                   2.9                    32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..          7.8      17.1                  32.8                    69.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..            E        ..                   1.9                     8.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENEKAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    ..           ..       0.04                  2.8                    20.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..      14.6                   1.2                     0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1650.6       2089.7    2582.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   49.1         48.6      48.1                  34.1                    36.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              95.4         93.2      91.2                  80.0                    56.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  1.1          1.6       2.0                   8.6                    17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                56.6         54.3      52.2                  41.7                    37.2
MIALE                                58.9         56.9      55.0                  54.3                    47.1
FEHALE                               54.4         51.9      49.5                  29.2                    27.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.8          0.9       0.9                   1.2                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OP PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     148.0                 136.0                   381.2
RURAL                                ..           ..      85.0                  84.5                   156.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                  99.1                   334.3
RURAL                                ..           ..      43.0                  61.2                   137.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      30.0                  39.7
RURAL                                ..           ..      90.0                  68.8
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicatars depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and forHMost Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1980.
/c   1962; /d  1978 census;    t   1973.
May, 1981



- 22 -                                                                          AM~EX I
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS iF SOCIAl INDItATORS
Motes   Although the dete are drawn fro... reunit  gene.rally lodged the most aSoriaad reliable, it should also he noted thee they sty rot hbiner
neloalycoprsi  hcosof the lack of standardieed definitions Sod concpts used hy diffe...no coutries in collartli.g the date.  The dal ta See  none-
thes., usfulsodeoihe ordern of sug.itode, indicate trerde, and  hbarcrerisa  c eit eaJor differences. hene.... I-tris..
The  eeao   g"Ps arm  III the sam  country groop ef ohs aubjeon  country med (2) aooeygopnt   oehthgm    vrs   noeta   b   enr   ru
ofth cshjo   cnery (serape for 'Ca.pitol SurPlus hil Eopornrs" grouP e1,ere "Midl  inom  North of rice and Middle fea" is  hb..nhecu.   at sronger
enIf -utrl  f  etn.I  henfrhe  ru   ot  h   vraebr  pplto  osigh--ted   - a inatihsta   for. emith.   nduator  n  ces  ony-he
adinuunfe      out nese   eeecedti   oeigoeao    freidctrn  anthr   Item   eceragn.  are onl  useful1 rdo h-a only thet.ue.
one indica  at a time amon  nhe cou...try And referecca groups.                                                            r   ny..  .   n  .p            t.   1.o
LARD ASLEA (thousan d sqikm.)                                                                     Peooiopr  cpilMd - total,  ra.adrrl-Pplno   ttl
Total- Toal euf acSare  compreeleg toed erse and inland ener.ure, edrue)divided Dy thier resec -toe enher Of hempite1 hsdac
Agri-cultra  - intimate  fSariuno          ae  used temporarily or permanently                     ..oilobls in phblo erd prinate pece_lciad ePenialteed hospital1adre
fer crops,psnr, P     market an  kitrhet grdea or no lie fallen; 1978 dmta.                     hhlitIno    eers.   fnpieal.Streeetehlehmenta  Per-tmely staffed
hy an Is-t one phystise.. istabIiebhcten providing principally nu.sto-
GNPF PER CAPITA  tTOS) - iffy per ropitn senimant e  crrn t      urke t prices, -1l-                dial c e .rr  c  non included.  Rur-l hoepital, hoevr, inclu.de haulth
oulated hy a-    --nvretn  neehd as World tank Anlue (1977-79 tunic); 1960,                       and medirel  see-rs net psemerrenly stntfed by a phym,,isia  (hue Dy a
1970, end 1979 dane,                                                                              medicl asinet..t  nurs, nidnife. etc.)  hbirh nffr in-petitent  .cr--
danion end provide   limited range of medical facmiiee.  Per anatic-
ENEtRGY CONSliltTlIlN Fit CAPITA - AneuI consum ption of c--inotl enrgy (cool                        tical purposes urhan hoaPi1.ien e IncldeWHO.s princfpu1/gs...cr.1      ptae
and lignite, petoem   natral gas An.d hydro-, nucea  end geothera  elec--                         and rerel kheita1% loca  er rata1 hrapituls end esdloa1 and maeritY
tiolyl in kilogramme of coat equi-aler por cupine; 1960, 197i, and 1919                          cetr' SpeialSeed hoepitale Ste Included only undelrto,tal.
date.                                                                                           Admiaione ner Hoapital Ned - Total ...hs o.If admiselo   t  ordi-charge
tree hompinala divIded hy eke numhar of teds.
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TrealPeuain  Mid-T.ea  (thousan.ds) - As of July 1; 1960, 1970, And 1979                      HOUSING 
data.                                                                                         Averge..  e a  t "   gousHod Ina..... ret he...oId, -tnal urhec. and rurni -
irhse Poclutliln  (pecenat of nonel) - tatic of urhn n total.1  peplution;                        A he...ehold  . ceistaf agopo   niiul h  chars living . quters
differson dffiot n  of. uIha  aren  ma, -yaffet conparabil tey of data                          and their main  -.eal.  A hounder  r ledger may or may not he tenludd in
amon  toetien; 196g.LNli, and 1979 dot,                                                         th   omhl   o   ntiannl puTrps.
Ferulanion PrlcJctin..                                                                          Averge      b nSth   of prosPet room-   ..ra. urhe. and rural - Av-regSte
Popalntiou in near 2000 - Curren  .popultion prjc.cen. tre  eined on 19810                    hb- of percent per roes ft all urtn, and rural occapted c.ene-ti-1
rerul rorolarton Dby age nod mnrn  their ourtelity and fertility tua.doIlinen.  -ep-tri-ly.  Tccllinfeenclu.dso-procn  srorre  n
Frajeoioc prenene.. for mericlity rates copoime of three Ie.nleass.m-                         onncupied parta.
ing life enpeceoc aYt bihirti         Sionaig etch  -oteryn per.cayita imoose              knonest. no    -tric liv irneto   ri g)- Intl   reb   and rurnl-
leve,  and . fnsaln lfe  - eon nyetahilieing at 77.5 Year.  The paca-                         Coesna   elig   ihseaityi   iigqatr   mpret
meters for fertility cute alec       . ..v ..three  (  .r.n.nsuig d-clice it                  o uP retal,buch, and  rors  dwelliogsrsep-ti-ly.
fertility ....ording t   noeIrva  end pact family plen..iog performnce
Etac   ..uenry in than a         ..oe   n  of thes..n. oia i  conof mortality            EDUCATION
and ferility trends for projectio  pu-pesen.                                                adJusted Enrollm...t Matins
Stationar  rorulatino-I_    sttonr.ppti            oneee Iaogrouch sincn                        Pnmr nho -tt.ml and f esl  - loose total, male med femal
the birth rateIisequa  tothe death  ete, andtinet2he agee-roncs  c                               ooleio   l   gsa   h   lmaylvls   eonee   fremtc
mains Ine.nttne.    Iit iechievod only after fertil ity runes d-cltne to                        primaryshnlaepopulation...; nonmally includem  thldres sged h-11
the rplocemene irve  of unit ont  rpnaeierte, oh: soeah genacanien                              yers. hut edjustd for differeet lengths nf primary eduation; ton
of vase  rplunen itself  nAcey         h   ct......Y  popultion aiseor                          countr ies   , wituive...sea i.. mAcaine en letmy eacead 100 pernrnt
estimtd enthe baeis of the prujrrn   ha-         trinn  of the poplaio.utcec     pupile are kblw or ehuv  ch. official mute1 age.
ine Y pe  2000, and the rate of decline of ferrility ruts to replac-                      Src,ndaryekc-toa.msan  female.- Competed as shore;aedr
mee  level.                                                                                    edooienoqis              eSt tsa  per o: fepprr-d primary Oerotn
Pee  teanio..cy pnpu1anice J. r-ohod - Th. year eh.n stc.in..ry populneton                        pr-vidnegearl  vnaina,o  tcschr training  nmeuci-eS fnr pupib
sIse has Scecl teathbd,                                                                        usual ly of 12 to 1  yeara of ege;  crrenpu.e.c  .nur.. arc gene rally
Peculation Desi ty                                                                                  nonluded.
Pse au. tin. - Mid-year po.pulation per square kileetec  (lIOD hentoreel of                     Venetiea s...     eet(rtna  o    an.d.)   P tionel in.cnteti..m
tota1l ae; 1901,  Il aI d1919 data.                                                             icilude techntneAl,  .adutr1tnI. o   cothr programs whIch operate indepnd-
Per am.Am.agicultural land - ConFutd em abo- frr ogri-altura1 luod                                ettly or us deretm...ts of secondary inatituttene.
ol;96.197f and 1978 dote                                                                 uc-tchr rati   -  tmay   ndidsnordary -eTntul entdenta enrolld in
PouaieAse Structure       ..rtet) - Children (I-lu years), rrking-uge  15                      primary and  ...c.ednp leel  divie  Dy nhre of  -enher  in the
64 years.). *ad retired (65 years end oe)n  peroencorges of mid-yea  P.upo-                        ..c..eP'edig leve
lasice; 1q60, 1970  . ad 197dta                                                                 Adolt ltcesy tore... Inrcn)- Ltessdu1rs  (ahlerraadwie
Poocletion iroath Pate lnroeSel  tota  - Anua  growth rcate  of tote1 aid-                          aanycProsonegn of tonal adult popolatirn aged 10  sr  an             Aln.
ypast poplations for 1950-60, 196~0-70 , end 1970-79.
Populasine Growth Rats (prcnt -ot     - Annual grouch rets of uchn  popo-                     CiONSISTIONt
lein   o   950-60, 1960-70, and 1970-79.                                               Posee..e cASreC  fpre  theus...d poealation) - Psessger care Ocmpniee motor
Crude Birth  at   re   ho nd) - Annual1 live hirth  per tho..send of nid-yast                     tas  satnslasthee Sighe pMr-cn; secludesehloc.   hearse. sad
ppanc;1960,  9i,a197     970  dta                                                         illtarp nehielse
craSs lnttMeth (re  thosed  - Annua  dec06. p.r chc....cds of mid-year                          Radio Receier (cert chusnd euclttue   - All types of receivers fnt radio
ppltion; 1968, 1970, end 1979 dt.todae  cc 'sa...                                                                        pei prtrSod of pepaltiun; emaldneun
DressRerdue.nice   ts-Avarne ensthe  of dnghcare A e-a  will hear in                              license.d re-i-eran   . to cutnss  nd isysars whine r-gietrtatt    of radio
her  -nrstPl  tednive period if she nperir..... prnae..... ag-pmfiti  fnt-                      sets  a  in effect; da ta for rcc yars may eot he tempatabla  i.-e
nily rtes; usaly tire-year. ureag. s. ding in 1960,  9197, and 1979.                            metcutis           eibshs  licanelg.
Family Flee-na-, uceeptern. Acculnt.        uade.        Accr-a ounhe  of acoepeor              PPRciesle  hosn   ne                 tn          .f.eniv.rm fo enbroadoc.t to
of ire-ontr   deitse under a..pines of nationa  foeily plann.ing prore.lgnrlpbi   e  huadpplen;nnae   eiesdT   sevr
Famly   anin-Rer   pretof macclad;..mee) -I Percentag  of mactid                              in cou-tries end in yesre when reit       ote     f TV mete wa  in effect.
women of chi'ld-hearingg  (15-il Y ymre( nbc .  u rhtch-control devcscDwcct  Cicuaton(Pre  the..eand poulsaine) -Slenw  the' a .Seg  rir-
allmaried m_n  incn  age grou.P.cuaino  "diy g....sc   a in                                                                       . teeI naeppr"   efnd   epe dia
peblication devted Prmarilye reco..rding ges             eS.  It is  oseee
FOOD ANDi NeITnIN                                                                                    to he "daily" if it appeasa-        es   eu   ie      ei
Iedee of Pond Froduetin:e pen Capita (I9?6~9-d7.110) - Ind.. of Per capita anua ..I             Cieem  A oa Attndanne per Cur1ta pee Y..r - Based on the aamher of
production of all fen.    omoities   Pr        tinin  elu.de  seed Sod fead and                 ticitkt  sold duteig the Yas. ieladtng                tsaan .ae  driv-in cin-.m
te ce caledar year heals.  Cumnditi.es corer primary good  (e.g.  -uaraer  mettl  ofinS.
instead c   suga) which are edible Anod contain nutrients (e.g. coffeean
tamar   amldd).  Aggregate productionof ea.h country is ham;Id enABORi FiORCE
nation I     respre,ducer prices negh;19%161-il, 197,  an Sd 197  dana.-                      Tota taboo Forc  (tbu....de) - Rannomiclly anei-s p.r..na. imelding
Perr.   t   ocro   eetciern   frvcene   - Computd from                                          nSte  fo.as sad umlcyad hut ancldingheamsvc,tdanse,  trc.,
;ne.cgy eqenalnen of net iced aupplies avilable in country per en pita                        coeigpopolator. of allI ages.D istinielo     in v-rinac countries am
prday.  A-tlatle aepplie... coprise domes.tic production, imports lnm                      no     p.rmytala; 1960. 1970 and 1979 data,
e.POrt..and changec in snook.  Pet supplies   olade animal tend, inseAm,                    Femal irnrc...e) - Femal  lbtsr ferns ma pproancage nI totel later fnres
quantitie  use..d in feed precasatog , sod losses In dlsnibutie, isqirn-                    Agricltu.. (rct...et,  - Later torts in farming, Ifretr          Otiu  and
mont   et  etiatad hy PAP bs...dIon physiological  -,. too   -1ma  anti-                      tishing AS Per.rcetge of ntatl later ft.rc.; 1960g  1970 end 1979 dana,
vity andrhemln h conideringenicem telepelcatur. cbody weights;,oge                          Iudostry (certe..t) - Llar ferns t. mieng.  -ontr...tteen. macf etutin
and .n. distribut'ion If population.  Anod al n  10 Pernttnoae  anad slectrinicy,.8wter And gas as percetage of  ntel  bshe  force;1960,
house hold level; 1961-60, 197i,en   977 dota.                                                197i ned 1979 data.
Fee caries mainly of protein  gam c  dey) - Fretein ececrer of per capita                     Particlpiraioiee(ers    - annu,tSmajle. andfemale- Part1tfPenioe or
'te  supply of fond per day.  Net supply of food is defined as abor.-   R.-                   activity rtens  er   cmps  mete             _mae  an  tamale labrr force me
qul-ets tnorall ce..nteirs aetablimhed by USDA provide for minimum                            percentages of tce1, male end feml   .poplati..of ccal  agS respectively;
allonancetcf 60.grems ofltend  peotnin per dey end  2i gram  of aci"al and                    1960, 1970. And 1979 dais,  Ch..e mrshasd en It,0'mpartic Ipain           Iee
Pus  prti, ho bc   0 grm   hould be acina  preerto.  These seand-                             reflecti in  age-see  troctre. of cspopelatine.rf           gtime tinnd,  A
erda are lewec than those of 71 gross of totalI preceic end 25 grams of                       fe  estimates Are from, natlen.al.. seas..
teimel protein. as an Avrge for thn world, prcpnred by PA0 in the Third                     Eco  pinleedercy Ratio - htue  of popelseine ceder 15 and 60 and ever
RnldPed RurmY; 1961-_65,1970 And 1977 dact.                                                  tht  total labor force.
Per IarIt. crteic mupnly reitledpm                    Pcocein supply of food de-
rie   reaimal  sond pulses in gran  yet day: 1961-6). 1970 and 1977~dat-           INCOMEt DISTRIBfyfIN
ChildCae I:.!1'-41 Hfcta1ly Rate'p, (rthieusnod   -  eua  deuthe cot thcu-ud is                 Perce.ntage of Privat  I-cm  (btht is cast and kind) - R-cived by richest
ege group 1-4 yare.,nochldren in thin age  ropfrmet deeoig  on                                      peruses, richet 20 percent, po.cret 20 percen.t. and peoroen AS pornent
er fee dots denivd f roe life cahle; 1960. 1970 nod197  dat.o   ethls
fEALTI                                                                                          POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Life Enpectey .. c g tirth (pnts) - Average neber of peers of life remining                     The follning nnimates Are very  pyp Iniman   .e.us c-  povertylels
en birth; 1960. 1970 and 1979 data.                                                             and  hboeld he i-trpre-d elbch eiech              aion.
IsfJ   otlt   ae(e   ha...nd) - Am...al destha of infants under one perytmtdAhnurPvryiresLvl(fSrcsrt)-ura   n   ua 
cf age per toumued lIve ktinks.                                                                 Atfeletw  peverty loine- ln"eS  is thet tn....  -levelon, which a mirim1
Access ra Sate Wae   ceeno   ouaie-irl   ra,adrrl-Sm                                                urtoAlly adequate diet plus. .....la t         n-1 no.e.ie.esi   a
hr of prple (tonal, oran  cofua)wnfosnbeacest   aae  edb
esersppip (ioeludes treated sefaenteca or untreated hut unctmotd                            siae_alnr   retyIcm    ee (EOntcncl-ohn  o   ua
wae hse  aS  than f roe pronected boneholas, Springe. and saitary well) an                  Rurl u1     v   p-vercy income leeli      _ethid  ft average per -Pcale
prsegsof their  -ep-t i-e popoletions        .  .   b. lnrtnreapublio                     psmoa -1Inton  of ohs ocetrp.  Urban level is d-ri-d firm. the rural
fctein or etandpcet loate,d cot mane thee 200 meters tree a hcose maY he                      leeP     th.jamn  m    il              ee   ive   sahmaes
cerideted as heog nithic -rensbrle acorns of ntht house. . Ecrta1aream                       imtimte  Fonult tc f.rio   Shuohl ...s P oefe 1ncime Leve (rree)-ra
r.s.nh.  acces  wuld imply chat the housewife or members of the heu..b.. ::             d           turtd  -Percenti     of1 pApulanm   ubnan      e)os  t   aslt
do man hav  n  spend    dipoet           ePert oftbik  day it fetohieg tbe                      poo".
fasily'  .strn ads.
Ac'c.. no tren...a Discesl icPr...etof ncluion -  tctl,  rbuc. Andrural -
Outrof People (total  urban, adrrl7nr    by sccsdispoa .. cIS
percentges of their csntv  popolaniue.  IEXrerte disposal na-y includs
the coiseio  ad disp,.rel, inu   or withou1t ..e.om-t, of human                                                                       EIoucred              DtnDaii
an   ate-ats  by wtr-tot  syat-  or the ann of pit priirsaa  siiv                                                                 ctsl  a dSctlPaDigr
Insiseleres.tcemoAnalySis er                                                                                                                               .rjectinma Department
Porltinre   hvt1a   Population divided by number of ypcn.ioing physi-                                                                                  May 1981
Pct... qualified free a medica1 schunl at unoereo ty level.
Pulnecetfu_esine Percon - Fpulstioc divided by number of Pra.citiing
mal  ad  enlegrd uste  uss  pr-tni-e  nurses,. and .a...a..        ecss



Annex I
-23 -                          Page 4 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - RWANDA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1979-80      1979                      19801/
US$ Mln.        %       US$ Mln.          %
GNP at Market Prices           1035,0        100.0    1172.5          100.0
Gross Domestic Investment       194.9         18.8      187,7          16.0
Gross National Saving           113,0         10.9       21.8           1.9
Current Account Balance          46,8           4.5      54.3           4.6
Export of Goods, N4FS           226.6         21.9      165.6          14.1
Import  of Goods, NFS          328.6          29.8      331.5          28.3
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                        Central Government
(RF Mln)                          % of GDP
1980-1/                    1980         1972
Current Receipts             13,259                      12.0           8.3
Current Expenditure          10,468                       9.5          10.7
Current Surplus    _          2,791                       2.5         -2.4
Capital Expenditures          2,113                       1.9           1.2
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES          1976      1977        1978       1979        1980
(RF Million outstanding, end period)
Money Supply 2/                  8,047     10,173      11,224     14,113      15,209
Bank Credit to Public
Organisations                    480.        221        225        233         219
Bank Credit to Private Sector   2,392.    4,169         4.908      4,330       6,296
(Percentage of Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as %
of GDP                            13.0       14.2        13.9       14.5        14.0
Consumer Price Index (Jan-Mar
1976 = 100)                      101.9      116.7       131.3      152.L      163.0
Annual Percentage Changes in:
Consumer Price Index                 6.9        14.5       12.5       15.8         7.2
Bank Credit to Public
Organisations                      5.1      -54.0         1.8        3.6        -6.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector       40.1        74.3       17.7      -11.8        45.4
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate
prevailing during the period covered.
l/ Provisional
2/ Includes Money and Quasi Money.



- 24 -
ANNEX I
COUNTRY DATA  -  RWANDA                      Page 5 of 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
,                       ~~~~~~~1/
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS          1977        1978        1979       1980  MERCHAN'DISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE
1977-80)
Exports of goods, f.o.b.   125.2         110.4       202.9      133.6                USS M-n   %
Imports of goods, f.o.b.  -102.3        -144.9      -159.5    -204.4 Coffee           80.3      55.9
Trade balance                 22.9       -34.5        43.4      _70.8 Tea             10.5       7.3
Cassiterite     7.7       5.3
Services (net)               -72.4      -106.3      -127.4      -90.0 Walfrar          6.4       4.5
Net transfers                 66.9        94.1       130.8      106.5 Pyrethrum         1.8      1.2
Cinchona        2.1       1.5
Balance 6n current account  17.4         -46.7        46.8      -54.3 Other           34.9      24.3
Total        143.7    100.0
Direct Investment              5.9         4.7        12.5       17.0        EXTERNAL DE3T,
Net MLT Borrowing             23.3        20.1        17.6       33.2       DECE'MER 31, 1980
US$ Fln
Other Capital (net)
and capital n.e.i.         -24.1        26.1        -7.2       17.4 Public Debt, incl.
Increase in reserves (-)   -22.5          -4.2       -69.7      -13.3 guaranteed             170.0
Non-Guaranteed
Private Debt            --
Gross Reserves                                                         Total Outstard ng
(end year)               96.8         99.7      177.3      204.5 and Disbursed            __
Petroleum Imports             12.3        11.8        14.5       22.8 LXTERNAL DEB-. SERVICE
Petroleum Exports              -           -           -          -    RATIO FOR 1980
Public Debt incl.
guaranteed              3.2
Non-guaranteed Pr4_vate
Debt                    --
Total outstanding and
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                        disbursed               -
Annual Averages      End Period
1974-80           December 1981         I3RD/IDA LENDING (Dec. 31.1980)
US$ 1.00 - RF                  92.84                92.84                         (USs Mln)
RF  1.00 - US$                  0.011                0.011             Outstanding and
Disbursed           58.12
L'ndisbursed         '7.48
Outstanding incl.    -
1/ Provisional                                                          Und'sbursed        115.60
2/ Debt Service as a percentage of Exports of Goods and Nonfactor Services.
-- - Not available.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN RWANDA
A. Statement of IDA Credits
(As of March 31, 1982)
Amount US$ million
(Less cancellations)
Credit No.   Fiscal Year   Borrower   Purpose                     IDA   Undisbursed
(Four credits have been fully disbursed)                         31.90
567-RW         1975        Rwanda       Education                6.38        2.87
655-RW         1977                     DFC I                    4.00        0.13
656-RW         1977                     Agriculture Cinchona    1.80         0.31
668-RW         1978                     Bugesera
Gisaka-Migongo
Mixed Farming and
Rural Development       14.00        0.70
769-RW         1978                     Road Maintenance        15.00        4.14
896-RW         1979                     DFC II                   5.20        4.71
937-RW         1979           -         Mutara Agricultural
and Livestock
Development              8.75        5.84
1039-RW          1980                    Integrated Forestry and
Livestock Development  21.00        10.59
1057-RW         1981                     Telecommunications       7.50        7.05
1126-RW         1981                     Coffee/Foodcrops        15.00       14.50
1217-RW         1982                     Technical Assistance    5.00         5.00
Total                                           135.53 1/   55.84
Repaid                    .38
Total Held             135.15
B. 'Statement of IFC Investments
(As of March 31, 1982)
In 1976, IFC made a loan of US$535,000 for a tea factory.  A second
IFC long-term loan of US$226,000 and contingent equity commitments of up to
US$60,000 for an expansion of the tea factory were signed in September 1980.
Note: Rwanda has received no Bank loan.
1/   Does not include US$25.9 million credit approved by the Board May 20, 1982
for a Fifth Highway Project.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
C. PROJECTS IN RWANDA 1/
(As of March 31, 1982)
Credit No. 567-RW      Education Project; US$8.0 Milion Credit of June 30, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
As now constituted, the project includes construction, equipping and
furnishing of 250 primary-school workshops, a school-textbook printshop, and
an office building for the School Financing and Construction Services (SFCS)
as well as furnishing and equipping of the Rural Agricultural Training Center
of Gitarama. The project also provides technical assistance, vehicles and
operating expenses for the SFCS. The project has been hampered by implementa-
tion difficulties centering on two misprocurements (an amount of US$130,000
was cancelled because of misprocurement of certain construction materials; a
second amount of US$1,491,000 was cancelled due to misprocurement of paper).
Most of the 250 workshops are nearly completed. The lack of acceptable record
keeping, however, has impeded the processing of disbursement requests. There-
fore, a final inspection and evaluation mission for the workshops, organized
by the Government (with IDA approval) was undertaken successfully in November
1981 with UNESCO assistance. Disbursements have resumed. The printshop is
now operational and construction of the office building for the SFCS completed.
The original Closing Date (June 30, 1982) was extended to December 31, 1982 by
which time the project is expected to be completed.
Credit No. 656-RW      Cinchona Project; US$1.8 million Credit of August 20, 1976
Date of Effectiveness:  March 2, 1977
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project provides over a five year period inputs and extension
services to grow cinchona for export. Progress is satisfactory and there is
still a demand from farmers for planting material. World market prices
for cinchona derivates, however, remained low during 1979 and 1980, and OCIR
(the implementing agency) had to reduce the farm gate price for cinchona bark
and abolish the export tax and the OCIR levy. In September 1980 it was
decided to establish a cinchona bark processing plant in the Kirambo area, and
construction has since started and the factory is scheduled to be open in
early 1983. This should give Rwanda a stronger position in the future to
compete with cinchona derivates on the world market. The original Closing
Date (June 30, 1982) was extended to March 31, 1983 by which time the project
is expected to be completed.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding they do not
purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weakness in
project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
Credit 668-RW          Bugesera/Gisaka/Migongo Mixed Farming and Rural
Development Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
March 31, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: November 23, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
The project consists of the promotion of mixed farming and rural
development in two recently populated zones; it aims at strengthening the
r           central services responsible for rural development.  The project includes
tsetse control, field extension and infrastructure, credit, improvement of
feeder roads and water supply, a limited number of schools and health centers
and establishment of two cattle ranches. The project is cofinanced with BADEA
(US$5.0 million equivalent for livestock development and water facilities) and
France (US$2.6 million for six technical assistants).  Satisfactory progress
has been made with programming of work, budgeting and construction. The
results of the foodcrop and plant improvement components, however, are below
appraisal estimates due to technical packages which have not taken adequate
account of the relatively dry project area. A follow-up project will build on
infrastructure put in place under the first project and focus primarily on
applied research, training and extension.
Credit 769-RW          Fourth Highway Project; US$15.0 Million Credit
of April 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: August 4, 1978;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
Implementation of the Fourth Highway Project (a US$15.0 million
Credit for road maintenance) started in January 1978. Specialists financed
under the technical assistance program are performing satisfactorily. Procure-
ment of equipment is completed. On the suggestion of the Association, an
expert on labor intensive methods visited Rwanda for three weeks in June 1978
and recommended that one mechanized unit be replaced by one unit utilizing
labor intensive methods. Following the consultant's recommendation, the
Government has introduced labor-intensive methods for road maintenance.
Although the project is about one year behind schedule, implementation is now
at its anticipated progress rate and the project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Project completion is expected for end-1982.
Credit 896-RW          Second Rwandese Development Bank Project; US$5.2 Million;
Credit of July 13, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: January 4, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The Project aims at providing further assistance to the industrial
sector by supporting the activities of the Rwandese Development Bank. It
includes two components: (a) a second line of credit of US$5.0 million (which
is now about 80 percent committed) to finance BRD's foreign exchange require-
ments and (b) a feasibility study for the establishment of an auditing firm
in Rwanda (US$0.2 million). Government has just finished reviewing the audit
study and its comments are currently under consideration by the Association.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Credit 937-RW          Mutara Agricultural and Livestock Development Project;
US$8.75 Million Credit of July 13, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: May 30, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project is the second phase of a long-term development program
for the Mutara region.  It aims at developing techniques, procedures, and an
institutional environment which will make it possible to preserve the
production potential of the area, make a rational and more intensive use of
available resources, improve farming and ranching techniques, and integrate
the project into the local administration. Settlement of cattle owners has
proceeded in an orderly way and pasture production has improved, but destocking
activities and credit recovery have been disappointing due to lack of clear
policies and enforcement mechanisms.
Credit 1039-RW         Integrated Forestry and Livestock Development Project;
US$21.0 Million Credit of July 7, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: November 11, 1981;
Closing Date: September 30, 1986
The project is the first phase of a long-term program to develop
the forestry resources of Rwanda and to strengthen the livestock industry.
Technical assistance personnel and key local staff have been recruited and
start-up activities are progressing satisfactorily.
Credit 1057-RW         Telecommunications Project; US$7.5 Million;
Credit of August 13, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: July 7, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project aims at improving the quality of existing telecommuni-
cations services, while extending the coverage to geographical areas and
segments of the population which at present do not benefit from such
services. In addition to improving international and domestic telecommuni-
cations (telephone and telex) the project provides technical assistance and
training to the Ministry of Post and Telecommunications. The project is
cofinanced with FAC and CCCE (US$3.9 million equivalent) and CIDA (Can$4.95
million) and is proceeding satisfactorily.
Credit 1126-RW         Lake Kivu Coffee Improvement and Foodcrops Project;
US$15.0 Million Credit of April 29, 1981;
Date of Effectiveness: January 18, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project aims at building up an effective extension service
which would assist farmers in increasing foodcrop and coffee production using
field-tested techniques and also helping OCIR-Cafe (the implementing agency)
improve its financial management. Technical assistance personnel and key
local staff have been recruited and start-up activities are progressing
satisfactorily.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Credit 1217-RW         Technical Assistance Project; US$5.0 Million
Credit of April 5, 1982; Date of Effectiveness:
July 5, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project aims at increasing Rwanda's absorptive capacity,
improving interministerial coordination in project preparation and monitoring,
and strengthening the Ministry of Planning (MINIPLAN). The project credit
agreement was signed April 5, 1982. The Project Economist to be assigned
to the Programming Directorate in the MINIPLAN has been recruited and is
expected to be at his post by mid-June 1982.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
RWANDA
Supplementary Project Data sheet
Second Education Project
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Origin of Project: follow-on to First Education Project
(Credit No. 576-RW of June 30, 1975)
(b) Identification Mission: September 1980
(c) Appraisal Mission: June 1981
(d) Negotiations: April 1982
(e) Planned Date of Effectiveness: September 1982
II.  Special Implementation Action
None
III. Additional Condition of Effectiveness
(a) Establishment of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and
(b) Employment of the architect and the accountant in the PIU
(para. 46).
IV. Special Conditions
(a) Prior to negotiations the Government started
procedures for recruitment of specialists under the PPF
funds.
(b)  During negotiations the Government provided for Bank Group
staff review:
(M)    Syllabi for second-year programs for the project
institutes considered satisfactory (para. 32);
(ii)   MINEPRISEC Directorate of Planning data on primary
enrollment and teachers forecasts for the Third
Development Plan (para. 25); and



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(iii)  An acceptable legal opinion of the Chef de Service
des Affaires Juridigues a la Presidence, defining the
ownership of the sites upon which the project
institutes would be built and of the building to be
constructed thereon (para. 48).






_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _I_R    DBR D 11 6 0 6
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECTr                                                                         U QAN[
*  CO,MCa,E TCAIIING CCLIC CE IOCC  MIJfAMBA                                  4i'                                                                            *
COMMUNE BWNDMIFS                          MIRE                               '7riyqrr
PMEFECTCECACUNPAS.E$                              REPLJ~  IC   O              
AVERS~ ~ ~ ~~~AR
INTECOAT CAsE 49.94 44494 ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~ ~       ....  j..... 
TIC   N
A, 4, raAb4ea4, yaeA aad Ma ~ ~ ~  ~        ~        ~        ~        Muamb
Ac 4.4,, how,o ea Mo ,eap ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 1 
j,lc:4a,9                                                                                                                                                                                       ....... fx 
*a          A           i i                                                                        I A
B t~~~                        NUN        CU>
RE PU)B LE    OF                                                                                                                                                    CM29                       5             0
:ZAIRE                                       V               B URL ND I



