CEE-IT NUMBER 1263 RW
D~OCUMENTS'~
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Education Project)
betveen
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1263 RW
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                                      , 1982,
between Rwandese Repubi c (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Lefinitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit within the
Service de Financement et des Constructions Scolaires of MINEPRI-
SEC, referred to in Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement;
(b) "Project Preparation Advance" means th. project pre-
paration advance granted ay the Association to the Borrower pur-
suant to an exchange of letters dated November 20, 1981 and
January 22, 1982 between the Borrower and the Association; and
(c) "MINEPRISEC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Primary
and Secondary Education.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to nine million Special Drawing Rights (SDR
9,000,000).


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the prin-
cipal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1987
or such later date as the Association shall establish.         The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such       later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be
cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.


﻿-3-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 1
and September 1 commencing September 1, 1992, and ending March 1,
2032, each installment to and including the installment payable
on March 1, 2002, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through MINEPRISEC with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate educational, financial, admini-
strative and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) At all times during the execution of the
Project the Borrower shall maintain the PIU and staff it with
well qualified staff in sufficient numbers; the qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment of the PIU
staff shall be satisfactory to the Association.
(b) The staff of the PIU shall include an architect and an
accountant on a full time basis and one or more materials and
equipment procurement specialists on a part time basis, for an
aggregate period of three years.       The first such equipment
procurement specialist shall be employed not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1982.


﻿-4-
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out Parts B and C 1 and 3 of the Project, the Borrower shall
employ specialists, consultants and teachers whose selection,
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association in accordance with the
principles and procedures described in the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall (a) provide the Association
the syllabi for the third and subsequent years of the teaching
programs carried out in each of the institutions included in
Part A of the Project, not later than June 30, 1983; and (b)
afford the Association the opportunity to comment on said syllabi
and give due consideration to the Association's comments.
Section 3.05. (a) For five school years, starting wiAh
school year 1982/1983, MINEPRISEC and the Borrower's Ministry of
Health shall jointly make an annual analysis of the need for and
the availability of personnel and training facilities in health
related matters in Rwanda.
(b) The Borrower shall transmit such analyses to the Asso-
ciation for its review by the end of each such school year.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall provide suitable accommoda-
tion at the National University of Rwanda for natural science and
nursing teachers who will follow ad hoc training courses to be
conducted by MINEPRISEC, and shall inform the Association, not
later than December 31, 1983, which arrangements have been made
to provide such accommodation.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, not later than Septem-
ber 30, 1984:
(a) place the teaching demonstration schools at Save and
Zaza under the authority of the respective directors of
the Save and Zaza teacher training colleges;
(b) employ qualified teaching staff in adequate numbers at
those demonstration schools; and
(c) complete all repair works at those schools.


﻿-5-
Section 3.08. Terms of reference for the studies to be
carried out under Part B of the Project, shall be presented by
the Borrower to the Association for its approval not later than
April 30, 1983; the completed studies shall be presented by the
Borrcwer to the Association not later than June 30, 1986.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shali be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The   Borrower  shall   cause  all  goods  and   services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progres- of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in Lhe Project; (ii) shall
enable the Associationts representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
twice a year, in June and December, a progress report containing
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of


﻿-6-
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than five months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and ini-
tial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived
and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and
the Association of their respective obligations under the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for the
construction (and operation) of the facilities included in the
Project and shall furnish to the Association, promptly after such
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association that such
land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintainid appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of


﻿-7-
statements of expenditure; and (iii) enable the Association's
reprepentatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, a certified copy of the report of such
audit by such auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have L asonably requested, including without
imitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors
in respect of the expenditures and records referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section as to whether the proceeds of the
Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure have been used for the purpose for
which they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the Association
such other information concerning said separate accounts, records
and expenditures and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and
maintain its teaching institutions and related facilities
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
education practices.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association
for its comments, not later than July of each year during the
execution of the Project, information on the updated targets, set
in the Borrower's educational reform review, made each year in
order to adjust actions to be undertaken under the Borrower's
Third Development Plan.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that the Borrower or
any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any


﻿-8-
action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the PIU or for
the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof namely, that the event
specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Develbpment Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the PIU has been established; and
(b) the architect and the accountant mentioned in Section
3.02 (b) hereof have been employed within the PIU.
Section 6.02. The date,                ' /9fZ./ is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Primary and Secondary
Education of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11,03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Primary and
Secondary Education
P.O. Box 622
Kigali
Rwandese Republic


﻿-9-
Cable address:
MINEPRISEC
Kigali
For the Association:
International,Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through. their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceedt, of the Credit, the allocation of the
amou-Its of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works              2,310,000          80%
(2) Furniture,                 310,000          100% of foreign
teaching                                   expenditures
equipment and                              and 80% of
vehicles,                                  local
(locally                                   expenditures
procured)
(3) Equipment,               1,620,000          100%
furniture,
construction
materials
(imported)
(4) Technical                1,690,000          100% of foreign
assistance,                                expenditures
training, fellow-                          and 70% of local
ships and studies                          expenditures
(5) Project admin-             230,000          70% of local
stration                                  expenditures
(6) Refunding of               200,000          Amount due
Project Pre-
paration advance
(7) Unallocated              2,640,000
TOTAL         9,000,000


﻿- 11 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
.(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
th&;Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures: and (ii)
if -such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Cate-
gory may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the


﻿- 12 -
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restric-
ting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Associa-
tion under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to alleviate acute shortages of
qualified personnel   in commerce, nursing and primary school
teaching.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
1.   Commerdial Training College
Extension, furnishing and equipping of the Commercial Train-
ing College in Muramba 'in order to reach an annual output of
about 70 students.
2.   Nursing Training School
Construction, furnishing and equipping of a nursing training
school in Gisenyi in order to reach an annual output of about 20
junior nurses (A-3 level).
3.   Teacher Training Colleges
Extension, furnishing and equipping of the two Teacher
Training Colleges in Save and Zaza in order to reach an annual
output of about 190 primary school teachers.
4.   Teaching Demonstration Schools
Extension of the teaching demonstration schools attached to
the teacher training colleges in Save and Zaza with 240 student
places each.
5.   Housing
Construction and furnishing of student hostels and staff
houses at the institutes mentioned in Parts A 1, A 2 and A 3.
Part B:   Studies
1.   A study to assess teacher training needs in Rwanda mtil the
year 2000 and most efficient means to meet them.


﻿- 14 -
2.   A study of para-medical teaching methodology and adaptation
of paramedical training texts to Rwandese requirements.
3.   Evaluation and preinvestment studies related      to Project
components and development of the education sector.
Part C:   Pedagogical Training
1.   Training in the Nationa    University of Rwanda of nursing
training school and Teacher Training Colleges' teachers;
2.   Fellowships  to  study  teaching methods   abroad  for: (a)
Directors of the Commercial Training College in Muramba and the
Teacher Training Colleges in Save and Zaza; and
(b) ten   teachers   at  the  colleges  mentioned   in  this
paragraph.
3.   Training  in Rwanda   for physical   education  teachers and
librarians working in secondary education.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1987.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with pro-
cedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the- Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in, any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification-documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange
for the publication of such notice in order to provide timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for
the goods and works in question. The Borrower shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
3.   Detailed lists and specifications of furniture, equipment
and vehicles, indicating the extent to which items can be grouped
together for bulk procurement, shall be submitted to the Associa-
tion for its review and approval, and the furniture, equipment
and vehicles procured, and its grouping for bulk procurement,
shall be substantially in conformity with the lists so approved.
4.   Bidders for the works included in Part A of the Project
shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of
the Guidelines.
5.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or


﻿- 16 -
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Rwanda may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids     offering  goods manufactured    in
Rwanda if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Rwanda equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.


﻿- 17 -
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bi, is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have. to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Category 1 of the table set forth in
Schedule 1 to the Development*Credit Agreement and to be procured
in accordance with the procedures described in Part A of this
Schedule, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2%
to domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
1.   Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A of this Schedule and applicants for qualification
applying for such preference shall be asked to provide, as part
of the data for qualification, such information, including
details of ownership, as shall be required to determine whether,
according to the classification established by th. Borrower and
accepted by the Association, a particular firm or group of firms
qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding documents shall
clearly indicate the preference and the method that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect
to such preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by        the
Borrower, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for
preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.


﻿- 18 -
For the purpose of evaluation and coapdrison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts  for  civil works estimated    to cost less than
$250,000 equivalent and for furniture, equipment and vehicles
estimated to cost less than $50,000 .equivalent will be awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in
accordance with local procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   The provisions of Part A.3 above shall also apply hereunder.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review  of  prequalification. The    Borrower  shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request.
The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of
their qualifications and, where applicable, of their eligibility
for domestic preference under Part C above and of the reasons for
the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification and for such
eligibility shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association
for its comments before the applicants are notified of the Bor-
rower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such additions to,
dele.ions from, or modifications     in, the   said  list as   the
Association shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts other than those mentioned
under Part D of this Schedule:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.


﻿- 19 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidde, to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report by the equip-
ment procurement specialist referred to in Section 3.03 of this
Agreement on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received,
together  with   the  recommendations   for  award  of   the  said
specialist and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph,   the  Borrower  shall   furnish  to  the  Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids, recommendations for award and such other infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request. The Associa-
tion shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by


﻿- 20 -
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extensioin
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  L3b       day of O"       ,
198
FOR SECRETARY


