Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7378-KG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
CONSOLIDATION STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 26.1 MILLION (US$ 35 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
August 9, 2000
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC - CONSOLIDATION STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
(as of August 4, 2000)
Currency Unit = Som
US$1 = 47.4 Som
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADB          Asian Development Bank              LRMC         Long Run Marginal Cost
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy         MIGA         Multilateral Investment Guarantee
CDF          Comprehensive Development                        Agency
Framework                           MoF         Ministry of Finance
CIS          Commonwealth of Independent         MoJ          Ministry of Justice
States                              MoLSP       Ministry of Labor & Social
CPC          Committee for the Protection of                  Protection
Competition                         NBKR         National Bank of the Kyrgyz
CSAC         Consolidation Structural                         Republic
Adjustment Credit                   NCA         National Communications Agency
DFID         Department for International        NPV          Net Present Value
Development, U.K.                   OD          Operational Directives
EBRD         European Bank for                   PHRD         Policy & Human Resources
Reconstruction and Development                  Development
ESAF         Enhanced Structural Adjustment      PRGF         Poverty Reduction and Growth
Facility                                        Facility
EU-TACIS    European Union-Technical             PRSP         Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
Assistance for Commonwealth of      SCC         State Customs Committee
Independent States                  SDR         Special Drawing Rights
FEZ          Free Economic Zones                  SEA         State Energy Agency
FSU          Former Soviet Union                  SOSAC       Social Sector Adjustment Credit
GDP          Gross Domestic Product               SPF         State Property Fund
IAS          International Accounting            STI          State Tax Inspectorate
Standards                           TA          Technical Assistance
IDA          International Development           UK           United Kingdom
Association                         UMB         Unified Monthly Benefit
IMF          International Monetary Fund         UNDP         United Nations Development
KE           Kyrgyzenergo                                     Program
KG           Kyrgyzgas                           US           United States
KJCS         Kyrgyzzhilkomunsojuz                USAID        United States Agency for
KR           Kyrgyz Republic                                 International Development
KT           Kyrgyz Telecom                      VAT          Value Added Tax
LPG          Liquefied Petroleum Gas              WTO         World Trade Organization
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
Vice President              Johannes F. Linn
Country Director             Kiyoshi Kodera
Sector Director              Pradeep Mitra
Sector Leader                Samuel Otoo
Task Team Leader                Ritu Anand



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Consolidation Structural Adjustment Credit
Credit and Operation Summary
Borrower:                  Kyrgyz Republic
Amount:                    SDR 26.1 million (US$ 35 million equivalent)
Terms:                     IDA terms with a forty year maturity, including a grace period of
ten years
Objectives and Description:  The objective of the reform program to be supported by the
CSAC is to improve the fiscal and business environment, while
ensuring a minimum acceptable level of access and standard of
utility service is preserved for the poorest elements of the
society. Towards this objective, the program focuses on four
areas: (a) tax reforms, (b) improving the business environment,
(c) reform  of utilities and (d) social protection.   These
components are interrelated in that it is vital to promote private
sector activity while restructuring the public sector role and
ensuring the social sustainability of the transition. Specifically,
the program aims at:
*  tax reforms aimed at reducing distortions and enhancing
equity in the tax system while improving revenue
mobilization;
*  reducing regulatory barriers to the entry and operation of
businesses and more generally enhancing the competitive
environment;
*  improving  the  financial  condition  of utilities  and
commencing their privatization; and
*  strengthening the social protection system to at least partially
compensate the poor for utility tariff increases.
Benefits & Risks:          The proposed credit would underpin fiscal adjustment and
improve the conditions for private sector growth, provide an
impetus for energy sector reform and help mitigate its social
costs. The tax measures will have dual benefits of reducing key
distortions in the business environment and strengthening fiscal
revenues. The regulatory reforms should reduce the regulatory
burden experienced by businesses, and improvements in the
consistency and transparency of business regulations should
increase the willingness of entrepreneurs to operate in the legal
sector and undertake investment with implications for economic
growth and fiscal stability. Greater regulatory consistency and
transparency will also assist the government in reducing its
regulatory expenditures and advance the development of a rule
of law state.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ii
The principle benefits of the utilities sector reform program will
be to place the infrastructure and utility services on the path to a
sustainable future; increase efficiency and improve service
quality; and bring in private capital from the privatization
process that will help start addressing the chronic need for
repairs and replacement.   These factors should create an
environment within which industry is able to operate and grow in
a competitive way with the major distortions and impediments
being removed.  Further, the government budget should be
strengthened through greater revenue collection and an easing of
the expenditures required to support the utility industries (both
direct and indirect).
The operation has three important groups of risks. A central
political risk, with an associated social element, relates to the
impact of tariff increases. The political will to proceed with
utility reform may dissipate in the face of a sociopolitical
reaction. There are also risks related to investor interest in the
privatization process.  In addition, the reform  program  is
ambitious and will require a great deal of institutional capacity
for implementation. Implementation capacity of state agencies
will be stretched, particularly as regards complex regulatory
reform, privatization and overall program coordination.
Poverty Category:             Direct impact on poverty will be effected through provision of
more adequate resources for social protection programs, and
improved targeting through reallocation of existing benefits.
Rate of Return:               Not applicable
Project ID Number:            KG-PE-35810



iii
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CONSOLIDATION STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TO THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I.    THE MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT ...........................I
II.   THE ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM ............................3
A. Program Objectives ...............3
B. Tax Policy .............4
C.   Improving the Business Environment .........................................6
D.   Reform of the Infrastructure and Utility Companies ......................................... 8
D. 1.      Context and Strategy ..........................8
D.2.       Strengthened Regulatory Institutions .      .......................... 0
D.3.       Sectoral Reform .......................... 1 I
Electricity .......................... I I
Gas ..........................                                     14
District Heating .......................... 16
Telecommunications ..........................                      18
E.   Social Dimensions of the Program ....................... .                      19
III.  THE PROPOSED ADJUSMENT CREDIT .............................. 22
A.   Links to CAS and Other Bank Group Operations ........................................  22
B.   Borrower Commitment ........................................ 23
C.   Tranche Conditionalities ........................................ 24
D.   Benefits and Risks ........................................                     26
E.   Financial Arrangements ........................................ 27
F.   Environmental Assessment ........................................               28
G    Country Assistance Strategy and Bank Group Operations ........................................ 28
H.   Collaboration with IMF and Other Donors ........................................  30
Annexes
Annex I   Policy Matrix
Annex 2   Letter of Development Policy
Annex 3   Status of Bank Group Operations (Operations Portfolio)
Annex 4   Statement of IFC's Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Annex 5   Kyrgyz Republic at a Glance Table
Annex 6   Key Economic Indicators
Annex 7   Key Exposure Indicators
Annex 8   Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
MAP






I
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CONSOLIDATION STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TO THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
1.   I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed credit
to the Kyrgyz Republic for SDR 26.1 million (equivalent to US$ 35 million). The proposed
credit would be on standard IDA terms, with a maturity of 40 years, including a grace period of
10 years.
2.   The proposed credit is a key element of the Country Assistance Strategy program (dated
April 14, 1998). It is the sixth in a series of adjustment operations designed to support the
Government's program of structural reforms. The Kyrgyz Republic's stabilization and adjustment
program is supported by the International Monetary Fund through a three-year Poverty Reduction
and Growth Facility (the second annual arrangement was approved on February 9, 2000).
3.   The  Kyrgyz  Republic joined  the  IBRD  on  September  18, 1992, IDA  on
September 24, 1992, and MIGA on February 11, 1993.
1. THE MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT
4.   The break-up of the Soviet Union marked the beginning of an extraordinarily difficult
period for the Kyrgyz Republic. Like elsewhere in the CIS, output fell by 50 percent between
1991 and 1995. The fiscal consequences were disastrous: the output collapse triggered a loss of
tax revenues of 7.5 percent of GDP, direct budgetary support from the Union of the order of 13
percent of GDP was discontinued, and implicit energy subsidies came to an end. As a result,
inflation exploded, reaching a peak of 2033 percent by end 1992.
5.   The Kyrgyz Republic has made major strides over the past few years in attaining
macroeconomic stability and restarting economic growth. The Government undertook initial
programs with the IMF and Bank in 1993 which included liberalizing prices (except utilities) and
trade and introducing a market exchange rate. A three-year ESAF was successfully completed in
1997 and a second one started in 1998. The second year of the ESAF/PRGF program, which is
now ongoing, was approved in February 2000. Six Bank adjustment operations supported
privatization and enterprise reform, agricultural privatization, financial sector reform, public
sector resource management and pension reforms.
6.   By 1996-97 the macroeconomic situation was brought under control and growth resumed.
The fiscal deficit fell from about 17 percent of GDP to 9-10 percent of GDP mostly as a
consequence of expenditure cuts - primarily transfers to enterprises and agriculture, and social
expenditure. The non-interest current account deficit declined from an average of 17 percent of
GDP (from 1993 to 1996) to 5 percent in 1997. As a result of the fiscal and monetary tightening,
inflation fell to 15 percent towards the end of 1997. GDP grew by 7 percent in 1996, by an even
more exuberant 9.9 percent in 1997 and was set to continue at a comparable pace in early 1998.
While the resurgence of growth was partially due to the investment program and the coming on
stream of the Kumtor gold mine, the recovery was broader than just mining: agriculture and
services rebounded too.



2
7.    1998 started off buoyantly, but with some worrisome signs. Growth was strong initially, as
were tax revenues. However, the fiscal situation weakened and arrears grew as the year
progressed. On the external account the improvement of 1997 seemed to be reversed in early
1998. The current account deficit in the first half of 1998 (US$160 million) was almost 2.5 times
as big as it was in the corresponding period in 1997 (US$63 million). Only part of that
deterioration was due to fiscal slippage.  The buoyancy in indirect tax revenues and the
composition of the increase in imports points at increased consumption expenditure also, possibly
in response to renewed optimism after two years of high growth.
8.   Recovery and optimism were, however, cut short. In the middle of 1998, the country was
hit by a series of external shocks (natural emergencies, a cyanide spill, and lower revenues- from
its two main exports, gold and hydroelectricity) that revealed underlying weaknesses in the
economy. Then in August 1998 the Russian financial crisis hit. Growth, buoyant until mid-1998,
collapsed, the exchange rate depreciated sharply (a real depreciation of 43 percent in 1998),
inflation accelerated and external imbalances widened further. Exports to the FSU, excluding
electricity, fell sharply in the third and fourth quarters by 17 percent and 25 percent respectively
over the same period in 1997. Exports of electricity fell by 4 percent of GDP over the year,
which triggered huge losses for the public electricity company, Kyrgyzenergo, since export
revenues are used to cross-subsidize domestic electricity and heat consumption.' Other public
companies, such as gas and airlines, were also slow to raise their prices (already below cost
recovery) in response to the real depreciation of the exchange rate and so incurred larger losses,
thus undermining fiscal consistency. The losses of the gas sector brought down at least one of the
largest banks that was overexposed to the gas company. This precipitated a banking sector crisis,
as banks were already facing a substantial deterioration in their lending portfolio (half of which is
in dollars) because of the financial distress of their main clients, trading companies.
9.    Right now the economy is considerably weakened. The economic downturn in the region
and competitors' prices continue to exert a downward pressure on the Kyrgyz economy. Exports
to the FSU (other than electricity) were down by 36 percent in 1999 compared with 1998. The
exchange rate depreciated a further 55 percent in nominal terms and 13 percent in real terms
against the dollar in 1999, but the real exchange rate is still somewhat appreciated compared to
the Russian ruble. Inflation in 1999 rose to 40 percent. The unavoidable real depreciation hits
import prices and real incomes. This, together with increased uncertainties have led to cuts in
private consumption. Imports of consumer goods were down by 32 percent in 1999. Thus, while
the current account deficit is lower ($188 million or 15 percent of GDP in 1999 compared with
$371 million or 22 percent of GDP in 1998), the improvement in the current account is due to
lower growth - not to specific policy measures. The fiscal deficit remains unsustainably high.
Lower economic activity has led to lower fiscal revenues and no structural measures have been
taken to reduce expenditures. An incursion by foreign militants who took hostages in late August
1999 and occupied a region in the south of the country for three months placed additional
pressures on the Budget.
10.  Debt indicators, already rising fast due to the large current account deficits, deteriorated
sharply with the impact of the regional financial crisis. The ratio of external debt to GDP was 96
percent at the end of 1998 and reached 140 percent by end-1999. Even though much of the debt
is on concessional terms, the NPV of total debt to exports is still over 200 percent. Excluding
The setback in electricity exports was partly due to favorable hydrological conditions in the region (Uzbekistan and
Kazakhstan import electricity from the Kyrgyz mainly for the release of water which is predominantly settled in barter
for gas and coal respectively). Other factors are: (i) privatization of electricity sector in Kazakhstan which has changed
the power trade arrangements and substantially removed the government's influence in trade arrangements, and
(ii) increasing urge among these countries for self-sufficiency of energy.



3
Kumtor debt and gold exports (which go towards repaying the Kumtor debt), the NPV of debt to
exports is projected to be over 300 percent. Debt service is expected to rise sharply from 17
percent of government revenue to over 40 percent by the year 2000.
11.  Renewed efforts are urgently needed to consolidate macroeconomic stability: a significant
fiscal adjustment is required. There are three major factors underlying the current unsustainable
fiscal stance: (a) relatively low revenue effort - especially where it concerns revenue from the
groups that have benefited most from the reforms implemented so far; (b) large deficits of the
infrastructure and public utility companies; and (c) rapid growth and bunching of debt service.
12.  The energy sector is at the heart of the macroeconomic imbalances.  The energy
companies' losses are large and impose a serious fiscal and quasi-fiscal burden. In the gas sector
inadequate revenues pose the continuing threat of the country being cut off by its supplier for
non-payment. The country is almost entirely dependent on imported gas and the inadequate
domestic prices and large technical and commercial losses of the gas sector have resulted in
growing external arrears and debt. Appropriate pricing of the output of utilities is also essential
for microeconomic reasons - to ensure that appropriate levels of consumption, production and
investment occur. As a result of the continued low domestic prices of the energy utilities to
residential consumers, household consumption hasn't adjusted since 1991. Indeed, households
have doubled their electricity consumption, as they substituted out of more expensive fuels, and
maintained the same level of heat consumption, even as industrial consumption of electricity, heat
and gas has halved. Efficient operation of the energy and telecommunications industries is vital
to the economy and medium-term growth, providing a platform for growth in other sectors, as
well as to the well-being of the population. Placing these industries on a long-term sustainable
footing is critical to support the development of a robust private sector and to generate sufficient
government revenues. Reform of the utilities is key to a virtuous cycle. If this reform does not
occur the existing vicious cycle will continue.
13.  The need for fiscal retrenchment means that recovery of the private sector is key to growth.
Experience elsewhere has indicated that deregulation and efficient tax reform are essential if the
private sector is to take off. In addition, the unavoidable increases in energy prices, necessary
both for microeconomic reasons and to restore fiscal balance, may well have a negative impact on
the poor, necessitating specific measures to offset the negative income effects of these policies on
the weaker households. Of course a more vibrant private sector that operates in the legal
economy would also broaden the tax base and provide revenues to support the social needs.
14.  The CAS envisaged a continued high case lending scenario including the proposed CSAC
operation. The Russia crisis and other shocks have increased the need for the Government to
accelerate implementation of structural reforms backed by additional quick disbursing resource
flows.
II. THE ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A. PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
15.  The objective of the reform program to be supported by the CSAC is to improve the fiscal
and business environment, while ensuring a minimum acceptable level of access and standard of
utility service is preserved for the poorest elements of the society. Towards this objective, the
program addresses the following issues: (a) tax reforms, (b) improving the business environment,
(c) reform of utilities and (d) social protection. These components are interrelated in that it is
vital to promote private sector activity while restructuring the public sector role and ensuring the
social sustainability of the transition. Specifically, the program aims at:



4
*  tax reforms aimed at reducing distortions and enhancing equity in the tax system while
improving revenue mobilization;
*  reducing regulations on entry and operation of businesses and more generally enhancing
the competitive environment;
*  improving the financial condition of utilities and commencing their privatization; and
*  strengthening the social protection system to at least partially compensate the poor for
utility tariff increases.
B. TAX POLICY
16.  Fiscal revenues have fallen sharply, as in other countries in transition, and the Kyrgyz
Republic faces the task of establishing a modem tax system at the same time as it needs to
increase revenues. The ratio of tax revenue to GDP, excluding payroll taxes for social security,
fell from 18 percent in 1991 to 12.5 percent in 1996 and has stayed at this level, with the
exception of 1998, when it rose to 14.4 percent of GDP as a result of the import consumption
boom contributing higher indirect tax revenues, and collection of tax arrears.2  Direct tax
revenues are very low.
17.  Significant tax reforms in recent years have resulted in a Tax Code, which became
effective July 1, 1996, that establishes a value added tax (VAT) at a flat 20 percent rate, excises, a
profits tax at 30 percent and a personal income tax. The Kyrgyz Republic also makes use of
presumptive taxes, through a 'patent' system (monthly fee for traders, small craftsmen, and
entrepreneurs) and a land tax, based on location and quality of land, that is levied in lieu of all
other taxes on agriculture. However, the compliance costs are high because the Tax Code is new
and still in flux. Moreover, taxes and fees levied through various special legislative acts often
impose heavy burdens on specific bases (exports, labor) whereas significant loopholes exist for
others.
18.  The objectives of tax policy reform are to facilitate economic growth and ensure an
adequate level of revenues to allow the state to meet its essential obligations to the population.
These objectives will be met by (a) eliminating unnecessary distortions that harm the business
environment, (b) reducing top marginal tax rates to promote economic activity and broadening
the tax base to spread the burden of taxation evenly without revenue loss, and (c) reducing
compliance costs by simplifying and improving administration. The tax reforms supported under
the proposed CSAC would seek to build upon the improvements in recent years by eliminating
some key remaining distortions while strengthening revenues.
19.  Significant further modifications have been made to the tax system in 1999. Parliament
adopted several amendments in July 1999, notable amongst which was the broadening of personal
income tax brackets and lowering tax rates, with the maximum rate reduced from 40 percent to 33
percent. Further substantial reductions in taxes on labor will have to come from reductions in
payroll taxes as a result of pension reform which is being supported by the Bank's SOSAC.
20.  Taxation of small business was simplified by extending the patent system to additional
taxpayers (July 5, 1999), and raising the threshold for complying with the value added tax from
100,000 som  to 300,000 som  (July 26, 1999).  Administration and compliance will be
significantly reduced because nearly 72 percent of filers fell below this threshold in 1998 whereas
they made payments of only 15 percent of revenues. Eliminating the many small firms from the
2 Payroll taxes, however, add another 7.5 percent of GDP.



5
tax rolls is expected to allow the State Tax Inspectorate (STI) to focus greater resources on larger
firms, with the expectation that this could yield significant additional revenues.
21.  Firms operating in Free Economic Zones (FEZ) are given broad exemption from taxes,
reducing tax revenues and disadvantaging competitors operating in other areas. In addition to the
intended tax exemptions there are opportunities for abuse. The Government has been gradually
tightening eligibility of firms to operate in the FEZ. But more remains to be done to close the tax
loopholes. Government has submitted amendments to the FEZ law and the regulations pertaining
to the Bishkek FEZ to (i) require that transactions taxes (including VAT and excises, and customs
duties) are levied at the FEZ border on all goods produced by new firms in the FEZ and sold into
the domestic market, regardless of the degree of processing in the FEZ and without any threshold
or minimum on the size of the buyer or the transaction or regardless of whether the FEZ entity
has sold the goods; (ii) ensure that taxes on individuals and social insurance contributions for
health and pensions are collected in the FEZ; (iii) require that production of services for
individuals is taxed under the VAT; and (iv) only firms established prior to amendment of the law
continue to receive concessionary tax treatment under the old law IBoardl.3  Firms that are
producing for export will continue to receive the appropriate tax treatment, including rebate of
any VAT on zero-rated sales and imposition of no import duties on goods to be re-exported.
*   Third Tranche Condition. Passage of amendments to FEZ law and Bishkek FEZ
regulations, satisfactory to IDA.
22.  Another area that needs to be addressed is the effective implementation of the VAT.
Failure to provide VAT refunds to exporters effectively imposes a 20 percent tax on foreign sales
made by firms that are intensive exporters. The Government recognizes that it should rebate
VAT payments to exporters so as to make the VAT into a true, efficient tax on consumption that
leaves investment and production decisions undistorted. The Government has already included a
provision in the 2000 Budget for VAT rebates for intensive exporters for all transactions made
after January 1, 2000. The procedures for taking VAT credits against other taxes has also been
simplified and the Government started making rebates in April 2000 [Board].
23.  The VAT currently operates on a destination basis with respect to all countries except for
some CIS countries, including Russia. Moving the tax to a destination basis with respect to all
countries will increase tax revenues because Kyrgyzstan is a net importer from the origination
countries, and will structure the VAT as a consumption tax resulting in a system that is easier for
administration and compliance. The Government is negotiating with relevant CIS countries to
move the tax to a destination basis in the year 2001.
24. The Government recognizes that turnover taxes imposed for the road and emergency funds
should be eliminated because of their negative effects on business structure and efficiency and is
examining options for alternative revenue sources. One possibility is to replace the turnover tax
for the road fund with additional taxes on automobiles and on motor fuel (levied at retail) but the
Government feels that it has already raised such taxes many fold. An option it intends to examine
is a properly designed, market-based ad valorem property tax. Other options will be examined
with the intent of replacing the turnover taxes in the near term.
25.  Several mechanisms are being developed for simplifying the tax collection process and
easing compliance costs. Additional businesses have been identified where a patent system
would be effective; a system for creating a separation between the filing of returns and the
inspector has been established; and more comprehensive, client friendly taxpayer manuals for
3 [Board] is used to highlight Board conditions. See also Section III C.



6
both the VAT and corporate income tax have been developed. An important component of the
profits tax manual is a clear articulation of allowable deductions. Surveys will be periodically
conducted of taxpayer attitudes and experiences with the STI to ensure that improvements have
occurred in the STI's relationship with taxpayers and in compliance costs.
26.  In addition, the Government recognizes that revenue administration needs to be
strengthened. This will require a coordinated development of STI and the State Customs
Committee (SCC). The SCC, which is responsible for collecting VAT and excise taxes on
imports plus customs duties, collects about 40 percent of tax revenues. There is a widespread
view that there is a significant contraband problem, with the quantity of goods being under-
reported and the value under-declared. This is a serious problem in that it not only directly erodes
the tax base but also undercuts legitimate competition. Neutral tax treatment between imported
and domestic goods requires that not only the tax structures but also the administration of the tax
structures must be the same. Integrated, simultaneous development of the STI and SCC will
reduce compliance costs for businesses that must interface with both agencies, lower
administrative costs for the collecting agencies and increase revenues.  For example,
identification of taxpayers and development of a unique taxpayer number, investigation of fraud,
audit of taxpayers, creation of information systems and training are areas for significant
coordination and interface. Some steps have been taken but a coherent strategy has yet to be
developed for an overall system of revenue enforcement and collection. The Government has
affirmed its commitment to integrating key functions of tax and customs administrations and will
develop an Action Plan for strengthening revenue administration, that will allow coordinated
development of STI and SCC.
C. IMPROVING THE BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT
27.  Small and medium business development has to be the engine of economic development
and is essential for the creation of a robust, dynamic, and competitive economy. However,
business development in the KR is currently hampered by a range of negative regulatory practices
and by a general lack of consistency and transparency in the manner in which the government
intervenes in the economy. Adding to a lack of legislative clarity, ministries and government
agencies that are under-funded by the state budget seek off-budget sources of finance leading to a
proliferation of fee requirements for various approvals and also engage in competing commercial
activity. Such non-tax revenues have increased to almost 2 percent of GDP in 1998 from zero in
1995.
28.  An indication of the overall impact of these negative regulatory practices can be seen from
the numbers of business start-ups and operating businesses. While the number of businesses that
were operational jumped dramatically at the beginning of the reform process (more than
doubling, for example, between 1991 and 1992), the number of active businesses remained
relatively unchanged between 1993 and 1997. The large and growing shadow economy also is
strong evidence of the problems with the regulatory environment.
29.  The Government has recognized that long-term economic growth will require a significant
improvement in the environment for doing business. Introducing changes into government
regulation of the business environment features prominently in the Government's short-term
stabilization program (1999-2001) as well as in its long-term development strategy (until the year
2010) which assigns the highest priority to the growth of small and medium businesses. The
President appointed a temporary troubleshooting working group to examine problems faced by
businesses in six problem areas (licensing, taxes, visas/import/export, corruption, standards and



7
inspections). The Prime Minister's Office has started regular round tables with businesses and
regulatory agencies on the enforcement of state regulations.
30.  The CSAC program will support improvements in three critical areas of regulation:
*  the content and application of regulations relating to the start-up of a business entity,
including business registration, tax registration, and permits required for premises;
*  the number of licensing and other government approvals required to be obtained
prior to engaging in an economic activity, and the manner in which these
requirements are administered;
*  the conduct of business inspections, including the frequency of inspection, the power
of inspectors, and the rights of entrepreneurs.
31.  The aim is to create the foundation for a sustainable program of regulatory reform, that
emphasizes transparency and consistency of rules and rule enforcement. In order to assess reform
effectiveness and monitor progress, research, including the use of empirical surveys, will be
conducted on a regular basis. Research results will be used by the Government to identify
continuing problems and will serve as a standard to measure regulatory improvement in coming
years.
32.  The Government has taken several steps to simplify business start-up procedures.
Business registration procedures have been simplified and limited to 10 days by the Law on
Corporate Registration (July 1996) and amendments to this Law (July 1999) have made
registration at the Ministry of Justice (MoJ) free of charge. Government Resolutions 47 and 57
(January, February 2000) eliminated a range of requirements for small entrepreneurs and
simplified the process of renovating or remodeling business locations. The Government has also
committed itself to a continuous process of reviewing and simplifying all regulations in the
sphere of trade under the leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Industry and the
Department of Small and Medium Business in the office of the Prime Minister. The challenge
that now awaits the Government is to ensure that the important changes in rules that have been
adopted actually change the practices of officials and reduce the regulatory burden experienced
by entrepreneurs. The Government has turned to this issue and is actively working on creating an
action plan that includes elements of supervision and monitoring of officials.
33.  Improvements in the licensing regime are critical for business start-up as well as operation
as all firms subject to licensing are subject to inspections. The Law on Licensing (March 1997)
created a unified framework for all licensing requirements but a strong tendency has emerged for
licensing agencies to proliferate sub-licenses. A reform of the licensing regime is underway, an
area of reform that has both Government and Parliament backing. There is agreement on: (a) a
reduction in the number of activities subject to licensing, (b) payment of licensing fee to the
budget, not to licensing agencies and (c) removal of conflict of interest amongst
enterprises/agencies issuing licenses that engage in competing commercial activity. However,
there remains an outstanding issue between Parliament and Government on a few specific
activities subject to licensing. Moreover, the possibility of sub-licensing practices still remains.
The Government has taken a major step towards gaining control of its licensing, permit, and
registration requirements by compiling a comprehensive list of all such regulations that are
currently operative in the country. In order to eliminate barriers to growth that are created by the
existing licensing system, the Government has approved changes to licensing regulations that
prohibit ministries from delegating the right to license firms to state enterprises IBoardl.
34.  The Kyrgyz Republic has taken an innovative step toward regulatory reform with respect
to inspections. Presidential Decree (October 1998) was issued to reduce business inspections and



8
requires each business to maintain an inspection book to be signed by an inspector every time an
inspection is undertaken. The Government has recently followed up this innovation with a
Presidential Decree (February 2000) and supporting Government Resolutions that limit the
duration and frequency of inspections, establish standard procedures for conducting inspections,
and create new mechanisms for assessing and collecting fines.  The Committee for the
Development and Protection of Competition (CPC) has been vested with responsibility for
coordinating scheduled inspections and for monitoring the application of new procedures
(utilizing the inspection logbooks). It is anticipated that rules will be developed to guide the
creation of a comprehensive inspection schedule and the proper supervision of inspecting
authorities with the assistance of USAID. Government has also adopted a resolution that
provides a list of agencies with the right to conduct inspections and their general competency
[Boardl.
35.  A conflict of interest exists for a wide range of organizations that are responsible for
licensing, certification and other forms of regulation that also have commercial interests in the
same areas that they are regulating. It is critical for the Government to eliminate any instances in
which a government structure is in the position to regulate its competitors. The CPC has begun
the process of identifying all current conflict of interest problems through the circulation of a
questionnaire to all ministries, as well as a public appeal (published in the mass media) for
information about conflict of interest situations. A preliminary list of conflicts of interest areas
has been created and the CPC has started to resolve these problems on a case-by-case basis. An
action plan is being developed to guide the actions of the CPC and to ensure that the problem is
approached in a systematic fashion that is clear and transparent. The CPC intends to first resolve
conflicts of interest related to licensing.
36.  As many ministries and agencies proliferate and enforce regulations that are not registered
at the Ministry of Justice (registration requirement is in the Law on Normative Acts), the MoJ has
started inspections of agencies to identify unregistered regulations. Until recently, the MoJ
merely gave a non-binding recommendation when it discovered unregistered regulations. It now
intends to start the practice of publishing registered regulations in major media outlets, specifying
that only they are valid, and to send them to all arbitration courts. MoJ has compiled a list of all
unregistered regulations (totaling more than 600 documents) that has been submitted to the Office
of the Prime Minister. Ministries and agencies have been instructed to take actions to either
eliminate their unregistered regulations or have them properly registered. The Government has
also adopted an MOJ- drafted resolution "On Due Procedures for Registering and Subsequent
Publication of all Regulations" designed to create improved procedures for registering all
regulations and their subsequent publication in media outlets.
D. REFORM OF INFRASTRUCTURE AND UTILITY COMPANIES
D.1 Context and Strategy
37.  Central to unleashing the potential of the Kyrgyz economy is a successful reform of the
utility industries. The energy situation in the Kyrgyz Republic is complicated due to inter-
regional water-sharing arrangements which require the use of mostly gas-fired co-generation
plants (instead of hydro) to meet the winter electricity and district heating demand. The Kyrgyz
Republic sells electricity to Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan during the summer months as a way of
releasing water that those countries need for irrigation purposes. In principle the imported gas
can be paid from the proceeds of electricity exports (electricity export revenues, in effect,
subsidize heat), but this is not always the case. In a wet year, neighboring countries do not
require water, and hence do not import electricity, which means that the electricity company



9
needs to pay for the imported gas in hard currency. For these reasons, district heat, electricity and
gas pricing are highly inter-related and energy sub-sector choices are not separable.
38.  This calls for an integrated package of reforms across the range of utility industries. While
the inter-regional arrangements place some constraints on reform, there are many inter-related
problems underlying the precarious financial situation of utilities which are amenable to policy
solutions:
*  Basic tariffs are below full-cost recovery levels (in some cases less than 50 percent of
full cost). This not only leads to losses for the service providers but also serves to
increase costs by stimulating excessive consumption.  This is compounded by
unfunded government policies to subsidize the poor through poorly targeted
discounts to various consumer categories ("privileges") and excessively generous
"lifeline" tariffs.
*  In the gas and district heating sectors, households have weak incentives to limit
consumption because heat and hot water are not metered and consumption cannot be
regulated by consumers, and only 38 percent of households receiving piped gas are
metered. The resulting consumption levels serve to increase the costs of operation.
Households paying for unmetered utilities pay on the basis of 'norms' (estimates of a
household's needs for a service) that could be well below the true levels of
consumption.
*  Weak financial management in the utilities means that there are large commercial
losses, poor cash payment rates and high levels of accounts receivable. In gas and
district heating, absence of metering for many households results in consumption
which is likely to significantly exceed billings, creating large commercial losses. In
electricity, illegal connections and poor billing practices result in commercial losses.
Budget-funded institutions are a traditional source of debts to utilities. After years of
under-funding, a serious effort was made in the 1998 Budget to adequately cover the
cost of consumption of budget organizations for electricity and heat. However, the
budget for 1999 covered less than 50 percent of the electricity and heat bills of
budget organizations, resulting again in the resumption of high level of arrears to the
utility. More than 70 percent of the total payments which are made for electricity and
gas are accepted in the form of barter or, for budget organizations, in the form of
offset against due taxes, rather than cash. Barter may be less valuable than the due
amounts and certainly imposes cash flow difficulties and transaction costs.
Collection rates for households were about 80 percent in 1998. Improving collection
rates in district heating is complicated by the practical difficulties of disconnecting
whole buildings when individual apartment dwellers don't pay.
*  Technical losses of energy are high, as a result of the age and poor quality of the
original equipment, combined with the lack of funding for maintenance and
investment, inadequate information about the source of the losses, and weak
management incentives to reduce the losses.
*  Finally, the Kyrgyz Republic has inherited an extensive network of infrastructure
characterized by high operating costs from the Soviet era. There is a serious issue as
to the sustainability of the existing levels of infrastructure. At present very little
maintenance is occurring, the capital is being run down and consumers increasingly
suffer from a reduced reliability of service.
39.  Some actions to address these issues have already commenced, but rectifying these
problems will require a concerted effort over a time-frame which exceeds that of the CSAC.
Nevertheless, there are various measures which are being put in place.



10
40.  Tariff reform across all utility and infrastructure services, including price increases and
reform of existing social subsidy arrangements, is crucial and has commenced. Increases in the
coverage of metering can also be implemented, particularly for gas. Together, these measures
should help to increase revenues and to cut consumption and hence costs. An uncertain factor in
the move to increase revenues is the extent to which increased tariffs will increase the levels of
non-payment, although the electricity tariff increases implemented in early 1999 have not resulted
in increased levels of receivables for the residential consumer category. Kyrgyz households have
been paying energy tariffs that are extremely low by international standards, including for
countries with similar per capita income levels. This suggests that it should be possible to raise
tariffs while maintaining acceptable levels of collection while protecting the poorest. The impact
on the poorest sections of the community is addressed in the social policy section E below.
41.  Nevertheless, improving the level of bill collections and reducing costs is a complicated
process, requiring a range of management improvements that will materialize only if the right
incentive system is in place. In the electricity sector, a program has recently been initiated to
strengthen the billing and collection capabilities of the utility and reduce energy theft. Stronger
management incentives can be created through restructuring and privatization of the distribution
activities, and a start can be made on this process under the CSAC program. A reasonable level
of tariffs, market unbundling and a strengthened regulatory framework are necessary pre-
conditions for successful utility privatization.
42.  Actions outlined above will only start addressing the underlying problems of the utility
sector. Even significant price increases will be insufficient to allow the required levels of capital
replacement, implying some level of reduced service and the continuing build-up of investments
that need to be undertaken. Further price increases and efficiency measures should help address
this but the sustainability of the infrastructure systems over the medium to long-term will be
determined by the economic fortunes of the Kyrgyz Republic, and the resulting ability and
willingness to pay of the consumers for infrastructure services.
43.  The key elements of the CSAC program are:
*  strengthening the effectiveness of regulation;
*  sectoral reform plans, to increase cost-recovery and reduce consumption and costs,
including:
-  tariff reform linked to social protection for the poor,
-  metering and consumption-based billing,
-  measures to improve the proportion of customer billings which are actually
collected, and
-  sector restructuring and privatization.
D.2 Strengthened Regulatory Institutions
44.  The Kyrgyz Republic was one of the first countries in the FSU to establish sectoral
economic regulatory bodies, the State Energy Agency (SEA) and the National Communications
Agency (NCA), covering the energy (electricity, gas, hot water and district heating) and
telecommunications sectors, respectively. This was a significant step and one that started to
create the right environment.
45.  Plans for utility privatization now place increased emphasis on clarifying the institutional
arrangements for utility regulation, increasing the independence of regulation from short-term
political influences and improving the technical capacity of the regulators. Various structural
measures will be taken in the short term to assist in achieving these goals, and the technical



11
capacity of regulators will also be increased through the complementary Technical Assistance
Credit.
46.  The Government recognizes that there is at present a lack of clarity in the institutional
arrangements for utility regulation. The Law on Natural and Authorized Monopolies provides the
Committee for the Protection of Competition (former Anti-Monopoly Committee) with the power
to make tariff decisions which could be more effectively made by the utility regulators. The
Government has submitted to Parliament amendments to the Law on Natural and Authorized
Monopolies to make clear that only the SEA and NCA are responsible for regulating energy and
telecommunications, including setting tariffs and profit margins [Board].
* Third Tranche Condition. Passage of amendments to the Law on Natural and
Authorized Monopolies to make clear that only the SEA and NCA are responsible for
regulating energy and telecommunications, including setting tariffs and profit margins.
47.  A key step in establishing the independence and capacity of regulatory agencies is the
provision of secure, and adequate, funding sources to attract and retain qualified personnel.
Industry levies and license fees are already in place in telecommunications, and the Government
has recently decided to establish an industry levy for energy companies amounting to 0.125% of
industry revenue to finance the SEA.
*  Third Tranche Condition.  Passage of legislation or other relevant measures,
acceptable to IDA, to improve the independence and regulatory capacity of the SEA
and NCA, including in particular financial independence - SEA and NCA budgets
should be secured through industry levies, the full amount of which will be passed to
the agencies and reflected in the State budget.
48.  Over the longer term consideration would be given to other measures to bolster regulatory
capacity and independence. These measures would include training, increasing staffing levels
and salaries and possibly merging the utility agencies into a single multi-sectoral economic
regulator.
D.3 Sectoral Reform
49.  The Government recognizes that incentives for cost reduction and improved collection of
bills would be most strongly established by restructuring and privatizing Kyrgyz utilities.
However, effective infrastructure privatization requires careful attention to market structure and
the regulatory environment, to ensure appropriate incentives for efficient performance and the
protection of consumers from monopoly power. Where the ability to implement an effective
regulatory framework for utilities within the near term may not be practicable, interim measures
providing performance targets for existing management are proposed, such as creating incentive
based regimes.
Electricity
50.  As a result of low electricity tariffs, fall in industrial demand, the volatility of exports, the
dramatic increase in domestic demand for cheap electricity as a substitute energy source, and
rapid deterioration of the asset base, particularly in the distribution network, the power industry
has been facing enormous financial difficulties over the last few years. The financial situation
became critical in 1998, with the reduction by more than half of export demand which is used to
heavily cross-subsidize domestic consumption.  Recognizing that the distressing financial



12
condition of Kyrgyzenergo (KE) required prompt action, the Government adopted a two-year
Action Plan supported by ADB, EBRD and the World Bank in February 1999. The Action Plan
included measures to (i) stem the losses of KE through cost control, improved commercial
management, and tariff adjustments; and (ii) to accelerate the process of restructuring and
privatization. The efforts to improve the financial condition of KE have started to yield positive
results with a reduction in losses. The Government intends to continue to monitor the progress
under the Action Plan.
51.  Tariffs. Average tariffs have been raised in the first quarter of 2000 by 40 percent over
average tariffs applicable in 1999 [Board]. This is a significant real increase given that
cumulative inflation for the first half of the year is only 7 percent. Yet Kyrgyzenergo's tariffs are
very low, set by the regulator at a level that allows the energy utility to just reach financial
breakeven point with only the expenditures .that the utility has no choice but to fund in a
particular year to continue operating. In particular, maintenance costs cover only the most urgent
and critical repair of failing equipment, and the capital expenditures budget is much lower than
the rehabilitation and replacing of a rapidly aging asset base would require. There is no provision
for depreciation where no immediate cash outlay is required but which is necessary for the long
term sustainable operation of the industry. Further, no provision is made in the tariff to provide a
minimum return on capital, although this would certainly be required to attract badly needed
private investment in the sector, as envisaged in the privatization program of the government.
52.  In 2000, electricity exports are expected to reach twice the level of 1998, and bring
US$42 million worth of revenue to the utility, or slightly less than half of its electricity income.
Nevertheless, exports have proved to be highly volatile and, since they consist entirely of barter
transaction (water release leading to electricity exports in the summer traded against imported gas
and coal for district heating in the winter) this revenue does not directly improve the cash position
of the utility. The Government has recognized that the utility should be put on a sound and
predictable financial footing as soon as possible. This requires that domestic revenue be raised to
cover domestic costs of production, transmission and distribution of energy and that electricity
exports cease to be used to subsidize domestic consumption.4 Implementation of this principle,
however, carries with it the implication of greater urgency in establishing cost recovery in the
domestic sector.
53. The Government is concerned about the speed with which KE can move towards full cost
recovery given the ability of households to pay more for their energy bills. The program
therefore does not attempt to achieve full cost recovery within the life of the CSAC but
Government and the SEA have agreed that, in the short-term, prior to privatization, tariffs should
at least cover current operating costs, counterpart funding for the investment program and debt
service and efforts have focused on the control of costs of the utility and the improvement of its
billing and collection ratio. Further, SEA and Government have approved the principles of a 5-
year electricity and heat tariff policy that reflects the separation of tariffs for generation,
transmission and distribution and: (i) recognizes the principle of gradual elimination of the
subsidization of domestic electricity and district heating tariffs from the revenue generated from
exports over the 5 year period; (ii) includes a return on investment and appropriate depreciation
charge in the tariffs; and, (iii) introduces, starting in 2001, an automatic bi-annual tariff
adjustment mechanism. [Boardl.
* Second and Third Tranche Conditions. Implementation of tariff increase, satisfactory
to IDA, consistent with the agreed principles of medium term tariff policy.
4 Since domestic sales should be self-supporting, export revenues above the direct cost of generation and transmission
could be treated as a "windfall profif' on a natural resource and be taxed accordingly.



13
54.  Privatization. The urgent need to raise funds to finance improvements in the sector is
among the main reasons behind the launch of the privatization program for KE, approved by
Government Resolution in April 1997. The Government's privatization program involves the
separation of generation, transmission and distribution and the horizontal separation of
distribution into a range of local distribution companies. The Government is commencing with
privatization in the distribution sector. Providing stronger incentives for cost reduction, reduction
of energy theft and adequate bill collection will help to place the sector on a sound financial basis,
enabling later privatization and investment in generation and transmission to proceed in an
environment of greater commercial certainty. The distribution network of KE is also the one in
most serious need of new investment.
55.  Despite the Government's intent to pursue privatization, there have been delays, partly due
to Parliament. The two houses of Parliament approved the Government's electricity privatization
program, but with conflicting views on matters such as the number of distribution companies and
whether the transmission sector should be separated from generation. Nevertheless, Parliament
approved the privatization of at least one distribution company and this allows the government to
initiate the process.
56.  A privatization adviser has been hired, funded by an EBRD project, for the privatization of
one distribution company. The Government has requested the assistance of IDA to mobilize
additional expertise to assist with the privatization of the remaining distribution companies and is
taking steps to recruit internationally qualified professionals. The financial adviser is in the
process of assessing the characteristics and potential viability of the distribution sector and will
shortly submit its report on the recommended number and configuration of distribution
companies to the Government. The Government has confirmed that, based on the financial
adviser's recommendation, it will submit to IDA, for its review, a proposal on the number and
configuration of distribution companies within two weeks of receipt of the financial adviser's
report and that it will proceed with the creation of all the distribution joint stock companies once
IDA has confirmed that the Government's proposal is satisfactory [Board].
- Second Tranche Condition. Government will have made a decision, satisfactory to
IDA, on the number and configuration of the power distribution companies, and
selected the first distribution company for privatization or long-term concession on the
basis of the financial adviser's recommendation.
*  Third Tranche Condition. Satisfactory progress on sale of the first distribution
company with quality strategic investor, based upon advice of the financial adviser.
Issue request for proposals, acceptable to IDA, for the privatization of all remaining
distribution companies by means of transparent and competitive tender for long term
concessions or outright sale of a controlling block of shares.
57.  Market Structure. Restructuring of the industry must occur before privatization (or in a
limited number of areas very clear rules as to the way the restructuring will occur must be
agreed), since property rights cannot be arbitrarily re-allocated after privatization. The market
structure should be one which increases competitive forces. The Government is considering a
model in which up to five distribution companies purchase electricity from multiple generation
plants -- to begin with the Naryn Cascade, possibly a mini-hydro company and Bishkek TETS as
separate generators. Electricity transmission services would be provided by a National Grid
Company, which would not be permitted to buy and sell electricity on its own account.
Restructuring to support this model and to permit privatization of distribution requires that the
distribution and transmission companies be separated.  Government Resolution on KE
Restructuring was issued which sets out a timetable for the creation of separate legal entities, one



14
for generation, one for transmission (National Grid) and several for distribution operating the
distribution network from at least the 35 KV and lower voltage substations and transmission lines
to all the final domestic consumers.
58.  The process of unbundling KE has commenced. It is anticipated that the corporatization of
the generation, of the transmission and of all distribution companies will be completed by early
next year, including: (i) registration of these new legal entities by the Ministry of Justice and of
the new stock by the National Commission on Securities (ii) approval of their Charters; and (iii)
appointment of their Boards and Management with minimal overlap and (iv) the generation,
transmission and distribution companies will sign power purchase contracts and transmission
contracts, approved by the SEA, conducive to the development of a market-based wholesale
electricity market.
59.  Market Rules. Another pre-condition for electricity privatization is that the market rules
governing interactions between the differing entities should be established. For instance, rules
establishing a common form for contracts between generators and distribution companies may
facilitate the trading of rights to bulk electricity, and hence facilitate competition. It is important
that such rules be established prior to privatization, since their form affects expected revenues and
hence the value of firms to be privatized. A start has been made in the development of these
rules, by long-term consultants working with the SEA and funded by EU-TACIS. The SEA has
already (a) adopted General Market Rules for the operation of the unbundled electricity sector;
and (b) prepared drafts of model power purchase agreements, and model contracts for connection
to and use of the Grid [Board]. Development of rules by which bulk electricity is sold to the
distribution companies is complicated by the fact that full-cost pricing will not be achieved by the
time of the initial privatization. Thus transitional rules must be implemented which allow for a
subsidized bulk electricity price to distribution companies during the period in which final
consumer prices rise to cover full costs. The SEA will prepare and publish: (i) tariffs for the
supply/purchase of power between the generation and distribution companies, and (ii) grid
connection and use of system charges and will complete the preparation and publish the Grid Code,
and the rules and procedures for balancing market.
Gas
60.   Kyrgyzgas (KG) purchased around US$27.5 million of gas in 1998 from Uzbekistan for
distribution within Kyrgyz Republic.5 Billing to consumers was less than US$18 million and
overall financial losses in 1998 were between US$8 million and US$13 million. Financial under-
performance has resulted in severe difficulties in paying for imported gas. Payment arrears to
Uzbekistan and a private gas transit company, Intergaz, periodically result in the country's gas
supply being cut off (as happened from May to October 1998; April to September 1999; and
again in January 2000). In addition, KG has arrears on short-term debt to the government budget
and commercial banks, and was the cause of the closure of at least one bank in April 1999. The
financial situation of the company has worsened since the som halved in nominal value from the
effect of the Russia crisis.
61.  The Government, recognizing the seriousness of the situation, undertook in 1999 an
internal review of KG's operations and made a number of recommendations on how to improve
KG's profitability. The following recommendations were made:
5There are two Intergovernmental Agreements with Uzbekistan to supply gas of about I billion cubic meters under
which: (i) KE receives about 60 percent of the total gas imports (mainly for heating) in exchange for water/electricity
exports, and (ii) KG purchases gas (mainly for cooking) at US$50/1000 cubic meters at the Uzbek border paid on the
basis of 50:50 cash-barter arrangement.



15
*  Determine a source of funding to increase the number of gas meters;
*  Provide privileges on a targeted basis;
*  Reduce the demand for gas by finding cheaper alternative fuels;
*  Mobilize funds to carry-out needed maintenance and rehabilitation activities;
*  Introduce a system of penalties for non-payment of gas; and
  Amend legislation so that penalties will apply for theft of gas, damaging of meters, and
obstructing KG's employees' attempts to perform their duties.
62.  Subsequent to this, KG, in collaboration with SEA and IDA, has developed an Action Plan,
which has been adopted by a Government Resolution, addressing the broad issue of privatization
and more detailed aspects of the company's finances and reduction of technical and commercial
losses, increased billing, collection and cash collection ratios and strict control of costs [Boardj.
*   Third Tranche Condition. Satisfactory implementation of the 2000-2001 Action
Plan, acceptable to IDA, for the Recovery and Restructuring of the Gas Sector,
including tariff changes based upon new methodology, changing norms, and meeting
targets for meter installation, accounts receivable, cash collections and reporting of
financial performance.
63.  Commercial and Technical Losses. One of the largest sources of financial losses arises
from under-billing un-metered household consumers. In 1998 KG reported that un-metered
households consumed 22 percent of total distributed gas. A further 21 percent of distributed gas
was reported as losses. It is likely that a large proportion of the losses are commercial rather than
technical, since consumption by un-metered households is measured on the basis of assumed
'norms' (levels of service) which may not reflect actual usage. Accurately measuring and
distinguishing between commercial and technical losses will not be possible until there is an
accurate system of metering.
64.  KG has recognized the urgency of this situation. KG has commenced a program of meter
installation for un-metered households, which will be continued with the assistance of A PHRD
grant and the IDA Technical Assistance Credit. KG has also decided to install a meter on the
border with Kazakhstan, measuring gas leaving the Kyrgyz Republic. When coupled with a
meter on gas entering the KR (financing for the second meter has not been obtained), this will
enable the identification of the sum of transmission losses and technical and commercial losses in
distribution. KG and SEA are also undertaking a controlled experiment to measure consumption
of households billed on the basis of norms, and will revise the norms based on the results.
65.  Collections. Inadequate billings are only part of KG's financial difficulties. KG also has a
low cash collection rate on bills sent out (48 percent in 1998) as much of the collections are
received in barter. Taking account of payments made by barter, uncollected bills during 1998
still totaled more than US$1 million. Aggregate barter collection figures for industrial consumers
are higher than billings because collections include payments of past debts. But these aggregate
figures conceal non-payment by many firms, some of which was condoned by government decree
prohibiting disconnection of certain consumers. The Government has rescinded a decree which
prohibited KG from stopping gas supplies to certain industrial consumers that do not pay their
bills on time.
66.  Tariffs. The Government and SEA have moved to establish cost-reflective pricing and
there has been a series of price increases since the second half of 1998. Gas prices for (non-
privileged) households were raised by 25 percent in August 1998 and a further 52 percent in
December 1998 when they were at $60/1000 m3, and subsequently indexed to reflect monthly



16
changes in the exchange rate. As a result of the exchange rate depreciation in 1999, gas prices for
non-privileged households increased by a further 52 percent in local currency in 1999.
67.  Around 32,000 households benefit from a system of "privileges" (discounts). The starting
point for privileged consumers is a "privileged tariff', which was not indexed to movements in
the exchange rate. The absence of indexation of the privileged tariff has seen it fall to around
$27/1000 m3 by mid-1999. Privileged consumers receive discounts off the privileged tariff, in the
amounts of 100 percent, 50 percent, 40 percent and 30 percent. The forgone billings associated
with privileged consumers are worth around $2 million.
68.  The SEA estimates that the current cost of gas is $70.38/1000 m3, although this figure does
not include all of KG's operating costs, or provision for repayment of debt transferred to KG
from Kyrgyzgasmunaizat (a predecessor company, which incurred substantial losses largely
attributable to a fraudulent director). Of this cost, $58 is the supply of gas from Uzbekistan and
transit of gas through Kazakhstan.
69.  Tariffs have been increased for all consumers to $70.38 per 1000 m3 (exclusive of VAT),
and are now fully indexed to monthly adjustments in the exchange rate [Board]. The impact on
the privileged and other poor consumers is being addressed through the separate compensation
mechanism, discussed below. A cost and tariff study is currently being conducted, with a view to
further revising the tariffs to reflect full costs (rather than the SEA's calculations of costs), and to
establishing a system of tariffs which provides incentives for the company to reduce costs.
Tariffs based upon the new methodology will commence in April 2001.
70.  Accounts audited to international standards will be required to resolve the actual level of
company costs and to assess the asset base on which a rate of return should be calculated. It is
anticipated that a reputable auditing company will be hired to conduct a financial audit of KG,
financed by the Technical Assistance Credit in support of the CSAC Program.
71. Privatization. Government recognizes that the strongest incentives for reducing losses
and improving collection rates will be provided by privatization. Progress has begun on
privatization. Consultants, financed by IDA, were hired to advise SPF on how KG's natural gas
activities should be restructured for purposes of privatization and to help prepare a concept paper
for denationalization and privatization that is required before action can be taken.  The
Government has submitted a concept paper to Parliament for the denationalization and
privatization of KG, including the divestiture of the LPG activities of KG and the transfer of
management control of transmission and distribution [Board].
*  Third Tranche Condition. Issue requests for proposals for privatization of KG
distribution and transmission businesses by means of transparent and competitive
tender processes, acceptable to IDA, for long term concessions or outright sale of the
businesses.   Sell LPG  and dispose of other non-core KG  businesses (e.g.
construction).
District Heating
72.  District heating is a legacy of the soviet era, delivering unsustainably expensive and
technically inefficient heat and hot water services to around 20 percent of the population, largely
the urban non-poor.6  Most district heating (about 90 percent) is supplied by KE, with two
6 Heat supply has halved since 1991 mostly due to a collapse of industry, while household consumption has not
changed significantly, with the result that households now account for 70 percent of total consumption.



17
combined heat and power plants serving Bishkek and Osh. In addition, small centralized heating
systems which were divested by enterprises in 1994 to Kyrgyzzhilkomunsojuz (KJCS) exist in
more than 40 towns. About 40 percent of KE's total fuel costs (of US$40 million) were attributed
to heat generation. The two plants use almost 60 percent of the country's total imports of gas.
The high relative prices of imported natural gas and the very low heat tariffs charged to customers
have translated into a financially unsustainable situation for this sub-sector. KE's district heating
operations, can be kept up only because they are heavily cross-subsidized by electricity (at least
332 million som or US$16 million in 1998). KJCS relies on government budget subsidies: in
1998, KJCS claimed subsidies of 230 million som (US$1l million) but received only about half
of that from the state budget. Between April and October 1999, hot water supply in Bishkek was
stopped completely, resulting in a decrease of total heat consumption by about 20 percent --
because of the country's inability to pay for gas imports.
73.  Heat Strategy. Over the longer-term, the objective is to restructure heat supply in a way
that is consistent with the ability to pay of residential consumers, which may lead to the gradual
removal of the district heating system as it exists. This is because the costs appear to be very high
relative to the ability and willingness to pay of consumers, and it has not been determined
whether district heating is indeed the least-cost solution, particularly at a level of heat
consumption which would be more in line with ability to pay of consumers. To find more
affordable and financially and environmentally sustainable solutions for heat supply, the
Government will develop a heat strategy together with other stakeholders.
74.  The heat strategy would also need to take into account the impact of the power sector
restructuring on the developments in the heating sector. The future ownership of the combined
heat and power plants has not been decided yet, neither has the ownership of the district heating
networks in Bishkek and Osh.7 With the breakup and partial privatization of Kyrgyzenergo, the
transitional necessity of a cross-subsidization of heat by electricity should be undertaken in a
more transparent way. Consequently, a suitable mechanism must be identified.
75. The Government has adopted terms of reference for a Heat Strategy, for which grant
funding has been obtained by IDA, that will include proposals for affordable, cost-effective short,
medium and long term options to improve heat supply and demand in urban settlements of the
country, and for the introduction of institutional and financial delivery mechanisms which would
enable a more efficient provision of heat services on a fully commercial basis to the population
[Board]. It is anticipated that by mid-2001 the Government will approve the long-term heat
supply strategy and will develop an implementation plan for transiting to more cost-effective and
affordable heating systems.
76.  The short-to midterm objectives are to improve operational and commercial efficiency of
existing district heat suppliers and to provide incentives for suppliers and consumers to save
energy, thus reducing fuel imports and household energy bills (at prices which recover more of
the costs) and thus requirements for subsidization of heat consumption.
77. A district heating action plan has been developed jointly by KE, the government, municipal
administrations and the SEA to address the host of issues involved in reducing technical and
commercial losses and generally reducing costs and consumption (particularly in the public
sector). The plan includes measures on tariffs, collections and metering.
7A transfer of the heating networks to the municipalities is possible. Such an event would need to be well prepared in
order to ensure that managerial capabilities of the municipalities are strengthened and any potential financing capacity
constraints are addressed.



18
78.  Tariffs.  An immediate concern is the fact that tariffs and billings for unmetered
consumers (only about 15 percent of the heat supplied by KE in Bishkek is currently metered,
mostly to industrial consumers) are based on consumption norms which may be very different
from actual consumption.  In fact, residential hot water consumption is estimated to be
substantially higher than norm consumption, and about five times higher than in Western Europe.
Further, many consumers receive "privileges" (discounts on bills), for which the government
bears responsibility for reimbursing KE and KJCS. Arrears on these reimbursements contribute
to the financial difficulties of the companies.
79.  The true costs of district heating are not known. Cost-recovery is estimated at between 30-
40 percent. As a first step toward establishing cost-reflective pricing, KE, assisted by consultants,
has prepared accounts for district heating in accordance with international accounting standards
(IAS) including allocation of fixed costs between electricity and thermal energy. The time taken
to achieve cost recovery will depend on the magnitude of the problem.
80.  Collections. Payment discipline of heat customers is very mixed with arrears building up
during the heating season, especially for households. Despite a relatively good collection to
billing ratio of above 90 percent, arrears increased by 34 percent between August 1998 and
August 1999. One of the most significant difficulties is that of disconnecting individual
consumers, leading to weak incentives for individual consumers to pay. A partial remedy for this
problem is to establish contracts in which buildings would only be supplied if a substantial
percentage of anticipated bills, say 50 percent, were pre-paid.  Another difficulty is that
residential bills are collected by Housing Maintenance Organizations, with poor incentives for
full collection. Part of the solution here may be to contract billing and collecting to independent
companies under performance contracts.
81.  Metering. To improve collections, identify losses and provide incentives for consumers
and suppliers to save energy, metering of heat is important. KE is in the process - with
DANIDA-financing - of installing thermal meters at the building level (covering less than about 5
percent of residential consumption), and preparing a metering plan covering 90 percent of
residential sales in Bishkek and Osh. The next step will be to install a larger number of meters -
depending on the availability of financing and their perceived benefits-- and to introduce
consumption-based billing. By end-2000, it is anticipated that KE will have established on a pilot
basis consumption-based billing for heat and hot water, at a minimum in the buildings with
DANIDA-financed substations with meters. On the basis of the metering data for heat and hot
water consumption, SEA will determine consumption-based tariffs and guidelines for allocation
of costs within residential buildings when residents fail to agree on own rules.
82.  Progress has been made in the implementation of the Action Plan to reduce technical and
commercial losses in supply and consumption of heat and hot water, installation of district
heating meters funded by DANIDA, and agreed tariff increase for heat (50 percent) and hot water
(80 percent). The Government intends to monitor that satisfactory progress continues. SEA will
also submit a proposal by early 2001, acceptable to IDA, for introduction of progressive tariffs
for heat consumption above certain norms of square meter per person of space occupied.
Telecommunications
83.  Telecommunications is the sector that has attracted most attention for private sector
participation in the Kyrgyz Republic. Kyrgyz Telecom (KT) is undergoing modernization,
supported by the EBRD and World Bank. The company is, however, at the moment in a weak
financial position. It is heavily reliant on international traffic, especially CIS related, since local



19
tariffs are cross-subsidized. This international traffic (mostly business) is influenced by the state
of the economy and consequently has been affected by the 1998 downturn.
84.  Privatization. Privatization is more advanced for KT than for any of the other utilities. A
bidding process was conducted in late 1999, but no compliant bids were received. A new request
for proposals is to be issued. The proposed transaction involves an initial sale of up to 40 percent
of the shares to a strategic private investor, with an option for the strategic investor to purchase an
additional 11 percent of shares, and sale of the remaining government shares at a date yet to be
determined.
85.  Market Structure. KT is being sold with an exclusive monopoly over national long-
distance and international calls. Until recently there was confusion about the extent of this
exclusivity period, with end 2003 being the date provided to the World Trade Organization, but
2005 and 2008 stated elsewhere. The Government has recently clarified this matter by issuing a
decree limiting KT's exclusivity to 2003.
86.  There is limited competition in local services as two mobile operators have entered the
market but they can compete only on the quality of services, not on prices because of the low
tariff offered by KT (sustained by cross-subsidization from  long-distance services).  The
Government has agreed to undertake a program of tariff re-balancing to prepare the market for
full competition. It is likely that a privatized KT will seek to establish its own mobile operations.
KT would then have strong incentives, as well as the ability, to deny its competitors access to the
local loop (i.e., prevent calls originating with mobile phones being connected to the fixed line
system). Structural and conduct measures are needed to protect the mobile operators from such
predatory conduct. The Government has submitted to Parliament amendments to the Law on
Electric and Mail Communication to prohibit KT from offering mobile telecommunications
services except through a separate legal entity [Board]. Legislation is also in place that would
ensure that the legal entity would have interconnection terms with KT no more favorable than KT
offers to any 3rd party, and license terms no more favorable than any 3rd party offering the same or
similar service.
E. SOCIAL DIMENSIONS OF THE PROGRAM
87.  Long-term sustainability of utility reform will require a dramatic increase in cost recovery
from households. The SEA estimated in November 1999 that current tariff levels covered less
than 45 percent of costs. To move tariffs closer to cost-recovery levels, increases proposed for
2000 include 108 percent for electricity, 56 percent for gas, 50 percent for heat, and 80 percent
for hot water. There would be further increases in subsequent years.
88.  The dilemma for policy makers is that poverty is already widespread. In 1998, about 23
percent of the population lived in extreme poverty below a per capita monthly income of 216
soms (representing requirements for a minimum food intake) and 63 percent of the population
lived in poverty below a per capita monthly income of 412 soms per month (representing food
and non-food necessities). Tariffs in 1999 already implied a painful burden for a large part of the
population, given the level of incomes. The lowest quintile of households, those in extreme
poverty, already spent about 20 percent of their expenditures on utilities and fuel (including coal),
while the average household spent 230 soms (US$6.10) per month which represented 11 percent
of household income. The impact of the proposed tariff increases in 2000 would be to raise the
burden of utilities and fuel to 30 percent for the extreme poor and to 16 percent for the average
household.



20
89.  Because poverty is widespread, a prerequisite for introducing the proposed tariff increases
is that adequate social protection measures be in place for the poorest groups. A number of
relevant social protection measures already exist.
*  Unified Monthly Benefit (UMB) is a means-tested cash benefit for the poorest families. It
covers 10 percent of the population and is paid in respect of dependent members-mainly
children-of eligible households. The benefit amount per dependent is calculated as the
difference between the Guaranteed Monthly Income (currently set at 100 soms, or $2.11 per
person per month) and the household's average per capita income. Spending on UMB in
1999 was 380 million soms ($US 10 million) or 0.8 percent of GDP. UMB recipients also
are eligible for privileges (see below) authorizing price discounts of 25 percent for electricity,
30 percent for gas used for heating, and 30 percent for coal.
*  State Social Benefits are categorical cash benefits payable to orphans, certain groups of
invalids, and retirees ineligible for pensions. Amounts are specified as percentages of the
maximum per capita income threshold for UMB-e.g., 150 percent for full orphans. Social
beneficiaries also qualify for housing and utility privileges (see below).
*  Privileges are pricing discounts of up to 100 percent for a wide array of goods and services
that national laws and decrees authorize for 11 broad categories of individuals. The
Republican budget is supposed to reimburse the providers of those goods and services,
although reimbursements are often delayed, partial or non-existent.  Many privileges
authorize discounted energy prices. The cost of privileges financed by the government
budget in 1999 approached 182 million soms (172 million som from the central government
budget and 10 million som from local budgets) or $US 4.8 million, of which approximately
half was for energy price discounts. Most privileges are categorical and many members of
the privileged groups do not have low incomes. A coupon system was introduced in 1998 to
make more transparent the mechanism by which the central government compensates utility
service providers for tariff discounts to privileged groups.
*  In the city of Bishkek, there is also a means-tested program of housing subsidies. The
subsidy compensates eligible households for the difference between the household payment
due for utilities consumed within certain standard social norms (not actual consumption) and
a given share of household income (currently set at 23 percent of household income). The
eligible households receive the subsidy in the form of a deduction from their utility bills. At
present, this program only covers households living in apartment style multi-flat housing.
*  Electricity prices are structured using lifeline tariffs involving rising marginal prices for
successive blocks of energy. This ensures low tariffs (relative to cost) for households that
limit their consumption to no more than 90 kWh per month. Almost universal metering
makes possible a pricing structure of this kind.
90.  The Government is augmenting these social protection measures under CSAC.  A
particular reason for doing so is that, although most users of networked energy sources
(especially gas, hot water and district heating) live in urban areas, relatively few urban
households qualify for UMB because the income threshold for eligibility for UMB is so low.
This makes UMB an ineffective vehicle for cushioning the potentially large impact of price
increases for networked energy sources, even though it facilitates targeting cash assistance on the
poorest households. Accordingly, to promote public acceptance of essential energy sector
reforms and to strengthen the social protection measures available for those most affected, the
Government has adopted a social protection program for households facing increases in energy



21
tariffs that would apply for the period 2000-2004.  The program  would have two parts:
compensation for energy tariff increases for low-income households; and categorical assistance.
*  The compensation for energy tariff increases, under Government Resolution 141 of
March 15, 2000, would apply to households that (i) use gas, district heating or hot water, (ii)
are not already eligible for more generous energy-related assistance, and (iii) have incomes
below an income poverty line of 200 soms per person per month. The key element of this
part is the introduction, for the energy utilities above, of specified "socially protected" tariff
levels. These would initially reflect normal (i.e., non-privileged) tariffs from the fourth
quarter of 1999 and they would increase over five years in a pre-specified way until they
reached the levels of the normal tariffs in 2005. Initially, however, they would rise less
rapidly than the normal tariffs and so would provide poor households with additional time to
adjust to the rapid increase in normal tariffs. Under Resolution 141, the system of "socially
protected" tariffs was introduced from April 1, 2000 in all regions of the republic except
Bishkek City. At present, Bishkek City's Social Protection Department is considering
mechanisms through which it could compensate low-income households living in private
houses for energy tariff increases. One mechanism under consideration would provide a
benefit that is equivalent to freezing the relevant energy prices at their levels from the
December quarter 1999 and then progressively phasing out the implied subsidies over five
years (100 percent in 2000, 80 percent in 2001, 60 percent in 2002, and so on). This could
have effects comparable to those of the "socially protected" tariff mechanism.
*  Categorical assistance under the energy-related social protection program applies to five
categories of currently privileged households: recipients of Unified Monthly Benefit (UMB);
pensioners with pensions below 400 soms; families with disabled children under 16; retirees
living alone and not working; and low-income families in which children have lost at least
one parent. The Government, through Decrees 281 of May 15, 1998 and 578 of October 25,
1999, introduced additional price discounts for electricity, gas, district heating, hot water and
coal to provide protection against tariff increases. For households in these categories, the
current system of privileges would be retained.
91.  Concurrently, the Government has reviewed the current system of privileges with the goals
of reducing their overall budgetary cost and supporting a continuing reorientation of social
protection benefits to those families in greatest need. The review developed principles for
rationalizing privileges and identifying the majority of privileges that would be eliminated and
the remainder that would be retained. The outcome of the review is a draft Law that the
Government has submitted to the Parliament. The draft law: (a) streamlines current privileges by
focusing principally on people in greatest need and by reducing substantially the aggregate cost of
privileges; (b) specifies all remaining privileges after streamlining; (c) cancels all other legislative
clauses granting privileges to particular categories of the population; and (d) requires that
subsequent changes in the system of legislated privileges be made only through amendment of
this law [Board]. The Government will pursue the passage of such legislation. The Government
will fund all such remaining privileges.
92.  The rationalization of privileges will eliminate some current privileges and limit eligibility
for others. Where a low-income household is affected by these changes but would also qualify
for the new income-tested compensation for energy tariff increases described above, the
household would be eligible to apply for the latter assistance and could become entitled to the
socially protected energy prices.
93.  Following  introduction  of the  new  income-tested  energy-related  assistance, the
Government will monitor actual experience and expenditures on benefits. If needed in the light
of experience, it will consider modifications in eligibility cnditions, the level or structure of



22
benefits, or administrative procedures. Any such modifications, however, would be consistent
with its commitments (a) to fund, from 2000 to 2004, the full costs of assistance for households in
the new income-tested category (which are expected to be considerably higher from 2001), and
(b) not to withdraw unilaterally the social protection arrangements relating to energy tariff
increases or to change them significantly in ways unacceptable to IDA.
III. THE PROPOSED ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
A. LINKS TO CAS AND OTHER BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
94.  The proposed CSAC is a key element in the Bank Group's Joint Country Assistance
Strategy for the Kyrgyz Republic, dated April 14, 1998 (Report 17641-KG). It will strengthen
public finances by broadening the tax base and strengthening revenue administration, by
extending the principles of cost recovery and economic pricing and reducing the drain posed by
unsustainable deficits of the energy sector, by complementing public investment with private
capital, and by setting the basis for the energy sector to become a major taxpayer. It will support
the objective of attaining sustained growth by reducing tax distortions that harm the business
environment, by reducing regulatory impediments to private sector activity, by supporting private
participation in the energy sector and alleviating infrastructure bottlenecks. It will improve
governance through further deregulation and enhancement of the competitive environment for
business, and by increasing the transparency and consistency of rules relating to the business
environment. The program would also strengthen institutional capacity through support for the
competition agency, regulatory agencies governing public utilities, and privatization as well as a
coordinated development of the tax and customs administration. The program seeks to meet the
objective of reducing poverty by strengthening the social protection system for the most
vulnerable groups of population that will be affected by utility tariff increases.  The
complementary CSAC TA (Report No. 20432-KG, May 25, 2000) operation, approved on June
22, 2000, funds some of the critically needed technical assistance necessary to achieve these
goals.
95.  The CSAC program is also consistent with prior and current Bank involvement in the
country. In particular, it complements the recently completed Social Sector Adjustment Credit
(SOSAC) which aimed at establishing a fiscally sustainable pension scheme, improving labor
market interventions, and implementing targeted and fiscally sustainable programs to alleviate
poverty. The SOSAC program should enable a gradual reduction in the high tax rates on labor as
well as a reduced fiscal burden of the pension system, thereby underpinning the fiscal adjustment
which is also the aim of the CSAC. In turn, the CSAC should strengthen safety net provision for
the vulnerable groups affected by utility tariff increases.
96.  The, policy reforms supported by the CSAC underpin and bolster a number of Bank
investment operations.  The Power and District Heating Rehabilitation Project and the
Supplemental Credit for the Project aim to rehabilitate the country's main thermal power plant
and district heating system in Bishkek (Kyrgyzenergo's plant at Bishkek). The electricity and
district heating sector reform programs supported by the proposed credit facilitate the realization
of Kyrgyzenergo's financial rehabilitation. The Telecommunications Project aims to upgrade and
expand the telecommunications network, build institutional capacity and establish a regulatory
and policy framework for the restructuring of the sector, aimed at liberalizing and attracting
private investment in the sector. The proposed credit would support the objectives of successful
privatization by seeking to ensure that the ongoing privatization process is conducted in a
transparent and fair manner and it would aim to create the conditions for a more competitive
sector.



23
B. BORROWER COMMITMENT
97.  Prior analytic work. The program is based upon the analysis and policy dialogue carried
out under the Fiscal Sustainability Study, in particular on the tax system, the strategy for utility
reform and the provision of utility services to the poor (the latter two issues were addressed in
part through a collaboration with the UK's DFID). The program also builds upon the prior Private
Sector Review (1999), Energy Sector Review (1995) and Energy Sector Policy Note (2000). A
number of consultant studies were undertaken from the PHRD grant for preparation of the
program, in particular on the business environment, on gas sector issues (tariffs, metering and
investments, and disconnection policy) and on the impact of energy tariff increases and social
protection.
98.  Stakeholder consultations. The analytical and technical assistance work has been helpful
in building consensus with some of the key stakeholders (the State Property Fund, the State
Energy Agency, and the electricity and gas companies) regarding reform policies and in a better
evaluation of major barriers to reform implementation. An IDF grant supported a joint IDA-
UNDP project on Capacity Development for the State Property Fund. This grant was used to
prepare the SPF for the initial work on privatization of the gas industry and provide on-the-job
training to SPF staff in key areas such as financial modeling. An element of this project also
involved further development of the gas sector restructuring plans and ensuring that stakeholder
views were captured in the plans. A workshop has been organized with key stakeholders to
discuss a Household Energy Survey and the willingness and ability to pay for energy services,
financed by DFID. This survey work provides one of the key stakeholders, consumers, a chance
to influence the way that plans for social protection and pricing develop. The CSAC TA Credit
and the DFID project include follow-up monitoring of the views of consumers (cf para 110).
99.  The President and Prime Minister have taken a direct interest in the program and the Prime
Minister holds meetings on the progress in the CSAC program, in addition to the regular meetings
held by the Supervisory Council for CSAC, chaired by the Minister of Finance (cf para 106).
Further work to increase the awareness of Parliament and the public to the reforms is planned
under program implementation. A public relations campaign is to be financed by the CSAC TA
Credit. The importance of regulatory issues is proposed to be explained through workshops
involving Government and Parliament -- possibly financed by a PPIAF grant or the DFID project.
Energy sector issues and energy strategy discussions have-been taken up in a CDF workshop, and
it is hoped that the participatory approach of the CDF will strengthen the public's awareness to
the reforms.
100. The design and pace of the reforms have been modified to take into account the concerns
on rapid, sharp tariff increases -- and a more gradual five-year medium term tariff policy was
agreed upon. In the interim, Action Plans for sectoral reform focus on improving financial
management and metering so that consumers can adjust their consumption to tariff changes.
101. Follow-on actions. The TA Credit is anticipated to support a strengthening of the
regulatory institutions, thereby increasing the sustainability of energy sector reforms. Further
implementation of the energy strategy may be envisaged in follow-up adjustment and
investment/guarantee operations.  The current program  emphasizes the development and
implementation of rules and procedures and consistency in rule enforceriient in reforms relating
to the start-up and operation of businesses as a first phase. The successful implementation of
government policy in this area should serve to lay the basis for further work planned on
governance issues.



24
C. Tranche Conditionalities
Core CSAC Measures For Board Presentation and Release of Second and Third Tranches
Board                                          Second Tranche        Third Tranche
Tax Reforms                                     Tax Reforms          Tax Reforms
*   Government will submit amendments to the                         *   Passage of amendments to FEZ law and
FEZ Law and the regulations pertaining to the                        change  in  Bishkek  FEZ   regulations,
Bishkek FEZ to (i) require that transactions                         satisfactory to IDA.
taxes (including VAT, excises, and customs
duties on the imported content) are levied at
the FEZ customs border on all goods produced
by new firms in the FEZ and sold into the
domestic market, regardless of the degree of
processing in the FEZ and without any
threshold or minimum on the size of the buyer
or the transaction or regardless of whether the
FEZ entity has sold the goods; (ii) eliminate
the provision that allows tax concessions for
profits earned in the FEZ and re-invested
outside the FEZ; (iii) ensure that taxes on
individuals and social insurance contributions
for health and pensions continue to be collected
in the FEZ; and (iv) require that production of
services for individuals is taxed under VAT.
Business Environment                           Business              Business Environment
Environment
*   Approve changes to licensing regulations that
prohibit ministries from delegating the right to
license firms to state enterprises.
*   Govemment will adopt a resolution  that
provides a list of agencies with the right to
conduct  inspections  and  their  general
competency.
Utilities                                      Utilities             Utilities
Regulatory Institutions                        Regulatory            Regulatory Institutions
*   Government will submit amendments to the      Institutions       *   Passage of amendments to the Law  on
Law on Natural and Authorized Monopolies to                          Natural  and   Authorized   Monopolies,
make clear that only the SEA and NCA are                             satisfactory to IDA.
responsible  for  regulating  energy  and                        *   Passage of legislation  or other relevant
telecommunications, including setting tariffs                        measures, acceptable to IDA, to improve the
and profit margins.                                                  independence and regulatory capacity of the
SEA and NCA, including in particular.
financial independence - SEA and NCA
budgets should be secured through industry
levies and/or license fees, the full amount of
which will be passed to the agencies).
Electricity                                    Electricity           Electricity
*   Implementation of tariff increase of 55 percent *  Implementation of  *   Implementation of tariff increase to be agreed
over the average domestic tariff in force at the    tariff    increase,  with IDA, consistent with the agreed medium
end of 1999. SEA and Government to approve    satisfactory to IDA,   term tariff policy.
a 5-year electricity and heat tariff policy,    consistent with the  *   Satisfactory progress on sale of the first
acceptable to IDA.                           agreed   principles     distribution company with quality strategic
*   Satisfactory progress in the implementation of    of medium  term    investor, selected through transparent and
the 1999-2000 Action Plan for the Recovery   tariff policy.          competitive bidding procedures.
and Restructuring of KE resulting, for a similar  * Completion of the  *   Issue requests for proposals, acceptable to
period of comparison in 1999, in reduction of    process of creation  IDA, for the privatization of all remaining
technical and commercial losses.             of    all    the        distribution   companies  by  means  of
*   The SEA will: (a) adopt General Market Rules    distribution  JSCs,  transparent and competitive tender for long
for the operation of the unbundled electricity    based   on   the



25
sector; and (b) prepare drafts of model power    configuration  and     term  concessions or outright sale of a
purchase agreement, and model contracts for    number acceptable        controlling block of shares.
connection to and use of the Grid.             to IDA.
*   Government will decide on the number and
configuration   of  distribution   companies,
satisfactory to IDA, and select at least one
distribution company for privatization on the
basis    of   the    financial    adviser's
recommendation.
Gas                                              Gas                    Gas
*   Tariffs for all consumers will be raised to                         *   Continued satisfactory implementation of the
US$70.38 per 1000 m3 (exclusive of VAT).                                2000-2001  Action  Plan  including  tariff
The tariff will be indexed to monthly changes                          increases based  upon  new  methodology,
in the exchange rate.                                                   raising norms, and meeting targets for meter
*   Satisfactory implementation of the 2000-2001                            installation,  accounts  receivable,  cash
Action   Plan   for  the   Recovery   and                               collections,  and  reporting  of  financial
Restructuring of the Gas Sector, acceptable to                         information.
IDA, including  increasing  tariffs, raising                       *   Issue requests for proposals for privatization
norms, meeting targets for meter installation,                         of  KG   distribution   and  transmission
accounts receivable, cash  collections, and                             businesses by means of transparent and
reporting of financial information.                                     competitive tender processes, acceptable to
*   Based  on  the  consultants'  work,  the                                IDA, for long term concessions or outright
Government will finalize the preparation and                            sale of the businesses. Sell LPG and other
approve a concept paper, acceptable to IDA,                             non-core KG businesses (e.g., construction).
for  submission  to  Parliament  for  the
denationalization and privatization of KG,
including the divestiture of the LPG activities
of KG and the transfer of management control
of transmission and distribution.
Telecommunications                               Telecommunications   Telecommunications
*   Government  will  submit  to  Parliament
amendment to Law on Electric and Mail
Communication to prohibit KT from offering
mobile telecommunications services except
through a separate legal entity which would
have interconnection terms with KT no more
favorable than KT offers to any 3rd party, and
license terms no more favorable than any 3rd
party offering the same or similar service.
Social Protection                                Social Protection      Social Protection
*   Government will introduce, from  the first
quarter  of 2000,  agreed  mechanism   of
compensation to the poor for utility tariff
increases.
*   Government will submit a draft law  to
Parliament, satisfactory to IDA, that (a)
streamlines current privileges by focusing on
people in greatest need and by reducing
substantially the aggregate cost of privileges
(b) specifies all remaining privileges after
streamlining (c) states that all other legislative
clauses granting privileges are cancelled
(d) declares that changes in the legislative
system of privileges will be possible only
through its amendment. Government will fund
all remaining privileges. Funds saved from the
elimination of privileges will be used to
finance the expansion of means-tested social
programs.



26
D. BENEFITS AND RISKS
102. The proposed credit would underpin fiscal adjustment and improve the conditions for
private sector growth, provide an impetus for energy sector reform and help mitigate its social
costs. The tax measures will have dual benefits of reducing key distortions in the business
environment and strengthening fiscal revenues. The regulatory reforms should substantially
reduce the regulatory burden experienced by existing businesses. In addition, improvements in
the consistency and transparency of business regulations will allow entrepreneurs to estimate their
regulatory expenses and plan accordingly. The willingness of entrepreneurs to operate in this
legal environment and to undertake significant investment will be positively effected with critical
implications for economic growth and fiscal stability.  Greater regulatory consistency and
transparency will also assist the government in reducing its regulatory expenditures and advance
the development of a rule of law state.
103. The principle benefits of the utilities sector reform program will be to place the
infrastructure and utility services on the path to a sustainable future; increase efficiency in these
industries (leading to sustainable prices lower than they would otherwise have been); improve
quality of service; and bring an influx of private capital into the infrastructure and utility
companies, from the privatization process, that will help start addressing the chronic need for
repairs and replacement. These factors should create an environment within which industry is
able to operate and grow in a competitive way with the major distortions and impediments being
removed. Further, the government budget should be strengthened through greater revenue
collection and an easing of the expenditures required to support the utility industries (both direct
and indirect).
104. Risks. The operation has three important groups of risks. A centralpolitical risk, with an
associated social element, relates to the impact of tariff increases. Under the proposed program
the Govemment will need to increase utility tariffs, reduce subsidies and privileges, and provide
additional social protection for the poor. While the Government undertook winter season energy
tariff increases which were difficult enough in and of themselves, they were also controversial
against the backdrop of Parliamentary elections in February-March. Further tariff increases and
the elimination of tax exemptions may still prove difficult. While most of the authorities
generally. understand the need for urgent actions there is still a real understanding gap of the
economics underlying the need for such increases. The Bank will continue to provide ad hoc
policy advice and dialogue as part of its active program complemented by WBI's (and other
donors') formal training programs.
105. A related risk is the social impact of energy tariff increases. The tariff increases for gas
(particularly for those consumers who use gas for heating) and district heating would have the
largest impact on household budgets.  These are largely the urban non-poor.  The social
protection measures have been augmented for households facing tariff increases over the next
five years allowing adjustments in household consumption. Moreover, complementary measures
are also being supported under the program for extending metering of gas consumption and a heat
strategy that would recommend alternative, cost-effective and more affordable heat sources.
Electricity is already universally metered and is a smaller share of households' utility
expenditures. A lifeline tariff has been introduced that would be cross-subsidized by higher
consumption groups - work to support the further assessment of these social protection schemes
is being provided by the CSAC TA Credit in collaboration with DFID. If the requisite tariff



27
increases are not implemented, any implications would have to be assessed by the Government
and IDA since it may delay the process of private sector involvement.
106. There are also risks related to investor interest in the privatization process. There may
not be sufficient interest from strategic investors as there are factors that make the Kyrgyz
Republic less attractive - it is a highly indebted poor country, limited domestic market,
unresolved international agreements in the energy/water sector. The program is designed to help
establish as strong an environment for private sector participation as is possible. However, in the
event of low investor interest, the Government and IDA would review the range of options
available.
107. A third group of risks relates to the implementation capacity. The Government's reform
program is very ambitious and will require a great deal of institutional capacity for effective
implementation. Implementation capacity of state agencies will be stretched, particularly as
regards complex regulatory reform, privatization and overall program coordination. This can be
partially offset by technical assistance although this is far from ideal and does not remove the
need to have a decision making body that is fully informed and effective. The Government has
set up a Supervisory Council to provide policy oversight and the regular meetings and work of
this Council has significantly improved overall program coordination.
E. FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
108. The proposed credit of SDR 26.1 million (US$35 million equivalent) would be made to the
Kyrgyz Republic, represented by the Ministry of Finance. Disbursements will be made in three
tranches: a first tranche of SDR 7.5 million (US$10 million equivalent), a second tranche of SDR
6.0 million (US$8 million equivalent) and a third tranche of SDR 12.6 million (US$17 million
equivalent), against submission by the Borrower of a simplified withdrawal application. The first
tranche will be disbursed immediately upon credit effectiveness; the second and third on
completion of the respective tranche conditions outlined above.
109. Disbursements under the proposed credit will be made to an account ("Deposit Accounts")
of the Ministry of Finance established at the National Bank of the Kyrgyz Republic. The credit
will be disbursed according to the Bank's simplified disbursement procedures for adjustment
operations. Thus disbursements will not be linked to specific purchases and there will be no
procurement requirements.  If the credit proceeds are used for ineligible purposes, the
International Development Association (IDA) will require the Borrower to either (a) return that
amount to the account for use for eligible purposes; or (b) refund the amount directly to IDA, in
which case IDA will cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount of the credit. IDA will require an
audit of the deposit account. The audit reports would be submitted to IDA no more than six
months after the date of IDA's request. The expected closing date of the proposed Credit is
March 31, 2002.
110. The Government intends to use the credit proceeds towards meeting its general budget
expenditures, including debt service payments. The Ministry of Finance and the National Bank
of the Kyrgyz Republic have in place the basic financial management systems in terms of
accounting, reporting, auditing and internal controls. The NBKR adopted IAS in 1997 and is
audited by internationally recognized auditing firms. As the IMF intensifies its safeguards
assessments, there will be consultations with the IMF and disbursements under the credit will be
dependent upon a continuing favorable assessment by the IMF.
I ll. To date, the country strategy and program has supported the improvement in financial
management capacity, most notably through the Public Sector Resource Management Adjustment



28
Credit (PSRMAC) and the Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FINSAC), both of which have
worked to overhaul the Government budget process and to establish a stable framework for inter-
governmental finance. Budget execution was modernized in mid-1998 when a system of
warrants was introduced that required Treasury authorization of payments on the basis of
commitments (and the budget framework improved through an IDA supported Law on the
Principles of Budget). A National Audit Law was also supported. USAID is involved in this
ongoing effort and the ADB is assisting with training. This year the focus has been on
strengthening financial management arrangements in the IDA portfolio. Under the CDF, a
governance workshop was organized in July 2000, intended to be the beginning of a process of
systemic reform. In this context IDA will explore possible future lending support for an
operation to support improvements in governance.
F. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
112. In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment
(OD 4.01, Annex E), the proposed operation has been rated in category "C" and does not require
an environmental assessment.
G. COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY AND BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
113. The objectives of the World Bank assistance program for the Kyrgyz Republic are to:
- Facilitate restoration of economic growth, particularly in the rural sector
- Foster an appropriate legal and regulatory environment to support the emerging private. sector
- Assist the Government to mitigate poverty and protect vulnerable segments of the society
during the transition
- Strengthen institutional capacity, in particular, the management of public finance.
114. Since September 1992, when the Kyrgyz Republic joined the World Bank and the
International Development Association (IDA), 21 IDA credits totaling approximately US$536
million equivalent have been approved with 14 under execution currently. Six subsequent
adjustment operations have provided balance of payments/budgetary support for the
Government's Economic Reform Program, including: (i) a 1993 Rehabilitation Credit, which
financed the design and initiation of the reform program together with critical imports and
technical assistance; (ii) a 1994 Privatization and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit, which
supported privatization and the establishment of the Enterprise Restructuring and Resolution
Agency program to deal with large loss-making enterprises; (iii) a 1995 Agricultural Privatization
and Enterprise Adjustment Credit, which supported the Government's program to demonopolize
agro-conglomerates, develop land markets and eliminate remaining trade and price distortions;
(iv) a 1996 Financial Sector Adjustment Credit to reform a fledgling banking sector in the context
of rapid economic transformation; (v) a 1997 Public Sector Resource Management Adjustment
Credit, which laid out key systems for expenditure planning, execution and control and
introduced categorical and equalization grants in the context of an intergovernmental finance
strategy; and (vi) a 1998 social sector reform program, which supported reform of the state
pension system, social assistance and employment services.
115. IDA has also approved 15 investment and technical assistance operations, to inter alia: (i)
support the expansion of services and the establishment of appropriate regulatory and policy
framework in the telecommunications sector; (ii) mitigate the social costs of the transition
through a safety net project; (iii) foster the development of private enterprises by providing access
to technical assistance and credit; (iv) help make sheep farming more efficient and profitable; (v)
support reform of the health sector; (vi) establish an interim institutional mechanism through the
Kyrgyz Agricultural Corporation for agricultural lending and a small farmer's credit outreach



29
program; (vi) finance investments in irrigation rehabilitation and associated on-farm activities,
based on Water Users Associations, to increase the productivity of irrigated agriculture as well as
to reconstruct critical irrigation infrastructure in Osh and Djalalabad provinces following the 1998
floods; (vii) finance farm restructuring; rural advisory development services; seed industry
development; crop protection and plant quarantine; an agricultural marketing information system;
and sectoral capacity building initiatives; (viii) develop the power and district heating sector; (ix)
finance the necessary analytical work associated with the FINSAC and CSAC reform programs;
and (x) support the development of markets for land and real estate and the more intensive and
effective use of land and real estate through the introduction of a reliable and well-functioning
system for registration of rights in immovable property. In addition to the CSAC operation, an
urban transport project has also been negotiated and advanced preparations for a Water Supply
and Sanitation Project and a second Health Project are underway.
116. Since 1999 the Kyrgyz Republic has been included as a pilot Comprehensive Development
Framework (CDF) country. Under this approach the Government is designing and defining its
Kyrgyz 2010 Vision with the active participation of key domestic stakeholders-Parliament, civil
society, academia, the business sector-and the international community. Four National
Workshops have been held focussing on: the CDF concept and process; poverty alleviation and
social protection; sustainable economic growth; and good governance, legal and judicial reform.
Provincial level workshops, seminars and focus groups have also been organized on these same
topics and various media and fora have been established including an interactive web site to
encourage national dialogue. A strong emerging trend in this dialogue has been the need to make
the improvement in governance a national priority. The discussions have so far focused on issues
such as weak institutional development, high public employment levels, low remuneration to
public employees and, more generally, the need to further define appropriate forms of state
intervention.
117. Under the CDF framework, the Kyrgyz authorities are preparing a Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (PRSP) with support from the IMF, ADB, World Bank and other donors. To
develop this poverty reduction strategy, the authorities will build on previous Government
initiatives (e.g., the Araket program) and the Joint UNDP-Government Sustainable Human
Development Program. The PRSP will include: (i) a viable medium to long term economic
vision for the country; (ii) a three year macro-economic framework setting out a realistic scenario
of available internal and external resources; and (iii) within that macro-economic framework, the
presentation of a poverty reduction strategy that will specifically lay out the key public
expenditure priorities.
118. A World Bank Group country assistance strategy covering July 2001 through June 2004
will be developed over the coming months in consultation with the Government, key stakeholders
and development partners. It is expected to be submitted for Board consideration during the
second half of this fiscal year. This CAS will build on the ongoing Government efforts to
identify key priorities and focus its resources towards enhancing growth and reducing poverty
through the CDF and the PRSP.
119. World Bank portfolio execution had been generally good with regularly scheduled Joint
Country-Bank reviews and intensive Resident Mission monitoring. Over the past year, however,
overall portfolio monitoring performance experienced problems owing to a number of factors,
including: (i) changes in key Government positions, (ii) the aftereffects of a local bank failure
have resulted in complete disruptions in the operation of all project special accounts in the
country for over half a year; and (iii) limited/over-stretched capacity - particularly in the Ministry
of Finance and Goskominvest. Over the past 6 months aggressive actions have, however, been
taken to improve projects rated unsatisfactory.



30
120. IFC has approved two main projects in the Kyrgyz Republic viz. the Kumtor Gold Mine
(US$450 million project cost -- IFC equity of US$10 million and loan of US$30 million) and an
investment in the Demir joint-venture commercial bank (IFC equity of US$2 million and loan of
US$2 million). It has also assisted in attracting foreign investors by hosting two Investor's
Conferences. In October 1998 the Kyrgyz Republic became eligible for Extending IFC's Reach
Initiative. IFC has undertaken promotional and business development activities with small and
medium-sized enterprises and has approved two investments of US$470,000 and US$300,000
under the Small Enterprise Fund for agribusiness and packaging projects respectively. Several
additional projects are under development in the pipeline. During FY00 IFC has also approved a
US$1.4 million equity investment for a 20% ownership in a proposed new commercial bank
(Kyrgyz Investment Credit Bank) in conjunction with the Aga Khan Fund for Econlomic
Development, EBRD and DEG. It is expected that this new bank will start operations in late
2000. IFC is also advising FINCA, a successful microcredit program in Kyrgyz Republic, on
institutionalizing its activities as a means for their expansion.
121. As of June 30, 2000 MIGA's gross exposure in the Kyrgyz Republic stands at US$75.2
million which corresponds to 1.7% of its gross portfolio. MIGA has signed four contracts of
guarantee, supporting three projects in the manufacturing, services and mining sectors. It is
estimated that MIGA has facilitated over $360 million of foreign direct investment in the Kyrgyz
Republic.  Currently, MIGA has one active application in the Kyrgyz Republic in the
infrastructure sector (power) with a potential investment of US$95 million. Moreover, investors
have expressed interest for MIGA's coverage in investments in the manufacturing and oil&gas
sectors.
H. COLLABORATION WITH IMF AND OTHER DONORS
122. The proposed CSAC has been developed in close collaboration with the IMF to ensure
consistency and complementarity between the macroeconomic program and structural reforms.
At the request of the Government, Bank and Fund staff were on parallel missions, CSAC pre-
appraisal and discussions for a second year program of the PRGF, respectively. Cooperation with
other multilaterals has also been close as the EBRD, ADB and IDA jointly agreed on an Action
Plan with the Government for the power sector.
123. There has also been excellent collaboration with bilateral donors. The Government of
Japan provided substantial donor resources to prepare this Credit under a PHRD Grant.
Collaboration with the UK Department for International Development (DFID) started early,
during the preparation of the Fiscal Sustainability Study which formed the basis for the design of
the proposed CSAC program. Since then, the cooperation developed with DFID preparing a
parallel project "Tariff Policy and Utility Reform Project". The project is in three phases, the first
phase financing a Willingness and Ability to Pay For Energy Survey, while the second and third
phases are to increase the basic understanding of key policymakers on tariff-related issues and to
assist in enhancing capability in financial modeling and evaluation of social assistance
mechanisms. The EU TACIS program has provided the State Energy Agency with institutional
support, primarily on the power sector. The Government has requested an extension of the
program to provide additional support on restructuring, market rules through the privatization of
the electricity distribution companies and gas. USAID has also supported the State Energy
Agency. In addition, USAID has provided support to the Ministry of Finance and State Tax
Inspectorate on macro-fiscal, budgeting, and tax administration and started work on customs
administration. It has also recently approved a program, which would provide the technical
assistance underpinning the de-regulation program of the CSAC.



Annex I
Page I of 8
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: CONSOLIDATION STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
POLICY MATRIX
(Core conditions in bold)
Policy Objective                        Status/Issues                |  Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation   I Actions for Second (shaded areas)/Third Tranches
1. MACROECONOMIC POLICY
Macroeconomic stability         Second year program under PRGF approved on    Maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic   Continued satisfactory maintenance of the
I February 9, 2000. Review mission in May.     program.                                       macroeconomic program.
11. TAX REFORMS
Reduce economic distortions     Firms operating in the FEZ are given broad    The Government has submitted amendments to    Passage of amendments to FEZ law and change in
inherent in the tax system while    exemption from taxes. In July 1998, the  Parliament to the law on Free Economic Zones to   Bishkek FEZ regulations, satisfactory to IDA.
improving revenue mobilization  Government enacted a resolution requiring that    ensure that:
and enhancing equityfor both    customs be collected on the foreign component    *   transaction taxes, including VAT and excise   Government will move the VAT to a destination basis
businesses and individuals.     of goods produced in the FEZ and that customs     taxes, and custom's duties are collected at the  with respect to at least two of the three remainingCIS
and VAT be collected on imports which pass        FEZ border on goods produced by new firms   countries.
through the FEZ.                                  in the FEZ when the goods enter into the
domestic market, regardless of the degree of   The turnover taxes imposed for the Road Fund and
In July 1999, Parliament adopted several          processing, and without any threshold or  Emergency Fund will be phased out as appropriate
amendments to Tax Code of 1996. Significant      minimum on the size of the buyer or the    alternative sources of revenue are established.
amongst these is widening personal income tax    transaction or regardless of whether the FEZ
brackets and reducing rates, with the top rate   entity has sold the goods.                 Restore the land tax rates to at least the 1997 levels
lowered from 40 percent to 33 percent. Another   *   personal income taxes and social       for the year 2001.
amendment included eliminating the annual         contributions are collected on all employees
restriction on the amount of the five-year loss   working in the FEZ.                       Government will develop and start implementing an
carry-forward provision under the profits tax.  +   Production of services in the FEZ for   agreed Action Plan for strengthening revenue
domestic consumption is taxed under VAT.    administration that will allow coordinated
Excise tax rates for domestic and imported   *   firms established prior to amendment of the    development of STI and SCC.
commodities were unified beginning 1999.         law continue to receive concessionary tax
treatment under the old law.              Govemment will ensure that VAT rebates are being
Maintained a steady record in reducing offsets to   The Government will amend Article 7 of the  made and will report the amount of rebates being
pay tax liabilities.                         Bishkek FEZ decree to bring it into conformity  made relative to the amount that are owed to
with the amended FEZ law.                     taxpayers.
Placed tax inspectors in firms that currently have
large outstanding tax arrears.               Government has included provision in 2000
Budget for VAT rebates for intensive exporters
Enhanced cooperation between government      for all transactions made after January 1, 2000.
agencies (i.e., developed taxpayer identification    Procedures for making rebates have been
system that allows the STI, SCC, and Social  developed by MoF and the procedures for taking
Fund to use each others' records to analyze  credits against other taxes have been simplified.
taxpayers).
Government has affirmed its commitment to
integrating key functions of tax and customs
administrations and strengthening of revenue
administration.



Annex I
Page 2 of8
Policy Objective                        Status/Issues                  Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation    Actions for Second (shaded areas)lThird Tranches
Enhance the business           Restructured monthly estimated profits tax   STI has implemented a new system for receiving    Based on research findings, costs and time to
environment by reducing        payments so that the amount is based on the  tax returns, creating a separation between     businesses associated with tax compliance will be
burdensome tax compliance and    firm's cumulative profit experience for the  taxpayers filing returns and their respective tax  significantly reduced.
administrative procedures and by   previous year, thereby smoothing the firm's tax   inspector.
improving taxpayers            liabilities over the year.
understanding of the tax                                                    The Government issued a decree on March 17,
structure.                      Introduced a patent system that allows very  2000 adopting new taxpayer manuals for several
small taxpayers to meet their income tax    taxes. The manuals were developed jointly by the
obligations through small monthly payments. In   MoF, STI, and private sector. The profits tax
July 1999, the patent system was expanded to  manual includes a chapter on allowable
include 18 additional types of businesses.  deductions in determination of profits. Also, the
MoF has prepared a separate set of regulations,
Selectively choosing taxpayers for audit    currently under review, on allowable deductions.
purposes. Reduced the percent of taxpayers
audited from 100 percent to 12 percent. Created
a large taxpayer unit but are over- sampling this
population for audit purposes.
Assisting taxpayers to comply with taxes through
publication of a book containing Tax Code,
monthly magazine, and on-going media
campaign to inform taxpayers about their rights
and responsibilities.
Established a department in each tax office to
assist taxpayers with questions that arise in
filling out tax returns. Opened an anonymous
telephone hotline to allow taxpayers to submit
complaints. Developed an internal appeals
process that improves transparency for
taxpayers.
111. BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT
To increase economic growth by    Business registration procedures have been  Government Resolution 47 (January 31, 2000)  Based on research findings, the time required to start-
reducing problems and costs    simplified and limited to 10 days by the Law on   further reduced the number of permits required for  up a business and the costs associated with fulfilling
associated with starting up a  Registration of Legal Entities (# 39, July 1996).   sole entrepreneurs, and vested the Ministry of  all requirements will be significantly reduced.
business and increasing the    Amendments to this Law (#94, July 1999) made   Foreign Trade and Industry with responsibility for
consistency and predictability of   registration at the MoJ free of charge.  reviewing all regulations relating to trade and
official procedures.           Registration of individual entrepreneurs has also   other business activity.
been simplified by introduction of patents and
changing procedures from permissive to      Government Resolution 57 (February 3, 2000)
informative system.                         simplified the requirements for small businesses
to renovate or remodel commercial premises.
Government Decree (# 300, May 1999) issued to
simplify the process of receiving permissions for  Government has created a preliminary time bound
planning and designing stage for construction or   action plan for further eliminating administrative
remodeling of premises. Permissions from    barriers to start-up a firm. The action plan is
Ministry of Health and Fire Department were  being revised to include additional elements



Annex I
Page 3 of 8
Policy Objective                        Status/lssues                   Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation    Actions for Second (shaded areas)/Third Tranches
eliminated.                                  relating to monitoring and supervising the
application of reform steps.
Govemment efforts to reform start-up procedures
have not included examinations of the
application of procedures or efforts to enhance
the supervision of regulatory authorities. A first
step in focusing on implementation issues was
taken via a study of the costs associated with
business start-up procedures.
To improve the effectiveness of  Adoption of the Law on Licensing on March    Changes to licensing regulations have been made    Based on research findings, the cost and time
government regulation of the    1997 which created a unified framework for all   that prohibit ministries from delegating the right   associated with licensing procedures will not have
economy by simplifying licensing   licensing requirements. There is a strong  to license finns to state enterprises.         increased, and no new procedures will have been
procedures and increasing the   tendency by licensing agencies to proliferate                                               introduced, including new sublicensing requirements.
consistency of their enforcement.   sub-licenses.                             In order to enhance the govemment's capacity to
supervise licensing and to increase the
Govemment and the CPC submitted to           transparency of the licensing regime, the CPC has
Parliament proposed amendments to the Law on   initiated steps to compile a comprehensive list of
Licensing. The amendments include: (i)       all existing licensing regulations and procedures.
reducing number of activities subject to licensing  All ministries are required to identify all of their
from 64 (117) to 37 (91); (ii) licensing fee to be   licensing, permit, and registration requirements
paid directly to the government budget, not to  and submit a copy of the rules to the CPC. On the
licensing agencies' accounts; (iii) eliminating the  basis of this material, the CPC will develop an
right to issue licenses by enterprises/agencies  authoritative collection of existing rules and begin
that engage in competing commercial activity  to simplify and revise procedures.
(effective from January 1, 2000). After
Parliament adopted amendments, President
vetoed them - outstanding issue is some specific
activities to be de-licensed. Revised
amendments have been submitted to Parliament,
and will be taken up by the new Parliament.
Survey conducted to determine cost and time
associated with licensing procedures.
To improve the profitability and    Presidential decree (# 289, October 1998) and  Presidential Decree issued on February 16, 2000    Based on research findings, the number and cost
growth of businesses by reducing   Govemment Decree (# 743, November 1998)    that: (i) requires the Govemment to review and  associated with inspections will be significantly
the cost and time associated with   issued to reduce business inspections. Each  revise regulations in order to eliminate all  reduced.
unnecessary business inspections.  business is required to maintain an inspection  duplication of inspection functions, (ii) mandates
book to be signed by an inspector every time an   the creation of standard procedures and standard
inspections is undertaken. However, a system  forms for use in all inspections, and (iii) requires
for monitoring inspection books has only     a selected agency to monitor inspection practices
recently been developed.                     In order to implement the presidential directive:
the Govemment has adopted a resolution that
provides a list of agencies with the right to
conduct inspections, and their general
competency. The CPC will also institute
procedures to coordinate the performance of
inspections including the creation of a master
inspection schedule.



Annex I
Page 4 of 8
Policy Objective                        Status/Issues                   Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation    Actions for Second (shaded areas)/Third Tranches
The CPC has initiated reviews of inspection books
to determine the frequency of inspections by
various inspecting bodies.
Removal of conflicts of interest  A conflict of interest exists for a wide range of    All ministries have been instructed to complete a    Certification by commercial companies operating in
for ministries, public enterprises    organizations that are responsible for licensing,    questionnaire designed to identify all conflict of    the same field must be removed, (e.g., an alcohol
and other agencies              certification and other forms of regulation that    interest problems that arise in the area of licensing   producer certifying the products of other alcohol
also have commercial interests in the same areas   due to the direct economic interests of the  producers should not be allowed).
that they are regulating.                    enforcing body.
The Govemment announced its plan to eliminate
conflict of interest problems in the mass media
and requested the public to submit information on
conflict of interest problems that they have
encountered.
A draft action plan to implement reforms to
remove conflicts of interest has been prepared.
The action plan is being revised and finalized in
order to ensure that the govemment efforts will be
rule-based and involve an examination of actual
practices and not rely exclusively on reviews of
normative documents. CPC is developing rules to
guide the elimination of conflict of interest
problems once they have been identified.
CPC has compiled a preliminary list of conflicts
of interest, a timetable to deal with these problems
as well as a reporting system designed to create a
complete record of govemment activities in the
area of conflict reform.
The right to certify oil products by Munai was
eliminated.
To increase consistency,        All regulations including those issued by     Govemment Resolution "On Due Procedures for    MOJ will conduct a selective inspection of three
transparency, predictability, and    ministries and other Govemmental agencies  Registering and Subsequent Publication of all  agencies, which had the largest number of
legality of regulations, ensure  must be registered at the MoJ according to the  Regulations" adopted on March 28, 2000      unregistered regulations. Based on the findings, MOJ
their registration at the Ministry    Law on Normative Acts. However, various  according to which all agencies have to cancel or   will publish a list of unregistered regulations in a
of Justice                      ministries and agencies continue to issue and  register unregistered regulations.            major media outlet specifying that these regulations
enforce regulations that are not registered.                                                are invalid.
MoJ compiled a list of all registered regulations
MoJ conducts regular inspections of ministries    issued from 1992 till present. This list [will be]
and agencies to identify regulations not     published and disseminated to all courts.
registered. If such regulations are found, a non-   Publication of the list will be quarterly.
binding recommendation to register them is   MoJ submitted a list of unregistered regulations to
issued. This practice, however, does not produce  the Govemment, on the basis of a comprehensive
qualitative results.                         inspection of all Ministries and agencies.
Instructions to either register these regulations or
.____________________________   ______________________________   delete them from the bodelete them from the books were issued. MoJ is                                        l



Annex I
Page 5 of 8
Policy Objective                       Status/Issues                  Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation   Actions for Second (shaded areas)/Third Tranches
now collecting information from agencies about
I_________________________________________ [their decision on the status of those regulations.
IV. REFORM OF INFRASTRUCTURE AND UTILITY COMPANIES
REGULATION                     State Energy Agency (SEA) was established and   The Government has submitted to Parliament  Passage of amendments to the Law on Natural and
is responsible for electricity, district heating and   amendments to the Law on Natural and  Authorized Monopolies to make clear that only the
Establishment and/or           gas sectors. SEA has power to issue licenses and  Authorized Monopolies to make clear that only  SEA and NCA are responsible for regulating
strengthening of independent   set tariffs. Some aspects of independence are  the SEA and NCA are responsible for regulating    energy and telecommunications, including setting
regulatory agencies.           weak.                                       energy and telecommunications, including setting   tariffs and profit margins.
tariffs and profit margins.
National Communications Agency (NCA) was                                                 Passage of legislation or other relevant measures,
established and is responsible for licensing                                             acceptable to IDA, to improve the independence
telecom companies, setting tariffs and                                                   and regulatory capacity of the SEA and NCA,
monitoring quality of service.                                                           including in particular financial independence -
SEA and NCA budgets should be secured through
Both regulatory agencies have limited                                                    industry levies, the full amount of which will be
institutional capacity, inadequate funding and                                           passed to the agencies and reflected in the State
small staff.                                                                             budget.
ELECTRICITY SECTOR             The practice of subsidizing domestic electricity    Tariff increases in January and April, 2000  Implementation of tariff increase, satisfactory to
and heat tariffs from volatile electricity export    representing an increase of [40] percent over the    IDA, consistent with the agreed principles of
Ensure financial viability of the    revenue has seriously jeopardized the financial    average tariff in force at the end of 1999  medium term tariff policy (second and third
electricity sector.            viability of Kyrgyzenergo (KE). Uncertainties
regarding future exports through inter-     SEA and Govemment approved the principles of a  tratche conditions).
govemmental agreements increase the risk of  5 -year electricity and heat tariff policy.
further deterioration of KE. In addition, the                                            Continued satisfactory progress in the implementation
current low level of tariffs is jeopardizing the  Necessary amount has been included in the  of the Action Plan for the Recovery of KE and
prospect of attracting additional capital   Budget: (i) to pay for the expected volume of  continued reduction of technical and commercial
investment in the sector, especially for critically   consumption of electricity and heat energy by  losses by the generation, transmission and distribution
needed transmission and distribution        budgetary organizations in 2000, and (ii) to  JSCs.
rehabilitation to assure continued reliability of    compensate the utility for loss of revenue arising
the operation of the system.                from the consumption of heat and electricity by
privileged consumers billed at a discounted tariff.
Satisfactory progress in the implementation of the
1999-2000 Action Plan for the Recovery and
Restructuring of KE resulting, for a similar period
of comparison in 1999, in reduction of technical
and commercial losses.
New Kyrgyz accounting standards (KAS)
adopted.
Sector restructuring           Govemment's Program of Denationalization and   The SEA has (a) adopted General Market Rules    The SEA will prepare and adopt: (i) tariffs for the
Privatization approved, but conflicting decisions  for the operation of the unbundled electricity  supply/purchase of power between the generation and
from the two Houses of Parliament regarding the  sector; and (b) prepared drafts of: model power  distribution companies, and (ii) grid connection and
number of distribution businesses to establish  purchase agreement, and model contracts for  use of system charges.
(five or seven), the allocation of assets between    connection to and use of the Grid.
distribution and transmission and the future role  I_I The SEA will complete the preparation and adopt the



Annex. I
Page 6 of 8
Policy Objective                        Status/issues                  Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation    Actions for Second (shaded areas)/Third Tranches
of the private sector in generation and                                                    Grid Code, and the rules and procedures for balancing
transmission. However, both Houses of                                                      market.
Parliament have approved the privatization of at
least one of KE's distribution company when the                                            The corporatization of the generation, of the
EBRD Talas Loan Guarantee was ratified.                                                    transmission and of all distribution companies will be
completed, including: (i)registration of these new
A Reconciliation Committee was established to                                             legal entities by the Ministry of Justice and of the new
reconcile the differences between the two                                                  stock by the National Commission on Securities (ii)
Houses and adopt a common position on the                                                  approval of their Charters; and (iii) appointment of
scope and pace of restructuring and further                                               their Boards and Management with minimal overlap.
privatization of the sector.
The generation, transmission and distribution
Nevertheless, unbundling and corporatization of                                            companies will sign power purchase contracts and
KE's generation, transmission and distribution                                             transmission contracts, approved by the SEA,
activities can proceed without further                                                     conducive to the development of a market-based
Parliamentary approval. Under both the Law on                                              wholesale electricity market.
Business Partnerships and Companies as well as
KE's registered Charter, matters of KE's intemal
reorganization are subject only to the approval
_ by KE's General Meeting of Shareholders.
Privatization of distribution   EBRD is supporting the privatization of the first   SPF has selected a financial adviser for the  Decsion, satisfactory to IDA, on the stumbner and
companies (DISCO)               distribution company by providing funding for    privatization of at least one distribution company    configuration of the power distribution compani
the recruitment by SPF of a financial adviser  and (a) the financial adviser has confirmed to  ;and   ion of the first distribution company for
under a retainer and success fee contract.  IDA that it has received from KE and from all  Tpr  ti6tion second tra                ou),
government agencies concerned the data required   and completion of the process of creation of all the
to assess the characteristics and potential viability   distribution JSCs.
of the distribution sector and informed IDA of the
date at which it will submit its report on the  Satisfactory progress on sale of the first
recommended number and configuration of       distribution company with quality strategic
distribution companies to the Government; and (b)  investor(s), based upon advice of the financial
the Government has confirmed to IDA that, based   advisor. Issue requests for proposals, acceptable
on the financial adviser's recommendation, it will  to IDA, for the privatization of all remaining
submit to IDA, for its review, a proposal on the  distribution companies by means of transparent
number and configuration of distribution      and competitive tender for long term concessions,
companies within two weeks of receipt of the  or outright sale of a controlling block of shares.
financial adviser's report and that it will proceed
with the creation of all the distribution joint stock
companies once IDA has confirmed that the
Government's proposal is satisfactory.
GAS SECTOR                     The Government recognizes the current financial  Tariffs for all non-privileged consumers were  A methodology, acceptable to IDA, for revising
problems in Kyrgyzgas (KG), given losses of  raised to $70.38/1000 m3 (exclusive of VAT) in    tariffs,, leading to full coverage of operation and
Improvefinancialperformance of  $0.6 million each month in 1999. In mid-1999  January, 2000. The tariffs are adjusted monthly to  maintenance costs, debt service, investment in
KyrygzGas (KG)                 the Government conducted an internal review of  fully reflect any movements in the purchase price   metering and in other minimum required capital
KG's financial results and also created a    of gas or the transit fee, and the total tariff is  expenditures will be adopted by the SEA. The first
commission which made recommendations on    indexed to movements in the exchange rate,    tariff adjustments should take effect on April 1, 2001,
ways to improve the company's financial      Tariffs for privileged consumers were raised by  based upon the new methodology.
performanice.                                20% in January, 2000 and indexed to cxchange
rate movements, and raised by a further 20% in



Annex I
Page 7 of 8
Policy Objective                       Status/Issues                  Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation   Actions for Second (shaded areas)/Third Tranches
April 2000. SEA will adopt a Resolution raising    Continued satisfactory implementation of the
tariffs for privileged consumers to level of non-  2000-2001 Action Plan for the Recovery and
privileged so that there is a uniform tariff for all    Restructuring of the Gas Sector, including tariff
population beginning July 1, 2000.           changes based upon new methodology, changing
norms, and meeting targets for meter installation,
The Government revoked Order 339-p of        accounts receivable, cash collections, and
September 10, 1997 which prohibited KG from  reporting of financial performance.
stopping gas supplies to certain industrial
consumers who do not pay their bills on time.  KG will submit a 1999 financial audit using
international standards.
Government adopted [and satisfactory
implementation ofn 2000-2001 Action Plan for the
Recovery and Restructuring of the Gas Sector,
including changing tariffs, changing norms,
meeting targets for meter installation, accounts
receivable, cash collections and reporting of
financial performance.
Improve the operational        In October 1998, the Joint Stock Company    Government approved a concept paper, for      Issue requests for proposals for privatization of
efficiency of KG and privatize  Kyrgyzgazmunaizat (KGM) was split into two  submission to Parliament for the denationalization   KG distribution and transmission businesses by
different enterprises with two third of KGM  and privatization of KG, including the divestiture   means of transparent and competitive tender
assets given by decree to a state enterprise  of the Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) activities    processes, acceptable to IDA, for long term
Kyrgyzgas (KG). In addition, the management    of KG and the transfer of management control of   concessions or outright sale of the businesses. Sell
of KG was transferred under the management of  transmission and distribution.             LPG and dispose othernon-core KG businesses
KE. In February 1999, KG's reporting                                                     (e.g. construction).
relationship to KE was eliminated.
Consultants hired to advise SPF on how KG's
natural gas activities should be restructured with
the ultimate goal that it be privatized.
DISTRICT HEATING               KE has prepared a detailed plan and timetable,    Satisfactory progress in reducing technical and  Continued satisfactory progress in reduction of
to reduce technical and commercial losses in the   commercial losses in supply and consumption of   technical and commercial losses in supply of heat and
Initiate the transition to a cost-    district heating sector and for the installation of   heat and hot water, installation of district heating    hot water.
effective supply of heat by    more than 2000 district heating meters funded  meters funded under the DANIDA component of
increasing the transparency of  under the DANIDA component of the IDA/ADB   the IDA/ADB loan to KE, and agreed tariff    Government will approve the long-term heat supply
district heating operations,  loan to KE.                                  increase.                                     strategy and will develop an implementation plan for
improving thefinancial                                                                                                   transiting to more cost-effective and affordable
performance of district heating                                             KE has prepared chart of accounts according to  heating systems.
enterprises, restructuring them,                                           KAS for District Heating, including allocation of
and providing incentives to                                                fixed costs between electricity and thermal   SEA will submit a proposal, acceptable to IDA, for
suppliers and consumers to save                                             energy.                                      introduction of progressive tariffs for heat
energy, thus reducingfuel and                                              The Government has adopted TORs for           consumption above certain norms of square meter per
energy bills.                                                              preparation of a Heat Strategy that will include  persorx of space occupied.
proposals for affordable, cost-effective short,
medium and long term options to improve heat
supply and demand in urban settlements, and for
the introduction of institutional and financial
delivery mechanisms which would enable a more
efficient provision of heat services on a fully
commercial basis to the population.



Annex I
Page 8 of 8
Policy Objective                        Status/lssues                  Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation    Actions for Second (shaded areas)/Third Tranches
TELECOM                        Kyrgyz Telecom (KT) is the dominant player in   Govemment has confirmed compliance with (i)    Transfer control of Kyrgyz Telecom from the
the local telephony market, although it faces  agreed tariff re-balancing; and (ii) issued a decree   Govemment to a strategic investor selected through a
Creation of a competitive telecom   competition from mobile phone operators. It has  limiting KT's exclusive rights over national long    transparent competitive bidding process.
sector                         exclusive rights over long distance and      distance and intemational services to 2003, in  KT will be legally prohibited from offering mobile
international voice telephony services. Work is   accordance with WTO commitment.         telecommunications services except through a
underway to attract a strategic investor in KT.                                            separate legal entity having interconnection terms
Government has submitted to Parliament        with KT no more favorable than KT offers to any 3rd
A regulatory body, the NCA, was established to   amendments to the Law on Electric and Mail  party, and license terms no more favorable than any
regulate the telecommunications sector pursuant   Communication to prohibit KT from offering  3rd party offering the same or similar service.
to the Law on Electric and Mail Communication   mobile telecommunications services except
of 1997.                                    through a separate legal entity. Legislation is also
place which would ensure that the legal entity
KT has disposed of its stakes in mobile phone  would have interconnection terms with KT no
operations.                                  more favorable than KT offers to any 3rd party,
and license terms no more favorable than any 3rd
party offering the same or similar service.
V. SOCIAL PROTECTION
To improve efficiency of the   A means-testing program has been introduced in   Govemment has introduced a mechanism of    Implementation, in a manner satisfactory to IDA, of
social protection system and   the form of Unified Monthly Benefit which     compensating poor households for energy tariff    the social protection arrangements. If necessary, any
develop set of sustainable     covered about 10 percent population in 1999.  increases effective April 1, 2000. (Govt.     modifications will be consistent with the
measures that would make       Procedures for calculation of household income   Resolution 141 of March 15, 2000).         Govemment's commitment (a) to fund, from 2000 to
subsequent tariff increases    were introduced and social protection offices                                               2004, the full costs of assistance for households in the
socially acceptable            have gained expertise in intake procedures and    Govemment has fixed the maximum social    new income-tested category, and (b) not to withdraw
income verification. In parallel, the housing  protection benefit for tariff increases for gas for    unilaterally the social protection arrangements
subsidies program, which also relies on means    heating and for district heating on norms of 35  relating to energy tariff increases or to change them
testing procedures, exists in the city of Bishkek.   square meters per household in the new program    significantly in ways unacceptable to IDA.
A coupon system was introduced to make the   or otherwise 14 square meters per person, reduced
mechanism of compensation to utility service  from 18 square meters per person.            Enact law, satisfactory to IDA, that (a) streamlines
providers for 'under-collection' from privileged                                           current legislative privileges by focusing principally
categories more transparent.                 Govemment [has submitted] to Parliament a draft  on people in greatest need and by reducing
law on streamlining privileges, that is acceptable   substantially the aggregate cost of privileges; (b)
to IDA.                                       specifies all remaining legislative privileges after
streamlining; (c) states that all other legislative
clauses granting privileges to particular categories of
population are cancelled; and (d) declares that
changes in scope of the privileges will be possible
only through amendments of this law. Government
will fully finance all privileges and benefits
authorized through the proposed law and under
Goverhment Decrees 141 of March 15, 2000, 281 of
May 15, 1998 and 587 of October 25, 1999.



Annex 2
K bl P r bl 3                                       1P.ABITEJbCTBO
PECnYIJIHKACblHbIHv                                          KbIPrbb3CKOI4
K M 0 T Y                                        PECflYBJaUKIH
BHIllKEK t.. eKM8T YPHY                                      r. BIJlKEK, ,OM FIPABiiTEJ1bCTBA
< 20 >    May          I900xr.                                               16-833
LEITER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Mr. James D. Wolfenson
President
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NWV
X  Washington, DC 20433
Dear Mr. Wolfenson,
The Goverwnent of the Kyrgyz Republic considers the Consolidated Structural Adjustment Credit
to be one of the top priority programs being implemented in the country. The Credit will help to
improve fiscal situation, create favorable conditions for business  development, restructuring
Sutilities services system and electricity. The Govemment hopes that the Credit will provide
substantial assistance in deepening the reforns conducted in the republic.
i 0Macroeconomic Context
o 
K   The Kyrgyz Republic made imnportant strides in attaining macroeconomic stability and putting the
economy on a growth path. By 1996 the macroeconomic situation was brought under control and
growth resumed. The fiscal deficit was reduced sharply and, with firm monetaiy policy, exchange
rate stability was restored and inflation brought under control -- down to 15 percent by 1997.
After two and a half consecutive years of strong growth, the countly was hit by a series of natural
disasters in the middle of 1998 and then the regional financial crisis.
The impact of the regional financial crisis has been significant: exports and growth have suffered
and the unavoidable large real exchange rate depreciation has resulted in a huge increase in the
burden of our ex-teimal debt. As a result of the depreciation of the som, the banking system has
experienced serious difficulties, compounded by the exTosure of some banks to the state gas
company. Our economy is considerably weakened now. Although the current account deficit
was lower in 1999, it was due to the decline in real incomes, together with increased uncertainties
which led to cuts in private consumption and imports. Extemnal imbalances, however, remain high



2
with the current account deficit estimated at 13 percent of GDP in 1999. Lower economic
activity has also led to lower tax revenues and made the fiscal situation more difficult. And all this
comes at a time when we face high refinancing needs: our debt service will increase substantially
in the coming few years.
Our strategy to deal with the current difficulties includes a significant fiscal adjustment and
structural reforms to underpin the fiscal adjustment and increase the efficiency of resource use. In
support of our macro economic stabilization program, we have agreed with the IMF on a set of
fiscal and monetaly policies to be supported under the second annual arrangement of the Poveity
Reduction and Growth Facility. Over the medium-terin, we will reduce our fiscal deficit by 5
percent of GDP while also striving to reduce the uneven burden of taxation. To ensure that the
economy will remain on a path of sustainable growth, we will update our macroeconomic
program in close collaboration with the staff of the World Bank and the IMF.
Our main aim is to achieve a sustained improvement in economic performance through deepening
reform, coupled with efforts to improve living conditions of the poorest segments of the
population. We believe that deregulation and tax reform are essential if the private sector is to
take off. And a more vibrant private sector that operates in the legal economy would also
broaden the tax base and provide needed revenues. We intend to accelerate the transformation of
the public infiastructure and utility companies, while moving to a more transparent and targeted
system for providing basic services to the poor. Reform of the energy sector is important as the
losses of the energy companies and inability to pay for imported gas contribute to the
macroeconomic imbalances. At the same time efficient operation of infiastructure and utility
companies is vital to supporting medium-term  economic growth and the well-being of the
population.
Tax System and Revenue Administration
The Goveirnent is committed to continued refor-m  of the tax structure and revenue
administration with the intent of encouraging economic growth and providing sufficient revenues
to finance needed services.  These goals are best achieved by (a) eliminating unintended
distortions in the economic environment, (b) lowering marginal tax rates and broadening tax bases
and (c) lowering costs of complying with the tax system. We have a broad program for meeting
these goals. Further, the Government intends to avoid making changes in the tax system that
would exacerbate existing distortions or raise compliance costs.
A number of important reforms have been implemented during recent years in order to begin the
process. A comprehensive Tax Code was adopted by Parliament in 1996, and a number of key
amendments were enacted in 1999. Amongst these, the maximum individual income tax rate was
reduced to 33 percent, and loss carry forwards were made easier for business. Last year we
unified excise tax rates on domestic and imported commodities. Tax offsets have been slowly
reduced as a share of collections, falling to 15 percent in 1999. We have established a goal of 10
percent for 2000.



3
The Government recognizes four areas where economic distortions arising from the tax system
will be reduced. First, operation of the FEZ must be changed to limit the inherent distortions and
to broaden the tax base. The available incentives encourage businesses to locate in the FEZ even
when producing for domestic markets. This disadvantages firms located outside the FEZ. We
intend to focus the FEZ on export production by reducing the undue preferences for production
for the domestic market. The first step, collecting personal income tax and social contributions
from workers in the FEZ, has already been taken. The FEZ legislation will be amended to ensure
that transactions taxes, including VAT, excise taxes and customs duties, are imposed at the FEZ
border on all goods produced by new firms in the FEZ that pass into the customs territory of the
Kyrgyz Republic, regardless of the degree of processing, and without any threshold or minimum
on the size of the buyer or the transaction and regardless of whether the FEZ entity has sold the
goods. Production of services in FEZ for physical persons is taxed under VAT. Draft legislation
achieving these objectives has been submitted to Parliament and we will pursue passage of this
legislation in 2000. The Bishkek FEZ regulations will be changed, in accordance with the
amendments in the FEZ law. Tax piivileges provided by the current FEZ law continue to be
effective only for FEZ entities registered before adoption of this Law in respect to their activities
and services envisaged at the time of their original registration only.
Second, the VAT will be administered to reduce the cu-rent disincentives to export. The Tax
Code allows VAT rebates to be made to firms that are intensive exporters. To date, firms have
been pelrnitted to take credits against other tax liabilities, but have not been granted rebates
because of budget constraints. The lack of a refunding mechanism effectively results in a tax on
exports that has limited growth of this vital sector. We have now included provisions to make
rebates in the 2000 State budget. Procedures have been developed for the rebating system, and
the Govenrunent began making appropriate rebates in April 2000. Also, draft legislation has been
developed to move the VAT to a destination basis with respect to all countries. The Gove-rnment
Mill make all effolts to move the VAT to a destination basis with respect to all CIS countlies in
the course of the next year.
Third, we realize that turnover taxes distort business incentives and can cause businesses to adopt
inefficient structures. As a result, the Government is committed to phasing out the Road Fund
and Emergency turnover taxes, and is seeking the best alternatives for replacing the revenues..
One of the revenue options to be examined is a properly designed, market-based ad valorem
propelty tax. Other options will be examined with the intent of replacing the turnover taxes
during the near term.
Foulth, high tax rates and excessive compliance costs encourage firms to operate outside the
formal sector and lower business profits, making it more difficult for both foreign investors and
indigenous firms to be successful in the Kyrgyz Republic. Social contribution rates are currently
very high and must be reduced to encourage firms to expand employment and participate in the
formal sector. A reduction in the rates is an important component of the ongoing pension reform.
Land taxes are an effective revenue source for the Kyrgyz Republic, both for collecting revenues
from the agricultural sector and fiom urban areas, since their economic distortions are veiy
limited. We have developed legislation to double the tax rates from the 1999 level, thereby



4
returning the rates to the 1997 levels. We will ask the new Parliament to pass the legislation for
the year 2001.
Reduction of business compliance costs is a component of our overall reform agenda intended to
help make firms more profitable and to encourage them to participate in the formal sector.
Enhanced administrative practices with an eye to lowering business compliance costs are an
integral part of the process. We are developing a plan to enhance revenue administration. We
expect the plan to be developed during the second half of 2000 and implementation to be
underway in 2001. A high degree of coordination between the STI and State Customs
Committee (SCC) is vital to achieving low compliance costs and limiting distortions in the
economy. Further, coordination will allow the sharing of information between these two agencies
and will improve revenue collections. The Government is currently developing plans for enhanced
coordination of the two agencies. With the help of technical assistance, a coordination program
will be prepared by the end of 2000.
Concurrent with the administrative improvements, we will directly ease compliance costs for
taxpayers. Some initial steps have been taken. Monthly estimated payments for profits taxes have
been restructured so firms can base them on the previous year's cumulative experience. The
patent system, wvhich was introduced several years ago, has been expanded to include 18
additional types of business. Also, taxpayer information has been greatly expanded. For example,
a public awareness campaign was initiated, a hotline was established, and taxpayer assistance
departments were opened in each tax office. Discussions with taxpayers evidence the need to
continue expanding taxpayer information. We have developed improved taxpayer manuals and a
list of allowable deductions in calculating profits tax jointly with the private sector to ensure they
meet their needs. Also, we realize that eveiy effort must be made to reduce perceptions of fraud
in the STI. We have created a system that separates taxpayers and the tax inspectors when tax
returns are filed. We are examining other steps to reduce perceptions of fraud and will make this
an important aspect of changes in the STI administration.
Business Environment
Future economic development hinges on the establishment of a vibrant, expanding private sector.
The Governlment recognizes that the current business environment is not conducive to business
development. It is also aware that the manner and methods of government intervention in the
economy cause many of the problems facing entrepreneurs and firms. The Government is
committed to instituting comprehensive improvements in the manner in which it interacts with
businesses, including reforms of tax and customs administration, and agricultural regulations.
The strategy for directly improving the business environment focuses on removing regulatory
barriers to economic activity. Reforms have been designed to create an effective regulatory
system in which rules are clear and serve a justified purpose and where regulatory enforcement
does not unjustly interrupt normal business activity.  The first stage of the Government's
regulatory environment improvement program will introduce changes in business start-up
procedures, inspection practices, the manner in which regulations are registered and publicized,
and the identity of the state bodies involved in enforcing regulations. Future stages will include
revisions to the manner in wvhich regulatory bodies are supervised and monitored.



5
In order to spur the creation of new businesses, the Government is determined to continue its
efforts to simplify the requirements to start-up a business. In 1999, the Government introduced
several measures to reduce the costs of business registration and to speed up the process of
receiving permission to construct (or remodel) premises. In the first months of the year 2000
there has been a broadening of the efforts to improve conditions for business people, with
important government resolutions issued in the areas of start-up rules for sole entrepreneurs and
requirements for remodeling or reconstructing business premises. The Government has drafted a
preliminary Action Plan to guide the application of the new resolutions as well as setting up a
Working Group charged with responsibility for identifying additional unnecessaiy requirements.
In order to ensure that the regulatory burden expeiienced by business people is reduced, the final
Government Action Plan will require ministries to develop training programs for their officials,
report on the findings of their monitoring of their staffs, and solicit regular input from the public
on regulatory problems. The official Working Group will also develop clear rules for the review
of all future regulatory proposals based on their potential impact on business start-up conditions.
The Goverinment will take steps to reduce the burden of licensing. Amendments to the Law on
Licensing that would reduce the number of activities subject to licensing and create standard,
simplified procedures for licensing application have ahleady been submitted to Parliament. The
Government will pursue their passage with the new Parliament. The Government is in the process
of compiling a comprehensive list of all pernit, registration, and licensing requirements that exist.
On the basis of this information, the Government will eliminate all duplicative or unnecessary
requirements and ensure that the terms "licensing", "permit", and "registration" are used in a clear
and consistent fashion whenever they appear in normative documents. In order to demonstrate its
commitment to measuring success not on the basis of the number of rules that have been changed
but on the impact of businesses, the Government will undertake research to determine the cost
and time associated with licensing. The Government pledges that licensing costs will not increase.
T-he Government is committed to evaluating the impact of its reforms, based on the regulatory
burden experienced by business. In order to evaluate, we will use the results of independent
surveys on business stalt-ups, licensing, and inspections. USAID will finance, organize and
analyze the surveys.
Unnecessary regulatouy costs are also generated by a lack of clarity regarding the rules that are in
force. In the interest of ensuring that officials and businessmen are aware of the operative rules, it
is critical for all normative acts to be registered and published in the media. The Ministry of
Justice has already initiated a review of all existing regulations to identify and eliminate any rules
that have not been duly registered The Ministry has created a comprehensive list of all rules that
are being enforced that have not been registered. . The Government will publish the list of all
registered regulations quarterly. Unregistered regulations will either be eliminated or registered.
A preliminaiy resolution has been adopted to improve the    comprehensiveness of current
procedures to register and publicize official requirements.  The Government is committed to
instituting these new procedures and making certain that all requirements are clearly stated and
known. The Ministry of Justice will monitor the implementation of the new registration
procedures by undertaking an inspection of at least three agencies to determine whether they are
following official procedures and have registered all of their normative acts



6
In addition to making changes in the scope of regulation, the Government will improve the
enforcement of rules. One of the primary problems with the administration of regulations is the
number of times normal business operations are interrupted by inspections, which represents a
tremendous cost to the economy in terms of lost time and effort. In 1998, the Government began
to require inspectors to record their visit in the Inspection Book kept by all businesses. Recently
enacted rules established strict limits on the frequency and duration of inspections and created
standards for the proper conduct of an inspection.  The National Commission for the
Development and Protection of Competition has taken the lead in reviewing existing inspection
practices and in creating rules for inspectorates. In order to supervise the implementation of new
inspection rules, the Commission will adopt procedures that clearly detail how scheduled
inspections will be coordinated, the manner in which fines can be appealed or paid, and the
mechanisms by which inspectorates will be monitored.  The monitoring of inspectorates will
include utilize the inspection books as well as other forms of receiving public input.  The
Govenmment will evaluate the success of its efforts based on research findings on the cost of
inspections, and it is dedicated to significantly reducing the cost associated with inspections within
one year.
The Government is aware that the consistency of the regulatoiy system is weakened when
regulatory bodies have a direct economic interest in the sectors they regulate. A conflict of
interest exists whenever a state body engages in profit making activities and at the same time
enforces regulations, and this conflict strongly damages the appearance of legality and the
performance of a regulatoiy system. The Government is dedicated to identifying all conflict of
interest situations and eliminating them whenever possible. The National Commission for the
Development and Protection of Competition has already begun to gather information on conflict
of interest situations and has solicited public input in the process. On the basis of an approved
Action Plan, the CPC will compile a comprehensive list of conflict of interest problems in the
areas of pernits, licensing, and registration and submit it to the Government. A timetable for
resolving these conflicts will be approved along with the rules to be utilized in resolving conflicts.
Tlhe Government will publish the list of conflicts and the rules for their elimination in the mass
media.
Reform of Infrastructure Companies
The Government is undertaking a concerted reform program to restructure utility companies to
ensure their viability. The services provided by energy and telecommunications companies are
both socially important and central to economic growth. The companies represent significant
sectors of the economy in their own right and provide crucial business inputs to other sectors. By
providing these companies with a more commercial focus and a sound regulatory environment the
Government aims to put them on a sustainable growth path, providing reliable services which
support the development of the private sector and the well-being of the population.
The program includes strengthening of regulatoiy institutions and sectoral reform plans to
eliminate losses and improve technical and financial performance. Piivatization of the electricity,
gas and telecommunications industries plays a central role in this program. The Government



7
recognizes that private ownership and competitive market forces are needed to introduce
commercial management techniques, substantially enhance payments discipline, improve cost
recovery, reduce costs, and stimulate investment in the sectors.
Electricity
Reform of Kyrgyzenergo, the vertically integrated electricity monopoly, is high on the
Government's agenda owing to its precarious financial condition and to the deteriorating quality
of service it provides. Of particular concern are the high technical and commercial losses, low
level of investment, particularly in distribution, insufficient resources to undertake proper,
maintenance of existing installations, low incentives for cost minimization and limited financial and
commercial management skills. We are convinced that restructuring the existing electricity
monopoly and introducing a competitive power market can bring significant benefits to the
Kyrgyz Republic. However, we are also aware that these measures are not sufficient. Many of
the problems of the industly result from years of under-funding. Thus, ensuring that the industry
becomes financially viable is also essential to attract private participation in the electricity sector.
Accordingly, we are committed to raising energy tariffs to economic levels.
The Government's reform program has the following key objectives: (i) improve efficiency in
investment decisions, in system operations, in management, and in energy consumption by end-use
consumers, and drive costs down; (ii) achieve financial viability, cut losses, and reduce the growing
backlog of maintenance, repair, and modernization needs; and (iii) restore the system to 24-hour
quality power as the basis for economic development throughout the Republic.
We believe these objectives can only be achieved if we succeed to attract reputable investors in the
sector under the best possible terns for both the Republic and the consumers. For this purpose, we
will take the following measures: (i) unbundling the system vertically into separate generation,
transmission, and distribution so that costs can be clearly identified and reduced through improved
efficiency; (ii) unbundling horizontally into independent and financially viable distribution companies
now, and introduce competition in the generation sector as soon as possible based on market
considerations so that competition either through "benchmarking" or market forces can drive costs
down; (iii) raising tariffs to cost-covering levels over a reasonable time-frame to encourage efficient
use of energy and capital while providing for adequate mobilization of funds to cover the
operating and capital costs; (iv) establishing explicit and targeted subsidies for energy, supplied to
very low income households to alleviate the economic hardship of reform on the most vulnerable
population; and (v) strengthening the State Energy Agency (SEA) to enable it to better fulfill its legal
mandate to balance the interests of producers and consumers and promote competition.
The initial steps towards introduction of market mechanisms in the electricity sector have already
been taken through passage of an Electricity and an Energy law, the creation of a regulatory
agency, the development of a Program of Denationalization and Privatization of the electricity and
district heating utility and the passage of Parliamentary Resolution 333 authorizing the
govemrnent to proceed with the unbundling and partial privatization of the vertically integrated
electricity and district heating monopoly. On the basis of this legal framework, we will complete
the initial phase of restructuring of the electricity sector with: (i) the creation of several separate



8
legal entities, one for generation, one for transmission and several distribution entities (in
accordance with recommendations of Financial Advisor, approved by the Government of the
Kyrgyz Republic in established order) and (ii) the approval of detailed market rules that will
regulate the legal and trade relations among the newly created enterprises in a transparent manner.
The model selected for the operation of the electricity market in the Kyrgyz Republic in the
coming years is based on bilateral contracts for the purchase of bulk power between generators,
distributors and, possibly, large power consumers, and coverage of charges for use of the
transmission system by separate contracts between the transmission company and each system
user. While conditions in the Kyrgyz Republic are not ideal for introducing a filly competitive
market, this model nevertheless allows market force to be utilized where feasible and will thus
facilitate cost identification, allow cost-reflective pricing, reinforce efficiency incentives put in
place by regulation and open the way for more competitive arrangements when circumstances
become suitable.
The State Energy Agency will have major responsibility for implementing this new contractual
model, overseeing the market's operations and facilitating the move to an increasingly market-
based and efficient market, as opportunities occur.
We have decided to initiate privatization in the electricity complex with the distribution sub-
sector, as we believe that private ownership and management in energy distribution is key to
achieving effective cost control reducing losses and improving revenue collection. This will help
improve the financial situation of the whole sector, enabling later privatizations and investment to
proceed in an environment of greater commercial certainty. An international financial advisor has
been recruited to assist the State Property Fund implement a quality privatization process. We
intend to issue bids for the purchase of a controlling block of shares in the first distribution
company selected on the basis of the advisor's recommendations by end 2000 and conclude the
transaction in early 2001. In parallel, the Government has requested the support of IDA to
mobilize additional expertise to assist the State Property Fund with the privatization of all other
distribution companies. We will offer them for sale to strategic investors in early 2001 and wish
to complete their plivatization shortly thereafter. We will also seek to secure private investment
and management in mini-hydro generation capacity to encourage the development of some
competition among electricity suppliers.
In parallel to its efforts to improve the structure of the industry, the Government will continue to
fully support the implementation of measures necessary to put the sector on a sound and
predictable financial footing as soon as possible. In early 1999, we developed a comprehensive
two year action plan for the financial recovery of the electricity utility and have been monitoring it
closely since then. The plan has resulted in some improvements in the ratio of energy billed to
energy produced and in the ratio of collection to billing for domestic consumers. In mid- 1999 we
also mobilized a group of experts from an international electricity utility to assist our electricity
utility improve its accounting, financial and commercial management practices. Their assistance is
ongoing.
As regards tariffs, those of electricity have been increased by 30 percent in 1999 and by a further
40 percent in 2000, and those of heat by 50 percent in 1999 and by a further 50 percent in 2000.
We will continue this process of adjustment until tariffs reach full cost recovely, including -- but



9
not limited to -- depreciation on replacement value of assets, return on investment, and bi-annual
adjustment.for inflation and exchange rates starting in 2001.  Indeed, the Government is
committed to supporting the implementation of tariffs that will ultimately eliminate cross-
subsidization of electricity and district heating rates among consumer classes and reach fill cost
recovery for all customer classes by the end of 2004. This will improve efficiency of electricity
use and ensure the financial viability of electricity sector entities. For this purpose, the State
Energy Agency has prepared and will implement the principles of a five-year electricity and heat
tariff policy. This medium-term tariff strategy takes into account the important changes that are
occurring, including the reorganization of the industry on an unbundled basis and subsequent
privatization. The Government is committed to the timetable for working out the details of the
methodology and the implementation of the tariff strategy since we recognize its importance for
the provision of certainty to investors while at the same time allowing consumers a relatively
stable price path.
District heating
In the short- to medium-term, the Government's objectives are to improve operational and
commercial efficiency of existing district heat suppliers and to provide incentive for suppliers and
consumers to save energy, thus reducing fuel imports and household energy bills. A district
heating action plan has been developed jointly by the government, the industry, municipal
administrations concerned and the State Energy Agency to address the host of issues involved in
reducing technical and commercial losses and generally reducing costs and consumption,
particularly in the public sector. The plan includes specific measures on tariffs, collections and
metering and we will instruct the representatives of the state block of shares in the Board of
Directors of the newly created Bishkek District Heating joint stock company to monitor closely
the implementation of this plan and prompt management to take all actions necessary to achieve
the expected outcomes.
Over the longer tern, our objective is to restructure heat supply in a way that is consistent with
the ability to pay of residential consumers and with the need to reduce the cost of imported fuel.
To identify economically justified, and more affordable and financially and environmentally
sustainable solutions for heat supply in urban areas, we will initiate the preparation of a
comprehensive heat strategy involving the main stakeholders by the third quarter of 2000.
Gas
The Government places a high priority on improving the financial performance and operational
efficiency of Kyrgyzgas (KG). The gas sector curTently makes significant demands upon the
national Budget, through subsidies to both the enterprise and consumers. Moreover, poor
financial performance results in periodic inability to pay Uzbekistan for gas supply, with the result
that on several occasions gas supply has been disconnected by Uzbekistan.
Initial steps towards improving financial performance have been made by revoking orders which
prohibited disconnection of certain customers. In addition, tariffs were raised in Januaiy 2000 to
$70.48 per lOOOm3 for most consumers, representing an increase of around 17% for non-



10
privileged households, and have been indexed to movements in the exchange rate. For privileged
consumers, the basic tariff (from which various discounts are provided) was raised by 20% in
January and indexed to the exchange rate, and raised by a further 20% in April. On July 1, 2000
tariffs for the privileged population will be raised to the level of the non-privileged tariff so that
there is a uniform tariff for all population.
Going forward, the Government and SEA intend to complete a thorough review of costs during
2000, and in light of this review set tariffs for all consumers which ensure full cost coverage. As
part of the same review, the Government and SEA will develop a methodology for periodicaly
revising tariffs, which will provide potential private investors in the sector with confidence that
revenues will cover costs and a reasonable return on investments will be allowed.  The
methodology will set out a process for objective calculation of costs and rates of return. The
methodology will ensure full coverage of operation and maintenance costs, debt service,
investment in metering and other minimum required capital expenditures. The methodology will
also provide incentives for the gas company(ies) to minimize costs. The revised tariffs and new
methodology will be implemented starting on April 1, 2001.
The immediate strategy for improving operational and financial performance is focused upon the
2000-2001 Action Plan for the Recovery and Restructuring of Kyrgyzgas, which has been
developed by KG in consultation with IDA and adopted by the Government. The action plan
includes measures which will, among other matters, increase metering, reduce accounts
receivable, increase collections and obtain the necessary information for ongoing review of
financial peiformance. The norms, by which gas consumption of non-metered consumers are
calculated, will also be revised in order to better reflect actual consumption.
Stronger incentives for improved operational and financial performance will be provided by
privatization of KG. A privatization strategy has been devised and a privatization concept paper
has been submitted to Parliament, with privatization of transmission and distribution companies
intended to take place in the course of 2001. LPG operations and the majority of other non-core
businesses will also be separated and disposed by the end of 2001. To provide basic financial
information to potential purchasers of KG's businesses, an audit will be conducted to intemational
accounting standards.
Telecommunications
The Government has made more progress towards liberalization  and privatization  in
telecommunications than in any other utility sector.  For several years two private mobile
telephone companies have operated in competition with the dominant State-owned
telecommunications company, Kyrgyz Telecom (KT). The Government is in the process of
privatizing KT, having already appointed a privatization adviser to sell at least 40% of the
company. It is expected that bids will be opened in June 2000.
In support of privatization, the Government is undei-taking further liberalization. KT has held an
exclusive license over international and long distance voice telecommunications, operating until
2008. This period of exclusivity has been reduced to 2003 in accordance with the commitment



given by Government to the World Trade Organization. Tariffs are being rebalanced, to remove
the cross-subsidy from long distance and international calls to local calls, in order to prepare the
sector for full competition in 2003. The first revisions aimed at rebalancing tariffs took effect on
April 1, 2000.
If KT chooses to establish any mobile operations, it will be required to operate them through a
separate legal entity, making it easier for the regulatory authority to ensure equal terms of access
to the fixed line network by all mobile operators. Underlining the Government's commitment to
fostering competition, amendments to the Law on Telecommunications and Posts have been
submitted to Parliament and other legislation is in place that provides for interconnection. of
mobile operators to the fixed line network on reasonable and non-discriminatory terms.
Strengthened Regulatory Institutions
To support the structural reform and privatization program, the Government will strengthen its
regulatory institutions, to establish increased regulatory capacity and enhanced independence from
both regulated firns and short-term political pressures.
The Government has recently submitted draft amendments to the Law on Natural and Permitted
Monopolies to Parliament which would make clear that the State Energy Agency and the National
Communications Agency alone are responsible for regulating energy and telecommunications,
including the setting of tariffs and profit margins. The Government will pursue passage of this
legislation within the next six months.
The regulatory capacity of the SEA and NCA will be strengthened by measures aimed at
establishing their financial independence. By the end of 2001, the budgets of both institutions will
be secured by industiy levies, the full amount of which will be passed to the institutions and
reflected in the State budget. The Government will impose a levy of 0.125% of industry revenue
upon energy companies in order to finance the State Energy Agency.
Other measures to bolster independence and improve regulatory capacity will be considered by
the Government. The Government will consider measures to protect the Boards of the SEA and
NCA from arbitrary dismissal, and will review staffing and salary levels. A training program will
be undertaken for staff of the SEA and NCA.
The Government will also move to improve the transparency of the regulatory process, by
requiring the SEA and NCA to publish their decisions and reasons for those decisions. In
developing the rules for issuance of new licenses, the Government intends to publish and use clear
rules that promote, wherever feasible, an open and competitive process.
Social Protection
The Kyrgyz social protection system is currently designed to enable all our citizens: to enjoy the
basic necessities of living; to be prepared financially for life transitions like retirement and for the
possibilities of sickness, disability and unemployment; and to facilitate productive participation in



12
a well-functioning economy, which is the essential foundation for adequate living standards and
effective social protection in any country.
Accordingly, our social protection system has several complementary elements: Unified Monthly
Benefit (UJMB) for those with the lowest incomes; Social Benefits for people with disabilities,
aged people without other support, orphans, and mothers of 10 or more children; social
in.surance progranms focused on retirement, disability, unemployment, and illness; active labor
market and mnicro-credit progranms to suppoit productive economic activity; and price privileges
for providing defined categories of individuals with cheaper access to a variety of goods and
services.
Our social protection system, however, faces three major challenges.  First, low levels of
economic activity have led not only to high rates of poverty but also to a low tax base that will
constrain social protection spending until economic recovery is achieved. Second, inherited
program structures are sometimes poorly suited to current social protection objectives. Third,
reforns to establish a viable economic basis for our energy and infrastructure sectors will require
that tariffs be raised substantially to cost-recovery levels. These tariff increases will reduce
significantly the already low incomes of the whole population.
We propose to address the last challenge through a four-part strategy. First, for electricity, where
consumption is universally metered, a "lifeline" tariff structure will entitle households to receive
the first 90 kilowatt hours per month at a heavily discounted rate.
Second, categorical assistance already applies to five categories of currently privileged
households: recipients of Unified Monthly Benefit; pensioners with pensions below 400 soms;
families with disabled children under 16; retirees living alone and not working; and low-income
families in which children have lost at least one parent. The Government, through Decrees 281 of
May 15, 1998, and 587 of October 25, 1999, introduced additional price discounts for electricity,
gas, district heating, hot water and coal to provide protection against tariff increases.  For
households in these categories, the current system of privileges would be retained.
Third, compensation for energy tariff increases is being introduced for households that (i) use gas,
district, heating or hot water, (ii) are not already eligible for more generous energy-related
assistance, and (iii) have incomes below an income poverty line of 200 soms per person per
month. The key element of this measure is the introduction, for the energy utilities above, of
specified "socially protected" tariff levels from April 1, 2000. These will initially reflect non-
privileged tariffs of the fourth quarter of 1999 and they will increase over five years in a pre-
specified way until they reach the levels of the normal tariffs in 2005. Initially, however, they will
rise less rapidly than the normal tariffs. The effect of this measure will be to give poor households
additional time to adjust their consumption of energy and other items in response to the rapid
increase in normal tariffs.
Following introduction of the new income-tested energy-related assistance, the Government will
monitor how actual experience and actual expenditures on benefits compare with prior
expectations. If needed in the light of experience, we will consider modifications in eligibility



13
conditions, the level or structure of benefits, or administrative procedures.  Any such
modifications, however, would be consistent with our commitment (a) to fund, from 2000 to
2004, the fuill costs of assistance for households in the new income-tested category (which are
expected to be considerably higher from 2001), and (b) not to withdraw unilaterally the social
protection arrangements relating to energy tariff increases or to change them significantly in ways
unacceptable to IDA.
Fourth, the Government has submitted to Parliament a draft Law on State Social Privileges that
will (a) streamline curTent privileges by focusing principally on people in greatest need and by
reducing substantially the aggregate cost of privileges; (b) specify all remaining privileges after
streamlining; (c) cancel all other legislative clauses granting privileges to particular categories of
the population; (d) require that subsequent changes in the system of legislated privileges be made
only through amendment of this law. We will pursue passage of this legislation by the end of
2000. Government will fully finance all privileges and benefits authorized through the proposed
law and Government decrees 141, 281 and 587.
Where the rationalization of privileges eliminates or limits current privileges for which low-
income households are eligible, those households could apply for the new income-tested
compensation for energy tariff increases described above. If eligible for this, they would become
entitled to the socially protected energy prices.
Conclusion
Our program of reform will have a major impact on the country's macroeconomic prospects. We
expect it to provide a sound legal regulatory and institutional framework to improve the
efficiency of existing institutions while opening possibilities for attracting private investors. We
appreciate the suppoit of the international community for this program.  We realize that
implementation of the above-mentioned reform program is difficult and requires strengthening of
our implementation capacity. For this reason, we have requested IDA for an accompanying
Technical Assistance Credit to CSAC in the amount of US$5 million equivalent. We look
forward to a continued cooperative and successful exchange which will help in placing the Kyrgyz
republic on a path to stable and sustained economic growth.
Sincerely yours,
Amangeldy Muraliev
Prime Minister
Kyrgyz Republic






Annex 3
Page 1 of 1
Kyrgyz Republic
Status of Bank Group Operations (Operations Portfolio)
July 24,2000
Difference Between
Last PSR                                                                       Expected and Actual
Board Date      Active                                             Supervision Rating b/            Original Amount in US$ Millions                       Disbursements
Fiscal Year    Projects
DeveloDment   Implementation             IBRD           IDA        Cancel.    Undisb.         Orig.  Frm Rev'd
Objectives        Pro2ress
1994         P008518       TELECOMMUNICATIONS                        S                S                      0            18             0        1.14         1.07           0
1995         P008524       PRIV. ENTERP. SUPP.                       S                S                      0            15             0       11.16        12.62           0
1996         P045631       FINANCIAL SEC. TECH.                      S                S                      0           3.4             0        1.19         1.34           0
1996         P008523       HEALTH                                   HS                S                      0          18.5             0        1.65         0.61           0
1996         P008519       POWER&IDISTHEAT                           S                S                      0            35             0       19.82         5.31        15.86
1996         P008513       SHEEP&WOOLIMPROV.                         S                S                      0          11.6             0        5.53        2.71            0
1997         P008520       RURAL FINANCE                            U                 S                      0            16             0        1.89        -1.13           0
1998         P040721       AGRIC. SUPPORT. SERV                      S                U                      0         14.98             0       12.75         2.28           0
1998         P046042       IRRIGATION REHAB.                         S                S                      0            35             0       26.93         0.89           0
1999         P062682       FLOOD EMERGENCY                           S                S                      0            10             0        7.34         2.78           0
1999         P064585       RUR FIN 2                                 S                S                      0            15             0       14.88            1           0
2000          P069814       CONSLD TA                                                                        0             5             0         5.05           0           0
2000         P049719        LAND REGISTRATION                        S                 S                     0          9.42             0        9.38            0           0
2000         P049723        ON-FARM IRRIGATION                       S                 S                     0            20             0       19.79           0            0
a/ Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
TOTAL                                                                              226.9                     138.5



Annex 4
Page 1 of 1
Kyrgyz Republic
Statement of IFC's Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 2/29/00 (In US Dollars millions)
Held                     Disbursed
FY        Company           Loan  Equity  Quasi Partic  Loan Equity  Quasi Partic
Approval
1996     Demirbank Kyrgyz    0.0    0.5   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.5   0.0    0.0
1995     Kumtor Gold        22.5    0.0  10.0   0.0  22.5    0.0  10.0    0.0
1999     SEF Altyn-Aiydar    0.3    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2    0.0   0.0    0.0
Total Portfolio   22.8    0.5  10.0   0.0  22.7    0.5  10.0    0.0
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY       Company                        Loan       Equity     Quasi         Partic
1996     Demirbank Kyrgyz                2.0          0.0       0.0           2.0
2000     SEF KICB                        0.0          1.4        0.0           0.0
1999     SEF KYRGYZ MIS                  0.5          0.0       0.0           0.0
Total Pending Commitment        2.5          1.4       0.0           2.0



Annex 5
Page I of 2
Kyrgyz Republic at a glance                                                                  8/9/00
Europe &
POVERTY'and SOCiAL                                Kyryz   Central       Low.
Republic      Asia  income       Development dlamond
1999
Population. mid-year (millions)                      4.9       475     2,417                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                   300      2,150      410
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                      1A4     1,022      988
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population t%)                                        1.t       0.1       1.9     GNP                            Gross
Labor force (%J                                       1.7      06       2.3      per                           prmary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                            capita              ,        enrollment
Poverty (% of populathn below national poverty line)  64
Urban population (% of total population)              34        67        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      67        69        60
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              26        22        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)            11         8        43                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% Poopulation)       75                  64
Illiteracy {% otpopulation age 15+)                    3         3        39            - K           Repubic
Gross primary enrollment %of school-age population)  104       100        96Kyrgyz
Male                                               106       10t       102                  Low-income group
Female                                             103        99        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979    1989       1998     1999
Economic ratios
GDP (USS bilions)                             ..      5,4       1.6       1.2
Gross domestc investment/GDPI                        35.5      15,4     16.0                     Trade
E-xports of goods and services/GDP                             36.5     42.6
Gross domestic savings/GOP                           13.1      -61        1.2
Gross national savings/GDP                                      8 1      0.8
Current account balance/GDP                        .          -22.5    *14 9      Dmsi
Interest Payments/GOP                              .            4.0      S5'                                 Investment
Total debt/GDP                                                 89.9    132.8      Savings
Total debt service/exports                                     21,4     23.8
Present value of debt/GDP a                            ..        ,,     96,2
Present value of debt/exports b                        ..              193.2
Indebtedness
1979489  1999       1998      1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   -      0.4     2,1        3.6      4.1                 Kyrgyz Republic
GNP per capita                               8.5    -0.8        0.9       2.6                  Low-income group
Exports of goods and services              33.2    -8,7        20.9      4,0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979    1989       1998     1999      Growth of Investment and GDP I%)
(% of GDP)                                                                       150
Agnculture                                           33.6      39.5      41.4
Industry                                                       22.8     24.0    100
Manufacturing                                                17.8      19.8    so
Services                                                       37.7     34.7       0
Private consumption                                 67.2       88.2     81.2    -so' 
General govemment consumption                        19.7      17.9     17.7              -     GDI    -GDP
Imports of goods and services                                  58.0     57.0
1979-89  1989-99     1998      1999
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                           5.5       2.9       8.7     Growth of exports and Imports
Industry                                             -7.2      -1.8     -2.4    40
Manufacturing                                      -0.7       5.3      -1.7    20
Services                                             -0.6      -9.7       1.8
Private consumption                                   1.0      17.8              -20         94                 9
General govemment consumption                         0.4       4.2
Gross domestc investment                             12.2     -31.5               40-
Imports of goods and services                        -3.3       1.5               6 0 -
Gross national product                                9.7       0.8       2.3                   Exports    sImports
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
a: Estmated based on a 7 percent rate of discount and including financing gap; b: exports corresponds to the three year average



Annex 5
Page 2 of 2
Kyrgyz Republic
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                              1979     1989       1998      1999     Inflation I%)
(% change)                                                                          1,2 00
Consumer prices (year on year)                  ..       ..      10.5      35.9      ao
Implicit GDP deflator                           ..      7.0       9.1      36.5      a00
400..)
Government finance                                                                   200
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                    0         -              C_
Current revenue                                 ..       ..       18.0     17.8               94   95   96   97   98   99
Current budget balance                          ..       ..       -4.2     -2.2                -GDP deflator  -CCPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..       ..    -10.8    -12.8   1
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1979     1989       1998      1999      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                               535       463      1000
Electrcity                                                      126         2 28oo 
Gold                                           .        ..       196      184
Manufactures                                                     143        91      Soo
Total imports (cif)                                      ..       87        612       400
Food                                           .        ..        89       53                     i
Fuel and energy20                                                         13        20
Capital goods17                                                            10
93  94  95  96  97  98  99
Export price index (1995=100)                    .        .
Import price index (1995=100)                    .        ..        ..        ..                  a Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                  ..                 ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                               1979    1989        1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP (I%)
Exports of goods and services                            ..       598       528       0
Imports of goods and services                            ..       936       705
Resource balance                                          ..     -338      -178      -6
Net income                                                         8         7       1
Net current transfers                                    ..        49        68
Current account balance                          .        .       -371     -185
Financing items (net)                                    ..       362       227
Changes in net reserves                          .        .         9       42      -2
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)                   ..       189       248
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)                 ..               20.8      39.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                       Composition of 1998 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed             .        ..     ,480      1,647
IBRD                                                              0         0                        G:28
IDA                                                    ..       331       356   1:1
Total debt service                                                130       128           F    : 3
IBRD                                                    ..        0         0
IDA                                                    ..         2         2
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                        ..        33        57                                      C:175
Official creditors                                     ..       130       177
Prvate creditors                                       ..       -24       -33
Foreign direct investment                     0         0       109        36 8               7:
Portfolio equity                               .                  0         0              E:37       -      D:181
World Bank program
Commitments                                   0         0       102        25      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 ..       ..        64        25      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Prncipal repayments                           ..                 o0         0      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                      ..      ..        64        25
Interest payments                             ..       ..         2         2
Net transfers                                 ..       6. 82               22
Development Economics                                                                                                   8/9100



Annex 6
Page 1 of 2
Kyrgyz Republic - Key Economic Indicators
Estimates          Projection
Indicator                  1993   1994   1995    1996    1997    1998    1999         2000    2002    2005
National accounts
Gross domestic product (market prices)        100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0         100.0   100.0   100.0
Indirect taxes                                4.6    6.2    7.3       6.9     7.7      8.8     7.4        7.6     7.8      8.0
Agriculture'                                 39.0   38.3   40.6    46.2    41.1    35.9    38.2          37.0    36.0    35.0
Industry'                                    25.1   20.5   12.0    11.1    16.5    16.3    18.3          18.3    18.3    18.3
Services'                                    31.2   35.1   40.1    35.8    34.7    39.0   36.1           37.1    37.9    38.7
Total Consumption                              96.0   97.3   94.5   100.6    86.2   106.1   102.6          97.9    98.5    97.5
Grossdomesticfixedinvestments                  11.7    9.0   18.3    25.2    21.7    15.4    11.7  '    10.1    10.3   10.9
Government investment                           ..     ..      ..      ..    4.2       6.6     8.0  '     7.4     6.1    4.8
Private investment (and increase in stocks)     ..     ..      ..      ..   17.5       8.9     3.7  1     2.6     4.3    6.1
Exports (GNFS)b                                33.4   33.6   30.0    30.8    38.0    36.3    42.5          41.6    38.2    34.9
Imports (GNFS)                                 47.7   44.9   48.7    56.5    46.0    56.9    56.9          49.6    47.0    43.3
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                          950   1115   1495    1729    1769    1616    1206         1289    1468    1810
(US$ million at current prices)
GNP per capita (US$, Atlas method)               ...    ...   720      580      480     350     300        290     280      340
GDP (Real annual growth rates)               -15.5  -20.1   -5.4       7.1      9.9     2.1     3.6        4.0     4.2      5.0
Real annual per capita growth rate
GDPatmarketprices                            -15.4  -19.3   -5.4       7.0     9.8      2.1     3.5        3.9     4.1     4.9
Balance of Payments (US$m)
Exports (GNFSb                                348    373    448       563      676     598     528        536     562      631
Merchandise FOB                             340    340    409       531     631      535     463        484     504      556
Imports (GNFSb                                497    498    726    1032       817     936     705         640     691     783
Merchandise FOB                             447    426    531       783     646      756     547        519     561      635
Resource balance                              -149   -125   -278    -469    -141    -338    -178          -103    -129    -152
Net current transfers                           67     63      79       84      68      49      68         54       25      25
(including official current transfers)
Current account balance                        -88    -84   -232    -416    -132    -367    -175          -166    -182    -206
(after official capital grants)
Net private foreign direct                      10     38      96       47      83     108       14        50       25      35
investment
Long-term loans (net)                          153    125    239      328      183     108     163         42      140     156
Official                                     153    125    149       125      172     132     196        161     244      189
Private                                        0       0      90     203       11     -24     -33       -119    -103      -33
Other capital (net, including errors and omissions    -31  -8  -5      115      38     257      80          0        0       0
Change in gross reservesd                      -35    -32       1      -18     -83       6      -61        20       -8    -10
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of GDP)                   -15.7  -11.2  -18.6   -27.1    -8.0   -20.9   -14.7          -8.0    -8.8    -8.4
Current account balance (% of GDP)             -9.2   -7.5  -15.5   -24.0    -7.5   -22.7   -14.5         -12.8   -12.4   -11.4



Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
Kyrgyz Republic - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Estimates           Projection
Indicator                  1993   1994   1995    1996    1997    1998    1999          2000    2002    2005
Public rinance                              (as % of GDP at current market prices)
Currentrevenuesandgrants,ofwhich              24.4   20.3   16.5    14.7    15.8    17.7    18.3           18.9    19.0    19.0
Tax revenues                                14.5   13.6   15.1    12.7    12.6    14.2    13.2          13.8    14.0    14.5
Nontax revenues                              1.3    4.2    1.1       1.1     2.6      2.9     3.3        3.6      3.5     3.2
Grants                                       8.6    2.5    0.3       0.9     0.6     0.6      1.8        1.5     1.5     1.3
Current expenditures                          30.0   22.9   25.0    21.0    21.5    23.1    21.2          21.0   . 18.5    18.5
Budgetagy savings                             -5.6   -2.6   -8.5    -6.3    -5.7    -5.4    -2.9           -2.1     0.5     0.5
Capital revenues                                0.2    0.4    0.3        1.2     0.4     0.3     0.3         0.3     0.3     0.0
Capital expenditures                            0.5    4.9    4.8       3.8      3.8     6.6    10.6         5.9     7.7     7.0
of which extemally financed PIP                0.0    3.9    3.8       3.2      3.1     5.7     9.5         5.8     4.7     4.7
Net lending                                     8.8    4.7    3.4       0.4    -0.1    -0.5    -0.4         -0.3    -0.3    -0.3
Overall balance (accrual)                     -14.7  -11.8  -16.4    -9.3    -9.0   -11.2   -12.8           -7.4    -6.6    -6.2
Financing                                      14.7   11.8   16.4       9.3      9.0    11.2    12.8         7.4     6.6     6.2
Foreign financing                              12.8    9.8    9.1       6.9      7.8     9.3    16.1         7.6     6.2     6.0
Monetary System Credit(net) and T-bill market    1.9    2.0    8.1      2.1      1.1     0.4    -2.8         0.0     0.1     0.2
Privatization revenues (net)                    0.0    0.0    0.0       0.5      0.1     0.2     0.3         0.3     0.3     0.0
Arrears built-up                                               -0.8    -0.2      0.0     1.3   -0.8         -0.5     0.0     0.0
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP(%,at current market prices)            13.2   12.9   17.1    14.3    13.6    14.4    13.6          13.7      14      14
Price indices
Consumer price index (%growthrate,Dec. to Dec  929.9   62.1   32.1    34.8    13.0    16.8    39.9        25.0    11.5    10.0
a. Shares of GDP at factor cost.
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources. (`-"-increase)
e. General Government (central and local), including the deficit of the social fund and the externally-financed public investment program.
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$ILCU denotes appreciation.
g. Projected
h. GDP percapita will show a decreasing trend during the next few years due to real exchange rate depreciation of 1998-99.
i. Official flows includes financing gap for the projection period 2001-2005



Annex 7
Page 1 of 1
Kyrgyz Republic - Key Exposure Indicators
Estimates       Projection
Indicator            1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2002    2005
Total debt outstanding and          310     437     764    1151    1356    1480    1673    1712    1894    2322
disbursed (TDO) (US$m)a
Net disbursements (US$m)"d          310     128    327      387     205      124     193      39     140     156
Total debt service (TDS)d (US$m)      4      19    100       87      81      130     127    209      210     155
Debt and debt service indicators (%)
TDO/XGSb                          88.9   117.3   170.5   204.6   200.7   247.6   317.2   319.3   337.4   368.0
TDO/GDP                           32.6    39.2    51.1    66.6    76.7    91.6   138.7   132.8   129.0   128.3
TDS/XGS                            1.3     5.0   22.3    15.5    12.0    21.8    24.0    39.0    37.3    24.5
ConcessionalTDO'                   8.0    23.0    34.0    46.0    49.2    53.4    59.8    66.6    77.4    90.9
IDA exposure indicators (%)
IDA DS/public DS                    ..    1.7      0.5     1.5     3.2     4.3    4.2       2.4     2.6     7.0
Preferred creditor DS/public DS     ..   45.2    30.8    13.5    37.1    33.0    19.0    19.4    29.5    34.4
IDA DS/XGS                          ..    0.1      0.1     0.2     0.2     0.3    0.4       0.5     0.5     0.4
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed and use of IMF credits.
b. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
c. Includes equity and quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments.
d. Scheduled payments
e. Assumes concessionally-financed financing gap



Annex 8
Page 1 of 1
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
CONSOLIDATION STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
1.   Time taken to prepare:         12 months
2.   Project prepared by:           Government with assistance of World Bank
staff and local and foreign consultants
3.  Identification Mission:         June 1999
4.   Preparation Mission:           September 1999, November 1999
5.   Appraisal Mission:             February 2000
6.   Negotiations:                  May 2000
7.   Planned Board Presentation:    September 2000
8.   Planned Effectiveness:         October 2000
9.   Expected Program Completion:   September 2001



IBRD 26822R1
\                                                ~~~~~~~KAZAKHSTAN                                        >
._\re~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CU                                                       lykF< _j 
_t>.t.s TALA5 ..) | | fl l l l | l l X 155~~~~~~~SYK-KUL P
>/~~~~DZHA[AL-ABAD Xoh,_     >
v *S 9> AtELE * \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. - / h. q.
C.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
OSH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
XJ o~~~~~~~~~ 5 HJ  
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
70D,ohonbo  TAJIKISTAN                                ,
70>                                                                                                                                      --.----i---i | | E RAILROADS
I5                   No iToDShodoe, .   .wT. oM.O,,                                                                                                                           MAIN ROADS
*fe.   Russo                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OTHER ROADS
/       A-'     DATAKHSTAN                 I                                    \                                                                                                    NATIONAL CAPITAL
0    OBLAST CAPITALS
~~sT~~\   e. 2            05505                                                                                                                                     0    SELECTED CITIES
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OBLAST BOUNDARIES
.  - 'r  > / >wsvz rES           I I                                                                                   > u                                                  INTERlATIOCNAIL BOUNDARIES
\  \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~ L ,---~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~KILOMETERS
ISLAMRIC                       -                           S   o 'CIA  Th , opdued  lyx 8eh Mop  esig, Unit of The Wo d Bo-  5      S0          100        F5
OF IRA    ANoy ,dg-tro- fhel Ie                                            uoR   0ny CTT,i'oy, -r     C dTRorme                                      7
5 /*i  X  \                        05 OODOPSOO   ofTh -OOd.,i-RI M199S
APRIL 1908



