Report No. PID8322
Project Name                     Kyrgyz Republic-Consolidation Structural((@)
Adjustment (CSAC)
Region                           Europe & Central Asia (ECA)
Sector                           Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Project ID                       KGPE35810
Borrower(s)                      Government of the Kyrgyz Republic
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance
58 Erkindik Boulevard 58
Bishkek 720874
Kyrgyz Republic
Tel: (3312) 26-57-41
Fax: (3312) 66-08-18
Environment Category             C
Date This PID Prepared           December 21, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         End-January 2000
Projected Board Date             May 2000
Country and Sector Background
1.      After independence, the Kyrgyz Republic experienced severe economic and
social shocks, including a substantial and protracted contraction in GDP and
high inflation. Major strides have been made by the Kyrgyz Republic over the
past few years in attaining macroeconomic stability and putting the economy
on a growth path. The Government undertook initial programs with the IMF and
Bank in 1993 which included liberalizing prices (except utilities) and trade
and introducing a market exchange rate. A three-year ESAF was successfully
completed in 1997 and a second one started in 1998. Five Bank adjustment
operations supported privatization and enterprise reform, agricultural
privatization, financial sector reform, public sector resource management and
pension reforms.
2.      By 1996-97 the macroeconomic situation was brought under control and
growth resumed. The fiscal deficit was reduced from about 17 percent of GDP
to 9-10 percent of GDP through expenditure cuts and the non-interest current
account deficit declined from an average of 17 percent of GDP (from 1993 to
1996) to 5 percent in 1997. As a result of the fiscal and monetary
tightening, inflation was declining and fell to 15 percent towards the end of
1997. GDP grew by 7 percent in 1996, by an even more exuberant 9.9 percent
in 1997 and was set to continue at a comparable pace in early 1998. While
the resurgence of growth was partially due to the investment program and the
coming on stream of the Kumtor gold mine, the recovery was broader than just
mining: agriculture and services rebounded too.
3.      The economic recovery was cut short, however, by a series of natural
disasters in mid-1998 and the impact of the August 1998 Russian financial
crisis, which revealed underlying weaknesses in the economy. The country has
been considerably weakened by the impact of the Russian financial crisis and



the consequent economic downturn in the region. More recently, it had
another crisis when an incursion by foreign militants, who occupied a region
in the south of the country, took hostages in late August 1999.
4.      The fiscal situation is still fragile.   In addition to the general
government budget deficit, there are large deficits of the infrastructure and
public utility companies, in particular the energy sector. Thus, efficient
operation of the energy and other infrastructure companies is vital to the
fiscal situation, the economy and medium-term growth, providing a platform
for growth in other sectors, as well as to the well-being of the population.
The Country's Adjustment Program
5.      The Government's economic program seeks to build on the macroeconomic
and structural achievements made thus far while it moves ahead on deepening
the reform agenda - in particular in strengthening public finances, improving
governance and creating the environment for strong private sector growth.
The ultimate objective is to put the economy on a path of rapid and
sustainable growth as a means of increasing employment, decreasing poverty,
and reducing the risks of social and political tensions stemming from the
poor economic condition of the population.
The Proposed Loan/Credit
6.      The proposed program serves to underpin fiscal adjustment and improve
the conditions for private sector growth, create hard budget constraints for
enterprises through measures to improve payments discipline of energy
customers, and improve safety net provision.
7.      The objective of the reform program to be supported by the credit is to
improve the fiscal and business environment, while ensuring a minimum
acceptable level of access and standard of utility service is preserved for
the poorest elements of the society. Towards this objective, the program
addresses the following issues: (a) tax reforms, (b) improving the business
environment, (c) reform of utilities and (d) social protection. These
components are interrelated in that it is vital to promote private sector
activity while restructuring the public sector role and ensuring the social
sustainability of the transition. Specifically, the program aims at:
tax reforms aimed at reducing distortions and enhancing equity in the tax
system while improving revenue mobilization;
improving regulations on entry and operation of businesses and enhancing the
competitive environment;
improving the financial condition of utilities and commencing their
privatization; and
strengthening the social protection system to at least partially compensate
the poor for utility tariff increases.
8.      Financing:
The proposed credit, which could range up to approximately US$35 million,
would be made to the Kyrgyz Republic, represented by the Ministry of Finance.
9.      Poverty Category:
-2-



The propose credit is poverty-focused since it will strengthen the social
protection system to protect the poor at least partially for the envisaged
utility tariff increases.
10.     Environmental Aspects:
For the purposes of OP 4.01, the proposed project has been placed in Category
C, which does not require an environmental assessment.
Benefits and Risks
11.     The proposed credit would underpin fiscal adjustment and improve the
conditions for private sector growth, provide an impetus for energy sector
reform and help mitigate its social costs. The tax measures will have dual
benefits of reducing key distortions in the business environment and
strengthening fiscal revenues. The regulatory reforms should substantially
reduce the regulatory burden experienced by existing businesses and
improvements in the consistency and transparency of business regulations
should increase the willingness of entrepreneurs to operate in the legal
sector and undertake significant investment with critical implications for
economic growth and fiscal stability. Greater regulatory consistency and
transparency will also assist the government in reducing its regulatory
expenditures and advance the development of a rule of law state.
12.     The principle benefits of the utilities sector reform program will be to
place the infrastructure and utility services on the path to a sustainable
future; increase efficiency in these industries leading to sustainable prices
lower than they would otherwise have been; improve quality of service; and
bring an influx of private capital into the infrastructure and utility
companies, from the privatization process, that will help start addressing
the chronic need for repairs and replacement. These factors should create an
environment within which industry is able to operate and grow in a
competitive way with the major distortions and impediments being removed.
Further, the government budget should be strengthened through greater revenue
collection and an easing of the expenditures required to support the utility
industries (both direct and indirect).
13.     There are macroeconomic risks if there are further exogenous shocks or
if reform implementation is slow. In addition, the reform program is very
ambitious and will require a great deal of institutional capacity for
implementation. Implementation capacity of state agencies will be stretched,
particularly as regards complex regulatory reform, privatization and overall
program coordination. There are also political risks as Parliamentary and
Presidential elections are slated for spring and fall 2000.
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
- 3 -



Ritu Anand, ECSPE
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-2962
Fax:       (202) 522-2751
Note: This is information on an envolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending December 24, 1999.
- 4 -



