                                       Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                                     Report No: 32639

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                           (IDA-34200 TF-24833 TF-24828 TF-50493)

                                           ON A

                                          CREDIT

           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 26.1 MILLION (US$35 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                          TO THE

                                    KYRGYZ REPUBLIC

                                          FOR A

                                  CONSOLIDATION SAC




                                       JUNE 17, 2005




Infrastructure and Energy Department
Europe and Central Asia Region

                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective in mid June 2005)

                   Currency Unit = Kyrgyz Som
                            1 Som = US$ 0.0244
                            US$ 1 = 41 Soms
                            1 Som = 100 Tyins
                          FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1 to     December 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB      Asian Development Bank
APL      Adaptable Program Lending
CIS      Commonwealth of Independent States
CSAC     Consolidation Structural Adjustment Credit
DFID     Department for International Development, U.K.
EBRD     European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
FEZ      Free Economic Zones
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
IAS      International Accounting Standards
IGIA     Inter-Governmental Irrigation Agreements
IMF      International Monetary Fund
KE       Kyrgyzenergo
KG       Kyrgyzgas
KT       Kyrgyz Telecom
LPG      Liquid Petroleum Gas
MLSP     Ministry of Labor and Social Protection
MOF      Ministry of Finance
MOJ      Ministry of Justice
NCA      National Communication Agency
NPV      Net Present Value
PRGF     Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PSR      Project Status Report
QAG      Quality Assurance Group
RFP      Request for Proposals
SAL      Structural Adjustment Lending
SCC      State Customs Committee
SCA      State Communication Agency
SEA      State Energy Agency
SECAL    Sector Adjustment Lending
SPF      State Property Fund
SPP      Socially Protected Price
STI      State Tax Inspectorate
UMB      Unified Monthly Benefit
USAID    United States Agency for International Development


                  Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu, ECAVP
               Country Director       Dennis de Tray, ECCU8
                Sector Manager        Peter D. Thomson, ECSIE
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Raghuveer Sharma, ECSIE

                                   KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
                                      Consolidation SAC


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            16
6. Sustainability                                                                18
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 19
8. Lessons Learned                                                               22
9. Partner Comments                                                              23
10. Additional Information                                                       25
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             26
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             27
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            33

Project ID: P035810                                                  Project Name: Consolidation SAC
Team Leader: Raghuveer Y. Sharma                                     TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 17, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Consolidation SAC                                        L/C/TF Number: IDA-34200; TF-24833;
                                                                                                     TF-24828; TF-50493
   Country/Department: KYRGYZ REPUBLIC                                                    Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: General energy sector (35%); Central government administration
                            (29%); General industry and trade sector (24%);
                            Telecommunications (6%); Other social services (6%)
                  Theme: Regulation and competition policy (P); State enterprise/bank
                            restructuring and privatization (P); Tax policy and administration
                            (S); Debt management and fiscal substainability (S); Social risk
                            mitigation (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/02/1999                                     Effective:                           09/26/2000
     Appraisal: 12/20/1999                                         MTR:
      Approval: 09/14/2000                                      Closing: 03/31/2002                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF KYRGYZ/PRIME MINISTER OFFICE AND MINISTER OF
                                           FINANCE
                      Other Partners:      Swiss Government, Government of Netherlands

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johnannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Dennis N. de Tray                              Kiyoshi Kodera
Sector Director:                Hossein Razavi                                 Hossein Razavi
Team Leader at ICR:             Raghuveer Sharma                               Ritu Anand
ICR Primary Author:             Raghuveeer Sharma; Natalia
                                Charkova; V. Krishnaswamy


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

Note: ICR classification of the quality at entry would more appropriately be "moderately
satisfactory" in the 6 point rating scale.
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1 Background. The dissolution of the Soviet Union at the beginning of the 1990s led (as in the
case of all CIS states) to an economic turmoil in Kyrgyz Republic. GDP fell by 50% by 1995,
inflation reached 2033% by end 1992, and fiscal deficits and current account deficits rose
dramatically. Major efforts of the government under the ESAF/PRGF programs of IMF and the
six adjustment operations of the Bank enabled, by 1996-1997, the country to recover significantly
from the economic collapse experienced in the early years of the decade. The recovery, however,
proved somewhat fragile during 1998-2000 on account of a series of unexpected external shocks
including the Russian financial crisis of August 1998, incursions by foreign militants, and natural
calamities. The trade deficits and fiscal deficits widened, exchange rate movements became
dramatically adverse and inflation became worrisome. The ratio of external debt to GDP rose to
140% by end 1999. Despite the concessional terms of the debt, the NPV of total debt to exports
was over 200%. Debt service was expected to rise to the level of 40% of the government
revenues by 2000. The energy sector was a key element of the macroeconomic imbalance. High
operational inefficiency, low tariffs, and poor collections made the state owned energy utilities a
major economic burden, as they contributed substantially to the fiscal and quasi-fiscal deficits.
Reform of the utility services was seen as the key thrust of the stabilization efforts. The reform
program supported by the Bank's CSAC was designed to address this need.

3.1.2 Objectives. The objective of the reform program (the Program) was to improve the fiscal
and business environment, while ensuring that a minimum acceptable level of access and standard
of utility service is preserved for the poorest elements of the society. For achieving the objective,
the Program was designed to focus on four key elements, namely tax reform, improvements to
business environment, reform of utilities, and social protection.       Tax reforms were aimed at
reducing distortions and enhancing equity in the tax system, while enabling increased resource
mobilization. Improvements to business environment were aimed at reduction of regulatory
barriers to the entry and operation of new businesses and enhancing competitive environment.
Utility reforms focused on operational efficiency improvements, financial recovery and sector
restructuring to enable private investment and competition. Social protection system was sought
to be strengthened to compensate the poor, at least partially, for the envisaged increases in tariffs
which the utility reform would inevitably entail.

3.1.3 The operation was the seventh adjustment lending to Kyrgyz Republic providing balance of
payment support. In the macroeconomic context prevailing at the beginning of 2000, the focus of
the Program on the four key elements (see Paragraph 3.1.2) is considered logical and appropriate.
The Program was in line with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy of April 1998 and was well
coordinated with the ESAF/PRGF program of IMF. It was also consistent with the prior and
contemporaneous Bank involvement in the country in the energy and social sectors.

3.2 Revised Objective:
No formal revision of the objective was made during the implementation of the Program.

3.3 Original Components:



                                                 - 2 -

3.3.1 Within the framework of maintaining of an appropriate overall macroeconomic management
program as agreed with IMF PRGF of February 2000 to achieve stability and enable growth, four
key components, namely (a) tax reform, (b) business environment, (c) reform of infrastructure and
utility companies, and (d) social protection were included in the Program.

3.3.2 The tax reform component supported certain aspects of the ongoing tax reform which
aimed at the widening of the tax net, lowering of the tax rates and marginal rates, simplifying
procedures and improving tax administration to reduce cost of compliance on the part of tax
payers, as well as prevention of abuses of tax concessions for exports. Under the Program, the
government was to amend the Law on Free Economic Zones (FEZ) and the regulations relating to
Bishkek FEZ to ensure: (i) that goods from FEZ entering the domestic market are subjected to
VAT, excise and custom duties; (ii) that services produced in FEZ for domestic consumption are
subjected to payment of VAT, and (iii) that personal income tax and social contributions are
collected from all employees working in FEZ. The government was also to simplify procedures
for the rebate of VAT and ensure the grant of full and timely rebate in respect of export
transactions. The other key aspects of the tax reform were: (i) integration of the key functions of
the tax and customs administrations and strengthening of the revenue administration; (ii) phasing
out the turnover taxes for the road and emergency funds and finding alternative sources of
revenue; (iii) restoring land tax rates to 1997 levels for the year 2001; and (iv) developing and
implementing an action plan to strengthen the revenue administration enabling a coordinated
development of the State Tax Inspectorate (STI) and the State Customs Committee (SCC). Also
legislative amendments were needed to move VAT to a destination basis with respect to all
countries and, especially, to all CIS countries. Finally, based on research findings, the government
was to undertake steps to reduce the cost and time of the businesses for tax compliance.

3.3.3 The business environment component sought to reduce the burden imposed by excessive
state regulation by multiple agencies on new and existing businesses. Registration procedures
were simplified and limited to 10 days and registration was made free of charge. The Program
called for reduction of the number of permits required by new businesses and the pursuit of an
action plan to eliminate administrative barriers to the start-up of new business ventures. Though
the Law on Licensing (1997) created the unified framework for licensing, there had been a
proliferation of sub-licensing by numerous agencies inter alia to raise off-budget resources, in the
context of budget cuts. Reforms to be pursued included: (a) reducing the number of activities
which require licensing; (b) reducing the number of permits needed for business start-ups; (c)
ensuring the payment of the licensing fees to the state budget and not to the licensing agencies;
(d) ensuring that government enterprises are not delegated with the licensing power in respect of
its competitors; (e) making the rules and regulations transparent and properly registered with the
Ministry of Justice and published and prevention of enforcement of regulations which have not
been thus registered and published; and (f) establishing standard procedures for inspections,
limiting their frequency and duration, evolving standard procedures for assessing and collecting
fines and having the schedule of inspections by multiple agencies coordinated by the Committee
for Development and Protection of Competition

3.3.4 The reform of infrastructure and utility companies component covered electricity,
natural gas, and district heating sub-sectors of the energy sector and the telecommunications



                                                 - 3 -

sector. The regulatory laws were to be amended to make it clear that only the specialized
regulatory bodies, the State Energy Agency (SEA) and the National Communications Agency
(NCA), are responsible for the regulation of energy and telecommunication sectors in all aspects
including tariff setting and determining profit margins. Further, legal amendments and other
relevant measures were needed to improve the independence and regulatory capacity of these
bodies. Financial independence of the regulatory bodies was to be secured through industry levies,
the full amount of which would be passed to them and reflected in the state budget. In the
electricity sub-sector, the action plan agreed for the financial recovery of Kyrgyzenergo (KE) was
to be pursued focusing on the reduction of technical and commercial losses in the generation,
transmission and distribution segments. Tariffs had to be increased in a timely manner consistent
with the principles of the Medium Term (5-year) Tariff Policy, approved by and the government.
To complete the process of unbundling of the sub-sector, the generation, transmission and
distribution companies would be corporatized and registered as independent joint stock
companies with their own charters and Boards of Directors and Managements. SEA would also
prepare and adopt a Grid Code and the rules and procedures for the balancing market, and would
set tariffs for the sale of power from the generating to distributing companies and the transmission
(grid use) tariffs. The transactions between generators and distributors would be based on power
purchase contracts and those between distributors and the transmission company would be based
on transmission contracts. These contracts were subject to the prior approval by SEA. The
government had to decide on the optimal number of distribution companies and select the first
distribution company to be privatized. Satisfactory progress on the privatization of the first
company to a strategic investor and the issue of RFPs for the remaining distribution companies
had to be achieved before the end of the program period.

3.3.5 In the natural gas sub-sector, SEA was expected to evolve and adopt a suitable and
acceptable methodology for revising the gas tariffs in order to recover in full the operation and
maintenance costs, debt service, investments in metering and other required minimum level of
capital expenditure, and have the revised tariff in place by April 2001. An Action Plan for the
Recovery and Restructuring of the Gas Sector was to be pursued. Among others it included
adjustment of tariffs based on the new methodology, changing the norms of gas consumption of
unmetered consumers, and meeting targets for meter installations, accounts receivable, cash
collections and reporting of financial performance and submission of audit reports based on IAS.
During the program period, LPG and other non-core businesses were to be separated from
Kyrgyz Gas (KG) and sold. RFPs had to be issued to strategic investors for the privatization (or
for long term concessions) of the transmission and distribution businesses of KG.

3.3.6 In the District Heat sub-sector, the agreed program for reduction of technical and
commercial losses of heat and hot water was to be pursued. SEA was to evolve progressive tariffs
for heat consumption above the norms based on square meter per person of the space occupied.
Government was to carry out a study and prepare and approve a Heat Strategy for the country to
identify cost-effective and affordable heating systems.

3.3.7 In the Telecommunications sector, the government was to limit the exclusive rights of the
state owned Kyrgyz Telecom (KT) over national long distance and international services to 2003.
KT was further to be prohibited by law from offering mobile telecom services except through a



                                                 - 4 -

separate legal entity, which would have interconnection terms and licensing terms no more
favorable than any third party offering the same service. Control over KT was to be transferred to
a strategic private investor through a transparent competitive bidding process within the program
period.

3.3.8 The social protection component focused on mitigating the impact of the utility reform on
the poorer sections of the population. The tariffs for electricity, gas, and heat were expected to
rise dramatically and become unaffordable to the poorer sections of the population, who were
sought to be insulated from the effect of increased tariffs arising from the reform. The government
was following a four part strategy. These were: (a) lifeline tariff for electricity; (b) categorical
assistance to recipients of Unified Monthly Benefit, pensioners with a pension lower than 400
soms, families with disabled children aged below 16, retirees living alone and low income families
in which the children have lost at least one parent; (c) compensation for households which use
gas, district heating or hot water, which are not eligible for more generous energy related
assistance and which have monthly incomes lower than 200 soms per person so that they will face
more gradual energy tariff increases during the five year period (Note: The reduced prices thus
adopted for gas, heat and hot water was referred to a Socially Protected Prices (SPP); and (d)
streamlining the system of privileged tariffs reducing the categories to those greatest in need,
reducing overall cost of privileged tariffs and ensuring that changes to the system would be
possible only by amending the law. The government budget would fully meet the full costs of
assistance for households in the income tested category (item c above) during 2000-2004 and
government would not withdraw the social protection arrangements relating to energy tariff
increases.

3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not formally revised

3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1 Quality at entry of this operation was reviewed in March 2001 by a panel appointed by the
Quality Assurance Group which gave it an overall "satisfactory" rating. Similar satisfactory
ratings were given for all nine quality dimensions: (1) Strategic Relevance and Approach, (2)
Structural, Financial and Macroeconomic Aspects, (3) Poverty and Social Aspects, (4)
Environment Aspects, (5) Fiduciary Aspects, (6) Policy and Institutional Aspects, (7)
Implementation arrangements, (8) Risk Assessment and Management, and (9) Bank Inputs and
Processes. The importance of the development objective addressed by the operation was rated
"high" for Structural and Sector Policy Reform and rated "medium" for other dimensions such as,
Poverty Reduction, Private Sector Development, Institutional Development and Capacity
Building, Infrastructure Development, and Macroeconomic Management. It further considered
that the stated development objectives were likely to be achieved. The panel, however, wondered
whether the country would be able to attract the interest of the strategic investors and whether
consideration should have been given for alternatives if investors failed to materialize. Given the
potential environmental impacts of the energy sector reform, the panel further wondered, whether
SECAL rather than SAL would have been a more appropriate Bank instrument.

3.5.2 In the event, privatization targets proved optimistic and the inadequacy of SAL, compared
to SECAL or a hybrid of SECAL and investment lending, became clearer. The ICR mission is in


                                                - 5 -

general agreement with the rating given by the QAG with the qualification that the rating could be
lowered to `moderately satisfactory' when the six point rating comes into effect, for the reasons:
(a) over reliance on the option of privatization to strategic investors; (b) adoption of a rather
radical sector restructuring without an adequate consideration of the sequence of reforms and the
country circumstances; and (c) the use SAL rather than SECAL or investment lending for
tackling essentially sector operational problems. In retrospect, it also clear that the program was
overambitious and could not have been implemented within the time frame envisaged.

3.5.3 Some of the elements of reform especially in the tax reform and the business environment
reform seem to give "the impression of disparate elements in an overly complex operation" (in the
words of the QAG while assessing quality at entry) and seem to be relatively minor elements of
the stated much broader development objective. The energy sector reforms component seeks to
achieve too much during the short program period, attempting as it does to improve the
operational efficiency of the utilities, overcome the severe nonpayment and barter problems,
increase tariffs to cost recovery levels, unbundle the sector, and privatize the distribution segment,
while trying to usher in competent and financially independent regulatory bodies. In fairness, it
should be mentioned that the Board documents recognize this and highlight the associated risks in
frank terms.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1 Overall macroeconomic management during the program period was in accordance with
agreements with IMF under the successive PRGF programs and a stable macroeconomic
environment was achieved. Average annual real GDP growth was above 4% during 2000-2004
and annual inflation rates declined from 18.7% in 2000 to 3.1% in 2003. GDP growth and the rate
of inflation in 2004 were estimated at 7.1% and 2.8% respectively. During 2001-2003, the value
of local currency som in relation to US dollar improved by about 9%. The real effective exchange
rates remained stable and the balance of payment strengthened and the official gross reserves
reached 5.5 months coverage of imports by end 2004. Fiscal deficit was reduced from 9% of GDP
in 2000 to 4% in 2004. Tax revenues as a percentage of GDP rose from 15% to 18.5% during the
same period on account of improved tax collections. External public debt as a percentage of GDP
fell from 130% in 2001 to 96% in 2003. Poverty headcount index fell from 52% in 2000 to 41%
in 2003. On the whole, the latest IMF review (January 2005) indicates that outcomes were better
than initially envisaged.

4.1.2 Nevertheless, the results of the actions under the CSAC were mixed. The CSAC was a three
tranche operation, in which the second tranche release was delayed and the third tranche had to be
cancelled for noncompliance with conditions, despite extension of the closing date of the credit by
two years and nine months. The overall achievement of program development objectives is
considered unsatisfactory as: (a) the objectives under the tax reform and business environment
components were only partially achieved owing to the poor implementation of the adopted
policies; (b) the objectives of financial viability, operational efficiency and private investment in
the energy and telecom utilities were not achieved partly on account of the inadequacy of time,
and mostly on account of poor governance and a lack of political will; (c) the objectives of
making the regulatory bodies independent and competent and making social protection to the



                                                  - 6 -

poorer sections of the society more efficiently targeted still remain to be achieved on account of
lack of consistent commitment to the reform process and the lack institutional capacity. The
details of each component are discussed in the next section.

4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1.1. The envisaged amendments to the Law on FEZ were passed and the regulations were
revised to discourage the abuse of tax privileges by producers in FEZ. VAT rebate procedures
were simplified, regulations adopted to prevent abuse and budget provisions made for VAT
rebates to exporters. VAT was moved to a destination basis with respect to all CIS countries (
Notes: This was done by amendment of the Law in respect to Azerbaijan and Turkmenistan and
by bilateral agreements with Russia.), and this measure was expected to augment revenues from
VAT by over $10m. New tax payer manuals were issued for several taxes. The proposal to
double the Land Tax was not accepted by the parliament and it was later raised only by 40%. The
level of the Land Tax is still lower than what it was in 1997. (Note: Presently the land tax rate is
311.6 soms/hectare compared to 345.5 soms/hectare prevailing in 1997.) Turnover taxes for the
Road Fund and Emergency Fund have not yet been replaced by alternative levies. Application of
VAT to major agricultural producers did not yield any significant additional revenue. Other
proposals under consideration include raising the tax on gasoline and automobiles to levels
prevailing in other developing countries and a levy of property tax. Bank's help under the Land
Registration Project is expected to strengthen the cadastre system providing a basis for property
taxation.   The actual implementation of most of these measures, however, had not been
satisfactory. The leakage of products from FEZs into the domestic market is reported to be a
continuing problem. More than a third of the total production of FEZs in 2003 is reported to have
been absorbed by the domestic market.             (Note: Kyrgyz Republic Country Economic
Memorandum, January 2005, Volume I, Page 90.) Though VAT rebates for exports are being
given, they are seldom made within the 30 day limit prescribed. The concern of the tax authorities
is to avoid fraudulent or overstated refund claims. During the period 2001-2004 there had been a
notable improvement in disbursing refunds. In 2001, the refunds were 69.2% of the claims. In
2002 this percentage increased to 92.75% and in 2003 and 2004 refunds exceeded the claims
received in the year indicating the clearance of refund arrears pending from the previous years.
Despite the improvement achieved in the last two years, the delays and payment failures for VAT
rebates on export products are believed to continue to raise costs and de-capitalize the export
firms which are already cash-strapped (Note:        Ibid, page 91).     By setting up a Revenue
Committee, a greater level of coordination between STI and SCC was achieved. However
recently the Revenue Committee had been abolished and MOF is directly playing the coordinating
role. Though income tax and profit tax rates have been reduced, tax collections as a percentage
of GDP increased from 15% to 18.5% during 2000-2004.                Tax administration, however,
continued to be perceived as a problem. The proposed new Tax Code is expected to mitigate the
problem to some extent.

4.2.2.1. Registration procedures were simplified and speeded up and during 1997-2002 the cost
of business start-up had come down from 20% to 12.9% of the per capita GDP in 1997.
However, actual costs in time and money for registration are shown to exceed the legal limits, as
officials continue to demand side payments for services rendered (Notes: Ibid, page 93). A new
draft Law on Entities Registration submitted to the Parliament has not yet been approved.



                                                - 7 -

4.2.2.2. The Law on Licensing was amended in January 2001 reducing the activities to be
licensed from 64 to 29 and all sub-licensing was abolished. However the number of activities to be
licensed has gone up to 32 since then. Despite the provisions of the Law, new types of licenses
are being proposed by the government departments and there are still a host of laws containing
licensing provisions. The Government proposed to amend 50 such special laws to ensure that
licensing can only be in accordance with the Law on Licensing. Of these, 35 have been approved
by the parliament. The rest have either been turned down or returned. A recent USAID survey
shows that the average number of days it takes to get a license had actually increased from 10 to
21 during 1999-2002. The complexity and the non-transparency of the licensing process is still a
major problem.

4.2.2.3. Government Decree #100 was issued to ensure that permits needed for any activity
should be embedded in the relevant law. By 2003, a number of ministries cancelled a large number
of permits not so embedded, thus reducing, to some extent, the plethora of permits for business
activities. However, the USAID survey of 2002 shows that some businesses needed more than 30
permits in a six month period to legally conduct their businesses and getting each of those permits
required at least two weeks. Businesses ranked permits as the second most disruptive
administrative barrier after taxes.

4.2.2.4. Despite the Decree issued in February 2000 to avoid duplication of inspections, adoption
of standard procedures and forms for all inspections and despite the issue of a subsequent
government resolution listing the agencies with the right to inspect, the duration and frequency of
inspections continued to be a major problem. In 2002 the government issued a new regulation
which updates the list of agencies with authority to inspect. Further, these agencies need to secure
the approval of the State Commission for Business Development for undertaking inspections.
Inspection was also limited to one inspection per year by the agency for each business entity. This
was sought to be monitored through the use of the inspection logbook maintained by each
business in which the inspecting agency was obliged to record the details of the inspection. The
implementation of these measures is believed to be irregular and unsatisfactory and businesses
continue to perceive inspections as a major obstacle to business growth and development. The
USAID survey of 2002 showed that the average number of inspections in a six month period was
two and in some sectors as high as six. The average length of these inspections was four days.
Inability to prevent unjustified inspections and futility of appealing against the inspection agency
(because of the feared negative consequences) are still the major concerns of the businesses.

4.2.2.5. The amendments to the Law on Licensing passed in January 2001 prohibited the
ministries from delegating powers to state owned enterprises regulating their actual or potential
competitors to avoid conflict of interest. Some of the outstanding cases of conflict were resolved.
However, the government soon desired to reverse or modify this position because of the practical
difficulties faced in the banking and energy sectors.

4.2.2.6. Government Resolution #233 of April 2000 listed all regulations not registered with and
published by the Ministry of Justice and declared them legally invalid. This was done on the basis
of a comprehensive survey of the regulations of all ministries and agencies. It is not clear whether
such exercises have been done periodically to discourage the use of unregistered and unpublished



                                                - 8 -

regulations. The agencies are reported to claim that they do not have adequate funds to publicize
the regulations in the mass media.

4.2.2.7 Despite improvement of the macroeconomic environment, the number of new business
start-ups remained stagnant and even showed a decline. The total number of active small and
medium businesses actually went down from 9,000 in 1999 to 7,800 in 2002. (Note: A survey
conducted in the first quarter of 2005 by the International Business Council of Kyrgyz Republic
among its members representing over $1.0 billion investment in the country and employing over
10,000 persons showed the top ten concerns of businessmen included (a) predictability of rules,
laws and regulations, (b) tax rates, (c) ease of dealing with bureaucracy, (d) business regulations,
licenses and permits, (e) corruption of public officials and that the situation in Kyrgyz Republic
was considered worse than in the region. (see David Grant, Great Room for Improvement ,
IN-Investment Now In for the long haul, Journal of IBC Kyrgyz Republic, Summer 2005 Issue,
Pages 16-18)

4.2.3 Reform of Infrastructure and Utilities

4.2.3.1 Regulation: After a great deal of delay and considerable follow up by the Bank, the
Parliament passed the amendment to the Law on Natural and Authorized Monopolies in
December 2004 to clarify that the responsibility for regulation of the energy and telecom sectors
(including setting of tariffs and determining allowable profit margins) belonged exclusively to the
two regulatory bodies (SEA and SCA) and to no other agency. However, the government had not
been able to ensure financial independence of SEA through the adoption of the envisaged system
of an industry levy, since the parliament did not agree to pass the amendments to the Energy Law
proposed by the government in this respect. (Note: However, a Presidential Decree was issued in
December 2004 raising the staff strength of SEA and raising its staff salary levels to match those
prevailing in SCA.) The government did not secure any legislative amendment to improve the
institutional independence of SEA and did not adopt measures suggested by the Bank to improve
its status and capacity. In respect of SCA, there was already a system of an industry levy which
was collected and remitted to the government, and the budget provided for the annual expenses of
SCA (which had considerable independence in the past when it was called NCA and reported
directly to the President) appears actually to have lost most of its independence when it was made
a state agency reporting to the government. SEA and SCA continue to exist like any other state
agency subordinated to the government with no special protection to its members against arbitrary
dismissals. Their statutory decisions are, in practice, cleared with several departments and are
approved by the government before their announcement or publication. This is attributable partly
to the lack of security of tenure of the regulators and the lack of financial independence of SEA,
and mostly to the lack of political will on the part of the government to allow them to exercise
their statutory powers independently. Over the last few years, their personnel strength has
declined and their weak regulatory, monitoring and oversight capacity has not improved to any
remarkable degree. The failure to carry out the regulatory reform only added to the uncertainties
and thus exacerbated the unattractiveness of the sectors for private investment.

4.2.3.2 Natural Gas: The government complied with the conditions of Board presentation by
ensuring that the gas tariff covered the cost of imported gas, transit fees as well as the O&M costs



                                                 - 9 -

of transmission and distribution and including provisions for revisions based on the changes in
import costs, transit fees and exchange rates. The tariff which was raised to the level of $ 70.48 /
KCM in January 2000 was further improved during January - July 2000 by increasing the basic
tariff of privileged consumers in three stages to make it equal to that of non-privileged consumers.
However, there was a considerable delay in securing the approval of the revised tariff
methodology (incorporating, among other things, a return on investment element considered
necessary in the context of attracting private investment), despite the analytical and advisory help
provided by the Bank and the Gas Tariff Study carried out by DFID of UK.            The government
approval was finally accorded in April of 2004. (Note: Regulation # 254 of the Kyrgyz Republic
dated April 13, 2004 for Medium Term Tariff Policy for Gas (2004-2006). Actual tariff increase
in 2004 was reported at 3%, while the increase ordered in February 2005 was 4% compared to
the target of 5%. The level of technical and commercial losses of gas suffered by KG continued to
remain high at around 28.5% in 2004 (Note: The losses were higher at 45% in the Bishkek area
.This compares with the loss levels of 1% to 2% in developed country systems.) on account of the
adoption     in the case of unmetered households of norms of consumption which greatly
understated the actual level of consumption and on account of the billing abuse related to the
"privileged" consumption. The re-metering program was delayed despite the funds provided by
donors (including the Bank) initially on account of problems created by Kyrgyz Standards
institution and later for lack of funds for meeting the labor costs for installation. Thus the
percentage of unmetered households could come down from 56.9% at the beginning of 2002 to
only about 37% at the beginning of 2004. Despite the clear results of the test studies indicating a
much higher level of actual consumption than the norm, SEA and the government showed a
distinct disinclination to revise the norms.

4.2.3.3 Based on a Bank review (Note: See the revised Gas Sector Concept Note submitted by
the Kyrgyz Government to the parliament on October-November 2004.) of data supplied by KG,
it would appear that during the period 2000-2003 technical and commercial losses came down
from 45.1% to 28.5%, billings improved from 54.9% to 71.5% and cash collections improved
from 40.9% to 73%. (Note: It is difficult to verify the correctness of these claims, in the absence
of a consistent flow of reliable financial and accounting data.) On the whole, the average billed
tariff was able to cover the cost of imported gas, transit fees and O&M costs of transmission and
distribution. The problems of the sector were caused more by operational inefficiency in losses,
billing and collection, than by inadequacy of tariff.

4.2.3.4 Regarding the restructuring of the gas sector, separation and sale of LPG and other
non-core businesses of KG, as well as the privatization of the transmission and distribution
segments either by outright sale or by long term concessions, the government submitted to the
Parliament a concept paper (Note: See Government Resolution #797 dated November 22, 2002
submitted to the parliament. A PHRD grant from the Bank helped in making this paper. This
Resolution was further updated, revised and resubmitted to parliament in October-November
2004. The parliament had not approved it till the end of 2004.) for approval in 2000. It was
withdrawn in October 2001 and a revised paper reflecting the actual sector status, proposed
industry structure and market arrangements, as well as the use of the concept of long term
concessions for transmission and distribution was prepared by the Government and placed before
the Parliament in November 2002. Subsequently the government had further consultations with



                                                - 10 -

the members of the Parliament, revised the paper once again to include some of their comments,
and resubmitted the revised version to the Parliament in October 2004. The Parliament has not
endorsed it so far. Consequently LPG business and non-core activities of KG have not yet been
privatized and the privatization of the transmission and distribution segments has not proceeded
further. (Note: It is however reported that the relevant LPG and non-core activity assets have
been leased to the local private sector businessmen. Further, the ICR mission was informed that
KG has formed a joint venture with Kazakh Gas Transmission Company and that a Trust
Management contract for the gas transmission system in the north of the country has been
awarded to this Joint Venture Company.)

4.2.3.5 Review of the finance, accounts and operations of KG by international auditors revealed
major weaknesses in these areas calling for urgent improvements. The IAS based audit of KG
showed that in 2001 it made losses before tax amounting to $3.4 million and that the accumulated
deficit of $20.5 million wiped out the equity of $4.9 million resulting in the negative equity of
$15.6 million. Based on the prevailing sector operational inefficiencies and the failure of the
government to make adequate progress towards restructuring the sector and privatizing the
transmission and distribution businesses of KG, the output of this component is considered
unsatisfactory.

4.2.3.6 Telecommunications:         Kyrgyz Telecom (KT) the state owned telecommunication
company had the exclusive license for international and domestic long distance voice
telecommunications up to the year 2008. To liberalize the sector the government reduced the
period of exclusive license to 2003. Tariff re-balancing to avoid the cross subsidization of the
domestic business by the international business was approved by SCA in June 2003 and is being
implemented. KT was in the process of creating a separate legal entity for mobile
telecommunication business (KT Mobile) as its subsidiary. The interconnection terms were
approved by SCA in its order # 15-r of November 2002. Private sector thus got the necessary
encouragement for investment in mobile phones and other data and voice communication services.
Based on suggestions from the investors, SCA is now in the process of improving and updating its
regulation for interconnection terms. The government has been attempting to privatize KT since
2000 without success. The first attempt to sell 40% of the shares in 2000 did not succeed in
eliciting any investor interest, as the documents set a minimum price of $150 million and capital
investment obligations of $400 million. The second attempt was made in September 2002, in
which 51% of the shares were offered for sale with no minimum floor price and no minimum
obligations for investment. Negotiations with the highest bidder Swedtel did not succeed. The
second highest bidder Rostelecom asked for the reduction of its bid by $3 million and this resulted
in the government asking all bidders to update their financial bids. As a result, a German and
Kazakh consortium (Detecon/Arextech) became the lead bidder, negotiations with whom were
started, but have not yet been completed. Thus KT continues to remain a state owned entity.

4.2.3.7 District Heating:     As a result of electricity sector unbundling, the large CHP units
generating heat were allocated to the power generation company and a separate district heat
company was formed for heat transmission and distribution in Bishkek. (Note: In Osh, however,
the power generating company continued to own the CHP as well as the much smaller DH
transmission and distribution system. The Communal Service Agency owned and operated the



                                               - 11 -

numerous small DH systems with heat only boilers in various small towns.) The Heat Strategy
Study was commenced in March 2001 and completed by mid 2002. Its recommendations were
reviewed by a government working group and approved by the government in its resolution # 300
dated April 27, 2004. No progress has been made in implementing the recommendations, as they
would call for significant amounts of new investments. Total losses in the district heating system
continue to be reported (Note: Actual level of technical and commercial heat losses is believed to
be around 40%.) at about 22% and there had been serious delays in installing the pipes financed
under an ADB loan (to replace the dilapidated heat transmission and distribution pipes) for want
of local currency funds. (Note: The installation is not expected to be completed before the end of
2008 (See the Project Completion Report for Loan No.1443-KGZ (SF) of ADB.)                    During
1999-2001 the heat tariffs rose by 24% in nominal and 10% in real terms. Since then the heat
tariff for domestic consumers had remained unchanged at around $8/Gcal. SEA had not yet
managed to adopt progressive tariffs for consumption above norms based on sq.m/person of
space occupied. Heat tariffs continue to remain well below cost of supply and continue to be
subsidized by the electricity sub sector.

4.2.3.8 Electricity: SEA raised the average posted electricity tariff by about 25% in January 2000
and by another 35% by April 2000, though the latter was partially rolled back in May 2000,
resulting in the overall tariff increase of 40% for 2000 over the previous year. SEA also prepared
a Medium Term (2000-2004) Tariff Policy for Electricity and Heat, which was approved by the
government it its Decree #187 dated April 1, 2000. This incorporated the principles of tariffs
approaching gradually full cost recovery level and elimination of cross subsidies among categories
of electricity consumers and cross subsidy of heat services by electricity, as well as cross subsidies
to domestic sales by export sales of electricity. Tariff increase of 22.5% in March 2001 and a
further 22% in March 2002 was carried out, resulting in the tariff increases during 1999-2002 of
140% in local currency terms and 92% in US dollar terms. At this time SEA also simplified the
tariff structure by reducing the four blocks for the residential consumers to two blocks. Thus the
lifeline rate block became larger (from 90 kWh a month to 150 kWh a month), and all
consumption above 150 kWh a month was placed in the second block. The average tariff in 2002
was at about 1.1 cents/kWh compared with the long run average incremental cost of the system at
about 2.3 cents/kWh. (Note: The average billed tariff/kWh in 2003 and 2004 has been estimated
at 1.37 cents and 1.36 cents respectively on account of the effect of the increased tariff (of 2000)
over the full years. However, on account of billing vagaries in Kyrgyz Republic, the average billed
tariffs do not properly reflect the actual average posted tariffs.) Further, on account of adverse
changes in consumer mix and extremely poor billing and collection practices (exacerbated by
privileged tariff discounts and abuse of lifeline rates) the realized tariff/kWh was substantially
lower and inadequate to cover costs. At the insistence of the Bank, SEA produced a revised
Medium Term Tariff Policy, which was approved by the government Decree #279 dated 13 May
2003, which recognized the need for the tariff levels to approach the long run average incremental
cost and also the need to unbundle the tariff to reflect the unbundling of the sector. The tariff
model of SEA aimed at raising average tariff/kWh from about 1.19 cents in 2003 to 1.67 cents in
2005 and to 2.0 cents in 2007. However, the parliamentary elections scheduled for February 2005
and Presidential election scheduled to take place a few months thereafter probably caused the
government to defer the planned tariff increases. The government and SEA insisted that they
would achieve financial solvency through an increased level of efficiency by intensifying loss



                                                - 12 -

reduction efforts and billing and collection improvements. These targets proved unrealistic.
Despite intense efforts by a number of Bank missions, electricity tariffs have not been revised
since March 2002, resulting in the continued unsatisfactory financial condition of the sub-sector.

4.2.3.9 Contrary to the understanding at the time of approval of CSAC, it turned out by early
2001, that additional parliamentary approval was needed to separate the transmission and
generation functions in KE. Also subsequent legal opinions indicated that the approval by
parliament of the EBRD loan agreement containing a reference to the distribution company was
not adequate and that there was a need for an explicit parliamentary approval for any form of
private sector participation in the power sector. (Note: The approval of the KE Restructuring
proposal by parliament in 1998 specifically called for such explicit approval of Phase 4 at a later
stage, when the proposals were ready). In the second quarter of 2001, the approval to separate
transmission and generation was obtained. The parliament also approved by September 2001 the
configuration of the distribution segment into four companies. Towards the end of the second half
of 2001 KE was thus split into one generation company, one transmission (and dispatch)
company, four distribution companies and one District Heating company, each with its own
Charter, Board of Directors, Management and staff. Transfer of all 35 kV lines and substations
from the transmission to the distribution companies and avoiding the officers of the transmission
company sitting on the Boards of generation and distribution companies took some more time.
The SEA also succeeded in preparing the grid codes, market rules and model contracts for power
purchase and transmission services. In terms of market rules, the generation company would sell
power directly to large consumers consuming power at 110 kV and above. The distribution
companies would buy power from the generation company on the basis of model power purchase
contracts at regulated prices and secure grid access and transmission services from the
transmission company on the basis of model transmission contracts at regulated tariffs. The
dispatch would be mostly on the basis of these contracts and partly by a balancing market. The
rules and procedures for the operation of the balancing market were finalized and notified by
SEA. The transmission company was not expected to buy and sell electricity except for the
purposes of providing system services such as frequency control, voltage regulation and system
reserves of the Central Asian Power System of which the Kyrgyz system was an integral part.
(Note: However, the generation company had, as direct consumers, many large consumers who
were consuming power at less than 110 kV as well as those who were connected directly to the
busbars of the Bishkek TETS power plant. The Bank objected to this and asked SEA to correct
it. A further and notable exception was the permission to the transmission company to sell power
to the country's gold mine company Kumtor and receive full payment. This was done to enable
the transmission company to have access to adequate cash to service its debts to EBRD). Export
and import transactions under the Inter Governmental Irrigation Agreements among the Central
Asian Republics for the sale of electricity and purchase of fuels were the responsibility of the
generation company. SEA also got into the routine of notifying the end user tariff, transmission
tariff and generation tariff. Since the end use tariff was uniform all over the country, the
generation tariff for each of the four distribution companies would be different and be based on
the density of their load and other aspects of their economies of scale. (Note: Thus in 2003, the
generation tariff/kWh ranged from 0.31 cents for Jalabadelectro to 0.45 cents to Severelectro.
The transmission tariff/kWh for all was 0.198 cents. The end use tariff in all distribution
companies was 0.98 cents for lifeline households and 1.82 cents for all other households and all



                                                - 13 -

other categories of consumers).

4.2.3.10 The government also identified in 2001 Severelectro as the first distribution company to
be privatized. However, the investor interest in the acquisition of power sector assets in
developing countries had declined sharply by this time and the government was persuaded to
consider the option of a long term concession for Severelectro and management contracts for the
smaller three distribution companies. This called for the parliamentary approval of amendments to
the Concessions Law. It also called for an explicit parliamentary approval of the proposal for
private sector participation in the power sector, through equity sale, or concessions or by
management contracts. Though the government managed to secure parliamentary approval to the
proposed amendments to the Law on Concessions in the last session of 2004, it could not secure
till the closing date of the credit (December 31, 2004) the explicit parliamentary approval for
private sector participation in the distribution companies through equity sales, concessions or
management contracts. Thus RFPs for the Severelectro concession could not be issued. The
efforts to improve sector operational efficiency did not meet with much success. Technical losses
could not be reduced in the absence of funds for investments in distribution rehabilitation.
Commercial losses (arising from metering and billing procedures which lent themselves to serious
abuse relating to privileged consumption discounts and lifeline rates coverage) continued to
remain at high levels. While total collection levels have remained at about the same levels (85% to
88% of the billing), cash collection levels have improved to about 37% largely on account of cash
payments by government budget entities and the special collection drive organized in late 2003
and early 2004. Appointment of a Special Representative of the President with enhanced powers
(Note: He was made the Chairman of the Boards of the four distribution companies (with direct
control over the General Directors of these companies) and a member of the Boards of the
generation and transmission companies.) and authority to improve collections during this period
appeared encouraging, but proved short lived. As the drive to disconnect the non-payers was
intensified, government officials started to interfere with disconnection orders, and the authority
of the Special Representative was curtailed. (Note: He soon left office to contest election for the
parliament. His office, however, continues to exist and perform its functions, though not as
effectively as before. Cash collections as a percentage of bills fell from 30.3% in the first quarter
of 2004 to 16.3% in the first quarter of 2005.) Arrangements to receive all electricity revenues
into a transit account held with the Savings and Settlement Company which was authorized to
distribute the funds in agreed proportions to the generation, transmission and distribution
companies solved to some extent the problem of cash flows to the upstream companies. The
technical and commercial losses actually increased from 33% in 2000 to 44.2% in 2002 and are
believed to have retreated a little to 42.5% in 2004 in comparison with the rather relaxed norm of
13% prescribed by SEA. This is attributed variously to lack of investments, billing abuses, the
greater level of transparency brought in by the unbundling and also to the confusion and unsettled
conditions and uncertainties caused by sector restructuring.

4.2.3.11 On the whole sector inefficiencies persisted, financial condition of the sector continued to
be a cause for concern and privatization aims were not achieved even within the extended closing
date of the credit. The impact of the failure to carry out the agreed sectoral reform is the
continued high level of quasi-fiscal deficit, estimated at about $191.5 million or 8.7% of the GDP
in 2004. This is in addition to the loss of production and productivity caused by inadequate and



                                                 - 14 -

unreliable power supply in the country, the value of which has not been quantified.

4.2.3.12 Social Protection. The adoption of Lifeline rate for electricity supply consistently led to
billing abuses, whereby most of the non-privileged consumption was billed at the lifeline rates, and
frustrated the effort to ensure that the benefits went only to the needy and caused the sector a
heavier cross subsidy burden.       (Note: 57% of the total consumption (or 124 kWh/month/
non-privileged     household)   had   been    billed    at  the    lifeline block  limited   to    90
kWh/month/household.) The abuse was so persistent that the Bank at one stage recommended
the removal of the lifeline rate and subsidization through cash transfers to the poor.

4.2.3.13 The socially protected price (SPP) scheme for gas, heat and hot water proved unpopular,
as only 295 out of the 7000 potentially eligible households participated in the scheme. Even
raising the threshold from 200 soms to 300 soms a month did not improve the situation. When
tariffs were raised in March 2002, a Presidential Decree was issued providing for a 20% increase
in the benefits for low income families and citizens, and increasing the monthly low income
poverty threshold to 350 soms /person for categories of people eligible for socially protected
pricing, which now included electricity also. Further, salaries for social sector employees were
raised by 15% and pensions below 1000 soms were topped up by 25 soms to 90 soms to the
different slabs of pensions from 900 soms to 200 soms. To finance the consequent budget deficit,
IDA succeeded in securing for the government a Swiss grant assistance of $ 5 million. (Note:
The Swiss Grant Agreement was signed in September 2002. The first tranche of $2.0 million was
disbursed soon thereafter. The conditions for the disbursement of the second tranche were: (i)
monitoring and evaluation of the social programs by an NGO; and (ii) providing IDA with full
billing and collection information for the electricity sector for 2002.)

4.2.3.14 The amendments to the Law on Privileges (aimed at reducing the categories of privileges
from eleven to seven, more effectively targeting the privileges to the needy, reducing the benefit
levels for others significantly, and reducing the cost of overall entitlements by about 40%)
prepared by the government and submitted to the parliament for approval in early 2000. These
were withdrawn in 2001, redrafted by the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection (MLSP) and
resubmitted to the parliament in May 2002, proposing to monetize the benefits substantially.
However, when groups of privileged consumers (especially war veterans) protested against such
monetization of privileges the government withdrew its draft amendments from the parliament
again. Thereafter the government carried out in 2003 a comprehensive beneficiary assessment of
its Unified Monthly Benefit Scheme and associated social programs engaging a local professional
task group (a local NGO and a local consulting firm) (Note: This was initiated to comply with a
requirement of the Swiss Government prior to the release of their budgetary support funds aimed
at meeting social protection costs.) The government prepared and implemented an action plan
based on the study, which focused on: (i) timeliness of benefit payment and payment of benefits in
cash; (ii) closely involving local government in identifying the households eligible for support; (iii)
simplifying the application and verification procedures; (iv) improving the methodology for
assessing household incomes to determine eligibility for support; and (v) abolition of price
discounts to the military and interior service personnel and raising their pay. As a result, benefit
payment became substantially more timely and about 94% of the benefits were paid in cash
(Note: In the past a large part of the benefits was paid in kind such as flour and other household



                                                - 15 -

commodities.) Government also submitted proposals to the parliament for the amendment of the
Law on the Status of Military Service Men and the Law on Internal affairs Bodies to remove the
price discounts for the military and interior services personnel and for their pay increases. Though
delayed for some time, these amendments were finally approved by the parliament towards the
end of 2004. MLSP was to undertake a final redrafting of the Law of Privileges for consideration
in late 2003 focusing on improved targeting, simplification of procedures and reducing the
administrative costs, making benefits uniform across beneficiaries within the broad privilege
categories, and monetizing the benefits to the maximum extent feasible. Actually this was not
done till the final closing date of the credit, despite the help provided by DFID consultants to
prepare the concept paper and the availability of the Bank TA for help in drafting the law. Lack of
capacity on the part of MLSP and lack of political will on the part of government appeared to be
the reasons for noncompliance with this third tranche conditionality.

4.2.3.15 The billing abuses in the lifeline rate are causing a major erosion of the financial viability
of the sector. While clearly some improvements have taken place in the payment of benefits, still
the problem of poor targeting of the subsidy persists and budget outlays on this account keep on
increasing, while the benefits meant for the poor seep substantially to those who are not. Unless
the system of energy price discounts for the privileged classes is fully abolished, and other more
appropriate ways of rewarding the privileged classes for their achievements are devised, the
existing system would continue to be extremely inefficient and expensive to provide social
protection to the poorer segments of the population.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
There was a modest institutional development impact in the utilities component. The electricity
sector had been unbundled by function and six different independent joint stock companies have
come into existence, transacting business among them on the basis of contractual obligations. (
Note: Excluding the heat distribution company separated from the Bishkek CHP.)                 Sector
regulation is by the regulatory body SEA and the basic market structure and trading arrangements
conducive for private sector investments and exports have come into existence though all these
need further improvements in terms of substance. The impact in respect of district heating and gas
sectors had been even less remarkable. In the telecom sector KT may be on the verge of
privatization. There is extensive private participation in the mobile phone and associated sectors.
218 operators holding 280 licenses provide a variety of modern communication services in the
market.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1 Factors outside the control of the government and the implementing agency:
The interest of the strategic investors to invest in the infrastructure in general and energy in



                                                     - 16 -

particular of the emerging markets declined significantly during the program period. Requests for
proposals issued in many former Soviet Union states received little or no response. The first RFP
issued for KT similarly did not elicit any response. Thus the prospect for privatizing Severelectro
and the transmission and distribution segments of KG became at least temporarily bleak. Also
electricity exports are important to Kyrgyz Republic to meet the financial needs of the electricity
and heat sectors, but they were dependent on the vagaries of weather and the willingness of the
governments of the other Central Asian States to abide by the Inter-Governmental Irrigation
Agreements (IGIAs) for the exchange of electricity, gas and coal. This made the operation and
reliability of these sectors uncertain and unreliable and made the problem of their reform even
more difficult. Occasional disturbances in the country (especially in the south) distracted the
attention of the government from its development agenda.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
There was a distinct lack of cohesion and consensus among the two houses of the parliament and
the government, leading to enormous delays in the enactment of laws needed for the reform. At
one stage the parliament itself wanted to determine tariff increases. The two houses of parliament
gave two different configurations to the distribution company Severelectro. Some of the
proposals for legislation needed to complete the reform had not been approved by the parliament
till now. The change of government immediately after approval of the CSAC and subsequent
changes in mid 2002, of the top officials resulted in discontinuity and avoidable delays and in the
loss of the built capacity.. Actions like the appointment of Prime Minister and Deputy Prime
Minister as chairman of the transmission company was not conducive to its orderly evolution into
an independent legal entity.        (Note: The practice of PM or Deputy P.M being concurrently
chairman of state owned Joint stock companies was given up recently in the context of corporate
governance related adjustment operation of the Asian Development Bank.) There appeared to be
a lack of consistency over time, and across the various layers of the government, in terms of the
ownership of the proposed reform program and commitment to its speedy implementation. (Note:
On the whole, the government which took over in April 2002 and lasted till the end of 2004
appeared often to be lukewarm to the reform program.) Thus the reforms proceeded especially in
the energy sector in an uneven fashion, with an occasional tendency to reverse the steps already
taken. Frequent attempts were made to rebundle the electricity sector and give control of the
sector to the transmission company. The inability to give SEA the freedom to decide on tariffs and
the lack of political will to fight the problem of nonpayment through disconnection of supplies are
explicable in terms of a lack of commitment to the reform program. Corruption appears to have
been widespread in the body politic, the administrative machinery and in the utility companies at
various levels, while internal controls and disciplinary mechanisms were too weak and inefficient
to keep it under check. (Note: Kyrgyz Republic Country Economic Memorandum, January 2005.
See pages 85-87 for a brief discussion of this aspect and references to various studies on this
subject. According to this, official corruption appears to have become significantly worse since
2000 (page 86). The government itself recognized the seriousness of this problem and the
Security Council chaired by the President decided to create the office of the Special
Representative with special powers to combat the problem in the sector. It was ultimately the
weak governance which detracted much from the reform efforts.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
In the energy sector the continuous abuse of billing in which the billed retail tariff is very different



                                                    - 17 -

from posted tariff and which varies by region in the country (while it should not) is a clear
example of unabated corrupt practice. Theft of large quantities of energy persists largely on
account of undisciplined officials. Commercial losses in the gas sector continue unabated because
of the sheer unwillingness on the part of SEA to revise billing norms for unmetered consumers,
even after pilot studies clearly proved the need to revise the norms. Despite repeated urging by
the Bank, the newly formed joint stock companies failed to make effective use of the donor funds
and the Bank's TA credit to improve their accounting and financial systems and internal controls
to overcome the problem of indiscipline in the organizations in such areas as metering, billing and
collections. The finance and accounts of these companies are not transparent and continue to
suffer from major weaknesses. The transactions under the IGIAs remain opaque and it is difficult
to verify to what extent export sales actually subsidize domestic operations. The experience in the
segments relating to tax reform and business environment were somewhat similar. Vested
interests from within tended to dilute and neutralize reform.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The CSAC was a three tranche operation. The first tranche of SDR 7.5 million was released on
September 26, 2000 upon the credit becoming effective and based on compliance with conditions
for Board presentation. The release of the second tranche of SDR 6.0 million was delayed by six
months and took place on December 28, 2001. The third tranche of SDR 12.6 million was
actually cancelled as the conditions for the release of that tranche were not met in spite of the
extension of the closing date from March 31, 2002 to December 31, 2004. A Technical Assistance
Credit amounting to $5 million equivalent was approved by the Bank in June 2000 to provide
support to the government in the implementation of the Program. The Bank's CSAC was
co-financed by the Government of Switzerland (TF- 24833 in an amount of Swiss Franc 2.5
million or $ 1.413 million) and by the Government of Netherlands (TF-24828 in amount of Dutch
Guilders 3.0 million or $ 1.2 million). (Note: The full amount under TF-24833 was disbursed in
December 2000 following the disbursement of the Bank's first tranche release. TF-24828 was
disbursed fully in December 2001.) The Swiss government also provided an additional grant of
$5 million to provide budget support to the government for implementing the social protection
component. This was approved in September 2002 and disbursed in three tranches in September
2002, December 2002 and March 2003.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The reform program has only been partially completed. In the tax reform and business
environment components, there seems to be evidence already that despite reforms the
administrative machinery has a tendency to revert to its traditional ways. In the other components
the reforms had not yet been completed. Nevertheless it is fair to state that unless the future
governments take special action to reverse reform, sector unbundling in the energy and telecom
sectors is likely to be sustained enabling future private investment. During the program period
there were several attempts to rebundle the sector and gather all authority under the transmission
company. The Bank had to be alert to all such developments and dissuade the government from
such reversal of reforms. Similarly the concept of sector regulation by the regulatory bodies is also
likely to be sustained, though it is not clear whether in the near future the government would
allow the regulatory bodies to operate with independence and freedom. The sustainability of other



                                                - 18 -

reforms would depend heavily on how the governance improves and how soon the all pervasive
corrupt practices in the administrative machinery are eliminated. If the Bank and other donors
continue to be involved in providing assistance to these sectors (Note: In the context of declining
sector viability and poor access of the country to the capital markets, such an involvement of
multilateral and bilateral aid agencies may be inevitable.) during the next several years then there is
a reasonable chance that the reforms would be sustained and have a chance to stabilize.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Government has indicated that it would continue energy sector reforms even in the absence
of CSAC. (Note: Since then, there has been a change of government and an interim government
is in place. A new elected President and a new government is expected to be in place in the middle
of next month. Further progress will depend on the policy choices they make.) The Bank would
continue to support it through the ongoing Power and District Heat Rehabilitation Project, the
Technical Assistance Credit and a proposed Energy Project . Other development partners such as
Swiss Government, KfW and EBRD have expressed an interest in joining the Bank and IFC to
finance the investment needs of the new concession company for Severelectro. In addition, the
Bank is considering a new Poverty Reduction Support adjustment operation which, inter alia,
would help the government to complete the unfinished agenda under the CSAC. The Bank would
also work with IMF to include conditions under the new PRGF arrangements (presently under
formulation) to ensure the continuation of the energy sector reforms.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in helping the government to formulate and articulate the reform
program through preparatory studies and discussions has been evaluated as satisfactory by the
QAG in its assessment of quality at entry. The ICR mission concurs with that assessment. The
Bank also mobilized $5.0 million as a grant from Swiss government to help the government to
meet a part of the social protection cost of the program. It also provided a TA credit of $5 million
to assist the government to carry out the reform and to prepare privatization documents. (Note:
However, this ICR does not cover this Consolidated TA credit as about 50% of the credit amount
had not yet been disbursed and is planned to be used to pursue the energy sector reform elements
still remaining to be completed.) It also closely coordinated with USAID (Business Environment
component), EBRD (electricity component) and DFID of UK (electricity component) to secure
complementary technical assistance to support the new companies.

7.2 Supervision:
Numerous Bank missions, including energy missions which went for a range of other activities, (at
least 3 to 4 missions a year) visited the country and spent considerable time in working closely
with the newly created entities including SEA and the government (MLSP, MOF, Office of the
PM) to review or formulate acceptable proposals, legislative initiatives and to follow up on
progress. The Bank supported the initiative of a special representative of the President with
extra-ordinary powers to oversee the collection improvement program in the new distribution
companies and helped the government to conceptualize and formulate the proposal in an
acceptable manner and also provided operational guidance for this purpose. It was sympathetic to
government's request for two extensions of the closing date of the credit. It helped the



                                                  - 19 -

government to organize the transit account mechanism to ensure flow of the collected revenue to
upstream companies in a manner acceptable to IDA. (Note: This transit account mechanism was
essentially a transitory arrangement pending the privatization of the distribution entities.) It gave a
seminar to the key government officials and members of parliament on tariffs and concession
arrangements in the Round Table organized in November 2001. It organized a study tour of
Denmark, Estonia and Hungary to such officials and parliament members in January 2002 to
enable them understand the reform efforts made in those countries and it participated in the
Energy Sector Workshop organized by the government for key officials and parliamentarians
during April 19-21, 2002 at Issyik-Kul to review the results of the study tour and to reinforce the
understanding of the rationale for the various aspects of the reform program. The Bank also
organized a video conference distance learning workshop on "Transparency in Infrastructure
Concessions" during November 5 to December 5, 2002. This was attended in Kyrgyz Republic by
the officials of KG, SPF, SEA, MOF, Severelectro and PM's office. It coordinated with IFC and
EBRD in persuading the government to adopt the concessions approach for the first distribution
company. For this purpose officials of IDA, IFC, EBRD, KfW and Swiss government jointly
discussed during September 11-19, 2003, the concept of concessions and explained what each of
these organizations were prepared to do to help the government and the concession holder. Its
coordination with IMF was continuous as the Bank operation complemented the IMF PRGF
program in the country. Though it seriously considered the possibility of restructuring the credit in
the context of the waning Borrower commitment for reform, it concluded that it was best to make
maximum efforts to get as much of the reform carried out as was possible within the extended
period for the closing of the credit. It made intense efforts in 2004 to persuade the government to
complete the several steps needed to complete the reform program and draw down the third
tranche and also achieved a measure of success in the last quarter. (Note: It is noteworthy that
the government secured clearances for several long pending items in the last quarter of 2004, even
after it became clear that the third tranche would be cancelled and that the credit would close on
December 31, 2004.) However, when it became clear that the government would not be able to
carry out the remaining agreed core reform for the third tranche release, it did not hesitate to
recommend cancellation of the third tranche and closing of the credit at the end of 2004.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
On the whole, the Bank's lending and supervision performance is considered satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The government played an active role in formulating and articulating the program and
meaningfully complying with the conditions for Board presentation and the disbursement of the
first tranche. The credit became effective and the first tranche was disbursed with in a few days of
the credit approval.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
CSAC was approved in September 2000 and there was a change in government in early 2001.
There was another change in government in May 2002 on account of the disturbances in the
southern part of the country. This resulted in most of the key persons committed to the proposed
program leaving their positions and the need to deal with new sets of persons. The government
set up a high level committee (called CSAC Coordination Council) with representation from the



                                                - 20 -

Office of the President, Prime Minister, Ministry of Finance, SEA and SPF and headed by a
Deputy Prime Minister, to coordinate government responses and oversee progress. Day to day
supervision and the responsibility to interface with the Bank missions was initially delegated to the
Head of the Prime Minister's cabinet with the rank of a Minister, and later to the Deputy Head of
the President's Administration and to the Vice Prime Minister. The government also set up a high
level committee, as requested by the Bank to coordinate and carry out the many steps needed to
be taken to offer Severelectro on concession terms. Towards the end of 2003, the President and
the National Security Council took a keen interest in trying to improve collections in the power
sector on an emergency basis and appointed a Special Representative of the President for this
purpose.     The regulatory authorities and the government departments worked closely with the
Bank missions in formulating plans of action to solve the problems as they arose.

The proponents of reform within the administration such as the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and
State Property Fund (SPF) played a key role to further the reform process. The MOF, being
responsible for the Paris Club negotiations for debt reduction and rescheduling, was the champion
for reform, and was largely responsible for convincing the government about the benefits of the
concessions approach for Severelectro. It was involved, along with the Bank and the IMF, in the
evolution of the QFD as a key indicator for the status of the energy sector. Along with SEA, it
institutionalized the process and is monitoring and reporting on QFD to the Bank and the IMF.
SPF worked intensively with the parliament in 2004 to get the amendments to the concessions law
passed. It also convinced the parliament to have hearings on the privatization of KG and KE.
Prior to 2002 SEA was also a champion of reforms in terms of tariff modeling and convincing
government to allow several tariff increases.

However, the commitment of the government to the reform program seemed to vary over time
and across the layers of the government. The government often behaved, especially after April
2002, as if the reform program was externally imposed. The parliament and the government had
different approaches to reform creating major delays. The government could not muster the
political will after mid 2002 to raise tariffs to reach the levels agreed with the Bank to move
towards cost recovery. Nor did it have the willingness to sustain the campaign to fight the theft of
power and improve collections. The government could not effectively control its officials from
interfering with the decisions on disconnection of service to non-payers and ultimately clipped the
extra-ordinary powers of the Special Representative of the President to improve collections.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agencies under the tax reform, business environment and
telecommunications discussed under section 5.3 above was some what better than that of energy
entities, but still not good enough to warrant a clear satisfactory rating. At best, it could be
classified as moderately unsatisfactory in a six point scale. The performance of the energy entities
was clearly unsatisfactory. Poor implementation by them detracted from the value of reform and
hampered the achievement of the objectives.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The program was, as noted earlier, over-ambitious and could not have been completed within the
original time frame. When the closing date of the credit was extended by 2 years and 9 months, it
provided a fair chance to the government to abide by its commitments. However, government's



                                                - 21 -

reform efforts proceeded in fits and starts and finally it could not succeed in complying with the
conditions for the release of the third tranche (of SDR 12.6 million) even within the extended
period largely because of opposition by NGOs and parliament to the content and direction of
reform. On account of these, the borrower performance has been classified as unsatisfactory in a
four point scale. In a six point scale, the appropriate classification would be moderately
unsatisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Given that the key focus of the package was the reform of the energy sector involving operational
efficiency improvements, cost recovery, sector unbundling and creation of market structures and
independent regulation conducive to private investment and actual privatization of the distribution
segment, the choice of structural adjustment lending as the Bank instrument could be regarded, in
hind sight, as inappropriate. A reform package like one covered by CSAC needs several years to
implement (generally 7 to 8 years) and more appropriate instruments would have been investment
lending, sector adjustment lending, or a hybrid of both. The quick disbursing portion of such a
hybrid loan would be confined to the costs of specific sector reform, while the investment
component would finance complementary sector physical investments. In the structural
adjustment lending operation, funds reach the Central Bank and the MOF, while the sector
agencies, which bear the brunt of reform responsibilities, do not have access to the funds for their
sector investments. Thus it fails to elicit the enthusiasm of the sector entities for the reform. This
was the case in Kyrgyz Republic, where KE did not evince enough enthusiasm. The level and
nature of response would have been different if the funds were destined for sector investments.

 When the credit was approved the need for the balance of payment support to the country was
high and the government showed a great deal of enthusiasm in formulating the reform program
and in implementing agreed sets of reforms for the first tranche. As years passed and as the
economy improved, the need for such assistance became less urgent and the government tended
to become lukewarm towards the more difficult parts of the reform program. Towards the end of
2004, four years after approval of the credit, it appeared as though the government was not keen
to draw down the third tranche. This experience would appear to indicate that adjustment loans
are best limited to one or two tranches and a period not exceeding 12 to 18 months.

The reform program was ambitious in relation to the envisaged time frame and the implementation
capacity of the government agencies even with the level of support provided by the Bank and its
co-financiers. Shifting political landscapes added to the problem. One lesson, which emerges from
this three tranche operation covering a difficult program, is the obvious merit of back loading the
disbursement. It is fair to conclude that a reasonable amount of reform was achieved for the
amount of money that was disbursed under the first two tranches. The toughest conditions were
attached to the third tranche, which also had the largest share of the total credit.

 The operation also seems to highlight the need for proper sequencing of reform. In countries
with a high degree of nonpayment and non-cash payments, sector unbundling actually exacerbates
the problem and creates intra industry arrears starving the upstream activities of any cash. A
measure of control over nonpayment problem has to be achieved through such steps as effective
legislation against theft of power, dismissal of erring employees, disciplined disconnection of



                                                 - 22 -

supplies to non-payers, prohibition of non-cash settlement of any kind, institution of effective and
speedy bankruptcy procedures against large defaulting consumers, restructuring of the arrears and
rescheduling of debts and writing off irrecoverable arrears, before undertaking sector unbundling.
In Kyrgyz Republic unbundling was somewhat premature and KE was not inclined to follow up
on the reform program leaving it to the newly created distribution companies.

In countries like Kyrgyz Republic with high debt burdens and poor access to markets, a sole
reliance on privatization to strategic investors is not very practical. One needs to think of other
options such as management contracts, concession arrangements, inter-utility cooperation and the
like as alternative and intermediate solutions. Initiatives such as the one used in the Pamir Power
Co in Tajikistan could serve as a good example.

Trying to create independent and competent regulatory bodies in countries such as Kyrgyz
Republic could take a decade or more, depending on the level and pace of political development.
Meanwhile, one may have to think of embedding the key regulatory principles and formulae in the
privatization and concession contracts.

Finally the experience under this operation highlights the point that in countries with a high level
of corruption and poor governance structures, it is not enough to focus only on the adoption of
sound policy, legislation and regulation. The need to focus on how the policies would actually be
implemented is equally important. How, this can be handled within the framework of a fast
disbursing adjustment credit is an area for fruitful research.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower agreed with the ratings indicated in the Bank ICR and also provided its own ICR
for the CSAC operation as required under the credit agreement. The following summary of the
key points in that document serves as the Borrower's contribution to the Bank ICR.

The Government, with the support of the Bank and other donors, has made significant efforts and
taken a range of actions aimed at facilitating the reforms envisaged under the CSAC framework,
both at the preparation and implementation stages. Macroeconomic stability was accomplished,
definite progress in the tax reforms was attained and favorable legal environment for development
of entrepreneurship was created. Significant efforts were made to lay the foundation for the
financial recovery of the energy sector, electricity QFD reduction, and to work out mechanisms
for social protection of the disadvantaged population affected by the public utilities reform. The
power system was reorganized and independent joint stock energy companies were established.
Medium term tariff policies were approved for electricity, gas and heat covering the period from
2004 through 2006. Electricity tariffs were increased twice during the CSAC implementation. The
system of reduced electricity tariffs for the law enforcement personnel was abolished; and a
governmental resolution prohibiting barter transactions as payment for electricity was issued.
Amendments to the law of the Kyrgyz Republic "On the Natural and Authorized Monopolies"
were enacted to ensure that the SEA and SCA would be the anti-monopoly bodies for the energy
sector and the telecommunications sector respectively, with responsibility for the economic,
technical and financial regulation of the sector. Adoption of the law of the Kyrgyz Republic "On



                                                 - 23 -

Concessions and Foreign Concession Enterprises in the Kyrgyz Republic" laid the legal
foundation for granting concessions to the power distribution companies.

Under the PRGF program of the IMF, the government adopted quasi-fiscal deficit (QFD) in 2002
as the tool for monitoring the financial status of the electricity sector. Target parameters for the
QFD reduction during 2005-2008 were developed. The government undertook an obligation to
reduce the QFD level by 1.3% of the GDP every year. To tackle the electricity billing and
collection issues and eliminate corruption in the energy sector, a Secretariat of the President's
Special Representative was established. Issues of the QFD attainment and the energy sector
recovery were frequently discussed at the Security Council meetings. Notable progress was
achieved in the telecommunications market development. A tender was held to sell 51% of the
state shares in "Kyrgyztelecom" and negotiations with the winner of the tender are being held.

The magnitude and depth of the structural reforms turned out to be overly optimistic and
somewhat ambitious. Moreover, on account of various kinds of political reasons including
opposition to the proposed reforms by the nongovernmental organizations it was not possible to
ensure the timely passage of draft laws aimed at stimulating direct investments and bringing
economic security to the energy sector. This contributed to our inability to complete the reforms
within the timeframe set for the Program. Besides, when more than 40% of the population consist
of the poor, implementation of such measures as significant increase of energy tariffs and decrease
in the number of those paying the utility bills at reduced rates turned out to be hard, as the
Government could not provide sufficient compensation payments due to budgetary constraints.
Thus it became unrealistic to advance reform and achieve all the set targets within the program
timeframe.

As a consequence, such primary tasks (aimed at stimulating private investments in the energy
sector) as adoption of the fourth stage of the program by the Parliament concerned with the
energy sector privatization, involving privatization of gas industry, draft law on strengthening
financial security of the State Energy Agency, the recent draft law on the social protection policy
improvements enabling optimization of the costs, targeted delivery of social benefits and effective
electricity tariff policy facilitating energy sector recovery still remain to be completed.

We intend to continue the structural reforms envisaged under the CSAC. Presently, we are about
to complete the new version of the tax code which is expected to create favorable conditions for
the revival of investments and fair taxation. It will also help improve the tax administration, and
harmonize tax legislation with other legislative acts of the Kyrgyz Republic. The Government will
continue to work with the parliament to pass the following bills and programs:
-       The Phase 4 of the program on privatization of KE.
-       Program on reorganization and privatization of the gas sector and Financial Model of
functioning of KG
-       Draft amendments to the law "On energy"
-       New bill "On state social privileges in the KR".
The first and the second items would enable private investment and participation in the energy
sector. The third item would lead to the financial independence of SEA and the last item would
improve the social protection arrangements.



                                                   - 24 -

(b) Cofinanciers:
The State Secretariat of Economic Affairs (SECO) of the government of Switzerland has
reviewed the draft ICR and has commented that the ICR is a constructive yet critical review and
evaluation of the CSAC, and that it provides an unbiased assessment of the performance of both
the Bank and the Borrower. Based on its own assessment of the CSAC as well as on the ICR,
SECO agrees with the Ratings for Achievements of objectives / outputs of components and the
Ratings of the Bank and Borrower performance. While CSAC has faced considerable criticism
from the political elite of the country for its energy sector reform plans, SECO still considers the
fulfillment of these conditions in the medium and longer-term is necessary, given the high burden
of the energy sector on the Kyrgyz budget. However, the problems surrounding restructuring and
privatization of the energy sector as well as increased energy tariffs are highly contentious
political issues. Even without reference to specific CSAC conditions, there was ample reason to
expect the energy sector reform to be a difficult, long and politically charged process. SECO
concludes that despite declarations to the contrary and the signing of the CSAC, the political will
was eventually limited to pull through reforms which were seen as largely imposed by donor
pressure. SECO equally concludes that the political risks involved in the CSAC conditionalities
were evaluated too positively at the outset. SECO therefore fully supports the statement of the
ICR that the program was over-ambitious and could not have been accomplished within the
original timeframe.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None.

10. Additional Information

None.




                                                 - 25 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Not applicable.




                                        - 26 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Not applicable.




                                      - 27 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable.




                                      - 28 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              06/18/1999              12     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             INFRASTRUCTURE/ENERGY
                                             (3); TAXATION (1); SOCIAL
                                             PROTECTION (1); BUSINESS
                                             ENVIRONMENT (2);
                                             CONSULTANTS (2);
                                             ECONOMIST(1);
                                             PRIVATE/FINANCIAL
                                             SECTOR (1);

              09/07/1999                9    FISCAL/ENERGY (2);
                                             MACROECONOMIST (1);
                                             SOCIAL PROTECTION (1);
                                             TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT
                                             (1); TAXATION (1);
                                             CONSULTANTS (2)

              11/18/1999              10     FISCAL/ENERGY (2);
                                             MACROECONOMIST (1);
                                             SOCIAL PROTECTION (1);
                                             TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT
                                             (1); CONSULTANTS (3);
                                             LAWYER (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              02/11/2000                9    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             ENERGY (2); TAXATION
                                             (1); SOCIAL PROTECTION
                                             (1); BUSINESS
                                             ENVIRONMENT (1);
                                             CONSULTANTS (2);
                                             ECONOMIST (1)

 Supervision
              11/22/2000                8    ENERGY SECTOR                    U               U
                                             MANAGER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL VIABILITY
                                             (2);
                                             RESTRUCTURING/PRIVA
                                             T (2); FISCAL/ENERGY
                                             (1); BUSINESS
                                             ENVIRONMENT (1); TASK
                                             TEAM LEADER (1)
              12/11/2000                5    FISCAL/ENERGY (2);               U               S
                                             MACROECONOMIST (1);



                                              - 29 -

                                                       SOCIAL PROTECTION (1);
                                                       TASK TEAM LEADER (1)
               04/29/2002                         4    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);                   S                S
                                                       TTL (1); MACROECONOMIST
                                                       (1); CONSULTANT (1)
               10/11/2002                         4    ACTING TTL (1); ENERGY                    U                U
                                                       SPECIALIST (2);
                                                       MACROECONOMIST (1)

               03/20/2003                         2    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);                   S                S
                                                       TTL (1);

               10/17/2003                         3    TTL (1); LEAD FINANCIAL                   U                S
                                                       ANALYST (1); OPERATIONS
                                                       OFFICER (1)

               06/15/2004                         3    TTL (1); OPERATIONS                       S                U
                                                       OFFICER (1); FINANCIAL
                                                       ANALYST (1)

 ICR
               06/08/2005                        3     TTL (1); OPERATIONS                       U                U
                                                       OFFICER (1); ENERGY
                                                       ECONMIST/CONSULTAN
                                                       T (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                           Actual/Latest Estimate
                                            No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                          na
  Appraisal/Negotiation                               na                     585,503.90
  Supervision                                         na                     809,634.68
  ICR                                                 na
  Total                                               na
Note: Information relating to staff weeks and further separation of lending expenditure into the first two categories
above is reported not to be available from the SAP system




                                                       - 30 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU
Note: In a six point scale the performance of the Borrower would more appropriately be
"moderately unsatisfactory".




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. President's Report, Credit Agreement, Aide Memoires of Bank Missions, Project Status
Reports (PSRs)
2. Board Document for second Tranche Release
3. Proposals to the Management for the two extensions of the closing date of the credit
4. IMF Review Report (of January 2005) for the Three Year PRGF Arrangement
5. Country Economic Memorandum for Kyrgyz Republic (January 2005)
6. Audit reports for the six electricity companies for the year 2001 and 2002 and the Audit
Report for KG for 2001.
7. Implementation Completion Report of CSAC by the Government of Kyrgyz Republic (June
2005) (filed in IRIS)




                                               - 33 -

- 34 -

