Page  1
February 8, 1999
H.E. Marat Sultanov
Minister of Finance
Erkindik Boulevard, 58
Bishkek 720874
Kyrgyz Republic
Re:
Japanese Grant for Consolidation Structural Adjustment Credit
Grant Number TF025588
Dear Sir:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to 
indicate IDA’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to make a 
grant in an amount not exceeding three hundred fifty-three thousand four hundred 
United States dollars ($353,400) (the Grant) to the Kyrgyz Republic (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement. The Recipient hereby confirms its request that IDA carry out 
the activities described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, and 
represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the said purposes and on 
the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon 
receipt by IDA of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter 
Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Kiyoshi Kodera
Country Director,
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic
and Turkmenistan Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
AGREED:
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
By /s/ Marat Sultanov
Date:
February 22, 1999
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist the Recipient in the preparation of a 
Consolidation Structural Adjustment Credit (the Operation). The activities (the 
Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
(a) 
Private sector development. Technical assistance to: (i) develop a 
blueprint for post-privatization restructuring, large enterprise privatization and for 
improving the regulatory framework for business (antimonopoly legislation); (ii) 
improve the environment for investment (both domestic and foreign) and exports; and 
(iii) address the impediments to agricultural marketing and distribution.
(b) 
Public sector reforms to support growth. Technical assistance to: (i) set 
tariffs for financial sustainability of infrastructure; (ii) simplify and broaden the 
tax base; and (iii) strengthen tax collection.
2.
 The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services required for the 
Page  2
Activities.
3.
IDA shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient. The Recipient 
shall cooperate with IDA to the extent necessary to permit IDA to carry out the 
Activities promptly and effectively, and to evaluate the results of the Activities. 
The Recipient shall indemnify IDA against any costs or liabilities incurred by IDA as 
a result of claims against IDA in connection with the Activities, except those 
resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of its staff or external 
consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by December 31, 1999. After 
that date, IDA may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to 
assist in the carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of IDA 
and shall be done according to IDA’s applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of, the Kyrgyz Republic on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ 
personnel (other than nationals or permanent residents thereof) in connection with the 
Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request IDA in writing to terminate the 
Activities. Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, IDA may at any time 
suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the following events has 
occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any 
other entity to which the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) 
has made a loan with the guarantee of the Kyrgyz Republic, to make withdrawals under 
any loan agreement with IBRD or any development credit agreement with IDA shall have 
been suspended. IDA may also terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant 
funds if: (a) IDA has decided, at any time after consultation with the Recipient, to 
withdraw its support to the Operation; or (b) the Recipient has withdrawn its request 
for IDA’s assistance in the financing of the Operation. 
8.
IDA is not an agent of, or trustee for, the Recipient and shall not have any 
fiduciary relationship with the Recipient.  The Recipient shall have no right to any 
portion of the Grant that is not expended by IDA pursuant to this Agreement.
