Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3420 KG
Development Credit Agreement
(Consolidation Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 20, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3420 KG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 20, 2000, between KYRGYZ REPUBLIC (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter 
dated                                                 May 20, 2000, 
describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower’s economy (hereinafter 
called the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution 
of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support 
of the Program during the execution thereof; and
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association 
has decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the 
Borrower by making the Credit in three tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) with the modifications thereof set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read:
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to 
the Development Credit 
Agreement, in support of which the Credit is 
made.”;
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, withdrawals from 
the Credit Account shall be made in the 
currency of the deposit account specified in Section  2.02 of the 
Development Credit Agreement.”;
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of 
the Credit from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the 
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement and of 
these 
General Conditions”;
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(e)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be  agreed for this purpose between the Borrower 
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the 
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request, on the execution of the program referred 
to in the Preamble to the  Development Credit Agreement, the performance 
by the Borrower and the Association of their 
respective obligations 
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credit.”; and
(f)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified 
above), 9.07 and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 
9.06 and 9.07. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement; 
(b)
“FEZ” means Free Economic Zone as defined by FEZ Law;
(c)
“FEZ Bishkek Regulations” means Regulations On Free Economic 
Zone “Bishkek” approved by the Resolution of the Government of the Kyrgyz 
Republic No. 474 of November 11, 1995 (as amended); 
Page  3
(d)
“FEZ entity” means any legal entity or a person registered 
for the purposes of economic activity in FEZ under applicable provisions 
of FEZ Law and FEZ Bishkek Regulations;
(e)
“FEZ Law” means the Law of the Kyrgyz Republic No. 1076-XII 
of December 16, 1992, On Free Economic Zones in Kyrgyz Republic (as 
amended);
(f)
“Kyrgyzgas” means the Joint Stock Company Kyrgyzgas 
established according to the Decree of the President of Kyrgyz Republic 
No. 29 of February 6, 1999, or any successor thereto;
(g)
“Law on Natural and Authorized Monopolies” means the Law of 
Kyrgyz Republic No. 106 of October 8, 1999, On Natural and Authorized 
Monopolies in Kyrgyz Republic (as amended);
(h)
“NCA” means National Communications Agency of the Borrower 
or any successor thereto;
(i)
“SEA” means State Agency on Energy of the Government of the 
Borrower or any successor thereto; and
(j)
“Som” means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit  Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty 
six million and one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
26,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) 
and (d) of this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the 
proceeds of the Credit from the Credit Account in support of the Program.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the 
Association the first request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and 
thereafter maintain in its central bank, a deposit account in Dollars on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals 
from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Deposit Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If the Association shall have 
determined at any time that any proceeds of the Credit shall have been 
used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, (i) deposit into the 
Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if 
the Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association. 
Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be credited 
to the Credit Account for cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account:
(i)
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit 
withdrawn from the Credit 
Account shall have reached the 
Page  4
equivalent of SDR 7,500,000, unless the 
Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in 
Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on 
evidence satisfactory to the 
Association:
(A)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in 
the carrying out of the 
Program; 
(B)
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the 
Borrower is 
satisfactory, as measured on the 
basis of indicators agreed between the 
Borrower and the Association; and 
(C)
that the actions described in Section I of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
have been taken;
(ii)
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit 
withdrawn from the Credit 
Account shall have reached the 
equivalent of SDR 13,500,000, unless the 
Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in 
Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on 
evidence satisfactory to the 
Association:
(A)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in 
the carrying out of the 
Program; 
(B)
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the 
Borrower is 
satisfactory, as measured on the 
basis of indicators agreed between the 
Borrower and the Association; and 
(C)
that the actions described in Section II of 
Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement have been taken.
If, after said exchange of views, the Association is not so satisfied, 
the Association may give notice to the Borrower to that effect and, if 
within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have taken steps 
satisfactory to the Association, in respect of (i), (ii) and (iii) above, 
then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2002, or such 
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as  may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as 
Page  5
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)   Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, 
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing October 
15, 2010 and ending April 15, 2040. Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on April 15, 2020, shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent 
(2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national 
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three consecutive years the level established annually by the Association 
for determining eligibility to access the Association’s resources; and 
(ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, 
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by the 
Association of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the 
amount of each such 
installment not yet 
due until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and 
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of 
the principal amount of 
the Credit as of the first 
semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the 
events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have 
occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of 
principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu 
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Page  6
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time 
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association for its review and comment a report on the 
progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on 
any proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Credit 
which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action 
specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than four months after the date of the Association’s 
request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
the Deposit Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or 
a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Termination 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement  is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Page  7
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Erkindik Boulevard, 58
Bishkek 720874
Kyrgyz Republic
Telex:
Facsimile:
245156 NUR  KH
(996-312)66-16-45
For the Association:
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
By /s/ Baktybek Abdrissaev
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Kiyoshi Kodera
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Page  8
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of 
the Credit shall not be used to finance any of the following 
expenditures:
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which 
any national or international financing institution or agency other than 
the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or 
which the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed to 
finance under another credit or a loan;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or 
subgroups of the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, 
Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
   -
Alcoholic beverages
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122
   -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525
   -
Radioactive and associated 
materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), 
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum
group metals (except watches and 
watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’
wares (including set gems)
971
   -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding 
gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary 
purpose or for luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of 
Page  9
this paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, 
the manufacture, use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of 
the Borrower or international agreements to which the Borrower is a 
party); 
6.
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a 
member of the Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, 
such territories, or (b) on account of any payment to persons or 
entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited 
by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter 
VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association 
determines that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during 
the procurement or execution of such contract, without the Borrower 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Association to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Section I:
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) (i) of this 
Agreement
1.
In the course of restructuring of its power sector, the Borrower 
has made a decision, satisfactory to the Association, on the number and 
configuration of new power distribution companies, and has selected the 
first power distribution company for privatization or long-term 
concession on the basis of recommendations of a financial adviser 
acceptable to the Association.
2.
The Borrower has achieved satisfactory progress in the 
implementation of energy tariff increases consistent with medium-term 
tariff policy agreed with the Association.
Section II:
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) (ii) of this 
Agreement
1.
The Borrower has amended FEZ Law and FEZ Bishkek Regulations to 
ensure that with respect to FEZ entities registered after introduction of 
these amendments:
(a)
all goods produced by a FEZ entity and supplied into the 
domestic market shall be subject to taxes, including value-added tax and 
excise taxes calculated under relevant provisions of the Borrower's Tax 
Code, and custom’s duties, all to be collected at the FEZ border;
(b)
personal income taxes and, when appropriate, social 
contributions shall be collected in respect to employees of FEZ entities; 
and
(c)
services provided by FEZ entities to physical persons shall 
be subject to value-added tax.
2. 
The Borrower has amended its Law On Natural and Authorized 
Monopolies to ensure that regulation of energy and telecommunications 
sectors, including setting of tariffs and profit margins, shall be under 
exclusive responsibility of SEA and NCA respectively.
3. 
The Borrower has enacted necessary legislation and introduced other 
measures, satisfactory to the Association, to strengthen SEA’s and NCA’s 
Page  10
financial and institutional independence and their regulatory capacity. 
4. 
The Borrower has achieved satisfactory progress in the 
implementation of energy tariff increases consistent with medium-term 
tariff policy agreed with the Association.
5. 
The Borrower has:
(a)
achieved satisfactory progress in the privatization or in 
awarding a long-term concession of the first power distribution company 
through transparent and competitive bidding procedures; and
(b)
developed a plan, satisfactory to the Association, for 
privatization or long-term concession of the remaining power distribution 
companies, and issued requests for proposals from potential bidders.
6. 
The Borrower has submitted to the Association evidence of 
satisfactory progress in implementation of the 2000-2001 Action Plan for 
the Recovery and Restructuring of the Gas Sector.
7. 
The Borrower has achieved satisfactory progress in privatization of 
Kyrgyzgas, including: 
(i) 
completion of privatization of its activities related 
to liquefied petroleum 
gas supply and trading; 
(ii)
disposal of the majority of the assets of Kyrgyzgas 
not related to its core 
business; and 
(iii)
invitation to potential bidders to submit offers for 
privatization or 
long-term concession of 
transmission and distribution branches of Kyrgyzgas.
