Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF 050493
SWISS GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 3420 KG
Swiss Grant Agreement
(Consolidation Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC 
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by the
GOVERNMENT OF THE SWISS CONFEDERATION
Dated September 3,  2002
TF 050493
SWISS GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 3, 2002, between KYRGYZ REPUBLIC (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) acting 
as Administrator of grant funds provided by the GOVERNMENT OF THE SWISS 
CONFEDERATION (Switzerland).
Page  2
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to a Development Credit Agreement (Consolidation Structural 
Adjustment (Credit Number 3420 KG)), dated September 20, 2000, between the Recipient and 
the Association (the IDA Credit Agreement), the Association has agreed to extend to the 
Recipient a credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty six million and one 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 26,100,000) to support the Recipient in the 
execution of the Program, as defined in the IDA Credit Agreement; and 
(B)
pursuant to an arrangement dated August 9, 2002, between Switzerland and 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and the Association, 
Switzerland has requested the Bank and the Association, and the Bank and the Association have 
agreed, to administer grant funds (the Grant) to be made available by Switzerland for the support 
of the Recipient in the execution of the Program, in accordance with the provisions of such 
arrangement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.
(a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to 
Development Credit Agreements of the Association dated January 1, 1985, as amended  with 
the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute 
an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (7), (8), (9), (12) and (13), 2.02 and 
2.03;
(iii)
Sections 4.01 and 4.05;
(iv)
Article V;
(v)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (g), (h), and (1) 6.03, 6.04 and 
6.06;
(vi)
Section 8.01 (b);
(vii)
Sections 9.01, 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08;
(viii)
Article X; and
Page  3
(ix)
Article XI.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term "Association", whichever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Section 6.02 (e) thereof, means the International Development 
Association acting as Administrator of the Grant pursuant to the 
arrangement between the Switzerland and the Bank and the Association 
referred to in Recital (B) of this Agreement, except that in Section 6.02, 
the term "Association" shall also include the International Development 
Association acting in its own capacity;
(ii)
the term "Borrower", whichever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Recipient;
(iii)
the term "Development Credit Agreement", whichever used in the 
General Conditions, means this Agreement except that in Section 6.02 
(a), the term "Development Credit Agreement" means the IDA Credit 
Agreement;
(iv)
the term "Credit", whichever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Grant;
(v)
the term "Credit Account", whichever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Grant Account, an account opened by the Administrator on its 
books in the name of the Recipient to which the amount of the Grant is 
credited; and
(vi)
the term "Deposit Account", whichever used in the IDA Credit 
Agreement, means the “Grant Deposit Account” referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
(vii)
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
"Unless otherwise agreed by the Association, withdrawals from the 
Grant Account shall be made in the currency of the Grant, i.e. Dollars."
Section 1.02.
Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the Recitals to this Agreement 
and in the IDA Credit Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01.
The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
Page  4
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a Grant in an amount of five 
million  Dollars ($5,000,000).
Section 2.02.
(a)  Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this Section, the 
Recipient shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Grant from the Swiss Grant Account 
in support of the Program.
(b) 
The Recipient shall open, prior to furnishing the Administrator the first request 
for withdrawal from the Swiss Grant Account, and thereafter maintain in its central bank, a 
deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator.  All 
withdrawals from the Swiss Grant Account shall be deposited by the Administrator into the 
Deposit Account.
(c)
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Swiss Grant shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement. If 
the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Swiss Grant 
Account shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Recipient 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator, (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Administrator shall so request, refund 
such amount to the Administrator. Amounts refunded to the Administrator upon such request 
shall be credited to the Swiss Grant Account for cancellation.
(d)
The Recipient shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Grant as follows: (i) an 
amount of two million Dollars ($2,000,000) immediately after the date of signing of this 
Agreement; and (ii) a total amount of three million Dollars ($3,000,000) to support its social 
protection strategy in two installments:
(i)
the first installment of one million five hundred thousand Dollars 
($1,500,000) may be withdrawn after the aggregate of the proceeds of 
the Grant withdrawn from the Swiss Grant Account shall have reached 
the equivalent of two million Dollars, and provided that the Association 
shall be satisfied based on evidence satisfactory to the Association:
(A)
with the billing and collection information submitted for the 
electricity 
supply industry for at least the first four months 
of 2002 (i.e., at least one 
month of billing for the new 
2002 tariffs); and
(B)
with the non-governmental organization (NGO) contracted that 
will be 
responsible for the monitoring of the social protection 
programs; 
(ii) 
the second installment of one million five hundred thousand Dollars 
($1,500,000) may be withdrawn after the aggregate of the proceeds of 
the Grant withdrawn from the Swiss Grant Account shall have reached 
the equivalent of three million five hundred thousand Dollars, and 
provided that the Association shall be satisfied based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Association: 
(A)
with the results of the monitoring of the social protection 
Page  5
programs; 
(B)
with the set of corrective actions undertaken for improving 
social protection 
programs;
 
(C)
with the draft of the social protection programs’ budget for 
2003; and 
(D)
with the plan to make the social protection programs’ funding in 
the 
budget that is sustainable beyond 2003.
Section 2.03.
The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2003 or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date. 
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01.
Section 2.02 (c) of Article II, Section 3.01 and Section 3.02 of Article 
III,  and Article IV of the IDA Credit Agreement, including the Schedules referred to therein, are 
hereby incorporated into this Agreement with the same force and effect as if they fully set forth 
herein, it being understood that all references in said Articles to the "Association" shall be 
deemed to be references to the Association as Administrator of the Grant under this Agreement, 
all references to the "Borrower" shall be deemed references to the Recipient, and all references to 
the "Credit" and the "Credit Amount" and "Deposit Account" shall be deemed to be references to 
the Grant, the Grant Account and the Grant Deposit Account, respectively.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness
Section 4.01.  This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the parties.
ARTICLE V
Representation
Section 5.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as representative of 
the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 5.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
Page  6
the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Finance
Erkindik Boulevard 58
Bishkek 720874
Kyrgyz Republic
Cable address:
Telex:
245156 NUR KH
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as of the day 
and year first above written.
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC 
By: /s/ Bolot Abildaev 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the Grant
By /s/ Mohinder Mudahar
Authorized Representative
Page  7
SCHEDULE
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Grant shall not 
be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Recipient or for goods or services 
supplied from the territory of the Recipient;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed 
to finance under another credit or a loan;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations in 
Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
   -
Alcoholic beverages
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco refuse
122              - 
 Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
containing tobacco 
 substitutes)
525
   -
Radioactive and associated
materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof; fuel elements
elements (cartridges), non
-irradiated, for nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or
Page  8
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or
silversmiths’ wares (including 
set gems)
971
   -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph the 
term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import of which 
is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient  or international agreements to which the Recipient 
is a party); 
6.
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or 
for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories, or (b) on account of any 
payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by 
a
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that corrupt 
or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Recipient or of a beneficiary of 
the Credit during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the Recipient having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation.
