Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF024828
DUTCH GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 3420 KG
Dutch Grant Agreement
(Consolidation Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC 
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by the
MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION 
OF THE NETHERLANDS
Dated April 17, 2001
TF024828
DUTCH GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 17, 2001, between KYRGYZ REPUBLIC (the Recipient) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) acting as Administrator of 
grant funds provided by the GOVERNMENT OF THE NETHERLANDS. 
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to a Development Credit Agreement (Consolidation Structural 
Adjustment Credit), dated September 20, 2000, between the Recipient and the 
Association (the IDA Credit Agreement), the Association has agreed to extend to the 
Recipient a credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty six million 
and one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 26,100,000) to support the 
Recipient in the execution of the Program, as defined in the IDA Credit Agreement; and 
(B)
pursuant to an arrangement dated November 30, 2000, between the 
Netherlands  Minister for Development Cooperation (the Minister) and International 
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and the International Development 
Association (the Association), the Minister  has requested the Bank and the 
Association, and the Bank and the Association have agreed, to administer grant funds 
(the Grant) to be made available by the Minister for the support of the Recipient in 
the execution of the Program, in accordance with the provisions of such arrangement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Development Credit Agreements of the Association dated January 1, 1985, as amended 
through October 6, 1999 with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this 
Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (7), (8), (9), (12) and 
(13), 2.02 
and 2.03;
(iii)
Sections 4.01 and 4.05;
(iv)
Article V;
(v)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (g), (h), and (1) 
6.03, 6.04 
and 6.06;
(vi)
Section 8.01 (b);
(vii)
Sections 9.01, 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08;
(viii) Article X; and
(ix)
Article XI.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term “Association”, whichever used in the General Conditions, 
other 
than in Section 6.02 (e) thereof, means the International 
Development 
Association acting as Administrator of the Grant 
pursuant to the 
arrangement between the Minister and the 
Bank and the Association referred 
to in Recital (B) of this 
Agreement, except that in Section 6.02, the term 
“Association” 
shall also include the International Development Association 
acting in its own capacity;
(ii)
the term “Borrower”, whichever used in the General Conditions, 
means 
the Recipient;
(iii)
the term “Development Credit Agreement”, whichever used in the 
General 
Conditions, means this Agreement except that in 
Section 6.02 (a), the term 
“Development Credit Agreement” 
means the IDA Credit Agreement;
(iv)
the term “Credit”, whichever used in the General Conditions, means 
the 
Grant;
(v)
the term “Credit Account”, whichever used in the General 
Conditions, 
means the Grant Account, an account opened by the Administrator on 
its 
Page  3
books in the name of the Recipient to which the amount of the 
Grant is 
credited; and
(vi)
the term “Deposit Account”, whichever used in the IDA Credit 
Agreement, 
means the Grant Deposit Account, referred to in 
Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement. 
(vii)
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
“Unless otherwise agreed by the Association, withdrawals from the 
Grant 
Account shall be made in the currency of the Grant, i.e. 
Netherlands Guilders 
(NLG).”
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the Recitals to this 
Agreement and in the IDA Credit Agreement have the respective meanings therein set 
forth, and the term “Netherlands Guilders” and “NLG” mean the currency of  
Netherlands.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a Grant in an 
amount of three million Netherlands  Guilders (NLG 3,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may not be withdrawn from Grant 
Account before the release of the second tranche pursuant to the IDA Credit. 
(b)
The Recipient shall open, prior to furnishing to the Administrator the 
first request for withdrawal from the Dutch Grant Account, and thereafter maintain in 
its central bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Administrator.  All withdrawals from the Dutch Grant Account shall be deposited by 
the Administrator into the Deposit Account.
(c)
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Dutch Grant shall not 
be used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of the Schedule to 
this Agreement. If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any 
proceeds of the Dutch Grant Account shall have been used to make a payment for an 
expenditure so excluded, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of 
said payment, or (ii) if the Administrator shall so request, refund such amount to the 
Administrator. Amounts refunded to the Administrator upon such request shall be 
credited to the Dutch Grant Account for cancellation.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be August 23, 2001 or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. Section 2.02 (c) of the Article II and Articles III and IV of the 
IDA Credit Agreement, including the Schedules referred to therein, are hereby 
incorporated into this Agreement with the same force and effect as if they fully set 
forth herein, it is being understood that all references in said Articles to the 
“Association” shall be deemed to be references to the Association as Administrator of 
the Grant under this Agreement, all references to the “Borrower” shall be deemed 
references to the Recipient, and all references to the “Credit” and the “Credit 
Page  4
Amount” and “Deposit Account” shall be deemed to be references to the Grant, the Grant 
Account and the Grant Deposit Account, respectively.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the 
parties.
ARTICLE V
Representation
Section 5.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Finance
Erkindik Boulevard 58
Bishkek 720874
Kyrgyz Republic
Cable address:
Telex:
245156 NUR KH
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as 
of the day and year first above written.
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC 
By /s/ Baktybek Abdrissaev
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the Grant
Page  5
By /s/ Anthony Cholst
Authorized Representative
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Grant 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Recipient or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Recipient;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Association by notice to the Recipient:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
   -
Alcoholic beverages
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, 
tobacco refuse
122
   -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether  
or not containing tobacco 
  substitutes)
525
   -
 Radioactive and associated
 materials
667
   -
 Pearls, precious and
 semiprecious
 stones, unworked or worked
718
718.7
 Nuclear reactors, and parts
 thereof; fuel 
 elements (cartridges), non
 -irradiated, for
 nuclear reactors
728
728.43
 Tobacco processing machinery
897
897.3
 Jewelry of gold, silver or
 platinum group metals (except 
 watches and watch
 cases) and goldsmiths’ or
 silversmiths’ wares (including 
 set gems)
971
   -
 Gold, non-monetary (excluding
 gold ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
Page  6
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to 
which the Recipient is a party); 
6.
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories, or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines 
that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of 
such contract, without the Recipient having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation.
***
