Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H360-SB 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Health Sector Support Program Technical Assistance Project) 
 
between 
 
SOLOMON ISLANDS 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated April 14, 2008 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
GRANT NUMBER H360-SB 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated April 14, 2008, entered into between SOLOMON 
ISLANDS (the 
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the “Association”).  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to one 
million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,000,000) (the 
“Grant”) to assist in 
financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (the “Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are January 1 and July 1 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
Page  4
2
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the 
Program.  To this end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through MHMS in 
accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension is that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of the Program, will be 
carried out. 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
5.02. 
For purposes of Section 8.05(b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is (20) twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of Finance and Treasury. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance and Treasury 
P.O. Box 26 
Honiara, Solomon Islands 
 
Facsimile:  
 
+
677 27855 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
Page  5
3
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
AGREED at Washington, District of Columbia, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
SOLOMON ISLANDS 
 
By: /s/ Collin D. Beck 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: /s/ Nigel Roberts 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
4
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in improving the 
institutional capacity of MHMS in public expenditure management and sector 
performance monitoring so as to contribute to the overall success of the Program. 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part 1
:
Public Expenditure Management
Strengthening of the national and provincial health planning and budgeting 
systems and procedures of MHMS through, 
inter alia
,:
(i) completing and 
annually updating the Health Sector MTEF; (ii) strengthening planning and 
budgeting procedures in the provinces including expenditure monitoring to 
provide feedback for subsequent planning; (iii) designing and implementing a 
health facility efficiency study, and analyzing the results thereof, to assist in 
improving understanding of the costs and efficiency of health facility 
performance and the effectiveness of the deployment of human and other 
resources to health facilities; and (iv) developing operational models for effective 
engagement of communities and households in an effort to positively modify 
health seeking behaviors. 
Part 2
:
Sector Performance Monitoring
Development of a monitoring and evaluation framework to enable MHMS to 
track programmatic and financial performance in the achievement of Program 
objectives and, accordingly, to inform the annual budget planning and review 
process. 
Part 3
:
Training and Capacity Building
Strengthening the management capacity of MHMS senior managers and 
provincial health directors so as to make them more effective in strategic 
planning and implementation through, 
inter alia
,
providing management 
education, carrying out of selected training activities identified within the health 
sector’s strategic training plan, and supporting learning events identified during 
the implementation of the Program.  
 
Page  7
5
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements.
 
1. 
The Recipient shall carry out the Project through MHMS.  
2. 
MHMS shall maintain throughout the period of implementation of the Project, its 
Policy and Planning Division with terms of reference, staffing and other 
resources acceptable to the Association, to be responsible for, 
inter alia
:
(i) 
coordinating the implementation of the Project at the national and provincial 
levels, and with the MHMS Executive on the implementation of the Project 
within the context of the Program; (ii) overseeing the carrying out of financial 
management and disbursement arrangements for the Project; (iii) carrying out 
procurement for the Project with the support of the MHMS procurement unit; and 
(iv) preparation and submission of quarterly progress reports for discussion by 
the MHMS Executive.  
3. 
The Recipient shall vest responsibility for the strategic guidance and 
management oversight of the Project in the MHMS Executive. The MHMS 
Executive shall provide guidance to the MHMS Policy and Planning Division on 
Project implementation and Project and Program strategy.
 
B. Program 
Implementation 
Plan.
 
1. 
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Program 
Implementation Plan, as approved by the Association, covering the 
administrative, implementation, financial management, procurement and 
disbursement arrangements for the Program and the Project, and includes a 
financial management manual and a procurement manual. 
2. 
The Recipient shall furnish to the Association for its prior approval, any 
proposed amendment to the provisions of the Program Implementation Plan and, 
thereafter, put into effect such amendment as shall have been agreed with the 
Association. 
 
Page  8
6
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports. 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare 
Project 
Reports 
in 
accordance 
with 
the 
provisions 
of          
Section 4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators 
set forth below in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of (1) one calendar quarter, and shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than fourteen (14) days after the 
end of the period covered by such report.  
(b) 
The performance monitoring indicators referred to above in sub-
paragraph (a) consist of the following:   
(i) completion of the first rolling medium term sector 
expenditure program linking resources with priorities;  
(ii) increase in the proportion of health sector budget expended at 
provincial level and on primary health care services;  
(iii) completion of a health facility survey and use of the results 
to improve health sector planning; and  
(iv) quality, participatory annual joint sector reviews conducted 
on schedule.  
2. 
For purposes of Section 4.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits. 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than forty five (45) days after the 
end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project 
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
Page  9
7
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Recipient.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General.
 
1.
 Goods
.
All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Section. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services
.
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3.
 Definitions
.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods.
 
Shopping
.
Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Shopping.  
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. 
 
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except 
as 
otherwise 
provided 
in    
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a)  Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(b)  Selection of Individual Consultants 
Page  10
8
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions. 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review, including, except as the Association shall otherwise 
determine by notice to the Recipient: (a) the first three (3) contracts for goods 
procured on the basis of Shopping; (b) each contract for consultants’ services 
provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; (c) each 
contract for consultants’ services provided by an individual selected on a sole-
source basis regardless of value.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post 
Review by the Association.
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
A. General. 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of taxes) 
 
(1)  Goods, consultants’ 
services, training and 
Incremental Operating 
Costs* for the Project 
1,000,000 100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
1,000,000
Page  11
9
*
For purposes of this paragraph, the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means 
incremental expenses incurred on account of Project implementation, support and 
management and reasonably related thereto, including communications, utilities, 
stationary, and transportation costs, but excluding salaries of the Recipient’s civil 
servants.   
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period. 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
2.
 
The Closing Date is March 31, 2011. 
Section V.  
Other Undertakings
1. 
The Recipient shall no later than December 31, 2009 complete its first Health 
Sector MTEF, which shall provide the overall outlook of health sector financing 
and will be the basis for medium-term budget allocations and planning in the 
health sector. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall no later than December 31 of each year during Project 
implementation, carry out annual joint health sector reviews satisfactory to the 
Association. 
 
3. 
The Recipient shall no later than June 30 of each year during Project 
implementation, prepare a strategic training plan that includes training activities 
to be financed under the Project. 
 
4. 
The Recipient shall throughout the implementation of the Project, maintain a 
procurement officer within MHMS on terms and conditions acceptable to the 
Association. 
 
Page  12
10
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1.  
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
2. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
3. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005. 
4. 
“MHMS” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Health and Medical Services or any 
successor thereto. 
5. 
“MHMS Executive” means the senior management team in MHMS headed by 
the permanent secretary for health, referred to in Section I.A(3) of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
6. 
“Health Sector MTEF” means the Medium Term Expenditure Framework for the 
health sector to be prepared by the Recipient, as such framework shall be updated 
on an annual rolling basis. 
7. 
“National Health Strategic Plan” means the plan formulated by MHMS dated 
August 16, 2006, which lays out the Government’s priority areas and actions for 
the health sector over the period 2006-2010. 
8. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
9. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated February 12, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
10. 
“Program” means the Recipient’s Health Sector Support Program (HSSP) 
designed to improve priority health outcomes through effective, efficient and 
equitable heath service delivery responsive to the population’s needs, and set 
forth in the Recipient’s National Health Strategic Plan. 
11. 
“Program Implementation Plan” means the Recipient’s Program implementation 
plan dated May 28, 2007 and referred to in Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, as such Program Implementation Plan may be amended from time to 
time by agreement between the Recipient and the Association.
Page  13
11
 
